 Case Number:  22GDCV00954    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  E  
Hearing Date: 03/22/2024 – 8:30am
Case No:  
22GDCV00954
Trial Date: 06/10/2024
Case Name: ASHKEN SARGSYAN, an individual; v. ARYAN
KHODABAKHSIAN, an individual; VICTOR KHODABAKHSIAN; an individual; EDITA
ZARGARYAN, an individual; and DOES 1-50 inclusive
 
[MOTION FOR
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION] 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant, Edita Zargayan, moves the Court for an order granting
summary adjudication in her favor and against Plaintiff Ashkhen Sargsyan
(“Plaintiff”) on Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligent entrustment,
pursuant to section 43c of the Code of Civil Procedure. 
 
The motion will
be made on the following grounds: 
 
1. There is no
evidence that Ms. Zargaryan, the purported lessee of the vehicle involved in
the accident giving rise to Plaintiff’s complaint, knew or reasonably should
have known that defendant/driver Aryan Khodabakhshian was an incompetent,
impaired or unfit driver prior to the accident giving rise to Plaintiff’s
claims. 
 
Ms. Zargaryan is
therefore entitled to summary adjudication as a matter of law on the issue of
negligent entrustment.
 
The motion will
be based on this notice as well as the accompanying memorandum of points and
authorities, declaration of Edita Zargaryan, request for judicial notice, and
separate statement of undisputed material facts filed and served concurrently
herewith; the record of this action; and such further evidence as may be
adduced at the hearing on this motion.”
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: 
Defendant, Edita Zargaryan
 
Responding Party: Plaintiff, Ashken Sargsyan
 
Moving Papers: Notice; Decl. Edita Zargaryan; Request
for Judicial Notice; Separate Statement; Memorandum
Opposition Papers: Opposition; Separate Statement; 
Reply Papers: Reply; Decl. Weixel 
75/80 Days
Under § 437c(2), notice of the motion and supporting
papers shall be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days
before the time appointed for hearing. If the notice is served by mail, the
required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by 5 days if the place of
address is within the State of California. If the notice is served by facsimile
transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery providing for
overnight delivery, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by
two court days. (CCP §437c(a)(2).)
Here, moving papers were served by electronic
transmission on December 28, 2023. This motion is thus timely.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Ashken Sargsyan, filed the instant Complaint on 12/01/2022.
Plaintiff named three defendants – Aryan Khodabakhsian (Aryan), Victor
Khodabakhsian (Victor) , and Edita Zargaryan (Edita or Zargaryan). 
 
Plaintiff filed a form Complaint that is somewhat
confusing. 
 
The first cause of action is titled “Motor Vehicle.” In
relevant part, it alleges that Defendant Aryan Khodabakhsian operated a motor
vehicle, and the Defendants who owned the motor vehicle (which was allegedly operated
with their permission) are Victor Khodabakhsian and Edita Zargaryan. 
 
It is difficult to glean any information about the basis
for the lawsuit from reading the allegations in the first cause of action.
 
The second cause of action is titled “General Negligence.” It
stems from an alleged incident when Plaintiff was driving and Defendant Aryan
made a left turn but failed to yield the right of way to approaching vehicles
and collided with Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were negligent
per se for driving in violation of California Vehicle Code §§ 21801 and 22350.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
CCP § 437c(f)(1) states:
 
A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there
is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely
disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or
an issue of duty.
 
(CCP § 437c(f)(1).)
 
Further, CCP § 437c(f)(2) provides:
 
A motion for summary adjudication
may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and
shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. A
party shall not move for summary judgment based on issues asserted in a prior
motion for summary adjudication and denied by the court unless that party
establishes, to the satisfaction of the court, newly discovered facts or
circumstances or a change of law supporting the issues reasserted in the
summary judgment motion.
 
(CCP § 437c(f)(2).)
 
Further, for purposes of motions for summary judgment and
summary adjudication: 
 
A plaintiff or cross-complainant has
met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action
if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the
party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or
cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or
cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The defendant or
cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings
to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.
 
(CCP § 437c(p)(1).)
 
ANALYSIS
Preliminary Matter
At the hearing, the Court will ask Defendant
and Plaintiff to address what cause of action this motion for summary
adjudication is directed at. 
Defendant argues that
the only theory of negligence-based liability as to Edita is for negligent
entrustment for negligently entrusting the vehicle to Aryan. 
However, it appears
that Edita is named as a defendant in both causes of action in the Complaint. 
Despite the fact that
there is no cause of action in the Complaint titled “Negligent Entrustment,”
Plaintiff also argues as to why there is in fact a claim for negligent
entrustment. 
The parties should
clarify if there is a cause of action for negligent entrustment in the
Complaint, and if the Court can even hear this matter. 
“The function of the
pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the
issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether
there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
Moving
Arguments
Defendant argues that Plaintiff produced no
evidence in discovery to support a negligent entrustment claim because the
attached declaration of Edita establishes that she had no reason to believe Aryan
was unfit or an unsafe driver at any time prior to the accident giving rise to the
lawsuit. 
Defendant cites cases
on negligent entrustment and argues that the cases in which a defendant was
found liable for negligent entrustment hinge on the car owner’s prior knowledge
of a driver’s competence or fitness to drive and the facts do not even approach
the standard for negligent entrustment.
Defendant submitted
the declaration of Edita Zargaryan. In relevant part, Edita’s declaration
states:
4. I am shown as the lessee on the title to the 2020 Chevrolet
Equinox, California license plate number 8PUA127, that Aryan Khodabakhshian
(“Aryan”), who is related to me through marriage, was driving in accident that
took place in Glendale on October 18, 2022 (“the accident”) which this lawsuit
concerns. A copy of the title is attached as Exhibit A. 
5. Until the accident happened, I had no knowledge that Aryan ever
drove the Equinox. 
6. At the time of the accident, I had no information or knowledge that
Aryan had ever been cited for traffic violations. 
7. At the time of the accident, I had no information or knowledge that
Aryan had ever been involved in any previous accidents. 
8. At the time of the accident, I had no information or knowledge that
anyone had ever warned Aryan about his driving. 
9. At the time of the accident, I had no information or knowledge that
made me concerned about Aryan’s driving. 
10. At the time of the accident, I had no information or knowledge
that would make me believe that Aryan was a dangerous, incompetent, or
negligent driver. 
11. At the time of the accident, I had no information or knowledge
that Aryan ever had his driver’s license suspended or had other action taken
against him by the DMV, the police, or anyone else because of his driving.
(Decl. Zargaryan ¶¶4-11.)
TENTATIVE
RULING
Preliminary Matter
As a preliminary matter, the Reply argues that
the Opposition should be disregarded since it was submitted late and caused
Defendant prejudice by not being able to prosecute the matter in a timely
fashion because the Opposition was three days late. The Court will not
disregard the Opposition. The Court will hear argument as to whether this
motion should be continued. 
The Court notes that
the Proof of Service on Plaintiff’s Opposition states that it was served
electronically on the following email addresses pursuant to an agreement
between the parties:
            liu@darlaw.com
            wes@darlaw.com
            cab@darlaw.com
The Defense, in Reply
argues the following:
The proofs of service on Plaintiff’s opposition papers – the combined
memorandum of points and authorities in opposition, declaration, and evidence
in support in one document, and the opposing separate statement in another –
show they were emailed to Pennie Liu and Kelly Kim, Esqs. (See Service Lists
for Plaintiff’s Opposition (p. 106 of 106, numbered as page 13) and for
Plaintiff’s Opposing Separate Statement (p. 14).) Those two attorneys are no
longer with defense counsel’s firm. (Declaration of James V. Weixel in Support
of Reply, ¶ 3.) Accordingly, defense counsel did not receive those papers when
they were filed. (Id., ¶ 4.) Instead, on Monday, March 11, 2024, counsel
instructed his assistant to retrieve the documents from the Court’s online
docket. (Id.) That means counsel lost almost three days in which to review the opposition
papers and prepare this reply.
Motion papers are required to be served on counsel correctly and in a
timely manner. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.) This is especially important in this
case, where the reply must be prepared, filed, and served only five court days
after the opposition is due. (§ 437c(b)(2), (b)(4).) In the case of electronic
service, the proof of service must indicate the email address to which service
was made. (§ 1013b(b)(3).) Ms. Zargaryan has been prejudiced by Plaintiff’s
failure to serve her counsel correctly. (Weixel Reply Decl., ¶ 5.) The Court is
respectfully requested to disregard Plaintiff’s opposition for that reason.
(Oppo. at 6.)
In his declaration,
Defense counsel James V. Weixel states
No one in my office received Plaintiff’s opposition papers by electronic
service on March 8, 2024, the date on which Plaintiff’s opposition was due to
be filed and served. Therefore, on Monday, March 11, 2024, I instructed my
assistant, Michelle Bonilla, to check the Court’s online docket and retrieve
any opposition papers that may have been filed. Ms. Bonilla did so that day.
(Weixel Decl. ISO
Reply at ¶ 4.)
The Court is confused
by Defendant’s argument. 
Where did Plaintiff’s
counsel get the email addresses listed in the Proof of Service if not from the
email addresses on file with the Court for the Defendant? (See, e.g., Defendant’s
Answer.)
Defense argues that
Pennie Liu and Kelly Kim are no longer with defense counsel’s firm. How was
Plaintiff’s counsel to know that? Did Defense counsel advise Plaintiff’s
counsel (or the Court) of their personnel turnover? 
Were these attorneys Liu
and Kim previously listed as the counsel for service? If so, was that contact
information updated when these attorneys left defense counsel’s firm?
In fact, as of 2:50
p.m. on 3/21/24, Attorneys Kim and Liu are still listed on the Court’s docket
as the handling attorneys for the defense for the firm of Demler, Armstrong
& Rowland LLP. 
The Court does not see
any document filed at any time by defense counsel advising of the personnel
change or advising of any changes in the contact information for service.
The email addresses wes@darlaw.com
and cab@darlaw.com appear to be for different counsel than attorneys Liu and
Kim. Whose email addresses are those?  (Attorney
Kim’s address at defense counsel’s firm, as listed on Defendant’s Answer, was
kjk@darlaw.com.)
The Court will hear
from defense counsel, but the argument in the Reply and the supporting
Declaration regarding purportedly inappropriate service of the opposition appears
to be meritless.
 
Negligent Entrustment
Plaintiff has successfully opposed Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication.
 
Defendant put the following in her separate statement of UMF:
 
UMF 4 - At the time of the accident, Ms. Zargaryan had no information
or knowledge of Aryan ever being cited for driving violations. Zargaryan Decl.,
¶ 5.
 
UMF 5 - At the time of the accident, Ms. Zargaryan had no information
or knowledge of Aryan ever having been involved in any previous accidents.
Zargaryan Decl., ¶ 6.
 
UMF 6 - At the time of the accident, Ms. Zargaryan had no information
or knowledge that anyone had ever warned Aryan about his driving. Zargaryan
Decl., ¶ 7.
 
(Def. Sep. Stmt. UMF 4-6.)
 
In
Plaintiff’s Opposition to the Separate Statement for UMF 4-6, Plaintiff argues
that these alleged facts do not disprove that Defendant breached her duty of
care when she failed to inquire as to whether Aryan had a valid driver’s
license and whether she had constructive knowledge that Aryan was incompetent
or unfit to drive.
 
The Reply
argues that Defendant Edita did not have a duty to conduct an investigation
because Dodge Center v. Superior Court (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 332, 341
explains that negligent entrustment relies entirely on the owner or lessee’s actual
knowledge of facts showing or suggesting the driver’s incompetence and that
the owner or lessee has no legal duty to conduct an inquiry into the driver’s
driving abilities.
 
However, Defendant’s
citation is not availing in light of Plaintiff’s citation to McKenna v.
Beesley (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 552, which was decided after Dodge and
distinguishes Dodge. 
 
“In
California, one who places or entrusts his or her motor vehicle in the hands of
one whom he or she knows, or from the circumstances is charged with knowing, is
incompetent or unfit to drive, may be held liable for an injury inflicted by
the use made thereof by that driver, provided that the plaintiff can establish
that the injury complained of was proximately caused by the driver’s
disqualification, incompetency, inexperience or recklessness…” (McKenna v.
Beesley (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 552, 569.)
 
“California is one of several states [that] recognizes the
liability of an automobile owner who has entrusted a car to an incompetent,
reckless, or inexperienced driver” (italics omitted) through the tort of
negligent entrustment.” (McKenna v. Beesley (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 552,
565 citing Allen v. Toledo (1980) 109 Cal.App.3d 415, 420.)
 
“Liability for negligent entrustment is determined by applying general
principles of negligence, and ordinarily it is for the jury to determine
whether the owner has exercised the required degree of care.” (Allen v.
Toledo (1980) 109 Cal.App.3d 415, 421.)
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff included its own Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts that sufficiently demonstrated a jury could
potentially determine that Defendant knew or should have known that Aryan was
unfit or incompetent to drive. 
 
Plaintiff included the deposition of Aryan which showed that Aryan
admitted to having had a prior driver’s license suspended or revoked; getting a
ticket for making a right on red when he was not supposed to; being in an at
fault collision; and being in three to four collisions prior. (Aryan Depo. p.
13-18.)
 
Even though Edita’s declaration states that she had no knowledge or
information about several driving related matters, Edita does not state she
ever made any type of inquiry as to whether Aryan was unfit or incompetent to
drive.
 
Additionally, the deposition of Aryan submitted by Plaintiff calls
into question the credibility of Edita. In Edita’s declaration at ¶5 she states
that until the accident happened, she had no knowledge that Aryan ever drove
the Equinox. However, Aryan’s deposition on page 56 stated that Edita was aware
at the time she leased the vehicle that it was going to be driven by him.
 
“A defendant or cross-defendant has met his or her
burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown
that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately
pleaded, cannot be established…” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) 
Defendant has not shown that one or more elements of
the negligent entrustment claim cannot be established. A jury could find that
Defendant knew, or should have known, that Aryan was incompetent or unfit to
drive the vehicle.
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication is
tentatively DENIED. 
At hearing, the parties are to address what cause of
action this is directed at/if this motion can be heard, and whether the motion
needs to be continued in light of the Reply’s argument about the Opposition
being late.
Defendant’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED. 