 Case Number:  23GDCV02632    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  E The Court has considered the
parties briefs and supporting papers.  
 
The Court’s tentative is to deny
the request for a preliminary injunction. The Court finds, for a number of
reasons—but primarily the lack of specificity and clarity of the purported
underlying agreement between plaintiff and her deceased brother—that the
plaintiff has failed to demonstrate the requisite likelihood of success on the
merits.  There is apparently no written agreement, and the supporting
declarations provided by the plaintiff are vague and lacking in specificity, in
the Court’s view.
 
In fact, the very declarations
submitted by Plaintiff cast grave doubt on Plaintiff’s credibility. The
Declaration of Maxim Moradian, M.D. states: “Roobina Hovsepian had inherited
money that she kept in cash because she was concerned about qualifying for
healthcare benefits.” (Moradian Decl. at para. 3.) 
 
In this Court’s view, there is no
way to read this but as a statement about Ms. Hovsepian’s intent to defraud
either the county, state, or federal authorities by hiding her her assets and
income “because she was concerned about qualifying for healthcare benefits.” (Id.)

 
It is, frankly, shocking to the
Court that a statement about what appears to be Plaintiff’s potential intent to
commit health-care fraud is submitted so blithely in a declaration in support
of a preliminary injunction, where the crux of Plaintiff’s claim is based on
her credibility.  That this is submitted by Dr. Moradian suggests a
kind of normalization of fraud—as if hiding one’s assets to make sure one can
“qualify[] for healthcare benefits” is simply what people do.  Perhaps
that is in fact what some people do—but the Court sees this statement as
incredibly damaging to Ms. Hovsepian’s credibility.
 
Plaintiff’s counsel will be asked
to explain this statement and why this statement alone does not fatally damage
Ms. Hovsepian’s credibility in this matter.
 
The Court will hear argument.
 