 Case Number:  23AHCV01866    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 22, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         ANTHONY RUSSO v.
CITY OF PASADENA, a municipal corporation; PASADENA POLICE DEPARTMENT, a public
safety department  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01866
 
 
 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants City of Pasadena and Pasadena
Police Department
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Anthony Russo
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 4, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed April 8, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed April 15, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendants demurrer to Plaintiff’s
complaint. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Anthony
Russo’s claim that he wrongfully received adverse employment actions in his
position as a Police Lieutenant with the City of Pasadena Police Department.
Plaintiff filed this complaint on August 16, 2023, alleging four causes of
action for (1) relief for violation of POBRA, Government Code section 3309.5,
(2) whistleblower retaliation, Labor Code section 1102.5, (3) violation of due
process, and (4) violation of Meyers-Milias-Brown Act, Government Code section
3500, et seq. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave
to amend.
 
The Pasadena Police Department’s demurrer to the entirety of
Plaintiff’s complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Defendants’
motion to strike is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Demurrer 
 
A general
demurrer may be taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc. section
430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v.
Mirda, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Additionally, a
special demurrer to a complaint may be brought on the ground the pleading is
uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. Code Civ. Proc section 430.10(f); Beresford Neighborhood Assn. v. City of
San Mateo (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1180, 1191.) A demurrer based
on uncertainty is disfavored and will be strictly construed even when the
pleading is uncertain in some respects. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrers based on uncertainty are “granted only if
the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably
respond.” (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
Second Cause of Action for
Whistleblower Retaliation – Labor Code §
1102.5
 
            Defendants
demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff
has failed to exhaust administrative remedies prior to bringing his claim. In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that he is not required to exhaust administrative
remedies and any failure to exhaust is based on Defendants’ improper conduct.
The issues are whether Plaintiff was required to exhaust administrative
remedies prior to bringing his second cause of action and whether he has done
so.
 
“ ‘[T]he rule is that
where an administrative remedy is provided by statute, relief must be sought
from the administrative body and this remedy exhausted before the courts will
act.’ [Citation.] The rule ‘is not a matter of judicial
discretion, but is a fundamental rule of procedure ... binding upon all
courts.’ ” (Campbell v. Regents of University of California (2005) 35
Cal.4th 311, 322.)
 
            California
Labor Code section 244, subdivision (a), provides in part: “An individual is
not required to exhaust administrative remedies or procedures in order to bring
a civil action under any provision of this code, unless that section under
which the action is brought expressly requires exhaustion of an administrative
remedy.” However, as explained by the Court in Terris v. County of Santa
Barbara (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 551, 556, “the phrase ‘administrative
remedies’ refers to Labor Commissioner claims. The author of Senate Bill No.
666 said it allows employees to sue ‘without having first sought administrative
remedies that are enforceable by the Labor Commissioner.’ ”
 
            “There is no basis
to conclude the Legislature enacted section 244, subdivision (a) to
overturn a California Supreme Court decision—Campbell, or to
extinguish decades of judicially required administrative exhaustion
requirements for county employees who have civil service commission internal
administrative remedies.” (Terris, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th at p. 558.) “By
enacting section 244, subdivision (a), the Legislature did not
create such a new administrative review process that applies to all
administrative agencies. It eliminated the requirement that a claim must first
be bought before the Labor Commissioner before filing a civil action.” (Ibid.)
 
            As
explained by the Court in Terris, Plaintiff is still required to plead
and prove exhaustion of administrative remedies, if applicable, but is not
required to plead or prove exhaustion of administrative remedies before the
Labor Commissioner. Here, Plaintiff alleges that he invoked his right to an
administrative appeal pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding between the
City of Pasadena and the Pasadena Police Officers Association. (Complaint ¶ 54.) Plaintiff also alleges that despite his numerous attempts,
Defendants have denied him his right to an administrative appeal. (Id. ¶
57.) The court recognizes that Plaintiff’s contention is that Defendants are
responsible for his inability to exhaust his administrative remedies. However,
the law is clear that exhaustion of administrative remedies is a requirement to
bring a claim. By Plaintiff’s own allegations, there were administrative
remedies possible that were not exhausted.
 
            Thus,
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of action is sustained.
 
Pasadena Police
Department as a Defendant
 
Defendants also
argue that because the Police Department is a subset of the City of Pasadena,
the department is not a proper defendant in this matter. Plaintiff alleges that
the Pasadena Police Department is a subdivision of the City of Pasadena.
(Complaint ¶ 10.)
 
In Thompson v. City of Petaluma (2014)
231 Cal.App.4th 101, 103 fn. 1, the Court briefly noted that the police
department was erroneously named as a Defendant when the proper defendant was
the city. “[I]f an entity is not independent, it is not properly named
as a defendant.” (Vann v. City and County of San Francisco (2023) 97
Cal.App.5th 1013, 1024.) “Factors that may be considered in determining if an
entity is independent include whether there is ‘[a]n express statutory
declaration that the entity is a body corporate and politic’; whether the
entity has ‘[a] governing body separate from that of the city, county, or
district’; or whether it has “[s]tatutory power to own property, levy taxes, or
incur indebtedness in its own name.’ ” (Id. at p. 1025.)
 
Plaintiff does not fully address this issue in opposition.
However, based on the limited allegations in Plaintiff’s complaint, it appears
that Plaintiff has not alleged any basis to find that the Pasadena Police
Department is an independent legal entity. The Pasadena Police Department’s
demurrer to the entirety of Plaintiff’s complaint is sustained.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for damages in
connection with Plaintiff’s third cause of action and moves to strike
Plaintiff’s references to the Pasadena Police Department. Defendants do not
establish that Plaintiff’s request for damages is wholly inapplicable, and the
court declines to strike Plaintiff’s references to the Pasadena Police
Department.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave
to amend.
 
The Pasadena Police Department’s demurrer to the entirety of
Plaintiff’s complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Defendants’
motion to strike is DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   April 22, 2024                                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
