 Case Number:  23AHCV01862    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
22, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         CAVANAUGH
THOMPSON, v. CITY OF PASADENA, a Municipal Corporation; PASADENA POLICE
DEPARTMENT, a public safety department; and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01862
 
 
 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants City of Pasadena and
Pasadena Police Department
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Cavanaugh Thompson
 
SERVICE:                              Filed March 19, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed April 8, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendants demurrer to Plaintiff’s
complaint.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Cavanaugh Thompson’s
claim that he was unlawfully terminated from his employment with the Pasadena
Police Department and subject to discrimination. Plaintiff filed this complaint
on August 15, 2023, alleging seven causes of action for (1) relief for
violation of POBRA, Government Code section 3309.5, (2) whistleblower
retaliation, Labor Code section 1102.5, (3) violation of due process, (4)
violation of MMBA, (5) racial discrimination, (6) failure to prevent
discrimination, and (7) retaliation under FEHA. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s second and fourth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20
days leave to amend.
 
The Pasadena Police Department’s demurrer to the entirety of
Plaintiff’s complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Defendants’
motion to strike is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Demurrer 
 
A general
demurrer may be taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc. section
430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v.
Mirda, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Additionally, a
special demurrer to a complaint may be brought on the ground the pleading is
uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. Code Civ. Proc section 430.10(f); Beresford Neighborhood Assn. v. City of
San Mateo (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1180, 1191.) A demurrer based
on uncertainty is disfavored and will be strictly construed even when the
pleading is uncertain in some respects. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrers based on uncertainty are “granted only if
the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably
respond.” (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is
not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Second
Cause of Action for Whistleblower Retaliation – Labor Code § 1102.5
 
            Defendants
demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff
has failed to exhaust administrative remedies prior to bringing his claim. In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that he is not required to exhaust administrative
remedies and any failure to exhaust is based on Defendants’ improper conduct.
The issues are whether Plaintiff was required to exhaust administrative
remedies prior to bringing his second cause of action and whether he has done
so.
 
“ ‘[T]he rule is
that where an administrative remedy is provided by statute, relief must be
sought from the administrative body and this remedy exhausted before the courts
will act.’ [Citation.] The rule ‘is not a matter of judicial
discretion, but is a fundamental rule of procedure ... binding upon all
courts.’ ” (Campbell v. Regents of University of California (2005) 35
Cal.4th 311, 322.)
 
            California
Labor Code section 244, subdivision (a), provides in part: “An individual is
not required to exhaust administrative remedies or procedures in order to bring
a civil action under any provision of this code, unless that section under
which the action is brought expressly requires exhaustion of an administrative
remedy.” However, as explained by the Court in Terris v. County of Santa
Barbara (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 551, 556, “the phrase ‘administrative
remedies’ refers to Labor Commissioner claims. The author of Senate Bill No.
666 said it allows employees to sue ‘without having first sought administrative
remedies that are enforceable by the Labor Commissioner.’ ”
 
            “There is no basis
to conclude the Legislature enacted section 244, subdivision (a) to
overturn a California Supreme Court decision—Campbell, or to
extinguish decades of judicially required administrative exhaustion
requirements for county employees who have civil service commission internal
administrative remedies.” (Terris, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th at p. 558.) “By
enacting section 244, subdivision (a), the Legislature did not
create such a new administrative review process that applies to all
administrative agencies. It eliminated the requirement that a claim must first
be bought before the Labor Commissioner before filing a civil action.” (Ibid.)
 
            As
explained by the Court in Terris, Plaintiff is still required to plead
and prove exhaustion of administrative remedies, if applicable, but is not
required to plead or prove exhaustion of administrative remedies before the
Labor Commissioner. Here, Plaintiff alleges that he invoked his right to an
administrative appeal pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding between the
City of Pasadena and the Pasadena Police Officers Association. (Complaint ¶ 58.) Plaintiff also alleges that despite his numerous attempts,
Defendants have denied him his right to an administrative appeal. (Id. ¶¶
59-66.) The court recognizes that Plaintiff’s contention is that Defendants are
responsible for his inability to exhaust his administrative remedies. However,
the law is clear that exhaustion of administrative remedies is a requirement to
bring a claim. By Plaintiff’s own allegations, there were administrative
remedies possible that were not exhausted.
 
            Thus,
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of action is sustained.
 
            Fourth
Cause of Action for Violation of the Meyers-Milias-Brown Act
 
            Defendants demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action. Defendants
argue that Plaintiff fails to state a claim or that Plaintiff’s claim is
uncertain because Plaintiff has failed to allege facts sufficient to allege
standing.
 
“The
Meyers-Milias-Brown-Act [“MMBA”] . . . requires public agencies to meet and
confer, i.e., bargain, in good faith with recognized employee organizations
regarding changes to wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment
— matters within the scope of the organizations’ representation.” (County of
Sonoma v. Public Employment Relations Board (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 167,
173.) “Such matters include, but are not limited to, wages, hours, and other terms
and conditions of employment.” (Id. at p. 178.)
 
“ ‘As the expert
administrative agency established by the Legislature to administer collective
bargaining for covered governmental employees, PERB has exclusive initial
jurisdiction over conduct that arguably violates the MMBA.’ [Citation.] ‘PERB
is specifically empowered to “determine in disputed cases whether a particular
item is within or without the scope of representation” and to investigate
unfair practice charges and “take such action and make such determinations in
respect of such charges ... as the board deems necessary to effectuate the
policies of [the MMBA].” ’ ” (City of Palo Alto v. Public Employment
Relations Bd. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 1271, 1287.)
 
The parties fail
to fully address the issues of what constitutes a claim pursuant to the MMBA.
In his complaint, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants issued a blanket gag order
on Plaintiff and failed to provide Plaintiff with a copy of the complaint
against him. (Complaint ¶¶ 122-23.) However, Plaintiff does not allege that any claim for
violation of the MMBA was made to the Public Employment Relations Board, which
is vested with exclusive initial jurisdiction. Plaintiff also does not provide
any independent basis for this court to supersede the PERB’s jurisdiction other
than Government Code section 3509, subdivision (e). Subdivision (e) provides
that “superior courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction over
actions involving interest arbitration . . . when the action involves an
employee organization that represents firefighters, as defined in Section 3251.” Plaintiff does not allege he is an employee
organization that represents firefighters. 
 
Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action is sustained.
 
Pasadena Police Department
as a Defendant
 
Defendants also
argue that because the Police Department is a subset of the City of Pasadena,
the department is not a proper defendant in this matter. Plaintiff alleges that
the Pasadena Police Department is a subdivision of the City of Pasadena.
(Complaint ¶ 9.)
 
In Thompson v. City of Petaluma (2014)
231 Cal.App.4th 101, 103 fn. 1, the Court briefly noted that the police department
was erroneously named as a Defendant when the proper defendant was the city. “[I]f an entity is
not independent, it is not properly named as a defendant.” (Vann v. City and
County of San Francisco (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 1013, 1024.) “Factors that
may be considered in determining if an entity is independent include whether
there is ‘[a]n express statutory declaration that the entity is a body
corporate and politic’; whether the entity has ‘[a] governing body separate
from that of the city, county, or district’; or whether it has “[s]tatutory
power to own property, levy taxes, or incur indebtedness in its own name.’ ” (Id.
at p. 1025.)
 
Plaintiff does not fully address this issue in opposition.
However, based on the limited allegations in Plaintiff’s complaint, it appears
that Plaintiff has not alleged any basis to find that the Pasadena Police
Department is an independent legal entity. The Pasadena Police Department’s
demurrer to the entirety of Plaintiff’s complaint is sustained.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for damages in
connection with Plaintiff’s third cause of action and moves to strike
Plaintiff’s references to the Pasadena Police Department. In regards to
Plaintiff’s claim for damages, Defendants cite a single case but provide little
to no explanation why the case is applicable, why the statute cited by
Plaintiff’s are not applicable to allow Plaintiff to plead a recovery of money
damages, and fail to demonstrate that Plaintiff’s allegations should be struck.
Additionally, the court declines to strike Plaintiff’s references to the
Pasadena Police Department.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s second and fourth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20
days leave to amend.
 
The Pasadena Police Department’s demurrer to the entirety of
Plaintiff’s complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Defendants’
motion to strike is DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
            
Dated:   April 22, 2024                                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention
to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org 