  Case Number:  22STCV30426    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 22, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE: November 5, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         MICAELA
DUARTE, by and through her Successor in Interest, ELIZABETH DUARTE,
individually, v. EISENHOWERS HEALTHCARE, LLC dba PASADENA GROVE HEALTH CENTER;
MELODY HEALTHCARE, LLC; KRISTEN UGALDE, nominal defendant; HUMBERTO DUARTE,
nominal defendant, ANDREW L. DUARTE, nominal defendant; RENEE DUARTE, nominal
defendant; CASSANDRA ROBLES, nominal defendant; and DOES 1 through 100,
inclusive. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV30426
 
 
 
DISCOVERY
MOTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Micaela Duarte, by and through
her successor in interest, Elizabeth Duarte, and Elizabeth Duarte
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
Eisenhower Healthcare LLC dba Pasadena Grove Health Center (“Eisenhower”)
 
SERVICE:                              Filed January 5, 2024, January 26, 2024,
February 9, 2024, and February 13, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed April 9, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed April 15, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiffs move to quash subpoenas
and move for an order compelling further responses to their discovery requests.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This
case arises out of Plaintiffs Micaela Duarte (“Decedent”), by and through her
successor in interest, Elizabeth Duarte and Elizabeth Duarte’s (“Plaintiffs”)
claim that Decedent was the victim of elder abuse and neglect while in the care
of a 24-hour skilled nursing facility. Plaintiff alleges that Decedent was
admitted into the care of Pasadena Grove Health Center (“Facility”) on April 2,
2021. Plaintiff alleges that Facility failed to properly care for and treat
Decedent, which eventually caused her death on March 26, 2022. Plaintiff filed
this complaint on September 16, 2022, alleging four causes of action for (1)
elder abuse and neglect, (2) negligence/willful misconduct, (3) violation of
patient’s bill of rights, and (4) wrongful death.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to
quash subpoenas is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to re-serve the two subpoenas
with he language seeking “all mental health records,
psychotherapy notes, [and] psychiatric records” omitted.
 
            Plaintiffs’
motion to compel further responses is GRANTED as to their special
interrogatories.
 
            Plaintiffs’
motions to compel further responses are DENIED as to their requests for the
production of documents sets one and two. 
 
            All
requests for sanctions are DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Motion to Compel Further
 
On receipt of a response to discovery requests, the party requesting may
move for an order compelling further responses for interrogatories (Code Civ.
Proc. 2030.300), requests for admission (Cod. Civ. Proc. section 2033.290), and
request for production (Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.310). “Unless notice of
this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or
any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the
requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
requesting party waives any right to compel further response to the requests
for admission.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2033.290, subd. (c).
 
Motion to Quash
Subpoenas 
 
“Any consumer whose personal records are
sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is a party to the civil action in
which this subpoena duces tecum is served may, prior to the date for
production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify the subpoena
duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall be given to the
witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to production. The
failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not invalidate the
motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be raised by the
deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for liability for
improper release of records.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 1985.3, subd. (g).)
 
            Code of Civil Procedure
section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides: “If a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.” 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Motion
to Quash Subpoenas
 
            Plaintiffs
move to quash two subpoenas served for Micaela Duarte’s medical records. The
subpoenas were served on San Gabriel Valley Medical Center and USC Arcadia
Hospital and sought Decedent’s medical records between January 1, 2018, and
April 30, 2022. (Siegel Decl. ¶¶ 2-3, Exhibits A and B.) Plaintiffs argue that Eisenhower
improperly seeks “all mental health records, psychotherapy notes, [and]
psychiatric records”. 
 
The California Constitution
provides Californians with a right to privacy. (Cal. Const., art. 1, section
1.) The California Supreme Court has held that “[t]he party asserting a
privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a
threatened intrusion that is serious.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 552 (“Williams”), citing Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35.) “The party seeking information may
raise in response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests
disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible
alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that would
diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing
considerations.” (Ibid.)
 
It is “well-settled” that patients “have
a right to privacy with respect to information contained in . . . medical
records.” (Grafilo v. Wolfsohn (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 1024, 1034.)
“Medical patients’ privacy interest, our Supreme Court has observed, derives
from their expectation of privacy in their physician's files, which ‘may
include descriptions of symptoms, family history, diagnoses, test results, and
other intimate details concerning treatment.’ ” (Ibid.) Psychotherapist-patient privilege is an aspect of the
patient’s constitutional right to privacy. (McGovern v. BHC Fremont
Hospital, Inc. (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 181, 198.)
 
Plaintiffs have
established a valid privacy interest. Further, Plaintiffs have established a
reasonable expectation of privacy because the documents sought are part of
Decedent’s medical records, and such a disclosure constitute a serious
threatened intrusion. In opposition, Eisenhower contends that the information
is necessary because Decedent’s mental health has been placed at issue in the
present case. Plaintiffs’ complaint alleges that Decedent had a history of
psychosis and dementia. (Complaint  ¶¶ 28.) Plaintiffs generally allege that Eisenhower failed to
provide proper care to Decedent. (Id. ¶ 40.)
 
Plaintiffs have
established a valid privacy interest but Defendants have failed to demonstrate
a legitimate and important countervailing interest supporting disclosure.
Decedent’s mental health, while relevant to her underlying condition, is not a
key component of any of Plaintiffs’ claims. Plaintiffs do not allege an
emotional distress claim. Defendant’s subpoenas seek documents protected by
Decedent’s privacy rights. 
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to
quash subpoenas is granted. Defendant is ordered to re-serve the two subpoenas
with the language seeking “all mental health records,
psychotherapy notes, [and] psychiatric records” omitted.
 
Motions to Compel Further
 
Plaintiffs move for
an order compelling Eisenhower to provide further responses to its requests for
the production of documents set one, requests for the production of documents
set two, and special interrogatories. Plaintiffs provide they served their discovery
requests on Defendant on March 3, 2023. (Siegel Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs provide that Defendants repeatedly provided
deficient responses. (Id. ¶ 5.)
 
The court first addresses the issues presented in Plaintiffs’
motion to compel further responses to their special interrogatories. In
opposition, Eisenhower primarily contends that confidential information is in
the form of employee’s contact information. Eisenhower provides that it
attempted to work with Plaintiff to agree to a protective order, but Plaintiffs
refused to agree to a protective order. The court recognizes that while “current and
former employees unquestionably have a legitimate expectation of privacy in
their addresses and telephone numbers” (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008)
158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1252), Eisenhower has failed to establish an objectively
reasonable expectation of privacy and a threatened intrusion that is serious.
Thus, Eisenhower’s assertion of their employee’s privacy rights fail to satisfy
the requirements as stated in Hill. The court turns to the specific
discovery requests at issue.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 1: IDENTIFY
all CNAs, RNs, LVNs, RNAs, Physical Therapists and Occupational Therapists,
Dietary aides and Registered Dieticians, who provided assessments, services, or
care to PLAINTIFF at FACILITY from December 30, 2021 through and including
January 20, 2022. [As used herein, the term “IDENTIFY” shall mean to state the
name, address, telephone number, and license number if applicable; as used
herein, the term “PLAINTIFF” shall mean Plaintiff MICAELA DUARTE; as used
herein, the term “FACILITY” shall mean the skilled nursing facility located at
1470 North Fair Oaks Avenue, Pasadena, CA 91103, which is known as PASADENA
GROVE HEALTH CENTER.]
 
Special Interrogatory No. 2: IDENTIFY
all CNAs, RNS, LVNs, and RNAs who were assigned to the same floor, wing or unit
as PLAINTIFF at FACILITY from December 30, 2021 through and including January
20, 2022
 
Special Interrogatory No. 5: IDENTIFY
each person responsible for setting the operating budget of the FACILITY for
the operating budgets which were in force and effect during PLAINTIFF’s
RESIDENCY period at the FACILITY.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 8: IDENTIFY
the individual at FACILTY during PLAINTIFF’s RESIDENCY who was primarily
responsible for finding methods or ways to improve FACILITY’s five-star
ratings(s) given to FACILITY by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 16: Please
describe each DOCUMENT utilized by nursing personnel to obtain their patient
assignments at the start of each shift, and which was utilized at FACILITY
during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s RESIDENCY PERIOD at the FACILITY
 
            Eisenhower
is ordered to provide further responses to Plaintiffs’ special interrogatories
numbers 2, 5, 8, and 16. Eisenhower, if it decides, may move for a protective
order.
 
            In
opposition to Plaintiffs motion to compel further responses to the two sets of
the requests for the production of documents, Eisenhower provides it has
produced nearly 5,400 pages of documents. (Opposition at p. 6.) Plaintiffs’
arguments that further responses should be compelled revolve around their claim
that Defendants’ objections lack merit and that Defendants’ responses are not
code compliant. Notably, Plaintiffs argue that “[i]t is impossible to know
whether Defendant has produced all responsive documents or not.” (Reply at p.
7:6-7.) The court agrees, especially when Plaintiffs’ separate statements lack
any discussion of the documents actually produced and whether the responses are
sufficient. 
 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345
requires a separate statement to include “[a] statement of the factual and
legal reasons for compelling further responses, answers, or production as to
each matter in dispute”. Plaintiffs’ separate statements are deficient in that
they lack any discussion of the voluminous documents purportedly produced or
why Defendant should be ordered to provide further responses as to each
discovery requests. Rather, Plaintiffs merely repeatedly argue that Defendant’s
objections are meritless. Much like Defendant's boilerplate objections are not
helpful to Plaintiffs, Plaintiffs’ separate statements do not provide
sufficient grounds to compel further.
 
Lastly, the court
emphasizes that “[c]ivil discovery is intended to operate with a minimum of
judicial intervention. ‘[I]t is a “central precept” of the Civil Discovery Act
... that discovery ‘be essentially self-executing[.]’ ” (Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 402.)
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to
quash subpoenas is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to re-serve the two subpoenas
with he language seeking “all mental health records,
psychotherapy notes, [and] psychiatric records” omitted.
 
            Plaintiffs’
motion to compel further responses is GRANTED as to their special
interrogatories.
 
            Plaintiffs’
motions to compel further responses are DENIED as to their requests for the
production of documents sets one and two. 
 
            All
requests for sanctions are DENIED.
 
            Moving
party to give notice. 
 
            
Dated:   April 22, 2024                                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
