 Case Number:  23PSCV02476    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Weijun  Zhang v. Bolun Zhang, et al. 1.       Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second  Amended Complaint;2.       Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of  Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint;3.       Defendants Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain Inc.’s Demurrer to  Second Amended Complaint; and4.       Defendants Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain Inc.’s Motion to  Strike Portions of the Second Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court SUSTAINS Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s demurrer to  the Third Cause of Action of the Second Amended Complaint without leave to  amend. The Court SUSTAINS All Good Escrow, Inc.’s demurrer to the Fourth,  Fifth, Seventh, Ninth and Tenth Causes of Action, and will hear from Plaintiff  at the hearing on All Good Escrow, Inc.’s demurrer whether these defects can be  cured by amendment.  The Court DENIES Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s motion to  strike as moot with respect to the Third and Eighth Causes of Action of the  Second Amended Complaint, but GRANTS the motion as to page 32, lines 19 through 23, and  page 34, line 22 through page 35, line 12, of the Second Amended Complaint.  The Court SUSTAINS Defendants Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain  Inc.’s demurrer to the Third Cause of Action of the Second Amended Complaint  without leave to amend. The Court sustains Defendants Bolun Zhang and Taikoo  Supply Chain Inc.’s demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action, and will hear from  Plaintiff at the hearing on Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain Inc.’s demurrer  whether these defects can be cured by amendment.  The Court GRANTS Defendants Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain  Inc.’s motion to strike the Eighth Cause of Action for quiet title with leave  to amend.  Defendants All Good Escrow, Inc., Bolun Zhang, and Taikoo Supply  Chain Inc. are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five days of  this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a  real property dispute. On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff Weijun Zhang (Plaintiff)  filed this action against Defendants Bolun Zhang (Bolun), Jinghan Zhang  (Jinghan), All Good Escrow, Inc. (All Good), Taikoo Supply Chain, Inc. (Taikoo)  (collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 through 20. On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff  filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against the same Defendants,  alleging causes of action for promissory fraud, breach of oral contract,  rescission of contract pursuant to Civil Code § 1689(b), breach of covenant of  good faith and fair dealing, conversion, actual fraudulent conveyance,  constructive fraudulent conveyance, quiet title, common count: money had and  received, breach of fiduciary duty, imposition of constructive trust, and civil  theft under Penal Code section 496(c).  On July 26, 2024, All Good demurred to the SAC. On July 30, 2024,  All Good moved to strike portions of the SAC. On July 31, 2024, Bolun and  Taikoo demurred to and moved to strike portions of the SAC. On September 4,  2024, Plaintiff filed late oppositions the demurrers. On September 5, 2024, Bolun  and Taikoo replied. PRELIMINARY  ISSUE – Timeliness of Motions             The Court notes that the SAC was  filed and served on March 21, 2024. (SAC.) But, the instant demurrers and  motions to strike were served months after the 30-day responsive pleading  deadline. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.40, subd. (a), 435, subd. (b)(1).) Also, the  parties may not stipulate to an extension of more than 15 days without a court  order, (Gov’t Code, § 68616, subd. (b); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.110, subd.  (d)), so Plaintiff’s willingness to grant an extension beyond that timeframe  without a court order was improper, (Kinney Decls., ¶ 4; Tanji Decl. in Support  of Demurrer, ¶¶ 4-6; Tanji Decl. in Support of Motion to Strike, ¶¶ 3-5). The  Court exercises its discretion to still consider the motions, (see Jackson v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742, 750), but  admonishes the parties to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil  Procedure, and any other applicable laws or rules of court, going forward.              The Court further notes that the  deadline for Plaintiff’s opposition was August 29, 2024. (Code Civ. Proc., §  1005, subd. (b).) The Court exercises its discretion to still consider the  opposition, but admonishes Plaintiff to comply with the requirements of the  Code of Civil Procedure going forward. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300,  subd. (d); Juarez v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th  1197, 1202.)  LEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer (All Good)              A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of  other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or  content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function  of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for  purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are  assumed to be true. (Id., at pp. 993-994.)  A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)  A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])  A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire pleading, cause of action,  or affirmative defense. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320, subd. (a); Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108  Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046-1047.) DISCUSSION –  Demurrer (All Good) Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), All  Good was required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video  conference before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.  (a).) The Court finds All Good’s efforts to meet and confer sufficient. (Kinney  Decl., ¶¶ 13-15.)              Third Cause of Action – Rescission  of Contract  “Rescission is not a cause of action; it is a remedy. [Citations.]” (Nakash v. Superior Ct. (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 59, 70 (Nakash),  italics in original.)              All Good demurs to the Third Cause  of Action for rescission on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of  action. All Good contends rescission is a remedy, not a cause of action, and  the Second Cause of Action for breach of oral contract already seeks rescission  as a remedy, so there is no need for a separate cause of action based on  rescission. All Good also notes that the Court already made this determination  on January 25, 2024, when ruling on Defendants Bolun and Taikoo’s demurrer to  the First Amended Complaint and sustaining the demurrer without leave to amend  as to this cause of action.              Plaintiff contends that the demurrer  is moot because the parties agreed that Plaintiff will move for leave to file a  Third Amended Complaint.              The Court agrees  with All Good. Rescission is not a remedy, (Nakash, supra, 196  Cal.App.3d at p. 70), and the Court already sustained the demurrer to this  cause of action without leave to amend in its prior ruling on Bolun and  Taikoo’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, (Order re Tentative Ruling (1/25/24)).  The Court further notes Plaintiff’s lack of opposition to this argument, which  the Court construes as a tacit admission that All Good’s argument is meritorious.  (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing  the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before  Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v.  Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived  when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and citations to  authority. [Citation.]”])              Based on the foregoing, the Court  SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action without leave to amend.              Fourth Cause of Action – Breach of  Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing  To allege a breach of the implied covenant of good  faith and fair dealing, the plaintiff must allege, “something beyond breach of  the contractual duty itself and it has been held that [b]ad faith implies  unfair dealing rather than mistaken judgment .... [Citations.]” (Careau & Co. v. Sec. Pac. Bus. Credit, Inc. (1990)  222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.) “There is no obligation to deal fairly or in good  faith absent an existing contract. [Citation.]” (Racine & Laramie, Ltd. v.  Dep't of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1032.) Duplicative  causes of action are subject to demurrer. (Palm Springs Villas II  Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)              All Good demurs to the Fourth Cause  of Action for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing on the  grounds that it fails to state a cause of action. All Good contends the SAC  does not allege the existence of an enforceable contract between Plaintiff and  All Good, as the SAC does not attach a copy of the alleged escrow instructions  at issue or allege the terms of these instructions. All Good further contends  the alleged oral contract was formed only between Plaintiff and Bolun, and that  there are no allegations establishing Bolun had authority to bind All Good to  the alleged oral contract. All Good also contends there are no allegations that  All Good received consideration for the alleged oral contract.  Plaintiff contends that the demurrer is moot because the parties  agreed that Plaintiff will move for leave to file a Third Amended Complaint.              The Court agrees with All Good. The  SAC does not allege the existence of a contract between Plaintiff and All Good.  No contract is attached to the SAC, nor are terms of the contract alleged  therein. “A written contract may be pleaded either by its terms—set out  verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint  and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal effect. [Citation.]” (McKell  v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.)              Moreover, the SAC does not attach a  copy of the escrow instructions or allege their terms, which are essential for  imposing liability against an escrow company like All Good. “[E]scrow companies  have obligations limited to carrying out escrow instructions [citation]…” (Alereza v. Chicago Title Co. (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 551,  561.) The SAC mentions escrow instructions, but does not describe them or  allege facts setting forth their terms. (SAC, ¶ 27.) Without those terms, the SAC  fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action for breach of the  covenant of good faith and fair dealing against All Good.  Furthermore, the SAC does not allege the formation of  a contract between Plaintiff and All Good. The SAC does not allege facts  demonstrating that Bolun had authority to act on behalf or otherwise bind All  Good. The agency allegations in paragraph 7 of the SAC are conclusory and  therefore unavailing. (SAC, ¶ 7; Serrano v. Priest  (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591 [“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material  facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact  or law.”]) The SAC also does not allege what consideration All Good purportedly  received in connection with any such agreement.  Also, although not mentioned in All Good’s moving  papers, the Court notes that the allegations of the SAC do not allege anything  beyond a standard breach of contract claim. “If  the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and,  relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief  already claimed in a companion contract cause of action, they may be  disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated.” (Careau & Co. v. Sec. Pac. Bus. Credit, Inc. (1990)  222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.) The SAC alleges largely the same facts and damage  claims for both the breach of contract cause of action and the breach of the covenant  of good faith and fair dealing cause of action. (SAC, ¶¶ 58-65, 74-78.) Thus,  the Fourth Cause of Action is duplicative of the Second Cause of Action and  adds nothing new beyond the breach of the contractual duty itself.              Based on the foregoing, the Court  SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action.              Fifth Cause of Action – Conversion              To state a cause of action for conversion, the plaintiff  must allege facts demonstrating, “’(1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to  possession of personal property; (2) the defendant's disposition of the  property in a manner that is inconsistent with the plaintiff's property rights;  and (3) resulting damages.  [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Regent All. Ltd. v. Rabizadeh  (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1181.)              All Good demurs to the Fifth Cause of Action for  conversion on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action. All Good  contends there are no allegations that All Good exercised ownership or control  over the subject property or that All Good intended to exercise ownership or  control over the funds or the subject property. All Good further contends there  are no allegations that All Good’s alleged conduct was wrongful, as the escrow  instructions have not been provided.  Plaintiff contends that the demurrer is moot because the parties  agreed that Plaintiff will move for leave to file a Third Amended Complaint.              The Court agrees with All Good. It is difficult to know without  the escrow instructions and their terms what All Good’s obligations were in  connection with Plaintiff’s funds and whether All Good’s actions were  inconsistent with Plaintiff’s rights to those funds. (See Alereza v. Chicago Title Co., supra, 6 Cal.App.5th at  p. 561.) The SAC alleges in a conclusory fashion that All Good misused  Plaintiff’s funds and enabled Bolun to buy the subject property in his name  rather than Plaintiff’s. (See SAC, ¶ 24.) However, there are no specific  factual allegations demonstrating All Good’s wrongful conduct. As far as the  Court can tell, All Good merely transferred Plaintiff’s funds like an escrow  company normally does. (SAC, ¶¶ 26-27.)              Based on the foregoing, the Court  SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action.              Seventh Cause of Action –  Constructive Fraudulent Conveyance              To state a cause of action for fraudulent conveyance, the  plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “’a transfer by the debtor  of property to a third person undertaken with the intent to prevent a creditor  from reaching that interest  to satisfy its claim.’ [Citation.]” (Nautilus, Inc. v. Yang (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 33, 39.) A  constructive fraudulent conveyance occurs when the debtor is insolvent. (See  Civ. Code, §§ 3439.02, 3439.04.)              All Good demurs to the Seventh Cause of Action for  constructive fraudulent conveyance on the grounds that it fails to state a  cause of action. All Good contends this cause of action only alleges facts  pertaining to Bolun, and that there are no facts establishing that All Good was  involved in the alleged fraudulent conveyance of the subject property from  Bolun to Jinghan. All Good further contends there are no allegations that its  conduct was fraudulent, given the lack of escrow instructions in the SAC.              The Court finds the SAC fails to  state a cause of action for constructive fraudulent conveyance. First, although  not mentioned in All Good’s moving papers, the SAC does not allege that All  Good was a debtor of Plaintiff’s, that All Good owned the subject property, or  that All Good transferred the property to a third person in an effort to  prevent Plaintiff from satisfying a claim against All Good. (See Nautilus, Inc. v. Yang, supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at p.  39.) Second, the SAC’s allegations of Bolun’s insolvency are conclusory and  without factual support. (SAC, ¶¶ 106-107.) The Court further agrees with All  Good that the SAC otherwise does not allege facts demonstrating All Good’s  involvement in the allegedly fraudulent transfer, as the SAC at most alleges  All Good transferred funds like an escrow company normally would. (SAC, ¶¶  26-27.)              Based on the foregoing, the Court  SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Seventh Cause of Action for constructive  fraudulent conveyance.              Eighth Cause of Action – Quiet Title              To state a cause of action for quiet title, the plaintiff  must allege facts demonstrating some sort of dispute as to ownership or  possession of the subject real property. (Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020, subd. (c).)  “A quiet title action is a statutory action that seeks to declare the rights of  the parties in realty. The object of the action is to finally settle and  determine, as between the parties, all conflicting claims to the property in  controversy, and to decree to each such interest or estate therein as he may be  entitled to. The purpose of a quiet title action is to determine any adverse  claim to the property that the defendant may assert, and to declare and define  any interest held by the defendant, so that the plaintiff may have a decree  finally adjudicating the extent of his own interest in the property in  controversy.” (Weeden v. Hoffman (2021) 70  Cal.App.5th 269, 291, internal citations and quotation marks omitted.)              All Good demurs to the Eighth Cause of Action for quiet  title on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action. All Good  contends there are no allegations that All Good holds title or possession to  the subject property. All Good also notes that the SAC is unverified.  Plaintiff contends that the demurrer is moot because the parties  agreed that Plaintiff will move for leave to file a Third Amended Complaint.              The Court agrees with All Good. The SAC does not allege  that All Good claims a conflicting interest in the subject property. As noted  above, the SAC at most alleges that All Good transferred funds like an escrow  company normally does. (SAC, ¶¶ 26-27.) As for the lack of verification, that cannot  be the subject of a demurrer, but rather is the subject of a motion to strike.  (Zavala v. Bd. of Trustees (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1755,  1761; see also Lapique v. Kelley (1927) 82  Cal.App.586, 592 [unverified answer cannot be the subject of a demurrer].)  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the  Eighth Cause of Action for quiet title.              Ninth Cause of Action – Common  Count: Money Had and Received              To state a cause of action for money had and received,  the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “one person has received money  which belongs to another, and which in equity and good conscience should be  paid over to the latter.’ [Citation.]” (Gutierrez v. Girardi (2011) 194  Cal.App.4th 925, 937.) “When a common count is used as an alternative way of  seeking the same recovery demanded in a specific cause of action, and is based  on the same facts, the common count is demurrable if the cause of action is  demurrable.” (McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 394.)              All Good demurs to the Ninth Cause  of Action for money had and received on the grounds that it fails to state a  cause of action. All Good contends this cause of action is based on the same facts  as the Second Cause of Action for breach of oral contract, and is therefore  subject to demurrer. All Good also contends the oral contract was between  Plaintiff and Bolun only, and that All Good was not a party to it.  Plaintiff contends that the demurrer is moot because the parties  agreed that Plaintiff will move for leave to file a Third Amended Complaint.              The Court agrees with All Good. Since the Second Cause of  Action for Breach of Oral Contract was not stated against All Good, All Good  did not demur to the Second Cause of Action for breach of oral contract. Thus,  the Court cannot sustain the demurrer to this common count claim based on the  breach of oral contract claim. (See McBride v. Boughton, supra, 123  Cal.App.4th at p. 394; see also Weitzenkorn v. Lesser (1953) 40 Cal.2d  778, 792-793 [common counts generally not subject to demurrer].) However, the  Court does agree that the Ninth Cause of Action fails to allege facts showing  that All Good received money belonging to Plaintiff that should be paid over to  Plaintiff. There are no facts alleged showing any agreement between Plaintiff  and All Good or any wrongful conduct by All Good.              Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer  to the Ninth Cause of Action for money had and received.              Tenth Cause of Action – Breach of  Fiduciary Duty              To state a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty,  the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “’(1) the existence of a fiduciary relationship,  (2) its breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach.’  [Citation.]” (O'Neal v. Stanislaus Cnty. Employees' Ret. Assn. (2017)  8 Cal.App.5th 1184, 1215.) An escrow company’s liability for breach of  fiduciary duty is generally limited to the escrow instructions. (See Tribeca Companies, LLC v. First Am. Title Ins. Co.  (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1114.)              All Good demurs to the Tenth Cause of Action for breach  of fiduciary duty on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action. All  Good reiterates the argument that the SAC fails to attach the alleged escrow  instructions or allege their terms, which are essential for establishing a  breach of fiduciary duty claim against an escrow company.  Plaintiff contends that the demurrer is moot because the parties  agreed that Plaintiff will move for leave to file a Third Amended Complaint.              The Court agrees with All Good. As set forth above, the  SAC fails to attach the alleged escrow instructions or set forth their terms. An  escrow company’s fiduciary duty is limited by the terms of the escrow  instructions. (Tribeca Companies, LLC v. First Am. Title Ins.  Co., supra, 239 Cal.App.4th at p. 1114.) The lack of escrow  instructions here renders Plaintiff’s claim subject to demurrer.              Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer  to the Tenth Cause of Action for breach of fiduciary duty.   LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Strike (All Good)              “Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole  or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions  specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)  “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in  its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)  PRELIMINARY ISSUE – Motion to  Strike (All Good)              “A notice of motion to strike  a portion of a pleading must quote in full the portions sought to be stricken  except where the motion is to strike an entire paragraph, cause of action,  count, or defense.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (a).) The Court  notes that All Good’s motion to strike does not quote in full the portions of  the prayer for relief sought to be stricken. The Court will still consider the  motion to strike, but admonishes All Good to comply with the requirements of  the California Rules of Court going forward.  DISCUSSION –  Motion to Strike (All Good)  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section  435.5, subdivision (a), All Good was required to meet and confer in person, by  telephone, or by video conference before bringing this motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds All Good’s efforts to meet and confer sufficient.  (Kinney Decl., ¶¶ 13-15.)  Third and Eighth Causes of Action  All Good seeks to strike the Third and Eighth Causes of Action on  the grounds that they are not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state. Given the Court sustained the demurrer to these causes of action, the Court  DENIES the motion to strike as moot with respect to these causes of action.[1]  Prayer  for Relief – Rescission and Quiet Title  All  Good seeks to strike the portion of the prayer for relief for the Third Cause  of Action for rescission, page 32, lines 19 through 23 of the SAC, and the  portion of the prayer for relief for the Eighth Cause of Action for quiet  title, page 34, line 22 through page 35, line 12 of the SAC, on the grounds  that they are not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state.  Given the Court sustained the demurrer to the Third and Eighth Causes of  Action, the Court GRANTS the motion to strike as to these portions of the SAC.  CASE  NAME:  Weijun  Zhang v. Bolun Zhang, et al. CASE No.:  23PSCV02476 Defendants  Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain Inc.’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint  and Motion to Strike Portions of the Second Amended Complaint DISCUSSION –  Demurrer (Bolun and Taikoo) Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Bolun  and Taikoo were required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by  video conference before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,  subd. (a).) The Court does not find Bolun and Taikoo’s efforts to meet and  confer sufficient, as there is no indication that they attempted to meet and  confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference. (Tanji Decl. in Support  of Demurrer, ¶¶ 3-6.) Nevertheless, the Court may not overrule a demurrer for  failure to adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)  The Court will still consider the demurrer, but admonishes Bolun and Taikoo to  comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward.              Third Cause of  Action – Rescission  “Rescission is not a cause of action; it is a remedy. [Citations.]” (Nakash v. Superior Ct. (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 59, 70 (Nakash),  italics in original.)              Bolun and Taikoo demur to the Third  Cause of Action for rescission on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of  action. They argue that the Court previously sustained their demurrer to this  cause of action without leave to amend on January 25, 2024, and Plaintiff  disobeyed the Court’s order by keeping it in the SAC.  Plaintiff contends that the demurrer is moot because the parties  agreed that Plaintiff will move for leave to file a Third Amended Complaint.              The Court agrees with Bolun and  Taikoo. The Court sustained the demurrer to this cause of action without leave  to amend on January 25, 2024, because there is no cause of action for  rescission. (Order re Tentative Ruling (1/25/24); Nakash, supra, 196  Cal.App.3d at p. 70.) Plaintiff’s inclusion of this cause of action in the SAC  was therefore improper. The Court further notes Plaintiff’s  lack of opposition to this argument, which the Court construes as a tacit  admission that Bolun and Taikoo’s argument is meritorious. (Sexton v.  Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and  Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C,  ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v.  Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived  when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and citations to  authority. [Citation.]”])              Based on the foregoing, the Court  SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action for rescission without leave  to amend.              Fourth Cause  of Action – Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing  To allege a breach of the implied covenant of good  faith and fair dealing, the plaintiff must allege, “something beyond breach of  the contractual duty itself and it has been held that [b]ad faith implies  unfair dealing rather than mistaken judgment .... [Citations.]” (Careau & Co. v. Sec. Pac. Bus. Credit, Inc. (1990)  222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.) Duplicative causes of action are subject to  demurrer. (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth  (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)  Bolun and Taikoo demur to the Fourth Cause of Action  for breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing on the grounds that it  fails to state a cause of action. They contend that this cause of action is  duplicative of the breach of oral contract cause of action, as the allegations  between the two causes of action are the same, i.e., same contract to assist  Plaintiff to purchase house, same breach by taking the house in Bolun’s name,  and the same damages of $1,690,355.00.  Plaintiff contends that the demurrer is moot because the parties  agreed that Plaintiff will move for leave to file a Third Amended Complaint.  The Court agrees with Bolun and Taikoo. “If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a  mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the  same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of  action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is  actually stated.” (Careau & Co. v. Sec. Pac. Bus. Credit,  Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.) The SAC alleges largely the same  facts and damage claims for both the breach of contract cause of action and the  breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing cause of action. (SAC, ¶¶  58-65, 74-78.) Thus, the Fourth Cause of Action is duplicative of the Second  Cause of Action and adds nothing new beyond the breach of the contractual duty  itself.              The Court also reiterates the lack  of opposition from Plaintiff as a tacit admission that Bolun and Taikoo’s arguments  are meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court, supra, 58 Cal.App.4th at p.  1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide  Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo, supra, 111  Cal.App.4th at p. 1215.)              Based on the foregoing, the court  SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action. Given that this is the  second time the Court is sustaining Bolun and Taikoo’s demurrer to this cause  of action, the Court will hear from Plaintiff at the hearing on the demurrer  whether these defects can be corrected by amendment.  DISCUSSION –  Motion to Strike (Bolun and Taikoo)  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section  435.5, subdivision (a), Bolun and Taikoo were required to meet and confer in person, by  telephone, or by video conference before bringing this motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court does not find Bolun and Taikoo’s efforts to meet and  confer sufficient, as there is no indication that they attempted to meet and  confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference. (Tanji Decl. in Support  of Motion to Strike, ¶¶ 2-5.) Nevertheless, the Court may not deny a motion to  strike for failure to adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5,  subd. (a)(4).) The Court will still consider the motion to strike, but  admonishes Bolun and Taikoo to comply with the requirements of the Code of  Civil Procedure going forward.  Analysis  Bolun and Taikoo move to strike the Eighth[2] Cause of Action for quiet title on the grounds that the SAC is not verified,  which is required for a quiet title claim.  The  Court agrees with Bolun and Taikoo. A quiet title claim requires verification.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020; Zavala v. Bd. of Trustees (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1755, 1761.) The Court also construes the  lack of opposition from Plaintiff as a tacit admission that Bolun and Taikoo’s  arguments are meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58  Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition,  Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111  Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived when a party fails to support  them with reasoned argument and citations to authority. [Citation.]”])  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion to strike.  CONCLUSION  The Court SUSTAINS Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s demurrer to  the Third Cause of Action of the Second Amended Complaint without leave to  amend. The Court SUSTAINS All Good Escrow, Inc.’s demurrer to the Fourth,  Fifth, Seventh, Ninth and Tenth Causes of Action, and will hear from Plaintiff  at the hearing on All Good Escrow, Inc.’s demurrer whether these defects can be  cured by amendment.  The Court DENIES Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s motion to  strike as moot with respect to the Third and Eighth Causes of Action of the  Second Amended Complaint, but GRANTS the motion as to page 32, lines 19 through 23, and  page 34, line 22 through page 35, line 12, of the Second Amended Complaint.  The Court SUSTAINS Defendants Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain  Inc.’s demurrer to the Third Cause of Action of the Second Amended Complaint  without leave to amend. The Court sustains Defendants Bolun Zhang and Taikoo  Supply Chain Inc.’s demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action, and will hear from  Plaintiff at the hearing on Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain Inc.’s demurrer  whether these defects can be cured by amendment.  The Court GRANTS Defendants Bolun Zhang and Taikoo Supply Chain  Inc.’s motion to strike the Eighth Cause of Action for quiet title with leave  to amend.              Defendants All Good Escrow, Inc.,  Bolun Zhang, and Taikoo Supply Chain Inc. are ordered to give notice of the  Court’s ruling within five days of this order.     