  Case Number:  22PSCV00934    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Dagoberto
Reyes, et al. v. Miguel Banderas 
Plaintiff
Dagoberto Reyes’ Motion to Set Aside dismissal to All Parties Except Plaintiff
Luz Maria Reyes 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS the motion to set aside dismissal to all parties
except Plaintiff Luz Maria Reyes. 
            Plaintiff Dagoberto Reyes is ordered
to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a real property dispute. On August 29, 2022, plaintiffs
Dagoberto Reyes (Dagoberto) and Luz Maria Reyes (Luz) (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed this action against defendant Miguel Banderas (Defendant) and
Does 1 to 10, inclusive, alleging causes of action for partition and
compensatory adjustment. 
On February 14, 2022, Plaintiffs dismissed the entire action
without prejudice. On August 9, 2024, Dagoberto moved to set aside the dismissal.
The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subdivision (b), “the
court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Relief under this
section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault; otherwise,
it is discretionary. (Id.) An application for relief must be made no more than
six months after entry of the order from which relief is sought and must be
accompanied by an affidavit of fault attesting to the moving party’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Id.; English v. IKON Business
Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) 
DISCUSSION 
Dagoberto seeks to set aside the dismissal entered on February 14,
2024, on the grounds that it was the result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect. More specifically, Plaintiffs contend their attorney
inadvertently filed a dismissal as to all parties when it should have only
applied to Plaintiff Luz. Plaintiffs indicate that they filed a stipulated
judgment at the same time as they filed the request for dismissal, but the
Court dismissed the entire matter without prejudice and then could not file the
stipulation. Plaintiffs also note that the stipulation did not contain a
signature or judgment page for the judge to sign. 
The Court
finds Dagoberto is entitled to the relief sought. The motion was brought within
six months of entry of the dismissal. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Plaintiffs’
counsel also provided the necessary declaration attesting to his fault. (See Hernandez
Decl., p. 1.) The Court further construes Defendant’s lack of opposition as a
tacit admission that the motion is meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition,
Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111
Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived when a party fails to support
them with reasoned argument and citations to authority. [Citation.]”]) 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the motion to set aside dismissal to all parties
except Plaintiff Luz Maria Reyes. 
            Plaintiff Dagoberto Reyes is ordered
to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.