 Case Number:  23STCP02665    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  39 Kosim Midek, et
al. v. Allstate Northbrook Indemnity Company
Case No. 23STCP02665
Motion to Vacate
Arbitration Order
 
            Petitioners
Kosim Midek and Mega Intan (collectively, “Petitioners”) filed this action to
compel arbitration of their uninsured motorist claim against Respondent
Allstate Northbrook Indemnity Company (“Respondent”).  The Court previously ordered arbitration of
this claim.  Now, Respondent seeks to
vacate that order.
 
            First,
Respondent argues that it was not properly served.  Respondent is incorrect.  Respondent’s counsel concedes that Petitioners
“did effectuate service on CT Corporation (the registered agent for service of
process for Allstate.”  (Respondent’s
Memorandum of Points & Authorities, p. 5:14-15.)  Instead, Respondent’s counsel argues that
this was not proper because “CT Corporation had to be served via personal
service,” citing Code of Civil Procedure section 415.10.  (Id., p. 5:15-17.)  Although Respondent’s counsel misinterprets
the statute, which states that service “may” be effectuated via personal
service, it does not appear that Petitioners complied with Code of Civil
Procedure sections 415.20 or 415.30. 
Petitioners’ counsel argues that he served counsel for Respondent, but
counsel is not required to accept service. 
Petitioners’ counsel also argues that Respondent made a general
appearance.  In fact, Respondent made no
appearance before the Court granted the petition to compel arbitration.    
 
            Second, Petitioners
argue that venue is improper because there is a pending case in the San
Bernardino Superior Court.  Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1292.4: “If a controversy referrable to
arbitration under an alleged agreement is involved in an action or proceeding
pending in a superior court, a petition for an order to arbitrate shall be
filed in such action or proceeding.” 
Petitioners’ counsel does not address this issue in his opposition.
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court vacates its order compelling
arbitration and all related deadlines.
 
            2.         The Court dismisses this petition.
 
3.         This
order is without prejudice to Petitioners seeking relief in Case Number
CIVSB2317058.  If that case has been
resolved, this order is without prejudice to Petitioners filing and serving a
new petition to compel arbitration in the appropriate court.
 
            4.         Respondent’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 
            