 Case Number:  24SMCV04009    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV04009




MOTION


Motion
  for Leave to File a Complaint-in-Intervention




MOVING PARTY


Proposed
  Plaintiff-in-Intervention County of Los Angeles




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTION
             
            On 
August 16, 2024, Plaintiff Darryl Adrian Hunter (“Plaintiff”) filed suit
against Defendants Yvette Denice Thor and Peter P. Wierzbicki, alleging two
causes of action for (1) motor vehicle and (2) negligence, stemming from a
vehicle collision that occurred on August 17, 2022.
 
Proposed Plaintiff-in-Intervention County of Los Angeles (“County”)
seeks leave to file a complaint-in-intervention, on the grounds that the County
is Plaintiff’s employer and Plaintiff was driving a County vehicle in the
course and scope of his employment at the time of the collision.  The motion is unopposed.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Request to Intervene
            
Per the Code of Civil Procedure, “[a]n intervention takes place when a
nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a party to an action or proceeding
between other persons by doing any of the following: (1) Joining a plaintiff in
claiming what is sought by the complaint[;] (2) Uniting with a defendant in
resisting the claims of a plaintiff[; or] (3) Demanding anything adverse to
both a plaintiff and a defendant.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (b).)  “A
nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or
ex parte application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed
complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds
upon which intervention rests.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).)    
 
“The court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to
intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is
satisfied:  (A) A provision of law
confers an unconditional right to intervene[; or] (B) The person seeking
intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is
the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition
of the action may impair or impede that person's ability to protect that
interest, unless that person's interest is adequately represented by one or
more of the existing parties.  [Also] The
court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the
action or proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation,
or in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd.
(d)(1)-(2).)  
 
County cites to Labor Code section 3852, which grants an employer the
right to recover workers compensation benefits paid to its injured employee
from a third-party defendant.  Similarly,
Labor Code section 3853 grants an employer, like County, the right to intervene
in its employee’s lawsuit.  
 
County advances the declaration of Ronnie D. Chau, who states:
 
2. The County of Los Angeles is seeking leave to
file a Complaint-in-Intervention in the personal injury action of its employee,
Darryl Hunter. On August 17, 2022, Darryl Hunter was driving a vehicle owned by
the County of Los Angeles on the I10 Freeway Westbound near or around National
Boulevard in Los Angeles, California ("Subject Incident") when he was
involved in a collision with a vehicle owned/operated by
Defendants-in-Intervention Yvette Denice Thor and Peter P. Wierzbicki. Darryl
Hunter was in the course and scope of his employment with the County of Los
Angeles at the time of the incident. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants-in-Intervention's negligence, the County of Los Angeles has paid and
continues to pay workers compensation benefits to and on behalf of Darryl
Hunter as a result of this Subject Incident pursuant to Labor Code, Section
3852 which it seeks to recover from the Defendants-in-intervention.
 
(Chau
Decl. ¶ 2.)  
 
            Therefore,
County has provided both a legal and factual basis to support its request to
intervene, and no party has opposed the request.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court grants County’s motion in its entirety.  County shall file and serve the complaint in
intervention on or before November 13, 2024.
  
County shall provide notice of this Court’s order and file the notice with
a proof of service forthwith.  
 
DATED:  October 23, 2024                          ________________________________
                                                                        Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court