   [1] “[A]s a general rule, a voluntary dismissal of an  action deprives the court of both subject matter and personal jurisdiction in  that case. Based on this general rule, most orders entered after the dismissal  are void and have no effect.”  (See Manhan  v. Gallagher (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 504, 509 [cleaned up]; see also Paniagua  v. Orange County Fire Authority (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 83, 89 [“it is a  well-settled proposition of law that where the plaintiff has filed a voluntary  dismissal of an action . . ., the court is without jurisdiction to act further  [citations], and any subsequent orders of the court are simply void”].)     [2] “The concept of justiciability involves the  intertwined criteria of ripeness and standing. Standing derives from the  principle that every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in  interest.  A party lacks standing if it  does not have an actual and substantial interest in, or would not be benefited  or harmed by, the ultimate outcome of an action.  Standing is a function not just of a party's  stake in a case, but the degree of vigor or intensity with which the presents  its arguments. Ripeness refers to the requirements of a current controversy.  According to the Supreme Court, an action not founded upon an actual  controversy between the parties to it, and brought for the purpose of securing  a determination of a point of law will not be entertained. A controversy  becomes ripe once it reaches, but has not passed, the point that the facts have  sufficiently congealed to permit an intelligent and useful decision to be  made.”  (City of Santa Monica v.  Stewart (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 43, 59 [cleaned up].)  [3] “Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 581,  subdivisions (b) and (c), plaintiffs have the right to voluntarily dismiss an  entire action, or causes of action within a pleading, before the commencement  of trial.  A request for a dismissal is  usually effective upon filing, and no other action by the clerk or the court is  required. Neither the clerk nor the trial court has any discretion in the  matter. Upon the proper filing of a request to voluntarily dismiss a matter,  the trial court loses jurisdiction to act in the case, except for the limited  purpose of awarding costs and statutory attorney fees.  All subsequent proceeding are void.”  (Law Offices of Andrew L. Ellis v. Yang  (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 869, 876 [cleaned up].) 