 Case Number:  22SMCV02963    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Doe v. Bastiat
USA Inc., et al.

CASE NO.:                22SMCV02963

MOTION:                  Motion
for Sanctions

HEARING DATE:   3/19/2024



 

Legal
Standard

 

Code of Civil Procedure section
128.7(b) states that a court may, but is not required to, impose sanctions on an
unrepresented party or attorney that presents a pleading, petition, motion, or
other similar papers in the following circumstances:

 

1) the document is presented
primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary
delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.

2) the claims, defenses, and other
legal contentions therein are not warranted by existing law or by a
nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing
law or the establishment of new law.

            3) the
allegations and other factual contentions have no evidentiary support;

            4) the
denials of factual contentions are not warranted on the evidence.

 

(See Eichenbaum v. Alon (2003) 106 Cal
App 4th 967, 976.) Section 128.7 does not require a finding of subjective bad
faith; instead it requires only that the Court find that the conduct be
objectively unreasonable. (In re Marriage of Reese & Guy
(1999) 73 Cal. App. 4th 1214, 1221.)

 

A claim is factually frivolous if
it is “not well grounded in fact” and is legally frivolous if it is “not
warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law.” (Bucur v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 189–190.) In
either case, to obtain sanctions, the moving party must show the party's
conduct in asserting the claim was objectively unreasonable. (Ibid.) A claim is objectively
unreasonable if “any reasonable attorney would agree that [it] is totally and
completely without merit.” (Ibid.)
However, “section 128.7 sanctions should be ‘made with restraint’ [Citation],
and are not mandatory even if a claim is frivolous.” (Peake v. Underwood (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 428. at 448.)

 

The Legislature enacted section
128.7 based on rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 U.S.C.), as
amended in 1993 (rule 11). (Musaelian
v. Adams (2009) 45 Cal.4th 512, 518, fn. 2.) As a result, federal
case law construing rule 11 is persuasive authority on the meaning of section
128.7. (Guillemin v. Stein
(2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 156, 168.) Under rule 11, even though an action may not
be frivolous when it is filed, it may become so if later-acquired evidence
refutes the findings of a prefiling investigation and the attorney continues to
file papers supporting the client's claims. (Childs v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (5th Cir.1994) 29
F.3d 1018, 1025.) As a result, a plaintiff's attorney cannot “just cling
tenaciously to the investigation he had done at the outset of the litigation and
bury his head in the sand.” (Ibid.)
This requires an attorney to conduct a reasonable inquiry to determine if his
or her client's claim was well-grounded in fact and to take into account the
adverse party's evidence. (Ibid.)

 

“Although the objective standard of
proof is easier to satisfy [than the subjective standard], the Legislature
intended to ‘retain the extremely high proof required for such awards’ with its
applicability lying with ‘truly egregious behaviors.’ ” (San Diegans for
Open Government v. City of San Diego (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1306, 1318-19.)
An objectively reasonable attorney standard applies to this determination. (Id.
at 1319.) “Whether a claim is meritless or for the sole purpose of harassment
must be evaluated by examining whether the factual allegations of the claim had
evidentiary support.” (Ibid.) The “ultimate burden of providing
sanctionable conduct remains with the moving party.” (Id. at
1320.) The moving party must provide evidence sufficient to establish a prima
facie case that the action is meritless or for the sole purpose of harassment.
(Id. at 1319-1320.) If the court finds that this evidence has
satisfied the moving party’s burden, then the burden shifts to the opposing
party to refute the prima facie case. (Id. at 1320.) 

 

In addition to the above
requirements, Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7(c)(1) requires that a
motion for sanctions under section 128.7 be made separately from other motions
and that notice of the motion must be served, but not filed with the Court,
unless, within 21 days after service of the motion, the challenged paper is not
withdrawn. This 21-day time period is known as a "safe harbor" period
and its purpose is to permit an offending party to avoid sanctions by
withdrawing the improper pleading during the safe harbor period. (Li v. Majestic Industry Hills LLC
(2009) 177 Cal. App. 4th 585, 591.) This permits a party to withdraw a
questionable pleading without penalty, thus saving the court and the parties
time and money litigating the pleading as well as the sanctions request. (Ibid.)  

 

Analysis

 



Defendants Bastiat USA, Inc. and
Bastiat Santa Monica, Inc. move for an award of sanctions against Plaintiff
Jane Doe and counsel, Craig Charles, pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure § 128.7. 

 

Safe Harbor Requirement

 

Defendants show compliance with the
21-day safe harbor period.

 

Sanctions against Plaintiff 

 

By the plain terms of section
128.7, the Court cannot sanction Plaintiff, a represented party. Thus, the
motion is DENIED as to sanctions against Plaintiff individually.

 

Sanctions against Counsel

 

Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s
counsel is subject to sanctions for failing to conduct a reasonably inquiry
into certain false and scandalous factual allegations contained within the complaint,
and continuing to allege such factual allegations despite a lack of evidentiary
support. Defendants specifically target paragraph 71 of the complaint. Paragraph
71 alleges:

 

In addition to Bastiat’s knowledge
of Rotondo’s propensity to engage in illegal conduct, Bastiat had actual
knowledge that Rotondo was a danger to young women. Prior to the acts committed
against Plaintiff, Rotondo engaged in sexual harassment and assault with
another young Bastiat employee. That woman, in distress, attempted suicide by
slashing her wrists at the London condominium owned by Bastiat. All executives
and owners were fully aware that Rotondo caused the woman’s distress. 

 

(Compl. at ¶ 71.)  As
clarified in the reply, Defendants focus on the allegation that the young
Bastiat employee (identified as “BH”) attempted to kill herself because of Rotondo’s
conduct.  (Reply, p. 4, lns 18-20.)

 

In their motion, Defendants fail to
establish that Plaintiff’s counsel failed to conduct a reasonable pre-filing
inquiry before making this allegation, or that counsel no longer has a
sufficient factual basis to allege the facts found in paragraph 71 since the
deposition of B.H. Defendants’ evidence does not “unequivocally,” “categorically”
or “indisputably” prove that Bastiat did not know that Rotondo was “a danger to
young women” such as Plaintiff, because it was false that Rotondo engaged in sexual
harassment and assault against another young woman, or that B.H. did not attempt
suicide.  

 

Defendants cite evidence elicited
at depositions that they contend “irrefutably” disprove this allegation. Plaintiff
admits she has never met or spoken to BH. (Wesley Decl., Ex. A at 167:17,
169:7.) BH likewise testified that she does not know Plaintiff, has never met
her, and was not contacted by counsel before he filed the complaint. (Wesley
Decl., Ex. B at 50:14-18, 70:20-24.) Defendants also cite texts by Plaintiff
which suggests that Plaintiff did not know for certain that BH attempted
suicide. Specifically, Plaintiff texted a coworker about it, asking: “Did you
ever hear about [BH] attempting suicide? Luca told me about it so idk if it is
true and it’s in this lawsuit.” (Wesley Decl., Ex. C.) Plaintiff also stated
that she has “no idea what Luca [Rotondo] told [BH] about me but I never
believed anything he said about her[.]” (Wesley Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. C.) Defendants
contend that this means Plaintiff admits she has no idea whether the
allegations were true, and that she did not believe Rotondo’s statement about BH
with respect to the suicide attempt.  

 

As to the purported admissions, the
Court is not persuaded that Plaintiff’s text messages can only be read
against her allegations in the complaint. A reasonable interpretation of
Plaintiff’s texts could include that she didn’t believe Rotondo about BH “being
let go” because he and Plaintiff were working together, or other negative
statements about BH by Rotondo. It does not necessarily mean that Plaintiff did
not believe that BH attempted suicide, or that BH was not being abused by
Rotondo during his relationship with BH. Thus, these statements would not
indisputably prove that the allegations have no evidentiary support.

 

Defendants also cite BH’s testimony
denying that Rotondo physically abused her, emotionally abused her, or forced
to her to engage in any nonconsensual sexual acts, or that she attempted
suicide. (Wesley Decl., Ex. B at 42, 44.) She testified that Rotondo was a
“nice,” “caring” person who “respects women.” (Id. at 44.) She also denied that
she ever attempted to commit suicide while dating Rotondo. (Id. at 46) Although
BH confirmed that she “cut” her wrists while she was living with Rotondo at the
London apartment, she denied it was a suicide attempt. (Id., at 46-47.) She
also denied that she cut her wrists as a result of her relationship problems
with Rotondo. (Id., at 48-49.) Defense counsel instructed BH not to respond to
further inquiries about the reasons for her wrist-cutting, preventing
Plaintiff’s counsel from attempting to investigate the allegations in paragraph
71. (Id. at 49-50.)

 

Defendants cite no authority that a
reasonable pre-filing investigation would necessarily require counsel to
contact BH and confirm a separate and tangential claim of sexual assault which
could support, in part, Bastiat’s knowledge of Rotondo’s propensities to harm. Further,
the record confirms that Plaintiff has some foundation for the allegations about
BH from co-Defendant Rotondo. (Charles Decl., Ex. At 164-165.) Rotondo
informed Plaintiff that BH was fired for complaining about Plaintiff and
Rotondo, that BH “tried to slit her wrists” in the London apartment, and that BH
was “crazy” and “emotional.” (Id. at 164-169.) Plaintiff testified that
she personally concluded that BH was “abused” by Rotondo because of these
statements by Rotondo, since she “now recognizes” that these sorts of
statements by Rotondo suggest abuse. (Id. at 169:2-13.) Defense counsel even
admits on the record that it’s a “possibility” that Rotondo’s statements
suggest BH was being abused but that its “another possibility” that BH was
unstable for other reasons. (Id. at 169:14-19.) Indeed, those are both
possibilities under this record, which cuts against sanctions.  

 

Plaintiff presents additional
evidence supporting the allegations. BH had a substantially similar
relationship with Rotondo as Plaintiff, which supports her previously noted
conclusion that BH was being abused by Rotondo in a substantially similar
manner as herself. BH was in a dating relationship with Rotondo while both were
employed by Defendants. (Charles Decl., Ex. 1 [BH Depo.] at 42; Ex. 3 [Allen
Depo.] at 43.) Rotondo was both BH’s supervisor and Plaintiff’s supervisor
during their respective employments by Defendants. (Id., Ex. 1 [BH Depo.] at
21.) BH’s relationship with Rotondo was also known to executives within
Bastiat. (Id. Ex. 1 [BH Depo.] at 45; Ex. 4 [Palacios Depo.] at 13, 34, & 37.)
BH also acknowledged that she was jealous of Plaintiff’s relationship with
Rotondo. (Id., Ex. 1 [B.H. Depo.] at 53.) Defendants’ other employees that were
friends with BH were hostile to Plaintiff. (Id., Ex. 3 [Allen Depo.] at 64-66.)


 

There is also evidence that BH is
not being forthcoming about all of the facts associated with her separation
from Bastiat. BH claimed at her deposition that she left her position with
Defendants voluntarily. (Charles Decl., Ex. 1 [B.H. Depo.] at pp. 56:25-57:2.) Yet,
it is undisputed that Defendants paid her a severance package, and that
Defendants’ HR manager was unaware of any other employee that was paid
severance who “voluntarily” ended their employment by Defendants. (Charles
Decl., Ex. 1 [B.H Depo.] at p. 57:12-14.) Plaintiff’s counsel also directly
questioned BH about the severance, but defense counsel instructed BH not to
answer. (Charles Decl., Ex. 1 [B.H. Depo.] at p. 58:6-16.) In context, this could
lead a reasonable person to conclude that BH was not being fully truthful about
her separation from Defendants. 

 

Defendants contend that the
allegation is false because BH refused to characterize her cutting her wrists
as an attempt at suicide. However, a reasonable fact finder could agree that,
depending on the facts, someone cutting their own wrists is a suicide attempt, even
if the person denies it. There are no details on the record discussing the
nature of her cuts, i.e., whether they were superficial, or whether she sought
treatment. In fact, the Court questions whether it would be appropriate to
conclude that Plaintiff no longer has a basis to allege facts regarding the
suicide attempt where defense counsel prevented further questioning into such
facts. When pressed for details on BH’s denial, Defendants instructed BH not to
answer. It is difficult to reconcile Defendants prevention of further inquiry
into this area with their current complaint that Plaintiff lacks evidence to
prove BH’s alleged suicide attempt, or that her suicide was related to Rotondo,
and accompanying request for sanctions. 

 

Based upon the evidence before the
Court, the Court concludes that Plaintiff has a sufficient evidentiary basis
for the allegations based on statements from Rotondo himself, and her own observations
about her relationship with Rotondo. Those conclusions would not be objective
unreasonable. Thus, the Court concludes there is evidentiary support for
Plaintiff’s position regarding RH’s alleged suicide and Rotondo’s abuse of RH. At
a minimum, these disputes of fact should not be resolved in the context of a
sanctions motion. 

 

Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.