 Case Number:  23STCP02715    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los Angeles DEPARTMENT
17 TENTATIVE RULING 


NICOLE RIO 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
MYTH DIVISION,
  LLC, et al.  
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCP02715 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 11, 2024


 Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED IN PART, SUSTAINED IN
PART: -        
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first, second, and third
causes of action.  -        
Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action.  Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED.              On 7/28/2024, Plaintiff Nicole Rio
(Plaintiff) filed suit against Myth Division, LLC and Ramon Govea
(collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) demand
for accounting; (3) unfair business practices; (4) declaratory relief; (5)
money had and received; (6) fraud; and (7) unjust enrichment.              On 5/15/2024, Defendants demurred to
Plaintiff’s Complaint. Defendants also moved to strike portions of Plaintiff’s
Complaint.  Discussion
             Defendants argue that Plaintiff has
failed to state a claim as to each cause of action.              As for breach of fiduciary duty,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s allegations are uncertain as to whether Govea
would owe a fiduciary duty to Plaintiff. The Court disagrees.  Plaintiff alleges “[w]hile acting in his
capacity as an employee, business partner and company founder, Govea owed a
fiduciary duty to each and every one of the company founders and members,
including Plaintiff.” (Complaint ¶ 25.) The Court accepts well-pled allegations
as true at the pleading stage.  Moreover, Defendants overstate the law with respect to
fiduciary duties. In their motion, Defendants contend that in California, LLC
members have a fiduciary duty to each other only if the LLC is member managed
and not manager managed. (Corp. Code §17704.09(a), (f).) However, subdivision
(f)(1) states that while subdivision (a) of the section does not apply to members
of a manager-managed LLC (i.e., no fiduciary duty is owed to member), it
does apply to the manager or managers of a manager-managed LLC:(f) In a manager-managed limited liability company,
all of the following rules apply:(1) Subdivisions (a), (b), (c), and (e) apply to the
manager or managers and not the members.(2) Subdivision (d) applies to the
members and managers.(3) Except as otherwise provided, a member does not
have any fiduciary duty to the limited liability company or to any other member
solely by reason of being a member.(Corp. Code §17704.09, subd. (f).) Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Govea is “a
managing member” of Myth Division LLC. Accordingly, whether the LLC is a
member-managed LLC or the LLC is a manager-managed LLC, Plaintiff has alleged
sufficient facts at the pleadings stage to show that Defendant owed a fiduciary
duty. The Court also finds Plaintiff’s facts to be sufficiently clear at the
pleading stage.               As for the second cause of action,
Defendants argue that this claim fails given that it requires a fiduciary
relationship to be alleged, and Plaintiff has failed to allege facts to show a
fiduciary duty. As set forth above, the Court finds Plaintiff’s allegations
sufficient at the pleading stage to show a fiduciary relationship.              As for the third cause of action, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has not set forth any allegations of specific unlawful,
fraudulent, or unfair business practices. However, Plaintiff alleges, among
other things, that Govea improperly funneled money from their LLC into a
company personally owed by Govea and his wife, and violated the terms of the
LLC partnership by buying and selling property and entering into agreements
without proper consultation with Plaintiff. (See e.g. Complaint ¶¶ 18,
19.) These allegations are sufficient at the pleading stage to show unlawful
business practices.              As for the fourth cause of action, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s allegations for declaratory relief are uncertain. The
Court agrees. Plaintiff’s declaratory relief claim asserts “[a]n actual
controversy has arisen and now exists between Plaintiff on the one hand, and
Defendants, on the other hand. Specifically, Plaintiff maintains that
Defendants have never been the author of her artistic works and therefore has
never been the owner in and to any copyrights in the works, as they have never
entered into any contract to complete the transfers of ownership and/or
copyrights. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and based thereon alleges,
Defendants contend there were and are the owner of all rights in and to all of
their artistic work.” (Complaint ¶ 43.)  It is unclear what artistic works Plaintiff is referring
to or what copyrights she refers to, as Plaintiff does not allege any artistic
works as part of this claim. The Court will grant leave to amend to provide
Plaintiff an opportunity to clarify.             As for the fifth cause of action for
money had and received, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not alleged any
certain sum that is owed. "A cause of action for money had and received is
stated if it is alleged [that] the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in a
certain sum for money had and received by the defendant for the use of the
plaintiff. The claim is viable wherever one person has received money which
belongs to another, and which in equity and good conscience should be paid over
to the latter." (Avidor v. Sutter's Place, Inc. (2013). 212 Cal. App.
4th 1439, 1454.)  However, the reference to “certain sum” does not mean
that the specific amount must be alleged, but rather that the specific amount
is able to be ascertained. However, Plaintiff’s allegations are uncertain.
While Plaintiff’s allegations could show that Defendants misused funds which
were intended to benefit the LLC, Plaintiff has not alleged facts which
could show that she gave money for her own personal benefit which was then not
used for that benefit, and was not returned to Plaintiff.               As for the sixth cause of action for
fraud, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not alleged fraud with the requisite
specificity. The Court agrees. Plaintiff alleges that Govea represented that he
would account for and pay Plaintiff for her work, that Govea provided
Plaintiff’s content to companies Defendant had personal interest in and who had
no right to receive Plaintiff’s content, and then knowingly concealed this
practice from Plaintiff to keep her from discovering it. (Complaint ¶¶ 48-51.)
Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant misrepresented the contributions owed
to her, and where her content was being given. (Id. at ¶52.) While these
allegations are nearly sufficient, there are uncertainties as to what “content”
Plaintiff is referring to. Moreover, Plaintiff’s allegations are confusing as
they refer to “content” and “contributions” making it unclear what exactly Plaintiff
is referring to, or what exactly Plaintiff alleges was the fraudulent conduct.
For example, Plaintiff alleges:   The true facts are that Govea actually provided
Plaintiff’s content to companies defendant Govea had personal interests in and
who did not have any right to receive Plaintiff’s content, and that they had
been keeping Plaintiff’s accounting records hidden from her so that they would not
be able to receive the money owing her.              (Complaint ¶ 51.) Plaintiff must make clear the specifics of what she is
alleging.  Finally, as for the seventh cause of action, Defendant
argues that there is no cause of action in California for unjust enrichment. While unjust enrichment is
not a cause of action, courts have stated that unjust enrichment is synonymous
with restitution and allowed recovery where the plaintiff asserts a proper
basis for recovering restitution.  (See Durrell v. Sharp
Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1370; McBride
v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 387-88.)  Such bases
include quasi-contract, fraud, duress, conversion, or similar
conduct.  (See Durrell, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at
1370; McBride, supra, 123 Cal.App.4th at 387-88.) As such,
Plaintiff is not precluded as a matter of law from asserting a claim for unjust
enrichment.  However, a quasi-contract action for unjust
enrichment does not lie where the parties' rights are defined by an express
agreement. (California Medical Assn., Inc. v. Aetna U.S. Healthcare of
California, Inc. (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th
151, 172; Lance Camper Manufacturing Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 203.) Here, Plaintiff expressly alleges the formation of a
business agreement, and refers to herself as a founder of Myth Division LLC.
(Complaint ¶¶ 6- 15.) As such, Plaintiff has alleged an express, contractual
relationship between the parties. Thus, Plaintiff must address the uncertainty
as to whether or not the parties’ rights are defined by an express agreement.
If so, Plaintiff cannot maintain a claim for unjust enrichment, but must rather
seek relief through contract-based claims. 
 Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is overruled
in part, sustained in part. Defendants’ demurrer is overruled as to the first,
second, and third causes of action. Defendants’ demurrer is sustained, with 15
days leave to amend, as to the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of
action.  Motion
to Strike              Defendants move to strike
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages. Given the conclusion set forth above
that Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to state a claim for breach of fiduciary
duty, Plaintiff has alleged facts which could show conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (c)(1)).                                      Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to strike is denied.  It is
so ordered.  Dated:  July   
, 2024                                                                                                                                                              Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court   Parties who intend
to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a
motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information, please contact the
court clerk at (213) 633-0517.    

































































































































































 