 Case Number:  22STCV06583    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



CHRISTOPHER RASCON 
                           
         vs.
 
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES 
 


 Case No.: 
  22STCV06583 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 11, 2024
 



 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant to produce a PMK on any of the nine (9) topics of
examination is DENIED. 
 
Defendant is
to comply with Document Request No. 1 by producing the Appraisals of
Promotability for 2020-2023 for those Battalion Chiefs that never had a 40-hour
position before promoting to Battalion Chief.
 
On 2/23/2022,
Plaintiff Christopher Rascon (Plaintiff) filed suit against the County of Los
Angeles, alleging: (1) racial discrimination; (2) racial harassment; (3) age
discrimination; (4) age harassment; (5) retaliation; (6) failure to
prevent.  
 
On 5/28/2024,
Plaintiff moved to compel Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable (PMK) to appear
for deposition. Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions in connection with this
motion. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
seeks an order compelling Defendant’s PMK to appear for deposition. Plaintiff
argues that Defendant continues to improperly object to the deposition Notice
for all 3 topics and the single document request. 
 
            Topic
1 concerns “[t]he accuracy, authenticity, and foundation for documents produced
by the County of Los Angeles as COLA_1187-COLA_1205.” Defendant offered to
stipulate to the authenticity and foundation of the records produced to avoid
the deposition and unnecessary law and motion practice. However, Plaintiff
argues that “it was Plaintiffs position that he would like to further inquire
about the documents that are to be produced with a person most knowledgeable.”
(Motion, 4: 25-26.) A vague assertion that he would like to “further inquire”
about the documents, without more, is insufficient.
 
            Topics
2 and 3 initially concerned the “the accuracy, authenticity, and foundation for
the data included in the County’s responses and supplemental responses,
respectively, to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One.” Then, in an
amended notice, these topics were broadened to include not merely the accuracy,
authenticity, and foundation of the subject documents but also the identities
of all persons who prepared the documents and/or compiled the data, how the
documents/data were compiled, and the sources of information used to compile
the documents/data.
 
            The
Amended Notice also set forth new topics 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 which were not
part of the original notice. (Atkins Decl., ¶ 12, and Baisch Decl., Exh. 4.)
 
CCP section
2016.040 requires that parties meet and confer in a “reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the [discovery]
motion.”
 
To determine
whether the moving party made a reasonable and good faith attempt to meet and
confer, courts will look at a variety of factors including the history of the
litigation, the nature of the interaction between counsel, the nature of the
issues, the type and scope of discovery requested, and the prospects for
success. (See Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
 
            After
review of the records, the Court concludes that Plaintiff failed to
sufficiently engage in a good faith attempt to meet and confer regarding
County’s objections to Plaintiff’s notice and Amended Notice of the PMK
deposition. 
 
            Moreover,
after review, the Court finds that Defendant need not produce a PMK because the
document requests are overbroad and unduly burdensome. 
 
            As
for Topic 1, Plaintiff broadened the scope of the topic to include not only
discovery about the authenticity, accuracy, and foundation of the records but
also the identities of all persons who prepared the documents and/or compiled
the data, how the documents were compiled, and the sources of information used
to compile the documents. While Plaintiff may be entitled to know how these
documents were prepared and the sources of information used to prepare them,
the topic of examination as drafted is overly broad, unduly burdensome, and
harassing. To the extent any of the information sought is discoverable, there
are less burdensome and less intrusive means of seeking the information, such
as propounding written interrogatories.
 
            Similarly,
as for Topics 2 and 3, Plaintiff broadened the scope of the topic to include
not only discovery about the authenticity, accuracy, and foundation of the
County’s responses and supplemental responses to the special interrogatories,
but also the identities of all persons who prepared and/or compiled the data,
how the data was compiled, and the sources of information used to compile the
data. As such, the topic of examination as drafted is overly broad, unduly
burdensome and harassing. 
 
As with the
documents produced by the County as COLA_1187 through COLA_1205, multiple
people at the County assisted with preparing and compiling the data that was
included in the County’s responses and supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s
special interrogatories, and therefore designating a person most knowledgeable
about each data set is neither reasonable nor practicable. To the extent any of
the information sought is discoverable, there are less burdensome and less
intrusive means of seeking the information, such as propounding written
interrogatories.
 
Topic No. 4
states: “The IDENTITY of each of the Battalion Chiefs who were employed by YOU
in the LACOFD between 2020 and the present who had worked in 40 hour positions
as Captains prior to their promotion to Battalion Chief.”
 
Topic No. 5
states: “The IDENTITY of each of the Battalion Chiefs who were employed by YOU
in the LACOFD between 2020 and the present who had not worked in 40 hour
positions as Captains prior to their promotion to Battalion Chief.”
 
Topic No. 6
states: “The age of each of the Battalion Chiefs who were employed by YOU in
the LACOFD between 2020 and the present who had worked in 40 hour positions as
Captains prior to their promotion to Battalion Chief.
 
Topic No. 7
states: “The age of each Battalion Chiefs who were employed by YOU in the
LACOFD between 2020 and the present who had not worked in 40 hour positions as
Captains prior to their promotion to Battalion Chief.”
 
Topic No. 8
states: “The race and ethnicity of each Battalion Chiefs who were employed by
YOU in the LACOFD between 2020 and the present who had worked in 40 hour
positions as Captains prior to their promotion to Battalion Chief.”
 
Topic No. 9
states: “The race and ethnicity of each of the Battalion Chiefs who were
employed by YOU in the LACOFD between 2020 and the present who had not worked
in 40 hour positions as Captains prior to their promotion to Battalion Chief.”
 
The Court
agrees that:
 
Topics 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, and 9 are harassing for several reasons. First, it is duplicative of
information already provided in discovery. Plaintiff alleges that as a result
of the County’s wrongful conduct, Plaintiff was not accepted for a 40 hour
position, which he argues is a critical component of his ability to be
considered for a promotion. But even if that is so, Plaintiff fails to explain
how knowing the identities of the Battalion Chiefs who worked in 40 hour
positions will lead to discoverable information, when Plaintiff has already
requested—and the County has provided—extensive information about the relevant
personnel in the Los Angeles County Fire Department. (See Atkins Decl., Exh. N,
at Responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set Two, No. 19 [for each
year from 2017 to 2023, the number of Battalion Chiefs who were promoted, who
had not worked in 40- hour positions (as opposed to a short-term temporary
detail assignment) as Captains prior to their promotions]; No. 20 [for each
year from 2017 to 2023, the number of Battalion Chiefs who were promoted, who
had not worked in 40-hour positions as Captains prior to their promotions, and
who were Hispanic].) (See also Atkins Decl., Exhs. O and P.)
 
Moreover,
even if Plaintiff were entitled to the information again, requiring the County
to produce a person most knowledgeable to testify about the identities of the
Department’s Battalion Chiefs who previously worked in 40-hour positions is
harassing and unduly burdensome. This information can just as easily be
discovered through less intrusive means, such as a written interrogatory, or a
request for production of documents, without requiring the County to incur the
time, expense, and disruption of producing a PMK for deposition.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion to compel is be denied, and Defendant is not required to
produce a PMK on any of the nine (9) topics of examination.
 
As for the
document request, Plaintiff seeks “The Appraisals of Promotability for all
candidates for Battalion Chief between 2020 and the present.” Defendant argues
that “[t]here is no justification to provide five (5) years (2020, 2021, 2022,
2023, 2024) all of the Appraisal and Promotability evaluations for every
firefighter personnel who applied for Battalion Chief back to 2020, when the
Plaintiff never applied for a Battalion Chief position, and Plaintiff has not
articulated any reason why going back so far and to the present is relevant.”
(Opp., 19-22.) The Court agrees, and limits the request as such—Defendant is to
provide for 2020-2023 those BCs that have never had a 40-hour position before
promoting to Battalion Chief, as this would be relevant to Plaintiff showing
that one can promote to Battalion Chief without having worked a permanent
40-hour position. Defendant is to redact the Appraisals of Promotability as is
necessary to preserve the confidentiality of the applicants. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to produce a PMK on any of
the nine (9) topics of examination is denied. Defendant is to comply with the
Document Request No.1 by producing The Appraisals of Promotability for
2020-2023 for those Battalion Chiefs that had never had a 40-hour position
before promoting to Battalion Chief. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 