 Case Number:  22STCV39855    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  49 Eggs Unlimited LLC v. Michael Foods, Inc. DEMURRER TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendant Michael Foods, Inc.RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Eggs Unlimited LLCSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Eggs Unlimited LLC alleges that Defendant Michael Foods, Inc., intentionally induced third party Hen Haven, LLC—one of Plaintiff’s egg suppliers—to breach its contract with Plaintiff. The alleged contract between Plaintiff and Hen Haven required that Hen Haven deliver all eggs produced at its farm to Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that Hen Haven, however, has sold some eggs to Defendant Michael Foods. Plaintiff now brings causes of action against Defendant Michael Foods for (1) inducing breach of contract, (2) intentional interference with contractual relations, (3) intentional interference with economic advantage, and (4) negligent interference with economic advantage.  Defendant now demurrers to the Third and Fourth Causes of Action. Plaintiff opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Demurrer to the Third and Fourth Causes of Action is SUSTAINED. Generally speaking, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Plaintiff asks for leave to amend, contending it “can allege more detailed facts about Michael Food’s and Hen Haven’s concealment of their arrangement from Eggs Unlimited.” (Opp. 5: 3-4.) At the hearing, Plaintiff must make an adequate “offer of proof” as to what “detailed facts” it can allege to demonstrate an independently wrongful act by Defendant. If it cannot, no leave to amend will be given.If no leave to amend is granted, Defendant is ordered to file an Answer within 21 days.Defendant is ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:DemurrerI. Meet and ConferThe Declaration of attorney Grant L. Royal reflects that the parties met and conferred. (CCP § 430.41.)II. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)III. AnalysisDefendant demurrers to the Third Cause of Action for Intentional Interference With Economic Advantage and Fourth Cause of Action for Negligent Interference with Economic Advantage. First, Defendant argues each cause of action fails because Plaintiff cannot allege an “independently wrongful act.” Intentional interference with economic advantage (aka intentional interference with prospective contractual relations) “requires pleading that the defendant committed an independently wrongful act.” (Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal. 5th 1130, 1141.)  “The independently wrongful act must be the act of interference itself, but such act must itself be independently wrongful. That is, ‘[a] plaintiff need not allege the interference and a second act independent of the interference. Instead, a plaintiff must plead and prove that the conduct alleged to constitute the interference was independently wrongful, i.e., unlawful for reasons other than that it interfered with a prospective economic advantage. [Citations.]’”  (Crown Imports, LLC v. Superior Ct. (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 1395, 1404.) “[A]n act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.” (Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal. 5th 1130, 1142.) There also exists a cause of action for negligent interference with prospective economic advantage. (See J'Aire Corp. v. Gregory (1979) 24 Cal. 3d 799, 805.) Like intentional interference, a claim for negligent interference requires a plaintiff to prove an “independent wrong.” (See Nat'l Med. Transp. Network v. Deloitte & Touche (1998) 62 Cal. App. 4th 412, 440.)Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Michael Foods intentionally induced third-party Hen Haven, LLC, to breach its written contract with Plaintiff. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges it has a written contract with Hen Haven that requires Hen Haven to deliver all eggs produced at Hen Haven’s egg farm to Plaintiff. (SAC ¶¶ 7, 8.) Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant Michael Foods induced Hen Haven to breach the contract by selling eggs produced at Hen Haven’s farm to Michael Foods. (Id. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that Hen Haven falsely “represented that it could not fulfill its contract with Eggs Unlimited,” and that Defendant Michael Foods “substantially assisted and encouraged Hen Haven to conceal the truth from Eggs Unlimited.” (Id. ¶ 9.) Despite notice, Defendant has “maliciously refused to cease interfering with Eggs Unlimited’s contract with Hen Haven, in conscious disregard of Eggs Unlimited’s rights.” (Id. ¶ 13.)Here, Plaintiff’s bare allegation that Defendant “conspired” with Hen Haven to conceal the interference does nothing but describe the facts of the interference itself. Thus, Plaintiff has failed to allege an independent wrong aside from the act of interference. (See Ixchel Pharma, LLC, supra, 9 Cal. 5th at 1142 [“[A]n act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.”].)Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the Third and Fourth Causes of Action is SUSTAINED. Generally speaking, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Plaintiff asks for leave to amend, contending it “can allege more detailed facts about Michael Food’s and Hen Haven’s concealment of their arrangement from Eggs Unlimited.” (Opp. 5: 3-4.) At the hearing, Plaintiff must make an adequate “offer of proof” as to what “detailed facts” it can allege to demonstrate an independently wrongful act by Defendant. If it cannot, no leave to amend will be given.Defendant is ordered to give notice. IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   June 3, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.