  Case Number:  19TRCV00489    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                           Tuesday, June 18, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 6
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Diamond Quality Builders, Inc. v. Sayo
Sasaki, et al.
            19TRCV00489
1.      Diamond
Quality Builders, Inc.’s Motion to Continue Pending Action Against Successor in
Interest 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Diamond Quality Builders, Inc.’s Motion
to Continue Pending Action Against Successor in Interest is denied without
prejudice.  
 
            Background
 
Plaintiff filed its Complaint on June 3, 2019.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Defendant failed to make payment on a
home improvement project completed by Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges the following
causes of action: 1. Breach of Contract; 2. Services Rendered; 3. Unjust
Enrichment; 4. Quantum Meruit; 5. Open Book Account; 6. Foreclosure of
Mechanic’s Lien; 7. Intentional Misrepresentation; 8. Negligent
Misrepresentation. Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint. Sayo Sasaki passed away
on March 2, 2022. A document was filed by Defendant, on March 9, 2022 titled:
“Notice of Defendant Sayo Sasaki’s Death.” 
 
Motion to Continue Action Against Successor in
Interest
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 377.41 states: 
“On motion, the court shall allow a pending action or
proceeding against the decedent that does not abate to be continued against the
decedent's personal representative or, to the extent provided by statute,
against the decedent's successor in interest, except that the court may not
permit an action or proceeding to be continued against the personal
representative unless proof of compliance with Part 4 (commencing with Section
9000) of Division 7 of the Probate Code governing creditor claims is first
made.”  
 
Defendant moves, pursuant to Section 377.41, to
continue this action against the decedent’s personal representative or
successor in interest. Defendant contends that, under Probate Code Section 9391,
Plaintiff is not required to follow Part 4 of Division 7 of the Probate Code to
continue this action against the personal representative or successor in
interest because the only claim remaining against Defendant is for Foreclosure
of Mechanic’s Lien. 
 
However, Plaintiff has failed to properly serve the
alleged successor in interest with this motion. The purported successor in
interest filed a motion to intervene in this action and was represented by
attorney Arthur Aaronson. However, the successor in interest’s attorney has not
been served with this motion. 
 
Thus, the motion to continue action against successor
in interest is denied without prejudice. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.