 Case Number:  23TRCV00472    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                           Tuesday, June 18, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 7
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Ryelee Steiling v. Ronin Pest Control, Inc., et al.
            23TRCV00472
1.      Ryelee
Steiling’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One,
and Request for Sanctions
2.      Ryelee
Steiling’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set
One, and Request for Sanctions
3.      Ryelee
Steiling’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One, and Request for Sanctions
4.      Ryelee
Steiling’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions, Set
One, and Request for Sanctions 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Ryelee
Steiling’s Motions to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, Requests for Production of Documents, and Requests for
Admissions, Set One, and Requests for Sanctions are granted, in part, deemed
moot, in part, and denied, in part. 
 
            Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on February 17, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. On November 24, 2023, Plaintiff and Defendant were
involved in a motor vehicle accident. On March 30, 2023, Defendant Ronin Pest
Control filed an Answer.
 
Motions to Compel
 
Where responses to interrogatories have been served
but the requesting party believes that they are deficient because the answers
are evasive or incomplete, or, because an objection is without merit, that
party may move for an order compelling a further response.  CCP § 2030.300(a).  Notice of the motion must be given within 45
days after service of verified responses in question, or any verified
supplemental responses.  CCP §
2030.300(c).  The motion must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration in compliance with CCP §
2016.040.  CCP § 2030.300(b).
 
A
party responding to an inspection demand shall respond to each demand with one
of the following:  a statement the party
will comply with the demand, a representation the party lacks the ability to
comply with the demand, or an objection. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210, subd. (a).)  A response to an inspection demand may be
inadequate because it is evasive or incomplete; contains an incomplete
statement of compliance; an inadequate, incomplete, or evasive representation
of inability to comply; or meritless or overly general objections to a
demand.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
If
a demanding party believes the responding party responded inadequately, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(a).)  “Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).)    
 
Where responses to requests for admissions have been
served but requesting party believes that they are deficient because the
answers are evasive or incomplete, or, because an objection is without merit,
that party may move for an order compelling a further response.  CCP § 2033.290(a).  The motion must be made within 45 days after
service of verified responses in question, or any verified supplemental
responses.  CCP § 2033.290(c).  The motion must be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration in compliance with CCP § 2016.040.  CCP § 2033.290(b).
 
Meet and Confer
 
Plaintiff set forth meet and confer declarations in
sufficient compliance with CCP §§ 2030.300, 2031.320, 2033.290, and 2016.040.
(Declarations, Joshua D. Alton.)
 
Motions to Compel
 
On June 5, 2024, Defendant’s counsel, Deidre Siguenza,
filed supplemental declarations to each of the motions on calendar on this
date. In reviewing the supplemental declarations, it appears that after the
motions were filed and after the IDC was conducted, Defendant served further
responses to each of the discovery items at issue with these motions except for
Form Interrogatories 13.1 and 13.2.
 
Thus, the Court deems the motions moot except for the
motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories 13.1 and 13.2. As to
Form Interrogatories 13.1 and 13.2, the motion to compel further responses is
granted. 
 
Form Interrogatory 13.1 states:
 
“Have YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF conducted
surveillance of any individual involved in the INCIDENT or any party to this
action? If so, for each surveillance state: (a) the name, ADDRESS, and
telephone number of the individual or party: (b) the time, date and place of
the surveillance; (c) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the individual
who conducted the surveillance; and (d) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number
of each PERSON who has the original or a copy of any surveillance photograph,
film or videotape.”
 
Form Interrogatory 13.2 states:
“Has a written report been prepared on the
surveillance? If so, for each written report state: (a) the title; (b) the
date; (c) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the individual who
prepared the report; and (d) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each
PERSON who has the original or a copy.”
 
Defendant has asserted objections based on work
product doctrine and premature expert discovery. However, Defendant has failed
to justify its objections. Whether this type of surveillance evidence is or is not protected
work product depends on whether it is merely nonderivative material and thus
not protected, or material that reflects the attorney’s counsel and strategies,
which may be protected. Suezaki v. Superior
Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 166, 177-178.
Merely asserting the blanket objections without any showing that the materials
do, in fact, constitute work product does not justify withholding a response to
these interrogatories.
 
However, the ruling to the motion as to these
interrogatories, which by its terms, simply seek identifying information, is
not a finding that any actual surveillance material must be produced. If a
proper basis for withholding based on a privilege exists, then, it would be
incumbent upon Defendant to maintain such objections and provide a privilege
log with respect to any type of request for production of documents that may
deal with privileged surveillance material. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions are
denied.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of
this ruling.