 Case Number:  23STCP03188    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  85 
Learning Enrichment
After-School Program, Inc. v. California Department of Education, 23STCP03188

Tentative decision on demurrer:
 mostly sustained 



 
            
            Respondent California Department of Education
(“DOE”) demurs to the Petition filed by Petitioner Learning Enrichment
After-School Program, Inc. (“LEAP”). 
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply,[1] and
renders the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the
Case
            1. Petition
            Petitioner
LEAP commenced this action against DOE on July 21, 2023, alleging (1)
administrative mandamus, (2) breach of contract, and (3) declaratory
relief.  The verified Petition alleges in
pertinent part as follows.
            Title
7 of the Code of Federal Regulations (“C.F.R.”) section 225 et. seq.
authorizes state agencies to conduct non-profit food service programs for
underprivileged children during the summer months and other approved
times.  Pet., ¶9.  DOE’s Nutrition Services Division implements
the Child and Adult Care Food Program (“CACFP”) and the Summer Food Service
Program (“SFSP”) administered by the United States Department of Agriculture
(“USDA”).  Pet., ¶¶ 3, 21.  SFSP is a program that reimburses sponsors for
administrative and operational costs to provide meals for children 18 years of
age and younger when out of school for at least 15 consecutive school
days.  Pet., ¶3.  
            Since
2012 and at all relevant times, LEAP has contracted with the State and DOE to
provide meals as an approved sponsor of the SFSP.  Pet., ¶¶ 9, 21, 60.  Under its agreement with DOE, LEAP is
required to provide meals in accordance with 7 C.F.R.
sections 225 et. seq.  Pet., ¶61.  LEAP then is reimbursed for the meals by DOE through
the SFSP.  Pet., ¶61.  

 
            a.
Factual History
            The
COVID-19 pandemic led to the shutdown of most approved meal sites for the SFPS at
a time when the need to feed the community could not have been greater.  Pet., ¶¶ 22-23.  Information regarding meal distribution was
changing rapidly.  Pet., ¶23.  In March 2020, LEAP contacted DOE analyst
Leslie Schar (“Schar”) to ask about the proper location for serving meals.  Pet., ¶24. 
Schar and LEAP were trying to determine the fast-changing guidelines for
implementing CACFP and SFSP during the pandemic.  Pet., ¶24. 

            During
this time, LEAP received confusing and conflicting information.  Pet., ¶25. 
Schar told LEAP in a March 13, 2020 email that the USDA would need to
issue a waiver for any schools closed by the pandemic.  Pet., ¶25, Ex. 1.  But Schar also said that, because the USDA
was defining the terms of such waiver, the hubs needed to be located at schools
“where the children are being affected is closed.”  Pet., ¶25, Ex. 1.
            On
March 16, 2020, Schar emailed LEAP about a USDA waiver for approved sponsors to
allow meals to be taken away from the distribution site and consumed elsewhere
for social distancing purposes.  Pet.,
¶26, Ex. 2.  Any program operator
interested in such a waiver needed to submit a request to DOE with specifics on
how it would operate the SFSP during an unanticipated school closure due to the
pandemic.  Pet., ¶26, Ex. 2.  LEAP submitted the required information the
same day, and Schar said that all requested waivers would be approved the next
day.  Pet., ¶27.  Schar also told LEAP that it could only use
existing sites that were already approved and could not add new ones.  Pet., ¶27.
            LEAP
found the guidelines unclear for operating in the SFSP during the
pandemic.  Pet., ¶28.  Approved locations were closed during the
pandemic.  Pet., ¶28.   The State and DOE still approved serving SFSP
meals at approved Child Nutrition Information & Payment System (“CNIPS”)
sites, including closed locations.  Pet.,
¶28.  To reconcile the conflicting
information and ensure that underprivileged children received meals, LEAP distributed
meals near approved CNIPS sites.  Pet.,
¶29.  LEAP did not change addresses to
those nearby locations because it sought to serve meals near the approved
locations, not add new ones.  Pet., ¶29.  No agency ever told LEAP to change the CNIPS
addresses.  Pet., ¶29.  
            Many
years ago, the LAPD Devonshire Police Activity League Supporters (“LAPD
Devonshire PALS”) input in CNIPS its address at 10250 Etiwanda Ave.,
Northridge, CA 91325 (“Etiwanda Address”). 
Pet., ¶30.  This was the address
for its main office and the location for which it originally requested meal
service.  Pet., ¶30.  LEAP subsequently input the Etiwanda Address
for both the CACFP and the SFSP.  Pet.,
¶30.  LEAP was later told that the actual
service location was 8721 Wilbur Avenue, Northridge, CA 91324 (“Wilbur Address”),
2.8 miles away from the original address. 
Pet., ¶31, Ex. 3.  LEAP consequently
updated the site address for the CACFP but not for the SFSP.  Pet., ¶31.
            From
July 20-26, 2021, DOE’s Nutrition Services Division conducted a review for May
2021 to confirm compliance with SFSP guidelines.  Pet., ¶32, Ex. 3.  Child Nutrition Consultant Christina Aguilar
(“Aguilar”) noted in her summation report that LAPD Devonshire PALS served
meals at Wilbur Avenue, an unapproved site. 
Pet., ¶33, Ex. 3.  LEAP submitted
a change of address in CNIPS to reflect the Wilbur Address site on July 19,
2021.  Pet., ¶33, Ex. 3.  However, this change was not approved until July
20 with an effective date of July 1, 2021.  Pet., ¶33, Ex. 3.  Aguilar concluded that meals claimed and served
from the Wilbur Address between May and June 2021 should be disallowed.  Pet., ¶34, Ex. 3.  
            On
August 3, 2021, Aguilar sent LEAP a copy of her summation report.  Pet., ¶35, Exs. 3-4.  She requested that LEAP complete the corrective
action listed in the report and email it back to her.  Pet., ¶35, Ex. 4.  Between August 23 and September 7, 2021, LEAP
and Aguilar exchanged emails about the corrective actions LEAP would take.  Pet., ¶¶ 36-38, Ex. 4.
            On
March 29, 2023, a year and a half after the emails between Aguilar and LEAP,
DOE sent LEAP a Notice of Action (“March 2023 NOA”) that it had overpaid LEAP
$133,300.  Pet., ¶39, Ex. 5.  Compliance Area 1 of the report, Program
Eligibility, concluded that until Wilbur Address’s approval as a site on July
1, 2021, LEAP had served meals on an unapproved site.  Pet., ¶39, Ex. 5.  Because this violated 7 C.F.R. sections 225.2
and 225.9(d), meals claimed and served from the Wilbur Address between May and
June 2021 must be disallowed.  Pet., ¶39,
Ex. 5.  The Program Integrity Unit had amended
LEAP’s reimbursement claim for May and June 2021 to reflect the review findings.  Pet., ¶39, Ex. 5.  LEAP was required to remit the overpayment within
30 days.  Pet., ¶39, Ex. 5.  
            The
March 2023 NOA informed LEAP of its right to appeal the review findings under 7
C.F.R. section 225.13.  Pet., ¶40, Ex.
5.  It provided a link to DOE’s webpage
on the appeal process and LEAP’s rights thereunder.  Pet., ¶40, Ex. 5.  The appeal process states that appeals must
be postmarked within ten days of receipt of the March 2023 NOA.  Pet., ¶41. 
DOE’s report history shows that LEAP received the March 2023 NOA on Friday,
April 6, 2023, at 8:17 p.m.  Pet., ¶42,
Ex. 7.
            LEAP
sent an appeal to DOE on May 9, 2023.  Pet.,
¶43, Ex. 6.  The appeal argued that this
was a mere paperwork issue because all meals were served.  Pet., ¶43, Ex. 6.  The unique circumstances of the COVID-19
pandemic had also contributed to this issue. 
Pet., ¶43, Ex. 6.  Although most
approved sites were shut down, Schar had told LEAP that it could only use
existing sites and could not add new ones. 
Pet., ¶43, Ex. 6.  LEAP
interpreted the opposing instructions to mean it should serve near
CNIPS-approved locations.  Pet., ¶43, Ex.
6.  The failure to send this appeal
sooner was an inadvertent error.  Pet.,
¶43.
            On
May 23, 2023, DOE denied the appeal as untimely.  Pet., ¶44, Ex. 7.  Because LEAP received the March 2023 NOA
after hours on a Friday, DOE treated the date of receipt as April 10,
2023.  Pet., ¶44, Ex. 7.  The deadline to postmark the appeal was
therefore April 20, 2023.  Pet., ¶44, Ex.
7.  LEAP missed this deadline.  Pet., ¶44, Ex. 7.  
 
            b.
Causes of Action
            The
Petition’s first cause for administrative mandamus alleges that DOE failed to
provide notice of fiscal action against LEAP until over a year and a half after
the underlying June 2021 administrative review. 
Pet., ¶54.  DOE violated LEAP’s
right to a fair hearing and to present evidence.  Pet., ¶54. 
DOE also abused its discretion by disallowing the meals distributed due
to a minor clerical error.  Pet.,
¶54.  
            The
second cause for breach of contract alleged that LEAP has substantially
complied with its obligations under 7 C.F.R. sections 225 et. seq.  Pet., ¶62. 
It has provided meals at approved sites like LAPD Devonshire PALS and
sought timely reimbursement for those meals. 
Pet., ¶62.  Guidance from DOE
allowed LEAP to serve meals near approved sites during the COVID-19
pandemic.  Pet., ¶65.  DOE’s disallowance of meals served at LAPD
Devonshire PALS from May and June 2021 was a material breach of its contract
with LEAP.  Pet., ¶65.  
            The
third cause for declaratory relief alleges that an actual controversy has
arisen whether DOE’s final decision to disallow claims was valid.  Pet., ¶68. 
As alleged for the other causes of action, the decision infringes on
LEAP’s due process rights and was an abuse of the DOE’s discretion.  Pet., ¶68. 

            LEAP
has performed all conditions precedent to filing this action and has exhausted
all available administrative remedies to the extent required by law.  Pet., ¶9.
 
            c.
Prayer for Relief
            LEAP
seeks a writ of administrative mandate compelling DOE to set aside either its
final decision against LEAP for $133,300 or, in the alternative, the denial of
LEAP’s request for an appeal.  Pet.
Prayer for Relief, ¶1.  
LEAP seeks declaratory relief from DOE’s final action
disallowing the $133,300 in claims for meals.  Pet. Prayer for Relief, ¶2.  The court also should declare that DOE’s
decision requiring payment of $133,300 was wrongly determined and that DOE[2]
abused its discretion by disallowing meals that were served for
reimbursement.  Pet. Prayer for Relief, ¶3.  Alternatively, the court should declare that DOE
abused its discretion by denying the request for an appeal.  Pet. Prayer for Relief, ¶3.
            If
LEAP prevails, it also seeks attorneys’ fees under CCP section 1021.5 as well
as costs of suit.  Pet. Prayer for
Relief, ¶4.
 
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On
September 19, 2023, LEAP served DOE with the Petition.
 
            B. Governing Law
1. Site Requirements
The primary purpose of the SFSP is to provide food service
to children from needy areas during periods when area schools are closed for
vacation.  7 C.F.R. §225.1.
SFSP sponsors shall not be eligible for meal reimbursements
unless they have executed an agreement with the state agency.   7 C.F.R. §225.9(d.  All reimbursements shall be in accordance
with the terms of this agreement.  7 C.F.R.
§225.9(d).  Reimbursements shall not be paid
for meals served at a site before the sponsor has received written notification
that the site has been approved for participation in the program.  7 C.F.R. §225.9(d).  
The state agency must conduct pre-approval visits of
sponsors and sites to assess the potential for successful SFSP operations and
to verify information provided in the application.  7 C.F.R. §225.7(d).  If the sponsor is a school food authority or
CACFP institution, and it was reviewed by the state agency under its respective
programs during the preceding 12 months and had no significant deficiencies
noted in that review, the state agency has discretion to conduct a pre-approval
visit.  7 C.F.R. §225.7(d)(2).
Sponsors may be reimbursed for meals served away from the
approved site location if (i) the  sponsor notifies the state agency in advance
that meals will be served away from the approved site; (ii) the state agency
has determined that all program requirements under 7 C.F.R. Part 225 will be
met, including applicable state and local health, safety, and sanitation
standards; (iii) the meals are served at an approved meal service time, unless
the state agency approves a change thereto; and (iv) the sponsor provides
advance notice to the community of the site change, if it is impossible for the
sponsor to continue operating at the approved location.  7 C.F.R. §225.16(g)(1).
 
2. Appeal Process
Each state agency shall establish a procedure to be followed
by an applicant appealing a denial of a sponsor’s claim for reimbursement.  7 C.F.R. §225.13(a).  The state agency shall send written
notification of the complete appeal procedures and of actions which are
appealable to each potential sponsor and food service management company
applying to register in accordance with 7 C.F.R. section 225.6(k).  7 C.F.R. §225.13(c).
At a minimum, the appeal procedure shall provide that the sponsor
or food service management company be advised in writing of the grounds upon
which the state agency based the action.  7 C.F.R. §225.13(b)(1).  The notice of action shall also state that
the sponsor or food service management company has the right to appeal the
state’s action.  Id.  The notice is considered to be received by
the sponsor or food service management company when it is delivered by
certified mail, facsimile, or email.  Id.
The sponsor or food service management company must be
advised in writing that the appeal must be made within a specified time.  7 C.F.R. §225.13(b)(2).  The state agency shall establish this period
as not less than one week nor more than two weeks from the date on which the
notice of action is received.  Id.
The appeal procedure must allow the appellant to refute the
charges contained in the notice of action, either in person or by filing
written documentation with the review official. 
7 C.F.R. §225.13(b)(4).  Such
written documentation must be submitted within seven days of the appeal.  Id.
The state agency’s action remains in effect during the
appeal process.  7 C.F.R. §225.13(b)(11).
The determination by the state review official on appeal is
the final administrative determination to be afforded to the appellant.  7 C.F.R. §225.13(b)(12).
 
C. Demurrers
Demurrers are permitted in administrative
mandate proceedings.  CCP §§1108, 1109.  A demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the pleading alone and will be sustained where the pleading is
defective on its face. 
            Where
pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect by way of a demurrer or
motion to strike or by motion for judgment on the pleadings.  CCP
§430.30(a); Coyne v. Krempels, (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257.  The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object by
demurrer or answer to the pleading.  CCP §430.10.  A demurrer is
timely filed within the 30-day period after service of the complaint.  CCP
§430.40; Skrbina v. Fleming Companies, (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353,
1364. 
            A demurrer
may be asserted on any one or more of the following grounds: (a) The court has
no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading;
(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have legal capacity to sue; (c)
There is another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of
action; (d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties; (e) The pleading does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; (f) The pleading is
uncertain; (g) In an action founded on a contract, it cannot be ascertained
from the pleading whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by
conduct; (h) No certificate was filed as required by CCP sections 411.35 or
411.36.  CCP §430.10.  
A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.  CCP
§430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan, (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.  The face
of the pleading includes attachments and incorporations by reference (Frantz
v. Blackwell, (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94), but it does not include
inadmissible hearsay.  Day v. Sharp, (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904,
914.   
            The sole
issue on demurrer for failure to state a cause of action is whether the facts
pleaded, if true, would entitle the plaintiff to relief.  Garcetti v.
Superior Court, (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1533, 1547; Limandri v. Judkins,
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 339.  The question of plaintiff’s ability to
prove the allegations of the complaint or the possible difficulty in making
such proof does not concern the reviewing court.  Quelimane Co. v.
Stewart Title Guaranty Co., (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 47.  
The ultimate facts alleged
in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all facts that may be implied
or inferred from those expressly alleged.  Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn
& Crutcher, (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403.  This rule does not
apply to allegations expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations
contradicted by the exhibits to the complaint or by matters of which judicial
notice may be taken.  Vance v. Villa Park Mobilehome
Estates, (“Vance”) (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709. 
            For all
demurrers filed after January 1, 2016, the demurring party must meet and confer
in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading for the purpose
of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.  CCP §430.31(a).  As part of
the meet and confer process, the demurring party must identify all of the
specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and provide
legal support for the claimed deficiencies.  CCP §430.31(a)(1).  The
party who filed the pleading must in turn provide legal support for its
position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative, how
the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any legal
insufficiency.  Id.  The demurring party is responsible for
filing and serving a declaration that the meet and confer requirement has been
met.  CCP §430.31(a)(3).
            “[A]
demurrer based on a statute of limitations will not lie where the action may
be, but is not necessarily, barred. [Citation.] In order for the bar of the
statute of limitations to be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and
affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the
complaint shows that the action may be barred.” State ex rel. Metz v. CCC
Information Services, Inc., (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 402, 413.
            If a demurrer is
sustained, the court may grant leave to amend the pleading upon any terms as
may be just and shall fix the time within which the amendment or amended
pleading shall be filed.  CCP §472a(c). 
However, in response to a demurrer and prior to the case being at issue,
a complaint or cross-complaint shall not be amended more than three times,
absent an offer to the trial court as to such additional facts to be pleaded
that there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to state a cause
of action.  CCP §430.41(e)(1).
 
            E. Analysis[3]
            Respondent
DOE demurs to the Petition on the basis that (1) the court lacks subject matter
jurisdiction for the administrative mandate claim because LEAP failed to
exhaust its administrative remedies, and (2) the Petition fails to state facts
sufficient to state a claim for administrative or traditional mandamus, breach
of contract, or declaratory relief.
 
            1.
Meet and Confer
            On October 3, 2023 DOE emailed LEAP
that the Petition is deficient as a matter of law.  Ko Decl., ¶2. 
During a telephone conference on October 6, 2023, DOE reiterated the
grounds for its position that the Petition is legally insufficient.  Ko Decl., ¶3. 
Despite this explanation, the parties failed to reach any
agreement.  Ko Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.  DOE fulfilled the
meet-and-confer requirement.
 
            2. First
Cause of Action for Administrative Mandamus[4]
 
a. Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies
            DOE
demurs on the ground that LEAP’s Petition does not show that it exhausted
administrative remedies.  Other than the
perfunctory statement on the subject, the Petition fails to address the
exhaustion issue.  Dem. at 5.
A writ of mandate
will only issue when the petitioner has no plain, speedy, or adequate remedy at
law.  CCP §1086.  As a general rule, a court will not issue a
writ of mandate unless a petitioner has first exhausted its available
administrative remedies.  See, e.g.,
Alta Loma School Dist. v. San Bernardino County Com. On School Dist.
Reorganization, (1981) 124 Cal.App.3d 542, 554.  Under this rule, an administrative remedy is
exhausted only upon termination of all available, non-duplicative
administrative review procedures.  Coachella
Valley Mosquito & Vector Control Dist. v. California Public Employment
Relations Bd., (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1072, 1080.  The exhaustion doctrine contemplates that the
real issues in controversy be presented to the administrative body, which must
be given the opportunity to apply its special expertise to correct any errors and
reach a final decision, thereby saving the already overworked courts from
intervening into an administrative dispute unless absolutely necessary.  Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court,
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 391.
            The exhaustion doctrine has been
described as “a jurisdictional prerequisite to resort to the courts.”  Abelleira v. District Court of Appeal,
(1941) 17 Cal.2d 280, 293.  The failure
to allege exhaustion of administrative remedies or facts excusing the failure
to exhaust renders the petition subject to demurrer for failure to state a
cause of action.  See, e.g.,
Stenocord Corp. v. City & County of San Francisco, (1970) 2 Cal.3d
984, 990.  One court has held that a mere
allegation that petitioners have exhausted their administrative remedies is conclusory
and insufficient to survive demurrer.  Pan
Pacific Property v. County of Santa Cruz, (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 244,
251.  However, another court has held
that such an allegation is sufficient to survive demurrer.  Wong v. Regents of University of
California, (1971) 15 Cal.App.3d 823, 829. 


On March 18, 2015, LEAP entered into an agreement to serve
reimbursable meals and snacks through the SFSP. 
Pet. ¶¶ 21, 60-61.  Pursuant to
the agreement, LEAP agreed to comply with 7 C.F.R. section 225.1 et
seq.  SFSP sponsors shall
not be eligible for meal reimbursements unless they have executed an agreement
with the state agency, and all reimbursements shall be in accordance with the
terms of this agreement.  7 C.F.R.
§225.9(d).  Reimbursements shall not
be paid for meals served at a site before the sponsor has received written
notification that the site has been approved for participation in the program.  7 C.F.R. §225.9(d).  
            In the March 2023 NOA, DOE notified
LEAP that DOE’s Child Nutrition Consultant observed LEAP serving meals on July
21, 2021 at the Wilbur Address, which was an unapproved site.  LEAP was approved to serve meals at the
Etiwanda Address but was serving them at the Wilbur Address.  Pet., Ex. 5, p. 2.  The distance between the two locations is 2.8
miles.  Id.  
LEAP submitted a change of address on July 19, 2021, and DOE
approved the Wilbur Address as a meal service location the next day, effective as
of July 1, 2021.  Id.  In the March 2023 NOA, DOE disallowed
reimbursement claims for meals served at the Wilbur Address for the months of
May and June 2021.  Ex. 5, pp. 1-2.  LEAP was required to repay the $133,300 which
had been reimbursed to it for those months. 
Id., p. 1.
DOE is required by the SFSP to establish a procedure to be
followed by an applicant appealing a denial of a sponsor’s claim for
reimbursement.  7 C.F.R. §225.13(a).  The appeal procedure is required to be sent to
each potential sponsor. 7 C.F.R. §225.13(c). 
DOE’s appeal procedure shall provide that the sponsor be
advised in writing of the grounds upon which the state agency based the action.
 7 C.F.R. §225.13(b)(1).  The NOA shall also state that the sponsor or
food service management company has the right to appeal the State’s action.  Id. 
DOE must advise the sponsor in writing that the appeal must be made
within a specified time, which shall be not less than one week nor more than
two weeks from the date on which the notice of action is received.  7 C.F.R. §225.13(b)(2).  The notice of action is considered to be
received by the sponsor or food service management company when it is delivered
by certified mail, facsimile, or email.  7
C.F.R. §225.13(b)(1).
            The
March 2023 NOA was sent to LEAP electronically on March 29, 2023.  Pet. Ex. 5, p. 1.  It informed LEAP of its appeal right and
provided a link to DOE’s webpage on the appeal process and LEAP’s rights
thereunder.  Pet., ¶40, Ex. 5.  DOE’s appeal procedure required LEAP to make
a written request for an appeal postmarked within ten days of receipt of the
NOA.  Pet., ¶41.
            On
May 9, 2023, LEAP sent DOE the appeal. 
Pet., ¶43, Ex. 6.  On May 23,
2023, DOE denied appeal as untimely. 
Pet., ¶44, Ex. 7.  The denial
indicated that DOE’s system showed that LEAP received the March 2023 NOA on
Friday, April 6, 2023 at 8:17 p.m.  Pet.,
¶42, Ex. 7.  Because this was after hours
on a Friday, DOE treated the date of receipt as April 10, 2023.  Pet., ¶44, Ex. 7.  The ten-day deadline to postmark the appeal
was therefore April 20, 2023.  Pet., ¶44,
Ex. 7.  DOE stated that LEAP missed this
deadline, and the appeal was denied. 
Pet., ¶44, Ex. 7.
            LEAP argues that DOE’s denial of its
appeal as untimely is sufficient to exhaust administrative remedies and trigger
the availability of administrative mandamus. 
Opp. at 7-8.  LEAP cites Civil
Service Commission v. Velez, (“Velez”) (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
115, 117, where the civil service commission argued that the superior court lacked
subject matter jurisdiction to hear a discharged public employee’s petition
because review of the timeliness determination was not a final order or
decision after the taking of evidence within the meaning of CCP section 1094.5.  Id. at 118.  The court held that the fact that no hearing
occurred does not preclude administrative mandamus review.  Id. 
If a hearing is required by law, administrative mandate may be
appropriate to secure it.  Id.  Velez had a right to an appeal hearing upon
timely request.  Id.  The commission’s untimeliness determination
exhausted Velez’s administrative remedies. 
Id. at 119.  Whether the commission
proceeded as required by law when it refused to hear her appeal fell squarely
within the scope of review under CCP section 1094.5.  Id.
CCP
section 1094.5(a) governs a case which seeks review of a proceeding that
required a hearing, the taking of evidence, and discretionary administrative
determination of facts.  CCP section
1094.5 applies whether or not a hearing was actually held.  Helene Curtis, Inc. v. Los Angeles County
Assessment Appeals Board, (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 29, 37; Velez,
supra, 14 Cal.App.4th at 117.  LEAP
exhausted its administrative remedies with respect to the timeliness of its
appeal and any excuse for its untimeliness.[5]
 
            b. Good Cause 
DOE demurs to the first cause of action for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a claim for administrative mandamus is based on
the same failure to timely appeal the March 2023 NOA.  Dem. at 6.
LEAP argues that it has shown good cause to excuse its
untimely appeal.  LEAP relies on Gibson
v. Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board, (“Gibson”) (1973) 9 Cal.3d
494, Faulkner v.
Public Employees’ Retirement System, (“Faulkner”) (1975) 47 Cal.App.3d 731, Gonzalez v. State
Personnel Board, (“Gonzalez”) (1977) 76 Cal.App.3d 364, and Velez,
supra, 14 Cal.App.4th at 115 
Opp. at 8-11.
In Gibson, the petitioner applied for unemployment
insurance after he was discharged by his employer.  9 Cal.3d at 497.  He received written notice that he was not
eligible for unemployment benefits and his right to appeal.  Id. 
He took the notice to an attorney, who promised to file an appeal.  Id. 
The attorney’s receptionist filed to note the appeal deadline on the
attorney’s calendar and the attorney immediately filed an appeal three days
late, when the error was discovered.  Id.  three days after the statutory appeal period
expired.  9 Cal.3d at 497.  Both the Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board
and the superior court held that neither inadvertent clerical error nor press
of business could constitute good cause for an untimely appeal under
Unemployment Insurance Code (“UIC”) section 1328.  Id. at 497-98.  
            In reversing, the California Supreme
Court held that it must liberally construe the UIC and dispense with formality to
further the legislative objective of reducing the hardship of unemployment.  Id. at 499.  Applicants without legal training have only
ten days to either determine the advisability and method of filing an appeal or
retain legal aid to do so.  Id. at
500.  Those circumstances can lead
applicants to miss the deadline solely through excusable inadvertence.  Id.  The slightest and most excusable inadvertence should
not deprive a worker of his right to an appeal on the merits.  Id. 
The case concerned a remedial statute that should be administered
informally without resort to technicalities that might deprive the unsophisticated
applicant of his right to benefits.  Id.
at 500-01.
In Faulkner, a police
officer appealed the denial of his disability retirement benefits
application.  47 Cal.App.3d at 733.  The Public Employees’ Retirement System
denied petitioner’s request for an appeal hearing filed four days after the
30-day period for such appeal had passed. 
Id.  The respondent argued
that the 30-day deadline was a jurisdictional limitation on the right to
appeal.  Id. at 735.  
            The
appellate court disagreed.  Id.  A denial of retirement disability benefits
affects a fundamental, vested right.  Id.
at 734.  The retirement system is to be
administered without hardship or prejudice, and strictly enforcing the 30-days
deadline would constitute hardship and the exercise of prejudice.  Id. at 735-36.  The absence of a specific provision enabling
an applicant for retirement benefits to file a late appeal for good cause does
not preclude the filing of such an appeal. 
Id. at 736.  The petitioner
had offered an excuse for the four-day delay, extraordinary circumstances at
the law firm serving as his counsel.  Id.
at 737.  The possible impact of the denial of
his right to appeal outweighed the minimal delay and the lack of prejudice to
the respondent.  Id.
In Gonzalez, supra, 76 Cal.App.3d at 364, the
court addressed the refusal of the State Personnel Board (“SPB”) to consider an
untimely appeal from the petitioner’s dismissal from his employment as a youth
counselor.  Id. at 366.  The state Department of Youth Authority had terminated
the petitioner based on his arrest for drug-related offenses.   Id. at pp. 365-66.   The department notified the employee of his
dismissal and informed him that he had 20 days to appeal the decision.  Id. at 366.  The employee filed his appeal six days late. Ibid. The SPB refused to consider the employee’s untimely appeal
request.  Ibid. 
The trial court granted the employee’s mandamus petition
requiring the SPB to allow the employee to appeal his termination after
determining good cause existed “due to the mistake, inadvertence, and excusable
neglect of Petitioner and his attorney, due to a breakdown in communication
between them, as well as the fact that they were both laboring under the strain
of major criminal proceedings.”  Ibid.
In
upholding the trial court’s decision, the appellate court relied on Faulkner
and concluded that the statutory scheme should be interpreted liberally in
favor of an employee when dealing with a fundamental vested right.  Id. 
at 367.  The court stated:
 
“Where the delay in filing is long delayed and the employing
unit can show that it has, in fact, replaced the employee, a reason for denying
equitable relief may exist. However, in the case at bench, the delay in filing
the notice of appeal was only six days and the employer made no attempt to show
that a replacement had been hired within that brief period. We conclude that a
reasonable reconciliation between the rights of the employee and the employer
requires that, where good cause is shown for a brief delay and no prejudice to
the employer is shown, relief from the default should be given.”  Id.
at 367.
 
In Velez, the court addressed an air pollution
control board’s termination of a public employee for incompetent, inefficient,
and dishonest acts.  14 Cal.App.4th
at 117.  The employee filed an appeal to
the civil service commission five days after the ten-day deadline in the
county’s civil service rules.  Id. at 117-18.  The employee had
spoken to her union representative before the deadline and miscommunicated the
date on which she received the termination notice.  Id.
at 115.  The commission denied the
appeal as untimely.  Ibid.  The union requested that
the employee be allowed to file a late appeal, and the commission contended
that it lacked jurisdiction to hear late appeals under the civil service rules.  Ibid.  The
trial court “implicitly ruled the [commission] may not mechanically reject late
appeals but must consider whether the employee showed good cause for
tardiness.”  Id. at 119. 
On appeal, the commission argued that the deadline to file
an appeal pursuant to the civil service rules was jurisdictional and could not
be extended.  Id. at 120.  The appellate court held that, although no
express provision of the civil service rules permitted a late appeal, good
cause existed where there was a short delay caused by inadvertence and the
commission asserted no prejudice.  Id.
at 122.  
The court held that Velez had a fundamental and vested right
of employment protected by due process, and 
the civil service rules required the commission to “protect the merit
basis of the personnel system” similar to the personnel and retirement contexts
in Gibson, Gonzales, and Faulkner, where relief was
afforded for good cause based on the shortness of the delay, absence of
prejudice, and excusable nature of the error. 
Id. at 121-22. Velez’s delay was short,
caused by inadvertence, and the Commission asserted no prejudice.  Ibid. 
The trial court correctly reconciled Velez’s right to have her appeal on
the merits and the commission’s concern for an orderly process in granting
relief.  Id. at 122-23.  See also Hall-Villareal v. City of
Fresno, (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 24, 34 (due process requires reading good
cause exception into city’s municipal code administrative procedures where a
fundamental right to continued employment is at issue).
From these cases, LEAP concludes that the court should
protect the merits of its appeal by requiring DOE to consider a good cause
extension.  Neither 7 C.F.R. section 225 et
seq. nor DOE’s appeal procedure expressly afford relief from an untimely
appeal, but they also do not preclude such consideration.  The federal regulations provide “contextual
clues” that emphasize the remedial purpose of the appeal process.  The primary purpose of the SFSP is to provide
food service to needy children when schools are closed for vacation.  7 C.F.R. §225.1.  The legislative objective of this program is
dependent on reimbursement of sponsors such as LEAP.  Resorting to technicalities during the
process frustrates the remedial purpose of the appeal process to efficiently
continue serving community needs.  Even
where the late filing of an administrative appeal is not expressly permitted by
regulation or statute, discretionary extensions of time for appeal for good
cause are required.  Gonzalez, supra,
76 Cal.App.3d at 367.  Opp. at 10.
LEAP adds that protection of the merits for appeal requires genuine
consideration of LEAP’s good cause showing of its minimally untimely
appeal.  While it is true that the appeal
was 19 days late, DOE waited over a year and a half after its July 2021
compliance review until its March 2023 NOA. 
DOE offered no rationale for this delay, which prejudiced LEAP.  Nor has DOE shown any prejudice.  In fact, it granted approval for the Wilbur
Address within one day of LEAP’s submission of an address change.  Opp. at 10.
LEAP only failed to timely request an appeal because of inadvertent
error.  Pet., ¶43.  The late appeal was a product of genuine inadvertence
because it merely overlooked the tight ten-day turnaround while trying to
sustain operations to meet the persistent demand for meals.  The balance of justice weighs in favor of
granting a good cause extension for the appeal. 
Opp. at 11.
As a threshold matter, LEAP miscalculates the untimeliness
of its appeal as 19 days late.  A NOA is
considered to be received by the sponsor when it is delivered by certified
mail, facsimile, or email.  7 C.F.R.
§225.13(b)(1).  It does not matter when
it was actually received and viewed.  The
March 2023 NOA was sent to LEAP electronically on March 29, 2023.  Pet. Ex. 5, p. 1.  That  is the date of receipt.[6]  DOE’s appeal procedure required the written
request for an appeal to be postmarked within ten days of receipt of the
NOA.  Pet., ¶41.  Thus, LEAP’s appeal was required to be filed
by April 8, 2021.  The appeal filed on
May 9, 2023 was 41 days late.  
LEAP’s miscalculation does not bear on the court’s analysis,
however, because good cause is a question of fact that generally cannot be
determined on demurrer as a matter of law. 
The court can only determine whether DOE is obligated to make a good
cause determination for LEAP’s appeal. 
That is, the question for demurrer is whether the good cause doctrine
applies to a SFSP sponsor’s appeal.
DOE argues that the good cause doctrine does not apply and
that it does not have discretion to consider an untimely
appeal.  DOE is prohibited
by 7 C.F.R. section 225.13(b)(2) from setting an appeal more than two weeks
after the NOA. Neither the regulation nor DOE’s appeal procedure provides for
any extension.  Reply at 3.
            DOE is correct.  DOE is bound by the federal regulations for
the SFSP.  While it is possible to
interpret the federal regulations to permit a good cause showing, it is
inappropriate to do so if the rights at issue are not fundamental and vested
and the statutory scheme is not remedial and liberally construed to carry out a
policy of aiding the petitioner.  
Unlike Gibson, Faulkner, Gonzales, Velez,
LEAP’s right to meal reimbursement is not fundamental and vested.  A right may be deemed fundamental based on
either (1) “the character and quality of its economic aspect; (2) the character
and quality of its human aspect.”  Amerco Real Estate Co. v. City of
West Sacramento, (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 778, 783 (citation omitted). 
This is a case-by-case determination.   “[A]s a general rule, when a
case involves or affects purely economic interests, courts are far less likely
to find a right to be of the fundamental vested character."  JKH
Enterprises, Inc. v. Department of Industrial Relations, (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 1046, 1060 (impact of agency’s decision to issue an administrative
stop work order and penalty for violation labor relations was purely economic
and the substantial evidence was appropriate standard of review).  LEAP’s
right to meal reimbursement is not fundamental because it is purely economic in
nature.  While LEAP has a contractual
right to reimbursement, it has no vested right to reimbursement where it
violates federal regulation by providing meal service at an unapproved
location.  
            The SFSP regulatory scheme also is
not remedial in nature with respect to sponsors.  At issue is LEAP’s right to receive
reimbursement for two months of meals claimed and distributed at the Wilbur Address
before its approval as an SFSP site. 
Pet., ¶¶ 33-34, 39, Ex. 5.  The primary
purpose of the SFSP is to protect the health and well-being of children during
the summer months, but this remedial purpose does not extend to payment of sponsors.  SFSP sponsors are sophisticated organizations
and there is no reason to construe the federal regulations
broadly in their favor.  Reply at 3.  
            The good cause doctrine is not
available to extend the appeal deadline for a SFSP sponsor’s meal
reimbursement.           The demurrer as to the first cause of action
is sustained.  
 
            3.
Second Cause of Action for Breach of Contract 
            DOE demurs to the breach of contract
cause of action as (1) barred by failure to exhaust administrative remedies and
(2) failure to state a claim for breach of contract.  Dem. at 9.
For failure to exhaust, DOE does not show that exhaustion is
required for a contract breach claim.  The
exhaustion of administrative remedies requirement applies to mandamus (see,
e.g., Alta Loma School Dist. v. San Bernardino County Com. On School
Dist. Reorganization, (1981) 124 Cal.App.3d 542, 554) and mandamus is not
an appropriate remedy for enforcing a contractual obligation against an
agency.  300 DeHaro Street Investors
v. Department of Housing & Community Development, (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 1240, 1254.  This is because
breach of contract is an adequate remedy at law, and the duty which mandamus
enforces is not the contractual duty of the entity, but the official duty of
its officer or board.  Ibid.  Moreover, a public agency is as free to
breach a contract during performance, with accompanying liability for doing so,
as a private contracting person or entity. 
Id. at 1254-55.  See
also Pomona Police Officers’ Assn. v. City of Pomona, (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 578, 590. 
As for substantial compliance, recovery based on a claim for
breach of contract requires substantial performance rather than complete
performance.  Posner v. Grunwald-Marx,
Inc., (1961), 56 Cal.2d 169, 186-187. 
What constitutes substantial performance is a question of fact, but it
is essential that there be no willful departure from the terms of the contract,
and that the defects be such as may be easily remedied or compensated, so that
the promisee may get practically what the contract calls for.  Id. at 187.  The promisor must have in good faith
performed all of the contract’s substantive terms.  Connell v. Higgins, (1915) 170 Cal.
541, 556.  If so, the promisor will not
be held to have forfeited his right to recovery by reason of trivial defects or
imperfection in the work performed.  Id.  This rule is particularly true if the
promisee has received the benefit of what has been done and is enjoying the
fruits of the work.  Id.   See also Brown v. Aguilar,
(1925) 202 Cal. 143, 147.  Essentially, this rule is one of the materiality of the promisor’s
breach, which is a question of fact.
            As part of the SFSP, LEAP agreed to provide
meals in accordance with 7 C.F.R. sections 225 et. seq.  Pet., ¶61. 
The Petition asserts that LEAP substantially complied with those obligations.  Pet., ¶62. 
It provided meals at approved sites like the Etiwanda Address for LAPD
Devonshire PALS and sought timely reimbursement for those meals.  Pet., ¶¶ 30, 62.  Guidance from DOE allowed LEAP to serve meals
near approved sites during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Pet., ¶65. 
DOE’s disallowance of meals served at the Etiwanda Address from May and
June 2021 was a material breach of its contract with LEAP.  Pet., ¶65. 

            LEAP
argues that its inadvertent clerical error in failing to update the site location
for DOE approval of meal distribution for the SFSP when it had done so for
CACFP service is not an adequate ground for denying meal reimbursement at the
Wilbur Address.  The error stemmed from
DOE’s failure to provide clear instructions about how to serve meals during the
COVID-19 pandemic.  Pet., ¶25.  Schar confusingly told LEAP in March 2020 that
it could not add new distribution sites, and must use pre-approved sites, but
the pandemic had caused most of the approved sites to shut down.  Pet., ¶¶ 22-23, 27.  LEAP did not willfully depart from the
contract, make any attempt at fraud, or otherwise materially breach the
contract.  Although DOE seizes on
accusations of a prior finding that LEAP violated 7 C.F.R. Part 225, the
parties’ longstanding relationship supports the inference that any
non-compliance did not substantially affect the usefulness of its work under
the contract.  Opp. at 12.
            DOE
replies that it has no contract with LEAP for meal service at an unapproved
site.  DOE never contracted with LEAP to
provide meals in violation of 7 C.F.R. section 225.9.  LEAP’s service of meals at an unapproved site
is a material departure from the agreement. 
Its willfulness is acknowledged by its admission that it received March
16, 2020 correspondence from Schar that “SFSP sponsors could not add new sites
as only existing sites that were approved could be used.”   Pet. ¶27. 
SFSP regulations do not permit sponsors to serve meals at unapproved
sites because a state agency needs to determine if the site meets state and
local health, safety, and sanitation standards, the meals are served at an
approved service time, and the sponsor has provided notice to the community of
the site change.  7 C.F.R.
§225.16(g).  DOE could not confirm the Wilbur
Address met these requirements until July 21, 2021 and prior service of meals
at that address was a material breach of the contract.  Id. 
Therefore, the doctrine of substantial compliance does not apply.  Reply at 5-6.
The parties’ arguments are factual issues about the
materiality of LEAP’s breach which cannot be resolved on demurrer.  DOE argues that it had no contract with LEAP
to provide meal service at an unapproved site. 
LEAP’s contract is required by the SFSP regulatory scheme, and all
reimbursements shall be in accordance with the terms of this agreement.  7 C.F.R. §225.9(d).  Reimbursements shall not be paid for meals served
at a site before the sponsor has received written notification that the site
has been approved for participation in the program.  7 C.F.R. §225.9(d).  LEAP’s breach of contract issue is whether site
approval is a material term such that LEAP’s failure to comply is a breach.
            As
presented to the court, LEAP’s breach of contract claim cannot be resolved on
demurrer.  The demurrer as to the second
cause of action is overruled.[7]
 
            4.
Third Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief
In the third cause of action for declaratory relief, LEAP asserts that
an actual controversy has arisen as to whether DOE’s final decision to disallow
reimbursement is valid.  Pet., ¶68.  As with the other causes of action, the
decision infringes on LEAP’s due process rights and was an abuse of DOE’s
discretion.  Pet., ¶68.  
Any person who desires a declaration of his or her rights or duties with
respect to another, or in respect to, in, over or upon property, may, in cases
of actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective
parties, bring an original action or cross-complaint in the superior court for
a declaration of his or her rights and duties. 
CCP §1060.  He or she may ask for
a declaration of rights or duties, either alone or with other relief.  Id. 
The court may make a binding declaration of these rights or duties,
whether or not further relief is or could be claimed at the time.  Id.
            A complaint for declaratory relief
is legally sufficient if it sets forth facts showing the existence of an actual
controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the parties and requests
that the rights and duties of the parties be adjudged by the court.  Monterey Coastkeeper v. California
Regional Water Quality Control Board, (“Monterey”) (2022) 76 Cal.
App. 5th 1, 13, for the requirements of declaratory relief.    If these requirements are met and no basis
for declining declaratory relief appears, the court should declare the rights
of the parties whether or not the facts alleged establish the plaintiff is
entitled to favorable declaration.  Id.  Declaratory relief operates prospectively,
to resolve controversies before obligations are repudiated, rights are invaded,
or wrongs are committed.  Id.  Its purpose is to declare future rights, not
to address past wrongs.  Id.
            A
party seeking declaratory relief must show a very significant possibility of
future harm.  Id.  A probable future dispute over legal rights
between parties is sufficiently ripe to represent an “actual controversy” as
opposed to purely hypothetical concerns. 
Id.  An actual controversy
is one which admits of definitive and conclusive relief by judgment within the
field of judicial administration, as distinguished from an advisory opinion
upon a particular or hypothetical state of facts.  Id.
            DOE
argues that the third cause of action is improper because it seeks to remedy a
past wrong.  Dem. at 9.  
LEAP responds that is not the case.  Although LEAP disputes the merits on whether
DOE should have disallowed reimbursement, it only seeks a declaratory judgment as
to its due process rights and its entitlement to a fair appeal process.  LEAP understands it cannot contest the merits
of DOE’s decision until it passes the hurdle of administrative review.  LEAP only asks the court to direct the DOE to
undertake the appeal it should have received. 
Until DOE does this, it cannot call the denial of LEAP’s appeal or the
disallowance of reimbursement a past wrong. 
Opp. at 14-15.
            LEAP
is incorrect for three reasons.  First, the
court has concluded that LEAP cannot obtain a good cause determination by DOE
for the untimeliness of its appeal and the good cause issue is the only dispute
between the parties about the appeal process. 
There is no actual controversy on any other aspect of an appeal.
Second, CCP section 1094.5 is the exclusive remedy for judicial
review of a final administrative decision. 
Woods v. Superior Court (1981) 28 Cal.3d 668, 675.  "The law is well established that an
action for declaratory relief is not appropriate to review an administrative
decision."  State of California
v. Superior Court (Veta) (1974) 12 Cal.3d 237, 249.  “A party cannot circumvent the exhaustion
doctrine by bringing actions other than administrative mandamus such as actions
for declaratory relief.”  Walter H.
Leimert Co. v. California Coastal Commission, (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 222,
232.  The sole controversy in LEAP’s
declaratory relief claim is its right to present the good cause issue and this
issue is subsumed within the first cause of action.
            Third,
the Petition’s prayer for relief does not support LEAP’s argument.  The prayer seeks a declaration
that DOE’s decision requiring payment of $133,300 was wrongly determined and
that DOE abused its discretion by disallowing meals that were served for
reimbursement.  Pet. Prayer for Relief, ¶3.  This prayer seeks the relief that LEAP now
asserts it does not want the court to order. Alternatively, the
prayer seeks a declaration that DOE abused its discretion by denying the
request for an appeal.  Pet. Prayer for
Relief, ¶3.  This prayer concerns only the good cause
issue and not any appeal procedure.  
            In
sum, the third cause of action for declaratory relief is subsumed within the first
cause of action for administrative mandamus. 
The demurrer as to the third cause of action is sustained.
 
            D. Conclusion
            The
demurrer to the Petition is sustained for the first and third causes of action.  Although LEAP asks for leave to amend, it
does not allege facts that could cure the defects.  The demurrer is overruled for the second
cause of action.  The court will discuss
with the parties whether the case should be transferred to Department 1 for
reassignment to an I/C court.


