


            [1] LEAP failed to
lodge a courtesy copy of the opposition in violation of the Presiding
Judge’s First Amended General Order Re: Mandatory Electronic Filing.  Its counsel
is admonished to provide courtesy copies in all future filings.


[2]
The Petition says LEAP but this is an obvious typographical error.


            [3] LEAP submits
a copy of the DOE’s webpage about the appeal process under 7 C.F.R. section
225.13.  Opp. Ex. A.  The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.  CCP §430.30(a).  LEAP fails to request judicial notice of the
webpage in a separate document.  See
CRC 3.1113(l).  The court has not
considered this webpage.


[4] Mandamus
is mandamus for purposes of demurrer, and it does not matter whether it is
wrongly pled as administrative mandamus or traditional mandamus.  Woods v. Superior Court, (1981) 28
Cal.3d 668, 673-74.  Although DOE demurs
to the first cause as both administrative and traditional mandamus (Dem. at
6-8), LEAP’s opposition only argues administrative mandamus.  Opp. at 4-11. 
As a result, the court need not address whether the first cause of
action sufficiently alleges traditional mandamus under CCP section 1085.


[5] LEAP has
not exhausted its administrative remedies for the merits of the appeal, meaning
its contention that it substantially complied with the agreement and that any violation
of 7 C.F.R. section 225.9(d)’s requirement that LEAP receive written
notification that the Wilbur Address had been approved for participation in the
program to obtain reimbursement was only technical in nature.  See Opp. at 11-13.


[6]
DOE also miscalculates the appeal delay, using April 10, 2023 as the business
day after the March 2023 NOA was viewed by LEAP to conclude that the delay was
29 days.  Reply at 3.


[7] It may
be that LEAP’s claim of substantial contract compliance must be made in an
administrative appeal.  LEAP’s agreement
with DOE is both required by the regulatory scheme (7 C.F.R. §225.9(d) and must
be performed consistently with that scheme. 
LEAP failed to present a timely appeal and the reimbursement claim was
disallowed by DOE.  The court has ruled
that the good cause doctrine does not apply, and the administrative appeal was
untimely.  These facts may bar not only
the appeal but also the breach of contract claim.  In other words, the breach of contract claim
may be subsumed by the CCP section 1094.5 claim.  DOE does not make this argument, however, and
the court need not decide this issue.

