  Case Number:  21STCV34102    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:    
Defendant RE/MAX, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment
Defendant RE/MAX, LLC moves for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication of all causes of action alleged against it by
plaintiff Perry Lazar’s first amended complaint.
Requests for Judicial Notice
            Plaintiff Perry
Lazar requests judicial notice of five exhibits.  All exhibits are subject to judicial notice
of their existence and legal effects. 
Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice are granted.
Evidentiary Objections
            Plaintiff
makes one evidentiary objection to the “Declaration of Hosea Paragraphs 1 –
[sic]”.  The objection is overruled.
            RE/MAX,
LLC makes five objections to the declaration of Odalis Suarez.  All five objections are overruled.  
Legal Standard for Summary Judgment
A defendant moving for summary judgment
or adjudication must show “that one or more elements of the cause of action…
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).)  Once the defendant does so, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to show a triable issue of at least one material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 849.)  
Summary of Facts
            Plaintiff’s
action arises from a real estate purchase transaction in 2004.  Plaintiff purchased real property from
sellers Bruce R. Cook and William E. Devin, III.  The sellers employed real estate brokers In
Action Realtors, Inc. and its owner or managing agent Brad Korb as the listing
agent.  (Korb Decl., ¶ 21.)
            Moving
defendant RE/MAX, LLC is a franchisor in the real estate industry.  (Hosea Decl., ¶ 5.)  It sells franchises either “directly” or
“through independent subfranchisors.”  (Id.,
¶ 6.)  RE/MAX of California & Hawaii,
Inc. (RCHI) was “the Independent Subfranchisor for the States of California and
Hawaii until April 2007.”  (Id., ¶¶
9-10, Ex. 1.)  In 1993, the predecessors
of RCHI and In Action Realtors entered a franchise agreement.  (Id., ¶ 13, Ex. 3.)  Those entities and their successors also
entered two addenda and a renewal agreement. 
(Id., ¶¶ 14-17, Exs. 4-6.) 
  
            In 2007,
RE/MAX International, Inc. purchased RCHI’s assets via an Asset Purchase
Agreement.  (Hosea Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. 2.)  RE/MAX International, Inc. was “a predecessor
entity” of moving defendant RE/MAX, LLC. 
(Id., ¶ 8.)
RE/MAX, LLC (or its predecessor, RE/MAX International,
Inc.) was not directly involved in Lazar’s real estate purchase and did not
know about it at the time.  (Hosea Decl.,
¶ 31; Korb Decl., ¶ 22.)  
Discussion
            Plaintiff
asserts seven causes of action against RE/MAX, LLC, including several torts,
statutory violations, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing.  RE/MAX, LLC meets its initial
burden of showing plaintiff cannot succeed on these claims.  RE/MAX, LLC presents evidence it was not
directly involved in the transaction in which plaintiff purchased the subject
property.  (Hosea Decl., ¶ 31; Korb
Decl., ¶ 22.)  Plaintiff’s claims against
RE/MAX, LLC all rely on the theory that it is liable as the principal for
conduct by its purported agents In Action Realtors and Korb.
A. Actual Agency     
RE/MAX, LLC meets its burden of showing that, based on the
undisputed facts, In Action Realtors and Korb were not its actual agents.  A franchisor’s liability for a franchisee’s
conduct through the theory of agency depends on the extent of its control over
the franchisee.  “The general rule is where a franchise agreement gives the
franchisor the right of complete or substantial control over the franchisee, an
agency relationship exists.”  (Cislaw
v. Southland Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1284, 1288.)  “ ‘[I]t is the right to control the means
and manner in which the result is achieved that is significant in
determining whether a principal-agency relationship exists.’ ”  (Ibid.)    
Rather than the purported principal’s control over the agent’s operations
in general, the analysis focuses on its control over the “ ‘means and manner’
of the [franchisee’s] operations giving rise to plaintiff’s injury.”  (Pereda v. Atos Jiu Jitsu LLC (2022) 85
Cal.App.5th 759, 771 (Pereda).)  The
California Supreme Court has recognized that courts in other states “have
focused on the franchisor’s lack of control over the ‘instrumentality’, the
‘conduct’, or the ‘ “specific aspect of the franchisee’s business” ’ that
caused the alleged injury.”  (Patterson
v. Domino’s Pizza, LLC (2014) 60 Cal.4th 474, 498, citations omitted (Patterson).)  
For example, in Pereda, a martial arts student sued for injuries
suffered while sparring.  (Pereda,
supra, 85 Cal.App.5th at pp. 763-764.) 
The court held summary judgment was proper because there was no evidence
the purported principal exercised control over the franchisee’s supervision of
sparring, nor that principal did anything to make the plaintiff to reasonably
believe it did so.  (Id. at pp.
770-772.)  
In Patterson, an employee of a Domino’s Pizza franchise sued for
sexual harassment.  (Patterson, supra,
60 Cal.4th at p. 477.)  The California
Supreme Court considered evidence that “the franchisor prescribed standards and
procedures involving pizza-making and delivery, general store operations, and
brand image.”  (Id. at p.
478.)  But the Court held summary
judgment was proper because “there was considerable, essentially uncontradicted
evidence that the franchisee made day-to-day decisions involving the
hiring, supervision, and disciplining of his employees.”  (Ibid.)  The evidence showed “Domino’s lacked the
general control of an ‘employer’ or ‘principal’ over relevant day-to-day
aspects of the employment and workplace behavior of [the franchisee’s]
employees.”  (Id. at p. 499.)
Here, the means and manner by which the franchisee allegedly injured
plaintiff is that, as the sellers’ real estate broker, the franchisee either
negligently or fraudulently caused plaintiff to acquire potentially defective
title to the subject property.  The potential
defect in title arose primarily from a prior sale of property by the same
sellers (also using In Action Realtors as the listing agent) where the
assessor’s parcel number and the legal description by metes and bounds did not
match.  
RE/MAX, LLC presents evidence it had no right to control those aspects of
In Action Realtors’ operations. 
Undisputed evidence shows that RE/MAX, LLC was two steps removed from the
franchisee defendant.  In Action Realtors
was a franchisee of RCHI, which was a franchisee of RE/MAX International, Inc.  The franchise agreement between In Action
Realtors’ predecessor and RCHI provides, “The conduct of Franchisee’s business
and the time and manner in which Franchisee shall obtain listings, sell
properties conduct transactions and/or escrows shall be determined by its own (or
its licensed real estate broker’s) judgment, subject only to this Agreement,
the operating manual or policy directives from RE/MAX, as they shall be adopted
and published from time to time relating to the RE/MAX System and the laws
relating to the conduct of business by real estate brokers and agents.”  (M. Ex. 3, p. B-9, ¶ 5.B.)  The means and manner by which In Action
Realtors allegedly injured plaintiff falls within this provision about the
manner in which the franchisee obtains listings, sells properties, and conducts
transactions.  No evidence shows any
RE/MAX operating manual or policy directive on this subject.  The only “manual” in the record is the “
‘RE/MAX Brand Identity Trademark and Graphics Standards’ manual” (Hosea Decl.,
¶ 18, Ex. 7), which concerns matters such as the correct color of the letters
“RE/MAX,” the design of yard signs, and the design of business cards.
Moreover, Brad Korb testifies he “was a duly licensed real estate broker
and employee of In Action Realtors” (Korb Decl., ¶ 12) and “was responsible for
the supervision and operation of the franchise” (id., ¶ 13).  He further states, “From 1993-2009, neither
RE/MAX, LLC (‘RML’) (or any of its predecessors) nor RE/MAX of
California, Inc. (or any of its successors under the Franchise Agreement,
including RE/MAX of California and Hawaii, Inc.) ever controlled or attempted
to control the day-to-day operations of the franchise.”  (Id., ¶ 17.)  “In Action Realtors had full and complete
control over the day-to-day operations of its office.  It managed its own employees, and controlled
hiring, firing, training, discipline, compensation, and work schedules.  It paid all its own operating expenses and
made all operational decisions.  It was
also responsible for compliance with licensing requirements as well as any
other applicable local, state and federal laws.”  (Id., ¶ 18.)  “In Action Realtors also had full and
complete control over the real estate transactions handled by its office.  It controlled which clients it performed
services for, which properties it chose to list, how the properties were
listed, how offers were handled and processed, and the manner in which sales
were carried out and ultimately closed.” 
(Id., ¶ 19.)  
Korb also testifies, “The communications between In Action Realtors” and the
RE/MAX entities “over the course of the franchise relationship were limited to
issues related to the terms of, and compliance with, the Franchise
Agreement.”  (Korb Decl., ¶ 20.)  None of the RE/MAX entities “inquired into,
or provided any guidance on, specific real estate transactions undertaken by In
Action Realtors.”  (Ibid.)  He states no RE/MAX entities were “involved
in the Transaction, or made aware of the Transaction in real time.”  (Id., ¶ 22.)  
B. Ostensible Agency
RE/MAX, LLC also meets its burden of showing it cannot be
liable under the doctrine of ostensible agency. 
“A defendant may be held
liable as a ‘principal’ for the acts of the defendant’s ostensible agent (that
is, the third party who is not actually his agent) only if (1) the plaintiff,
when dealing with the agent, did so ‘with [a reasonable] belief in the agent’s
authority,’ (2) that ‘belief [was] generated by some act or neglect by the
principal,’ and (3) the plaintiff was not negligent in relying on the agent’s
apparent authority.”  (Pereda, supra,
85 Cal.App.5th at p. 768.)  “Because a
principal’s liability for the acts of an ostensible agent rests on the notion
that the principal should be estopped from creating the false impression of
agency [citation], the appearance of agency ‘must be based on the acts or
declarations of the principal and not solely upon the agent’s conduct.’
”  (Ibid.)  
For
ostensible agency, “a franchisor is liable for the conduct of the franchisee
only if the franchisor actually exercises control—or is reasonably believed to
exercise control—over the ‘means and manner’ of the franchisee’s operation that
caused the plaintiff’s alleged injury.” 
(Pereda, supra, 85 Cal.App.5th at p. 770.)  “To avoid having the doctrine of ostensible
agency swallow up this carefully balanced principle, courts have limited what
can give rise to a reasonable belief that a franchisor is controlling the
portion of the franchisee’s operation that caused the plaintiff’s alleged
injury.  It is not enough to show that
the franchisor and franchisee have ‘some relationship.’  [Citation.] 
It is not enough to show that the franchisor has allowed the franchisee
to use its trade name and good will [citations], or, relatedly, that the
franchisor’s name appears on some of the materials used by the franchisee.”  (Ibid.)
RE/MAX, LLC presents evidence
it never took any action directed toward plaintiff other than allowing In
Action Realtors to use its trade name and goodwill.  As a matter of law, that is not enough. 
RE/MAX, LLC also shows
plaintiff cannot prove he acted in reliance on In Action Realtors’ apparent
authority to act as an agent of RE/MAX, LLC. 
Unlike Pereda, where the plaintiff chose to do business with the
defendant franchisee (by studying at its martial arts school), plaintiff here did
not directly patronize the franchisee or receive services from it.  Plaintiff did not hire
In Action Realtors.  Plaintiff’s wife,
Odalis C. Suarez, served as his real estate agent in the transaction.  (Suarez Decl., ¶ 1.)  Plaintiff purchased property from sellers who
had hired In Action Realtors to represent them. 
There is no evidence plaintiff relied on the listing agent’s use of
RE/MAX trademarks or branding in choosing to purchase the subject
property.  
Plaintiff Fails to Show a Dispute of Material Fact that
Precludes Summary Judgment
            Plaintiff
asserts he disputes UMF Nos. 1-19, 21, 24, 25, 33-46, 48, 51-53, 55-57, 76, 77,
81 and 82 solely by citing the deposition of Samantha Hosea.  In her deposition, she testified that she
began working for RE/MAX in 2007 and does not have personal knowledge of the
interactions between RCHI and its individual brokers.  That evidence does not present any factual
dispute.  These purported disputes of
fact amount to evidentiary objections. 
The court overruled those objections.   

            Plaintiff
asserts he disputes various other facts about RE/MAX, LLC’s involvement in the
real estate purchase or its connection to In Action Realtors.  The bulk of plaintiff’s evidence shows only
that Korb and In Action Realtors used RE/MAX’s trademarks, such as the name
“RE/MAX In Action” and the RE/MAX logo featuring a hot air balloon.  (E.g., Opp. Exs. 1, 15.)
            Plaintiff
also presents evidence that RCHI exercised control or had the right to exercise
control over In Action Realtors in some ways. 
A reasonable trier of fact could not conclude those means of control
reach the level necessary to impose liability on RE/MAX, LLC.  For example, RCHI sent letters to Korb to
“discourage[] the inter-office recruiting of agents” or “fellow RE/MAX
agents.”  (Opp. Ex. 10, p.
RML-000158.)  RCHI also sent
correspondence about use of the “licensed personal assistant program” (id.,
p. RML-000178), requirements that In Action Realtors must “report” which “Sales
Associates” worked in its office (id., p. 225), and that In Action
Realtors must have at least “20 licensees” at the franchise (id., p.
RML-000170).  Plaintiff also submits
evidence that RCHI sent Korb a letter explaining the franchise agreement’s
requirements “if a franchisee wishes to sell or transfer the entire franchise”
or “only a portion of it.”  (Opp. Ex. ?,
p. RML-000161.)  Plaintiff further
presents evidence RCHI required In Action Realtors to maintain insurance of
various kinds and to have an office with a minimum size, “equipped with
furniture, full-time secretary, phones, and office equipment necessary to
conduct a real estate business.”  (M. Ex.
3, p. B-8, ¶ U.)  
            None of
these things are connected to the means and manner of the franchisee’s
operations that gave rise to plaintiff’s injury.  Plaintiff presents no
evidence RCHI (or RE/MAX International, Inc.) had the right to control the
details of In Action Realtors’ real estate transactions, such as verifying the
accuracy of MLS listings or legal descriptions of property.                  
Disposition
Defendant RE/MAX, LLC’s motion for summary judgment is granted.