 Case Number:  23STCV23403    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
Defendants’
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action
Defendants
California Clinic Management, LLC dba Acuity Eye Group, Acuity Holdings, LLC,
Trilogy Eye Medical Group, Inc., Tom Chang, M.D., and Michael Samuel, M.D.,
move to compel arbitration of this action by plaintiff Jessica Carlson.  Plaintiff establishes three independent
reasons to deny the motion.
Evidentiary
Objections
            Plaintiff Jessica Carlson makes four
objections to defendants’ evidence.  All
four objections are overruled.
            Defendants make eight objections to
the declaration of Jessica Carlson and five objections to the declaration of
Erin M. Kelly.  All objections are overruled.
I.
Existence of Agreement
            Defendants do not prove the
existence of an arbitration agreement between the parties.  The party moving to compel arbitration “ ‘
“bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by
the preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to
its defense.” ’ ”  (Kader v. Southern
California Medical Center, Inc. (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 214, 220-221 (Kader).)
            Defendants move to compel
arbitration pursuant to the agreement titled “California Clinic Management, LLC
dba Acuity Eye Group Agreement for Binding Arbitration of Disputes.”  (Phung Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. A.)  Plaintiff argues that agreement is invalid based
on the terms of her “Employment Application.” 
(Carlson Decl., Ex. 1.)  Both
documents bear Carlson’s signature dated November 19, 2020.  (Id., p. 5; Phung Decl., Ex. A, p. 3.)  Each document includes an arbitration
provision.  But on the employment
application, the provision requires opting in by initialing a box on page
4.  (Carlson Decl., Ex. 1, p. 4.)  Carlson did not initial it.  (Ibid.)
Though
each agreement includes provisions on arbitration, each also purports to be the
exclusive agreement on the subject of dispute resolution.  The arbitration agreement provides, “18. This
Agreement sets forth the final, complete and exclusive agreement of the Parties
on the subject of the resolution and arbitration of disputes.  This Agreement supersedes any prior or
contemporaneous oral or written understanding on the subject.  [¶] 19. This Agreement may not be amended or
revoked, except by a writing signed by both Parties which specifically states
an intent to amend or revoke this Agreement.” 
(Phung Decl., Ex. A, p. 3, ¶ 18.) 

Meanwhile,
the employment application provides, “This is the entire agreement between the
Company and me regarding dispute resolution, the length of my employment, and
the reasons for termination of employment, and this agreement supersedes any
and all prior agreements regarding these issues.  It is further agreed and understood that any
agreement contrary to the foregoing must be entered into, in writing, by the
President of the Company.  No supervisor
or representative of the Company, other than its President, has any authority
to enter into any agreement for employment for any specified period of time or
make any agreement contrary to the foregoing.” 
(Carlson Decl., Ex. 1, p. 4.)  If
this provision applies, the Arbitration Agreement does not because it is not
signed by the company’s president.  It is
signed by “Celia Leung, Director, HR Operations.”  (Phung Decl., Ex. A, p. 3.)  
The court
concludes the employment application—where plaintiff did not opt in to the
arbitration provision—takes precedence.  “In cases of uncertainty not removed by”
other rules of contract interpretation, “the language of a contract should be
interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the uncertainty to
exist.”  (Civ. Code § 1654.)  Defendants caused this uncertainty to
exist.  They drafted and required
plaintiff to sign the two agreements, each of which incorrectly claims it is
the sole agreement about dispute resolution. 
Defendants are not entitled to choose which portions of which agreements
apply.  
II. Ending Forced
Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act (EFAA)
            Plaintiff also establishes that she
may invalidate any arbitration agreement under the EFAA.  The EFAA “voids predispute arbitration
clauses in cases … involving sexual harassment allegations.”  (Murrey v. Superior Court (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 1223, 1230.)  The law “does
not apply retroactively.”  (Ibid.)  It only applies if the “sexual harassment
dispute” arose after the law took effect on March 3, 2022.  “[T]he date that a dispute has arisen for
purposes of the Act is a fact-specific inquiry in each case, but a dispute does
not arise solely from the alleged sexual conduct.  A dispute arises when one party asserts a
right, claim, or demand, and the other side expresses disagreement or takes an
adversarial posture.”  (Kader, supra,
99 Cal.App.5th at p. 222.)  “Unlike a
claim, however, a dispute does not arise simply because the plaintiff suffers
an injury; it additionally requires a disagreement or controversy.”  (Id. at p. 223.)  
            Plaintiff presents sufficient
evidence that the dispute arose after the EFAA took effect.  She testifies, “On September 11, 2023, I,
through my counsel … filed my initial Charge of Discrimination alleging, among
other claims, sexual harassment against” defendants.  (Carlson Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 4.)  Nothing in the record shows the sexual
harassment dispute arose before the EFAA took effect.  Defendants rely on the complaint’s
allegations that plaintiff directly reported and complained of sexual
harassment.  (Comp., ¶¶ 16-17.)  Those allegations, however, do not establish
that plaintiff asserted a right, claim, or demand about her own sexual
harassment.  The complaint alleges defendants
did not accept her “recommendation[s]” related to harassment and discrimination
at the company in general (id., ¶ 16), such as her “recommendation to
remedy the discriminatory pay practice” of paying women less than men (id., ¶ 16.i).
Defendant cites Castillo v. Altice USA, Inc. (S.D.N.Y., Oct. 12,
2023, No. 1:23-CV-05040 (JLR)) --- F.Supp.3d ---, 2023 WL 6690674 for the
proposition that a dispute does not arise when the employee files a formal
claim.  The court does not find it
persuasive.  Though a dispute can arise
before the employee files a formal claim, that is not necessarily the
case.  Castillo relies on reasoning the Court of Appeal rejected in Kader. 
The order in Castillo expressly states, “[T]he Court does not agree ‘with the Hodgin [v. Intensive
Care Consortium, Inc.] court’s assessment that ‘[a]
dispute entails disagreement, not just the existence of an injury.’ ”  (Id. at p. *4.) 
Kader cites Hodgin with approval (Kader, supra, 99 Cal.App.5th at p. 223) and reaches the same conclusion that a
dispute requires disagreement.
            Defendants also argue that, if the
EFAA applies, the court should sever the claims for sexual harassment and
require arbitration of plaintiff’s other causes of action.  The parties identify various decisions in
federal district courts reaching opposite conclusions.  The court finds the cases supporting
plaintiff’s position more persuasive.  (See,
e.g., Turner v. Tesla, Inc. (N.D. Cal., Aug. 11, 2023, No.
23-CV-02451-WHO) --- F.Supp.3d ---, 2023 WL 6150805, at *5; Johnson v. Everyrealm,
Inc. (S.D.N.Y. 2023) 657 F.Supp.3d 535, 540; Watson v. Blaze Media LLC (N.D. Tex., Aug. 3, 2023, No.
3:23-CV-0279-B) 2023 WL 5004144, at *2.) 
The court therefore will deny the motion as to plaintiff’s entire
complaint.
III. Unconscionability
            Plaintiff also opposes this motion
on the basis that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable.  Unconscionability
requires both procedural and substantive unconscionability using a sliding
scale.  (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019)
8 Cal.5th 111, 125.)  “Procedural
unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.”  (Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 177.) 
“Substantive unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the
agreement and evaluates whether they create overly harsh or one-sided
results.  (Ibid., internal quotes
omitted.) 
            Plaintiff shows
moderate procedural unconscionability.  She
states Acuity Eye Group “presented me with several onboarding documents to
execute prior to my first date of employment.  Defendant Acuity Eye Group’s Human Resources
Specialist, Julie Phung, sent me onboarding documents and told me that I was
required to complete them to be onboarded as an employee at Acuity Eye Group.”  (Carlson Decl., ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff testifies she also “was required to
sign an Executive Employment Agreement … as a condition of [her] employment.”  (Id., ¶ 6, Ex. 3.)  She further testifies
she was not given any opportunity to negotiate these agreements.  (Id., ¶¶ 4, 6.)
            Any arbitration
agreement is moderately surprising.  As
discussed above, Acuity Eye Group presented three agreements to plaintiff.  Each agreement includes provisions regarding
arbitration.  (Carlson Decl., Ex. 1, p.
3; Ex. 2; Ex. 3, p. 13, ¶ 26.)  The
employment application (Ex. 1, p. 3) and arbitration agreement (Ex. 2, ¶ 7) provide
that AAA’s Employment Arbitration Rules apply, while the executive employment agreement
provides for arbitration “in accordance with the rules and procedures of JAMS,
Inc.”  (Ex. 3, p. 13, ¶ 26.)  Yet each agreement claims it is the sole
agreement, supersedes all others, and limits the methods allowed to modify
it.  (Ex. 1, p. 4; Ex. 2, p. 3, ¶ 18; Ex.
3, p. 13, ¶ 28.)  Identifying which
agreement applies impacts both whether plaintiff agreed to arbitrate at all and
the rules that would apply to arbitration. 
These three contradictory agreements fail to provide any clear
expectation of what plaintiff agreed to.
            Plaintiff shows
significant substantive unconscionability. 
She establishes four terms are unconscionable.
First, one of the three agreements would waive the statutory right to
an asymmetric standard for attorney fees in FEHA cases.  “[A]n arbitration clause in an employment
agreement that authorized the recovery of attorney fees and costs by the prevailing
party in the arbitration, rather than adopting FEHA’s asymmetric standard” is “substantively
unconscionable.”  (Patterson v.
Superior Court (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 473, 488.)  The executive employment agreement includes such
a provision: “The arbitrator shall have the authority to require the losing
party to pay all costs associated with such arbitration, including expenses and
fees of arbitrators.”  (Carlson Decl.,
Ex. 3, p. 13, ¶ 26.)  
            Second, one of the
agreements also includes an unfair confidentiality provision.  The Court of Appeal has held a
confidentiality provision that prohibits employees from discussing their wages
is substantively unconscionable.  (Alberto
v. Cambrian Homecare (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 482, 493 (Alberto).)  There, the court noted this provision “was a
kind of illegality that directly affected [plaintiff’s] status in the
arbitration process” because she brought representative claims about employees’
wages.  The executive employment
agreement here includes a confidentiality clause that applies to “employee
compensation rates or policies.” 
(Carlson Decl., Ex. 3, p. 9, ¶ 16.) 
Plaintiff’s claims include allegations that defendants paid women less
than men.  Resolving this action necessarily
requires investigation and disclosure of employee compensation rates and
policies.
            Third, the executive
employment agreement includes an illegal indemnity clause.  Employers are required to indemnify employees
for expenses incurred during “the discharge of his or her duties.”  (Lab. Code, § 2802(a).)  That provision cannot be waived.  (Lab. Code, § 2804; accord Edwards v.
Arthur Andersen LLP (2008) 44 Cal.4th 937, 951-952.)  The agreement provides, “Executive hereby
agrees to indemnify, defend, reimburse and hold harmless Company for, from and
against any and all claims, losses, damages and expenses (including attorney’s
fees and costs) arising, directly or indirectly, from any injury or damage
caused by Executive’s negligent performance of his/her duties hereunder,
willful misconduct or breach of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.”  (Carlson Decl., Ex. 3, p. 13, ¶ 29.)  This provision purports to reverse the
requirement that employers indemnify their employees.   
Fourth, the executive employment agreement contains an unenforceable
restraint on plaintiff from engaging in her profession.  It provides, “Executive agrees that during
the twelve (12) month period after the Date of Termination, Executive shall
not, for the purpose of providing products or services similar to the Business
or engaging in any business similar to the Business for any Company Customers,
whether on behalf of any other entity or on Executive’s own behalf, solicit,
encourage, support or cause or attempt to solicit, encourage, support or cause
any employee then presently employed by the Company or its affiliates to leave
their employment relationship with the Company or its affiliates.”  (Carlson Decl., Ex. 3, p. 9, ¶ 15.)  
Though provisions against recruiting former coworkers are generally
enforceable, this provision interferes with plaintiff’s profession as a human
resources executive.  Plaintiff
testifies, “As a human resources professional, my job responsibilities
traditionally include employee recruitment.” 
(Carlson Decl., ¶ 9.)  In AMN
Healthcare, Inc. v. Aya Healthcare Services, Inc. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 923
the court held such a provision was void in analogous circumstances: prohibiting
former employees “from either ‘directly or indirectly’ soliciting or
recruiting, or causing others to solicit or induce, any employee of” the
employer “clearly restrained individual defendants from practicing … their
chosen profession— recruiting travel nurses.” 
(Id. at p. 936.)  
            The court concludes
that unconscionability permeates the agreements.  There is a preference in favor of severing
unconscionable provisions, but courts have discretion not to do so when the
agreement is permeated by unconscionability. 
(Alberto, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 495.)  “One
factor weighing against severance is when ‘the arbitration agreement contains
more than one unlawful provision.’ ”  (Ibid.)  Alberto held the trial court did not abuse its discretion in refusing to sever
three unconscionable provisions: “the non-mutual confidentiality injunction
provisions, the prohibition on discussion of wages, and the prohibition on
representative and PAGA claims.”  (Ibid.)  Here, the parties’ agreements also include a
prohibition on discussing wages and three other unconscionable provisions.  The court will exercise its discretion to not
enforce the agreement instead of severing the unconscionable terms.
Disposition
            Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is denied.  Defendants
shall file a responsive pleading within 20 days.  