 Case Number:  24STCP01404    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78IN THE MATTER OF:J.G. WENTWORTH ORIGINATIONS, LLC, Petitioner, vs.C.T.  Real Party-In-Interest/Transferor. Case No.: 24STCP01404 Hearing Date: June 26, 2024  [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: PETITIONER J.G. WENTWORTH’S PETITION FOR APPROVAL FOR TRANSFER OF PAYMENT RIGHTSThis matter is CONTINUED to allow Petitioner to file the information requested below.The moving party should appear to set a continuance date.Petitioner to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is a Petition for Approval for Transfer of Payment Rights. Petitioner J.G. Wentworth Originations, LLC alleges that Payee C.T.  (“Payee”) became entitled to certain structured settlement payments in connection with a settlement she had received through a wrongful death lawsuit when she was a minor. (Amended Petition, ¶3.) In 2019, Payee became entitled to future payments through a structured settlement annuity. (Id., ¶¶4-5.) Under this annuity, Payee is set to receive period payments from Omaha Life Insurance Company. (Id. at ¶ 5.) Payee has now entered into a Purchase Agreement with Petitioner for the purpose of transferring the annuity payments to Petitioner in exchange for a lump payment. (Id. at ¶7, Exh. A.) If the Purchase Agreement is approved by the Court, then Payee will transfer and assign to Petitioner future payments totaling $28,386.36. (Amended Petition, Exh. A, pdf p.22.) In exchange, Petitioner will pay Payee $13,102.90. (Id.) PROCEDURAL HISTORYPetitioner filed its Petition on May 2, 2024. On May 3, 2024, Petitioner filed an Amended Petition.On June 17, 2024, the Court continued this matter to allow Petitioner to file a missing declaration.On June 13, 2024, Petitioner filed the missing declaration.DISCUSSIONI. Petition for Approval of Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment RightsA direct or indirect transfer of structured settlement payment rights is not effective unless the transfer has been approved in a final court order based on certain express written findings by the Court.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a).) The transferee must comply with the notification requirements of subdivision (f)(2).  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(3).) A notice of proposed transfer and petition must be filed and served no later than 20 days before the hearing and must include the items enumerated in Institution Code § 10139.5, subd. (f)(2).Here, the Court finds that Petitioner generally complied with the requirements set forth under Institution Code § 10139.5, subd. (f)(2):(1) a copy of the transferee’s current petition and any other prior petition; The Petition includes a copy of the proposed transfer agreement, disclosure form, and annuity agreement. (Petition, Exhs. A-C.) However, the Payee’s declaration states that the Payee completed four other petitions in 2023 and 2024. (Todd Decl., ¶9.) Petitioner failed to provide copies of these prior petitions with this petition.(2) a copy of the proposed transfer agreement and disclosure form required by section 10139.5, subdivision (a)(3); These documents were included in Exhibits A-C to the Petition.(3) a listing of each of the payee’s dependents and their ages; Payee testifies he is not married, does not have minor children, does not have court-ordered child support obligations. (Todd Decl., ¶8.) (4) a copy of the disclosure required in section 10136, subdivision (b); Attached as Exh. B.(5) a copy of the annuity contract, any qualified assignment agreement, and underlying structured settlement agreement, if available; The annuity contract is attached as Exhibit C. The settlement agreement begins at pdf p.34.)(6) proof of service showing compliance with the notification requirements; (7) notification that any interested party is entitled to support, oppose, or otherwise respond to the transferee’s petition by submitting written comments to the court or by participating in the hearing; (8) notification of the time and place of the hearing and notification of the manner in which and the time by which written responses to the petition must be filed; and (9) notice to the payee’s attorney of record at the time the structured settlement was created, if payee entered into the structured settlement at issue within five years prior to the date of the transfer agreement.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (f)(2).)The Petition includes notification of the time and place of the hearing, notice that interested parties are entitled to respond, notice of the manner in which a written response must be filed, and notice to Payee’s settlement attorney of record. A. Whether the Transfer Agreement Complies with Statutory Requirements.The transfer agreement must comply with Insurance Code sections 10136 and 10138.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(3).) Here, the transfer agreement contains the required text and form.  (Motion, Exh. A.)Accordingly, the Court finds that the transfer agreement complies with Insurance Code sections 10136 and 10138. B. Whether the Petition Contravenes Any Applicable Statute or Order. The transfer must not contravene any applicable statute or the order of any court or other government authority.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(4).) The transfer generally complies with statutory requirements, and there is no evidence that it contravenes the order of any court or other government authority. Accordingly, the Court finds that this requirement is satisfied. C. Whether Payee Knowingly Waived The Right to Receive Independent Professional Advice.The payee must be advised in writing by the transferee to seek independent professional advice regarding the transfer and either receive that advice or knowingly waive, in writing, the opportunity to receive the advice.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(2).) The Transfer Agreement advises that Payee may receive independent legal and financial advice, but Payee knowingly waived the right.  (Petition, pdf p. 25.)Accordingly, the Court finds that this requirement is satisfied. D. Whether Payee Received the Required Disclosure Form.The transferee must provide the payee with a disclosure form that complies with Insurance Code section 10136.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(3).)  The disclosure form must contain specific text, and the transferee must provide the disclosure form at least ten days before the payee executes a transfer agreement.  (Ins. Code, § 10136, subd. (b).) The disclosure form here contains the required text and form.  (Motion, Exh. B.)  Payee received and read the disclosure form at least ten days before signing the transfer agreement.  (Id.)Accordingly, the Court finds that this requirement is satisfied.E. Whether Payee Declares Her Understanding of the Terms. The payee must understand the terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set forth in the disclosure statement, and the right to cancel the transfer agreement.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(5)-(6).) Payee declares that he understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set forth in the disclosure statement.  (Todd Decl., ¶13.)  Additionally, Payee signed the Transfer Agreement directly under a statement advising him of his right to cancel the agreement.  (Petition, pdf p.25.) The Court therefore finds that this requirement is satisfied.F. Whether the Transfer is in the Best Interest of the Payee.The transfer must be in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support of the payee’s dependents.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(1).)  When determining whether the transfer is fair, reasonable, and in the payee’s best interests, the Court must consider the totality of the circumstances, including but not limited to: (1) the reasonable preference and desire of the payee to complete the proposed transaction, taking into account the payee’s age, mental capacity, legal knowledge, and apparent maturity level; (2) the stated purpose of the transfer; (3) the payee’s financial and economic situation; (4) the terms of the transaction, including whether the payee is transferring monthly or lump sum payments or all or a portion of his or her future payments; (5) whether, when the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to pay for the future medical care and treatment of the payee relating to injuries sustained by the payee in the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether the payee still needs those future payments to pay for that future care and treatment; (6) whether, when the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to provide for the necessary living expenses of the payee and whether the payee still needs the future structured settlement payments to pay for future necessary living expenses; (7) whether the payee is, at the time of the proposed transfer, likely to require future medical care and treatment for the injuries that the payee sustained in connection with the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether the payee lacks other resources, including insurance, sufficient to cover those future medical expenses; (8) whether the payee has other means of income or support, aside from the structured settlement payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer, sufficient to meet the payee’s future financial obligations for maintenance and support of the payee’s dependents, specifically including, but not limited to, the payee’s child support obligations, if any; (9) whether the financial terms of the transaction, including the discount rate applied to determine the amount to be paid to the payee, the expenses and costs of the transaction for both the payee and the transferee, the size of the transaction, the available financial alternatives to the payee to achieve the payee’s stated objectives, are fair and reasonable; (10) whether the payee completed previous transactions involving the payee’s structured settlement payments and the timing and size of the previous transactions and whether the payee was satisfied with any previous transaction; (11) whether the transferee attempted previous transactions involving the payee’s structured settlement payments that were denied, or that were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the past five years; (12) whether, to the best of the transferee’s knowledge after making inquiry with the payee, the payee has attempted structured settlement payment transfer transactions with another person or entity, other than the transferee, that were denied, or which were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the past five years; (13) whether the payee, or his or her family or dependents, are in or are facing a hardship situation; (14) whether the payee received independent legal or financial advice regarding the transaction; and (15) any other factors or facts that the payee, the transferee, or any other interested party calls to the attention of the reviewing court or that the court determines should be considered in reviewing the transfer.  (Ins. Code., § 10139.5, subd. (b).)Here, Payee testifies he is 22 years old, lives in Los Angeles, California, is unmarried, is unemployed, and has no child support obligations. (Todd Decl., ¶8.) Between 2023 and 2024, Payee has been transferring portions of his original structured settlement and received a total of $154,066 in exchange for these assignments. (Id., ¶9.) Payee testifies he is currently experiencing financial hardship and will use the money from the proposed assignment to fix the engine on his vehicle and pay rent. (Id., ¶11.)The Court requires more information to determine whether this transfer is in Payee’s best interests. Despite receiving $154,066 from four separate transactions which all occurred since April 2023, Payee is still facing financial hardship. Payee testifies that he is unemployed, but provides no other information explaining his financial situation. It is unreasonable that Payee cannot pay rent or vehicle repair expenses after receiving most of his original settlement in just one year. Payee has not been receiving financial or legal advice for this transfer and is generally young at 22 years of age. Given the rapid timing of these transactions and the lack of information about Payee’s financial status, the Court is concerned that Payee transferred away his original annuity without sufficient understanding that he lost a significant portion of his original settlement from these transactions.Each of Payee’s transactions transferred large portions of Payee’s total benefits to Petitioner.23STCP01245 (Department 73) (filed 4/18/23)Original payments totaled $135,000Payee received $75,000.Payment Received: about 55% of the original payment23STCP03088 (Department 49) (filed 8/24/23)Original payments totaled $87,714.51Payee received $25,500.Payment Received: about 28.5% of the original payment23STCP04221 (Department 34) (filed 1/10/24)Original payment totaled $100,000Payee received $23,566Payment Received: about 23.5% of the original payment24STCP00556 (Department 74) (filed 2/20/24)Original payments totaled $57,648.13Payee received $30,000Payment Received: about 52% of the original payment24STCP01404 (Current case in Department 73) (filed 5/2/24)Original payments totaled $28,386.36Payee will receive $13,102.90Payment to be received: about 46% of the original payment Including the proposed funds, Payee originally stood to receive a total of $408,749 from the annuity before the transfers and exchanged that amount for cash advances totaling $167,168.90, approximately 41% of the amount he would have received over the life of the annuity. After this proposed transfer, it is not clear what, if any benefits Payee may have remaining from the original annuity. Given that this is likely the last of Payee’s annuity, the Court requires more information about Payee’s financial situation before this petition may proceed. Specifically, Petitioner must file:1. Copies of the four previous petitions and supporting declarations.2. A supplemental declaration from Payee explaining how the $154,066 was spent, why Payee requires more money, and how much of the annuity will remain if the proposed transfer is approved.The Court notes that the declaration filed just a few months ago in 24STCP00556 provides very different information from the declaration provided here. In the earlier declaration, the Payee said his girlfriend was pregnant, that he required money to get more space for the baby, that he was moving to Nevada to defray the cost of living here, and that he had job prospects in Nevada. Now, he lives in Los Angeles with no work, no children, and no partner. The Court is also requiring the Petitioner to file a declaration explaining why the transactions have been broken up in the way that they have. Or in other words, why have five separate petitions been filed in five separate courtrooms in an approximately one-year time period. The Petitioner should also include an explanation of the calculation of the various percentages paid out or to be paid out in each transaction. DATED:  June 26, 2024  ________________________________                                                                            Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court