  Case Number:  19STCV16639    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  29 Pope-Morgan v Chen
19STCV16639
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Order Extending Five-Year Period to Bring Matter to
Trial or, in the Alternative, for a Preferential Trial Setting
 
Tentative
 
The motion is denied.
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs Angela Pope-Morgan, Asia
Morgan, Alma Morgan, Kirk Morgan, and Sarah Morgan (“Plaintiffs”) allege that
they were injured on May 12, 2017, in a collision with a motor vehicle driven
by Defendant Leilei Chen on Interstate I-40 in New Mexico.  
 
On May 13, 2019, Plaintiffs filed the Complaint
in this action against Defendants Leilei Chen, FBM Group Corporation (collectively,
“Defendants”), and Does 1 through 25.  
 
Plaintiffs filed the First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) on August 13, 2019.  
 
Defendants filed their Answer to the FAC
on September 6, 2019.
 
On January 5, 2023, the court, at the
request of Plaintiff Alma Morgan, dismissed the causes of action in the FAC
asserted by Plaintiff Alma Morgan with prejudice.
 
On September 1, 2023, the Court
determined the matter to be long cause and ordered the parties to submit the
Long Cause Trial Package Sheet to Department 1 for long cause
determination.  
 
By Minute Order dated September 20, 2023,
Department 1 (the Hon. Michelle Williams Court, J.) determined that the Long
Cause Trial Package submitted by the parties was not complete and that the
parties were not trial ready.  
 
On October 23, 2023, Department 1
received a second Long Cause Trial Package from the parties.  
 
By Minute Order dated November 8, 2023,
Department 1 (Judge Court) determined that this second Long Cause Trial Package
submitted by the parties was not complete and that the parties were not trial
ready.
 
On March 14, 2024, Department 1 received a
third Long Cause Trial Package from the parties.
 
By Minute Order dated April 24, 2024, Department
1 (Judge Court) determined that this third Long Cause Trial Package submitted
by the parties was not complete and that the parties were not trial ready.
 
On September 4, 2024, Department 1 received
a fourth Long Cause Trial Package from the parties.
 
By Minute Order dated September 18, 2024,
Department 1 (Judge Court) determined that fourth third Long Cause Trial
Package submitted by the parties was not complete and that the parties were not
trial ready.
 
Previously, on February 23, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a motion seeking an order tolling and extending the five-year
period to bring this matter to trial.  No
opposition was filed.  On March 13, 2024,
the Court denied the motion, without prejudice, as premature.
 
On September 20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this
motion to extend the five-year period to bring this matter to trial or, in the
alternative, for a preferential trial setting. 
Defendants filed an Opposition on October 4.  Plaintiffs filed a Reply on October 10.
 
Legal Standard
 
Five Year Rule
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 583.310 provides:
“An action shall be brought to trial within five years after the action is
commenced against the defendant.”   (Code
Civ. Proc., § 583.310.)  If an
action is not brought to trial within five years, the action “shall be
dismissed by the court on its own motion or on motion of the defendant, after
notice to the parties.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 583.360, subd. (a).)  The
five-year period is “mandatory” and is “not subject to extension, excuse, or
exception, except as expressly provided by statute.”  (Id., subd. (b).)
 
The five-year period
may be extended by written stipulation or an oral agreement of the parties made
in court, “if entered in the minutes of the court or a transcript is made.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.330.)  
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.340 provides that in calculating the five-year period, 
 
“[T]here
shall be excluded the time during which any of the following conditions
existed: 
 
“(a)
The jurisdiction of the court to try the action was suspended. 
 
(b)
Prosecution or trial of the action was stayed or enjoined. 
 
(c)
Bringing the action to trial, for any other reason, was impossible,
impracticable, or futile.”
 
Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.350, if less than 6 months remains to bring the action to
trial at the end of a statutory period of tolling or extension, the action may
not be dismissed if it is brought to trial within 6 months after that period
has ended. 
 
Emergency Rule 10,
subdivision (a), extends the time in which to bring a civil action to trial by
six months.  (Emergency Rules Related to
COVID-19, Emergency rule 10.)  The
six-month extension of section 583.350, however, does not apply in in addition
to the six-month extension of time to bring a civil action to trial under
subdivision (a) of Emergency Rule 10.  (Ables
v. A. Ghazale Bros. (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 823, 828-829.)
 
The California Supreme
Court has explained that in applying the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure
section 583.340, subdivision (c):
 
“[T]he
trial court must determine what is impossible, impracticable, or futile in
light of all the circumstances in the individual case, including the acts and
conduct of the parties and the nature of the proceedings themselves.  The critical factor in applying these
exceptions to a given factual situation is whether the plaintiff exercised
reasonable diligence in prosecuting his or her case.  A plaintiff’s reasonable diligence alone does
not preclude involuntary dismissal; it is simply one factor for assessing the
existing exceptions of impossibility, impracticability, or futility.  Every period of time during which the
plaintiff does not have it within his power to bring the case to trial is not
to be excluded in making the computation. 
Time consumed by the delay caused by ordinary incidents of proceedings,
like disposition of demurrer, amendment of pleading, and the normal time of
waiting for a place on the court’s calendar are not within the contemplation of
these exceptions.  Determining whether
the subdivision (c) exception applies requires a fact-sensitive inquiry and depends
on the obstacles faced by the plaintiff in prosecuting the action and the
plaintiff’s exercise of reasonable diligence in overcoming those obstacles.  Impracticability and futility involve a
determination of excessive and unreasonable difficulty or expense, in light of
all the circumstances of the particular case. … 
The reasonable diligence standard is an appropriate guideline for
evaluating whether it was impossible, impracticable, or futile for the
plaintiff to comply with [the statute] due to causes beyond his or her control.”
 
(Bruns v.
E-Commerce Exchange (2011) 51 Cal.4th 717, 730-731 [citations and internal
quotations omitted]; accord Gaines v. Fidelity National Title Ins. Co. (2016)
62 Cal.4th 1081, 1101-1102.)  “The
plaintiff bears the burden of providing that the circumstances warrant
applicable of the section 583.340(c) exception.”  (Bruns, 51 Cal.4th at p. 731.)
 
The exceptions under
section 583.340 “must be liberally construed consistent with the policy
favoring trial on the merits.” (Dowling v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (2012)
208 Cal.App.4th 685, 693; accord Seto v. Szeto (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 76,
85.)

 
Trial Preference
 
Code of Civil Procedure section governs motions for trial
preferences.  Subdivision (e) provides:
 
“Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the court may in its discretion grant a motion for preference that is
supported by a showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice
will be served by granting this preference.”
 
“A plaintiff is not automatically entitled to a preferential
trial setting merely because a failure to specially set would lead to
expiration of the five-year statute.”  (Howard
v. Thrifty Drug & Discount Stores (1995) 10 Cal.4th 424, 440.)  “Rather, [the plaintiff] must generally make
some showing of excusable delay in order to receive the preference.”  (Ibid.)
 
“[T]he discretion to grant or deny a preferential trial
setting rests at all times in the sound discretion of the trial court in light
of the totality of the circumstances.”  (Salas
v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 342, 344.)  Factors considered for trial preference include the
condition of the court's calendar, dilatory conduct by plaintiff, prejudice to
the defendant of an accelerated trial date, and the likelihood of eventual
mandatory dismissal if the early trial date is denied.  (Id. at p. 346.)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs move
for a court order extending the five-year period to bring their case to trial.  The action was filed on May 13, 2019, and the
five-year period (plus six months under Emergency Order 10) expires on November
13, 2024.
 
Plaintiffs argue
that despite their diligent efforts to bring this case to trial, circumstances
have rendered it impossible, impracticable, and futile for trial to commence
within the five-year period.  These
circumstances include (1) trial being continued several times pursuant to
Defendants’ request, most recently over Plaintiffs’ objection, (2) the present long
cause determination, which has been pending for thirteen months and continues
to remain unresolved, and (3) the high probability that even after a long cause
determination is made, there will be a delay before the case is assigned to a long
cause courtroom for trial.  Plaintiffs
argue that they have fully and diligently pursued discovery and the prosecution
of the case.  (See Painter Decl. ¶¶ 2-9.)  
 
What Plaintiffs do
not explain in their papers, however, is why there have been such long delays
in connection with the submission of the Long Cause Trial Package to Department
1.  
 
On September 1, 2023, the Court
determined the matter to be long cause and ordered the parties to submit the
Long Cause Trial Package Sheet to Department 1 for long cause
determination.  Plaintiff does not
explain why now, more than a year later, the parties have failed to submit a
proper and complete Long Cause Trial Package.
 
On September 20, 2023, Judge Court issued
a detailed order explaining the defects in the first Long Cause Trial Package
submitted by the parties.  The parties
waited a month before resubmitting. 
 
On November 8, 2023, Judge Court issued a
detailed order explaining the defects in the second Long Cause Trial Package
submitted by the parties.  The parties
then waited four months before resubmitting.
 
On April 24, 2024, Judge Court issued a
detailed order explaining the defects in the third Long Cause Trial Package
submitted by the parties.  The parties again
waited more than four months before resubmitting.
 
On September 18, 2024, Judge Court issued
a detailed order explaining the defects in the fourth Long Cause Trial Package
submitted by the parties.  Even though
the mandatory period to bring the action to trial was set to expire in less
than sixty days from that order, there is no indication in the file that the
parties have resubmitted a revised Long Cause Trial Package to Department 1.
 
The issue is not, as Plaintiffs contend,
the unavailability of a courtroom for the trial, or delays in having a
courtroom available.  The issue is that
the parties are not ready for trial, as Judge Court stated in four separate minute
orders issued in September 2023, November 2023, April 2024, and September
2024.  Plaintiffs, who have the burden of
proof on this motion, have not shown why they are not ready for trial now, approximately
65 months after the complaint was filed, or what diligence (if any) they have
shown over the past thirteen months in submitting the documents necessary to
show that this case is ready for trial.
 
On this record, the Court finds,
Plaintiffs have not demonstrated reasonable diligence in prosecuting their case
over the past thirteen months.  They have
not show (for example) that they were ready for trial but no courtroom was available.  Nor have they show that preparing the basic
documents required for every long cause case was unreasonably difficult under
the circumstances of the case or that Defendants (or other circumstances) substantially
interfered with their diligent efforts to get their case ready for trial.  
 
The motion for an order extending the mandatory
period to bring the case to trial is denied.
 
The denial is based on the evidence in
the record and the arguments in the moving and reply papers.  The denial is without prejudice to any
additional evidence or argument that Plaintiffs may submit in the event that
the mandatory period expires and Defendants or the Court set a hearing on a
motion or Order to Show Cause regarding dismissal.
 
The Court has not considered the
arguments made and evidence presented by Plaintiffs for the first time in connection
with their reply papers that Defendants agreed to stipulate to an extension and
then unreasonably changed their position, to the unfair detriment to Plaintiffs.
 
In the alternative, Plaintiffs request a discretionary preferential
trial setting under Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (e), to
serve “the interests of justice.”  As noted
above, however, the California Supreme Court has held that plaintiffs are “not
automatically entitled to a preferential trial setting merely because a failure
to specially set would lead to expiration of the five-year statute,”
particularly absent a “showing of excusable delay.” (Howard, supra, 10
Cal.4th at p. 440; accord 3 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial (2024), ¶ 12:259.) 

 
The Court has considered all of the facts and circumstances of
this matter in exercising its discretion under subdivision (e) of section 36.  On this record, the Court finds that
Plaintiffs have not shown reasonable diligence or excusable delay, particularly
over the past 13 months.  This factor
weighs strongly against granting the request and outweighs the other factors
that support granting relief (including the possibility of dismissal). 
 
The request for preferential trial setting is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion to toll and extend the
period to bring this action to trial or, in the alternative, for a preferential
trial setting.
 
Defendants, as prevailing parties, are ordered to give notice.