 Case Number:  20STCV38081    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  29 Topete v. J.S. Multani Subway
20STCV38081
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, for summary
adjudication
TENTATIVE
The Court will call this matter and discuss
with Plaintiff and Defendant’s counsel a number of issues. In light of these
issues, a brief continuance of the hearing may be necessary.
First, it is unclear to the Court whether the
Court has all of the evidence referenced in the papers. 
In particular, in the document Plaintiff filed
on October 4, 2024, entitled “Plaintiff’s Opposition and Respond to Defendants’
Compendium of Evidence …,” on page 2, lines 22-23, Plaintiff references “Excerpts
from Diva Topete’s August 24, 2023, Deposition transcript.” The Court has not
received such evidence.
Second, it is unclear to the Court whether
Plaintiff is requesting a continuance of the hearing based on Plaintiff’s
inability to obtain facts essential to the opposition, whether under Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h), or the Court’s inherent power. 
In particular, in the document Plaintiff filed
on October 4, 2024, entitled “Plaintiff’s Notice of Opposition and Responses to
Defendants’ Memorandum of Points and Authority …,” on page 3, line 28, through
page 4, line 2, Plaintiff states, “Plaintiff has information to rebut
Defendants falsified information that can easily be discoverable, but only
through defendants’ cooperation in the discovery process.” In the same
document, on page 4, lines 12-14, Plaintiff states, “Defendant is impeding on
Plaintiff’s investigation and discovery process by … withholding … witness
information from plaintiff because defendant know[s] plaintiff can show her
burden of proof.” In the same document, on page 4, lines 24-26, Plaintiff
states, “Plaintiff can show valid and crucial evidence if only Defendants would
produce defendant’s employee’s names, addresses and telephone numbers who were
present on the date o[f] the incident.” And in an email from Plaintiff to Defendant’s
counsel dated March 12, 2024, Plaintiff states that Defendant is wrongfully
withholding the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of witnesses.
(Plaintiff’s Exh. A [one of two exhibits presented by Plaintiff labeled as
Exhibit A].)
Third, Defendant objects to some of Plaintiff’s
evidence. As Plaintiff is representing herself in pro per, the Court would like
to hear from Plaintiff and Defendant’s counsel regarding whether the Court, in
its discretion, should give the pro per Plaintiff the opportunity to address,
and attempt to cure, these evidentiary objections. As just one example,
Plaintiff presents her discovery responses as evidence, likely not being aware of
the legal (and somewhat technical) principle, cited by Defendant in its
objections, that a party cannot use its own discovery responses in support of,
or in opposition to, a motion for summary judgment. This objection, however,
can easily be addressed by giving Plaintiff the opportunity to submit a supplemental
declaration in support of her opposition (and then giving Defendant a chance to
submit a supplemental reply and/or objections to the supplemental declaration).