 Case Number:  22STCV34488    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  29 Austin v. Lyft
22STCV34488
Application
 to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice filed by Counsel Randall J. Pattee
 
Tentative
 
The application is granted.
 
Background
 
On October 27, 2022, Eric Jason Austin (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”), Amadu Tejan Bah (“Bah”), and
Does 1 to 100, asserting causes of action for general negligence; negligent hiring,
training, retention, and supervision; and motor vehicle negligence arising out
of an accident that occurred on October 14, 2021, at or near the intersection
of Vermont Avenue and 43rd Street in Los Angeles.  
 
Lyft and Bah filed their answers on January 27 and May 1,
2023.
 
On September 11, 2024, Counsel Randall J.
Pattee filed the instant Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice on behalf of
Defendant Lyft (“Application”).  On
October 10, 2024, Plaintiff’s Counsel of Record, Ryan T. Moore Pattee filed an
additional declaration in support of the Application.
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another
jurisdiction may apply to appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of
California by filing a verified application together with proof of service by
mail of a copy of the application and notice of hearing on all parties who have
appeared in the case and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco
office, with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a
resident of the State of California, and is not regularly engaged in
substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State of
California.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
9.40.)
 
“The
application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office addresses; (2)
the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member of good standing in those
courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any
court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed
an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding
two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and
(6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member of the State
Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local action.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)
 
Discussion
 
“A
person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file
with the court a verified application together with proof of service by mail in
accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the
application and of the notice of hearing of the application on all parties who
have appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California at its San
Francisco office. The notice of hearing must be given at the time prescribed in
Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 unless the court has prescribed a shorter
period.” (California Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c)(1).) 
All
substantive and procedural requirements for the application have been
satisfied.  The application is granted.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Counsel Randall J. Pattee’s Application for Admission as
Counsel Pro Hac Vice.
 
Moving party to
give notice.