 Case Number:  22BBCV01020    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 1,
2023

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSE 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV01020

 



MP:  


Topa Insurance Company (Plaintiff)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Topa Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”), as subrogee of its
insured Khachik Aslanyan, brings this action against Garnik Gholikandi Badalyans,
individually and dba 11104 Oro Vista LLC, Taltech Construction, Inc.
(“Taltech”) and 11104 Oro Vista, LLC (collectively “Defendants”). Plaintiff seeks
subrogation in connection with losses its alleges were caused by Defendants. Specifically,
Plaintiff alleges Defendants failure to design and contract ventilation
safeguards at 11104 Oro Vista Ave, Sunland, California 91040, resulted in
significant water damage to that property. 
 
Plaintiff
now moves to compel the responses of Taltech to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories and Request for the Production of Documents (“RFPD”). The
motions are unopposed. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
The Court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. (C.C.P. § 2023.030(a).) 
 
The Court shall
impose monetary sanctions against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. § 2030.290(c).)
The same is true for a motion to compel a response to a demand for the
production of documents. (C.C.P. § 2031.300(c).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Compel Responses

 
Plaintiff propounded its
first set of Form Interrogatories and RFPD on July 26, 2023 via service upon Taltech’s
counsel. (Toroyan Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) On September 5, 2023, Plaintiff sent a certified
meet and confer letter to Taltech’s counsel indicating no responses were ever
received. (Toroyan Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. 2.) Plaintiff then attempted to reach
Taltech’s counsel by phone to further meet and confer but received no response
to their voicemails. (Toroyan Decl. ¶ 7.) As of the filing of these motions Plaintiff
has received no responses from Taltech. (Toroyan Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, Plaintiff’s unopposed motions to compel Taltech’s initial response to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories and RFPD are GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
As concerns motions to compel, the law only requires
sanctions in the event that a party unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response. (C.C.P. §§ 2031.300 & 2031.290.) As such, any monetary
sanctions granted are within the discretionary power of the Court as per C.C.P.
§ 2030.290. As per C.C.P. § 2023.010(d), failure to respond constitutes a
misuse of the discovery process. Additionally, it is customary to grant
sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel, and the other party fails
to file an opposition. (C.R.C. Rule 3.1348(a).) 

 
Here, Plaintiff prepared and filed two motions to
compel, while Taltech has filed no oppositions. As such, the Court awards
sanctions to Plaintiff with respect to the motions to compel. Sanctions are awarded
in the amount of $660, based on two hours of attorney work in preparing the
motions at a rate of $300 an hour, plus the $60 filing fee. (Toroyan Decl. ¶ 9.)
The Court finds this amount reasonable considering the similarity of the
motions and that Plaintiff was not required to review or reply to any
oppositions. Sanctions are awarded against Taltech and its counsel jointly and
separately. 
--- 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Topa Insurance
Company’s Motions to Compel Responses to Discovery came
on regularly for hearing on December 1, 2023, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
FORM INTERROGATORIES AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION ARE GRANTED.
 
SANCTIONS ARE AWARDED IN THE AMOUNT OF $660.
SANCTIONS ARE AWARDED JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY AGAINST TALTECH AND ITS COUNSEL.  SANCTIONS ARE PAYABLE WITHIN 30 CALENDAR DAYS.
 
RESPONSES ARE DUE WITHIN 30 CALENDAR DAYS. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF IS
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
December 1, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 