 Case Number:  23BBCV00204    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 1,
2023

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00204

 



MP:  


Marty
  Krofft, Scott Brown, Scott Brown Consulting, Deanna Pope, Krofft
  Entertainment, Inc., Krofft Pictures Corporation, Sid & Marty Krofft
  Productions Corporation




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  “The tentative
ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Sid
Krofft (“Plaintiff’) brings this action against his brother Marty Krofft (“Marty”),
Scott Brown (“Brown”), Scott Brown Consulting, Deanna Pope (“Pope”), Krofft
Entertainment, Inc., Krofft Pictures Corporation, and Sid & Marty Krofft
Productions Corporation (collectively” Defendants”). Plaintiff alleges
Defendants reneged on a repurchase agreement for stock options in various
business entities owned by Plaintiff and Marty. Plaintiff also alleges that
Brown and Pope were involved as directors of these entities. 
 
The
Complaint contains causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of
Contract – Continuous Accrual, (3) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, (4) Promissory Estoppel, (5) Unjust Enrichment, (6) Accounting, (7)
Negligence, (8) Financial Elder Abuse, and (9) Declaratory Relief. 
 
Defendants
now demurrer to each cause of action on grounds that the Complaint contains
insufficient factual allegations. Plaintiff has filed no opposition. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§
430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur
to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet & Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5(a) requires that the moving
party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds the meet and
confer requirements were met. (Madnick Decl. ¶¶ 2.) 
 
Demurrer
 
Plaintiff has filed a
Complaint which contains nine causes of action. The extent of Plaintiff’s
factual allegations are as follows: 
 
Plaintiff explored buyout
options of his stake in various companies in the 2010’s (Compl. ¶ 46.) On May
11, 2017, Plaintiff and Defendants agreed to a repurchase agreement which
included zeroing out Plaintiff’s loans to the companies involved. (Compl. ¶47.) This
repurchase agreement obligated Defendants to pay Plaintiff $10,000 per month
for the remainder of Plaintiff’s life and to buy Plaintiff a car. (Compl. ¶
48.) Beginning February of 2019, Defendants ceased making the $10,000 monthly
payment. (Compl. ¶ 51.) Defendants then allegedly defrauded Plaintiff into
believing “any number of facts” about the business entities’ solvency,
liquidity, and intent to uphold the repurchase agreement. (Id.) 
 
The Court notes Plaintiff
has submitted no opposition to this demurrer. Failure to oppose the demurrer
may be construed as having abandoned the claims. (See Herzberg v. County of
Plumas (2005) 133 Cal. App. 4th 1, 20.) Additionally, the court may
construe the absence of a memorandum as a waiver of all grounds not supported.
(California Rule of Court Rule 3.1113(a).)
 
Defendants demur to the
Breach of Contract cause of action for failure to allege sufficient facts.
Defendants argue that no repurchase agreement has been attached to the
Complaint, nor has the legal effect of the contract been adequately pled.
Defendants argue the Complaint does not specify with whom the repurchase
agreement was made or any of the terms outside of the payments to be made to
Plaintiff. As part and parcel, Defendants argue Plaintiff’s second, third, and
fourth causes of action fail for lack of factual allegations speaking to the
contract. 
 
The Court agrees with
Defendants that the Complaint contains insufficient facts to constitute its
contractual causes of action. Plaintiff attaches no contract and does not aver
its terms in the required detail to survive demurrer. 
 
As such the demurrer to the
first, second, third, and fourth causes of action is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend. 
 
Defendants further argue
Plaintiff’s cause of action for unjust enrichment is invalid, in that
California does not recognize a separate cause of action for unjust enrichment.
The Court notes there is a split of authority on whether unjust enrichment is a
cause of action. “The phrase ‘Unjust Enrichment’ does not describe a theory of
recovery, but an effect: the result of a failure to make restitution under
circumstances where it is equitable to do so.” (Lauriedale Associates, Ltd.
v. Wilson (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1439, 1448.) “Unjust enrichment is ‘a
general principle, underlying various legal doctrines and remedies,’ rather
than a remedy itself.” (Melchior v. New Line Cinema (2003) 106 Cal. App.
4th 779, 793.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff has alleged
no facts speaking specifically to the availability of equitable relief but may
be able to do so upon amendment. 
 
As such the Demurrer to the
fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
Defendants demur to the
sixth cause of action for an Accounting on grounds that it is duplicative of
the contractual actions. The Court agrees the Complaint contains no fact
speaking specifically to an accounting, though Plaintiff may be able to add
such facts on amendment. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer
to the sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
Defendants argue
Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action for Negligence is barred by the economic
loss rule. The economic loss rule bars “a plaintiff’s tort recovery of economic
damages unless such damages are accompanied by some form of physical harm
(i.e., personal injury or property damage.)” (North American Chemical Co. v.
Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal. App. 4th 764, 777.) Here, Plaintiff has
alleged no harm outside of economic and thus his claim of negligence is barred.
The Court finds it is possible Plaintiff may add facts which speak to a harm
outside of economic damages. Accordingly, the demurrer to the seventh cause of
action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff
has pleaded insufficient facts as to the cause of action for Financial Elder
Abuse. Financial elder abuse under Welfare and Institutions Code §15610.30 sets
forth “three types of financial elder abuse of an elder: (1) taking real or
personal property of an elder ‘for wrongful use or with intent to defraud; (2)
assisting in the same; and (3) taking ‘real or personal property an elder…by
undue influence, as defined under Welfare and Institutions Code §15610.70.” (Levin
v. Winston-Levin (2019) 39 Cal. App. 5th 1025, 1034.) Defendants argue
Plaintiff has pled no facts speaking to the “intent to defraud” requirement of
the statute. Further, Defendants argues Plaintiff has not pleaded elder abuse
with the requisite specificity required by Carter v. Prime Healthcare
Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 396, 410.
 
The Court agrees Plaintiff
fails to allege any facts speaking to an intent to defraud him, instead
substituting conclusory statements mirroring the language of the statute.
Further, Plaintiff’s allegations are not specific as to who committed this
abuse, how the abuse was committed, or any other details with requisite
specificity. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer
to the eighth cause of action for Financial Elder Abuse is SUSTAINED with leave
to amend. 
 
Lastly, Defendants argue
Plaintiff’s claim for Declaratory Relief must be denied because it is not “necessary
or proper at the time under all the circumstances” as per C.C.P. § 1061. The
Court notes that regardless of whether declaratory relief may ultimately be
granted or denied, Defendants’ arguments do not speak to the standard of a
demurrer. 
 
Generally, a demurrer to a
cause of action for declaratory relief will be overruled if an actual
controversy is alleged, even if the plaintiff is not ultimately entitled to a
judgment in his favor. (Osseous Technologies of Amer., Inc. v.
DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 364.) By virtue of
Plaintiff’s failure adequately allege any of its previous causes of action, the
Court finds no controversy has been alleged as of yet. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer
to the ninth cause of action for Declaratory Relief is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendants seek to strike
various portions of the Complaint which request punitive damages and attorneys’
fees. Given the Court has sustained the demurrer to each cause of action upon
which these claims can be made with leave to amend, the motion to strike is
MOOT. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Marty
Krofft, Scott Brown, Scott Brown Consulting, Deanna Pope, Krofft Entertainment,
Inc., Krofft Pictures Corporation, Sid & Marty Krofft Productions
Corporation’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike came on regularly for hearing on December 1, 2023, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE
DEMURRER TO EACH CAUSE OF ACTION IN PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT IS SUSTAINED WITH 20
DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES AND REQUESTS FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES IS DENIED AS
MOOT. 
 
COURT
SETS A CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE / TRIAL SETTING CONFERENCE FOR FEBRUARY 15,
2024 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT KROFFT ENTERTAINMENT, INC.  TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 1,
2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 1,
2023

MOTION FOR
TRIAL PREFERENCE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00204

 



MP:  


Sid Krofft (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  “The tentative
ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Sid
Krofft (“Plaintiff’) brings this action against his brother Marty Krofft (“Marty”),
Scott Brown (“Brown”), Scott Brown Consulting, Deanna Pope (“Pope”), Krofft
Entertainment, Inc., Krofft Pictures Corporation, and Sid & Marty Krofft
Productions Corporation (collectively” Defendants”). Plaintiff alleges
Defendants reneged on a repurchase agreement for stock options in various
business entities owned by Plaintiff and Marty. Plaintiff also alleges that
Brown and Pope were involved as directors of these entities. 
 
Plaintiff now moves
for trial preference pursuant to C.C.P. § 36. Defendants do not oppose. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
36(a) provides in part: “A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age
may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the
court makes both of the following findings: (1) The party has a substantial
interest in the action as a whole. (2) The health of the party is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the
litigation.”. 
 
Per
C.C.P. § 36.5, “An affidavit submitted in support of a motion for preference
under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney for the party
seeking preference based upon information and belief as to the medical
diagnosis and prognosis of any party.” (See also Fox v. Superior Court
(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534 [“a motion under subdivision (a) may be
supported by nothing more than an attorney’s declaration “based upon
information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party”].)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff submits proof
that he is 94 years of age (Exh. A.) Plaintiff also submits the declaration of
his counsel, Todd Wolfe. Wolfe’s declaration states that a review of his client’s
medical records reveals he is afflicted with several serious medical conditions
including melanoma and atrial fibrillation (Wolfe Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.) Wolfe further
states that Plaintiff has substantial interest in the action and that his
interest is prejudiced by his declining health. (Wolfe Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
C.C.P. § 36.5 states that
an affidavit by a party’s attorney stated upon information and belief alone can
suffice to satisfy that party’s motion for trial preference. This type of
affidavit is not commonly accepted in any other motion and is designed to set
the bar low when it comes to showings of poor health. Here, Plaintiff has
submitted the declaration of his attorney stating he is of declining health and
stating his various health conditions. The Court finds these showings more than
satisfy the requirement of C.C.P. § 36(a). 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
unopposed motion for trial preference is GRANTED. Pursuant to C.C.P. § 36(f)
the Court shall set the trial no more than 120 days from when the request;
however, the Court has granted a demurrer in the matter and will set a trial
date when the case is at issue.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Sid Krofft’s Motion for
Trial Preference came on regularly for hearing on December
1, 2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE IS GRANTED.
 
JURY TRIAL WILL BE SET AT A LATER DATE AS THE
CASE IS NOT AT ISSUE.  
 
TRIAL SETTING CONFERENCE IS SET FOR FEBRUARY 15,
2024 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 1, 2023                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 