 Case Number:  22BBCV00703    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 1,
2023

MOTION
TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00703

 



MP:  


Century West BMW, LLC (Defendant)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Arya
Youabian (“Plaintiff”) brings this action against BMW of North America, LLC and
Century West BMW, LLC (“Century West”). Plaintiff alleges Century West sold her
a vehicle which was defective in violation of the Songe-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act.  On December 15, 2022, the
Court entered default against Century West for failure to file a responsive
pleading. On June 5, 2023, the Court entered default judgment against Century West.

 
Century
West now moves to vacate the default judgment and set aside the default
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) § 473. Century West states the
default and default judgment were entered as a result of Plaintiff’s initial
failure to properly serve Century West and subsequent miscommunication between counsel.

  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure §
473(b) has both a discretionary relief provision and a mandatory relief
provision. The discretionary provision of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b), in pertinent part, reads as
follows: 
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…
 
The
mandatory provision of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) reads, in pertinent
part, as follows: 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. 
 
The
general underlying purpose of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) is to
promote the determination of actions on their merits. (Even Zohar
Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015)
61 Cal.4th 830.) Under this statute, an application for relief must be made no
more than six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding from which relief is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit
of fault attesting to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect of the
moving party or its attorney. (C.C.P., § 473(b); English v. IKON Business
Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Century
West now asks that the Court enter an order setting aside the default against
them.
 
The Court first notes that
Century West does not include a copy of its proposed responsive pleading.
C.C.P. § 473(b) provides in relevant part “Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted…” As Century West has
failed to attach such a responsive pleading, the Court is unable to grant the
motion as submitted.   The Court notes
that similar language is included in C.C.P. § 473.5(b), discussed below.
 
Century West also fails to provide
separate notice of motion stating the grounds under which it seeks relief in
violation of California Rules of Court Rule 3.1110. Century West states in its
brief memorandum that it seeks relief under C.C.P. § 473, however the
declaration of its counsel indicates other grounds. Century West’s counsel,
James G. Lewis, states that the default, entered December 15, 2022, was the result
of improper service. (Lewis Decl. ¶¶ 1-2.)  
 
Motions to Set Aside a
default for lack of actual notice are governed by C.C.P. § 473.5 and have
separate requirements than those under C.C.P. § 473. Additionally, the timing
considerations between the two statutes are separate. C.C.P. § 473 motions must
be brought within six months of the entry of default while C.C.P. § 473.5
motions must be filed within two years after default judgment or 180 days after
service. (C.C.P. § 473.5(a)(i-ii).) 
 
In summary, the Court
cannot ascertain upon what grounds Century West seeks relief from the default and
if those grounds are separate from those upon which they seek to vacate the
default judgment. Further, Century West includes no proposed responsive
pleading as required by C.C.P. § 473(b) and § 473.5(b). Accordingly, the motion
to set aside is DENIED without prejudice.   The Court does note that the motion was
unopposed; however, the motion is statutorily deficient regardless of
non-opposition.  The parties may opt to
stipulate to set aside the default and the timing for a responsive pleading
rather than filing a code compliant motion; however, that is an option to be
determined by the parties.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Century West BMW, LLC’s
Motion to Set Aside Default came on regularly for
hearing on December 1, 2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO VACATE DEFAULT JUDGMENT IS DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: December
1, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 