 Case Number:  23BBCV00225    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 1,
2023

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00225

 



MP:  


Carla Christofferson (Defendant) 




RP:  


Elliot Shell, the Shell
  Family Trust, the Elliot Lewis Shell Exempt Trust, and the Elliot Lewis Shell
  Exempt Trust U/D/T (Plaintiffs)



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Elliot
Shell (“Plaintiff”), as an individual and as trustee of the Shell Family Trust,
the Elliot Lewis Shell Exempt Trust, and the Elliot Lewis Shell Exempt Trust
U/D/T brings this action against Carla Christofferson (“Christofferson”) and
Adam Shell (collectively “Defendants”). Christofferson and Adam Shell were
formerly married, and Adam Shell is Plaintiff’s son. Plaintiff alleges that he and
Defendants entered into an oral loan agreement whereby Plaintiff would loan the
Defendants money thorough various trusts. Plaintiff alleges these funds were
used to purchase a home for Defendants among other expenses. 
 
The First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) contains causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract,
(2) Money Had and Received, (3) Money Lent, (4) Account Stated, and (5) Unjust
Enrichment. 
 
Christofferson
now demurs to each cause of action on grounds that Plaintiff alleged
insufficient facts. Christofferson also moves to strike various portions of the
FAC and its exhibits. Plaintiff opposes both the demurer and the motion to
strike and Christofferson replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”)
§§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may
demur to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or
objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such as words,
phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper
procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike.
(C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. § 435,
“[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion
to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include
immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or those not
pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Demurrer
 
Breach of Contract - First
COA
 
To state a cause of action
for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence
of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
In order to show a contract
was created a plaintiff must prove that (1) the terms of the contract were
clear enough that the parties could understand their obligations, (2) that
there was consideration for the contract, and (3) that the parties mutually consented
to the contract. (CACI No. 302.) 
 
The allegations in the FAC
pertaining to the formation of the contract are as follows: 
 
·        
Commencing
in or about July of 2012 and continuing until about September of 2017, the
parties entered into an oral agreement pursuant to which Plaintiffs agreed to
loan money to Defendant from time to time for household and other purposes,
including the purchase of a home. (FAC ¶ 8.)
 
·        
Defendants
agreed to repay the principal amount when they were able to do so. (FAC ¶ 8.)
 
·        
Defendants
would pay quarterly interest at the lowest rate permitted by the IRS. (FAC ¶
8.)
 
·        
Plaintiff
sent quarterly statements stating the amounts owed beginning in July 2012.
(FAC. ¶ 10.) 
 
·        
A summary
of the quarterly statements was sent to Christofferson on December 31, 2020 and
is attached to the FAC as Exhibit A. (FAC ¶ 10.) 
 
Christofferson argues that
the cause of action for breach of contract states insufficient facts as to the
existence of a contract between the parties. Christofferson argues the
allegations of an oral contract to loan monies are too vague for the Court to
adjudicate the rights and obligations of the parties.  The Court finds this argument unpersuasive. 
 
Exhibit A, in combination
with the material allegations of the FAC, shows that Plaintiff alleges several
loans were made to Defendants. From July 10, 2012 to August 2017, Plaintiff
provided Defendants seven loans from his ELS Exempt Trust totaling $1,014,000.
(FAC Exh. A, p. 1.) From July 2, 2012 to September 1, 2017, Plaintiff provided
Defendants 11 loans from his ELS/EPS Trust totaling $514,000. (Id.)
Plaintiff alleges that in exchange, Defendants agreed to repay the loans when
able and also agreed to pay interest on the amounts quarterly. The Court finds
these allegations, taken together, comprise the element of clear terms.
Plaintiff is alleged to have understood he was to loan monies to Defendants and
Defendants are alleged to have understood they would repay the amount as well
as render quarterly interest payments. 
 
Further, the FAC alleges
the parties mutually consented to the agreement. The FAC alleges that pursuant
to the agreement, Plaintiff loaned approximately $1,500,000 to Defendants and
Defendants made quarterly interest payments. (FAC ¶ 9.) The Court finds these
allegations sufficient to allege mutual consent to the loan agreement.  
 
Christofferson argues that
the FAC is insufficient because it alleges an indeterminate amount of loans. As
stated above, the FAC contains allegations of precisely 18 loans.  Christofferson further argues the FAC is insufficient
because it does not state any communication prior to the loans, any specific
date on which a “meeting of the minds” occurred, a maximum amount of the loans,
and various other missing terms. Christofferson cites to no authority that the
absence of these terms is grounds to sustain her demurrer. While not every
material term is alleged in the FAC, the essential terms of the contracts to
determine the obligations and liabilities of the parties are alleged. 
 
Christofferson further
argues that the FAC does not sufficiently allege breach of the contract.
Christofferson argues that because the repayment of the loan was due only when
Defendants were able to repay, there has been no breach. The Court finds this argument
unpersuasive. One of the material terms alleged was Defendants would pay
quarterly interest on the loans. Plaintiff alleges that on April 1, 2021,
Defendants ceased to make the quarterly payments in violation of the contract
(FAC ¶ 15.) Regardless of when payment on the principle was due, the fact
remains that Plaintiff has alleged a breach of the loan contract by virtue of
failure to pay interest. 
 
Further, Plaintiff also
alleges that Defendants had the capacity to pay the principal loan amount.
Plaintiff alleges that at least two years prior to the original complaint
filing, Defendants had the ability to pay the loan by virtue of selling the
Residence, which the loans were used to purchase. (FAC ¶ 17.) 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer
to the first cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Money Had and Received –
Second COA
 
“A cause of action for
money had and received is stated if it is alleged the defendant is indebted to
the plaintiff in a certain sum for money had and received by the defendant for
the use of the plaintiff.” (Farmers
Insurance Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460, [citation and
quotation marks omitted].) “The plaintiff must prove that the defendant
received money “intended to be used for the benefit of [the plaintiff],” that
the money was not used for the plaintiff's benefit, and that the defendant has
not given the money to the plaintiff.” (Avidor v. Sutter’s Place, Inc. (2013)
212 Cal. App. 4th 1439, 1454.) 
 
Plaintiff’s allegations do
not speak to a cause of action for money had and received. The FAC contains no
allegations that the funds received by Defendants were intended to benefit
Plaintiff and were instead misappropriated for some other purpose. In fact, the
FAC alleges Plaintiff loaned the funds for the benefit of Defendant for the
purchase of a home and household expenses. In light of the factual
circumstances here, the Court does not view it as possible that Plaintiff could
amend the FAC to add allegations speaking to this cause of action. Accordingly,
the demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.

 
Money Lent – Third COA
 
“A claim for ‘money lent’
is one of the common counts. The common counts arose from the action of
assumpsit in the common law. Such an action permitted a plaintiff to recover
money that, under the circumstances, the defendant should be required to repay to
avoid inequity.” (Rubenstein v. Fakheri (2009) 49 Cal. App. 5th 797,
809. [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
 
“A common count claim
broadly applies wherever one person has received money which belongs to
another, and which in equity and good conscience, or in other words, in justice
and right, should be returned. The claim does not require privity of contract.
Although the plaintiff's right to recover under a common count is based on
equitable principles, the claim is legal in nature.” (Id. [internal
quotations and citations omitted].) 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff
has alleged sufficient facts to sustain this cause of action. As stated above,
the FAC contains clear allegations that Defendants were given the money with
the intention that it be paid back. Plaintiff’s argument that the FAC only
alleges a gift of the money is unpersuasive. The FAC contains allegations of a
condition of repayment and the charging of quarterly interest which are at odds
with allegations of a gift. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer
to the third cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Account Stated – Fourth COA
 
The essential elements of
an account stated are: (1) previous transactions between the parties
establishing the relationship of debtor and creditor; (2) an agreement between
the parties, express or implied, on the amount due from the debtor to the
creditor; (3) a promise by the debtor, express or implied, to pay the amount
due. (Leighton v. Forster (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 467, 491.) 
 
Christofferson argues that
Plaintiff has not stated sufficient facts because the FAC does not allege
Christofferson’s assent to pay the full amount due. As discussed above, the
Court finds the FAC contains allegations that Christofferson agreed to repay the
loans. Whether Plaintiff will be able to show a promise to repay remains to be
seen, but Plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient at the pleading stage. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer
to this fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Restitution Based on Unjust
Enrichment – Fifth COA
 
The Court notes there is a
split of authority on whether unjust enrichment is a cause of action. “The
phrase ‘Unjust Enrichment’ does not describe a theory of recovery, but an
effect: the result of a failure to make restitution under circumstances where it
is equitable to do so.” (Lauriedale Associates, Ltd. v. Wilson (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1439, 1448.) “Unjust enrichment is ‘a general principle,
underlying various legal doctrines and remedies,’ rather than a remedy itself.”
(Melchior v. New Line Cinema (2003) 106 Cal. App. 4th 779, 793.) 
 
“[A]s a matter of law, a
quasi-contract action for unjust enrichment does not lie where, as here,
express binding agreements exist and define the parties’ rights.” (California
Medical Ass’n, Inc. v. Aetna U.S. Healthcare of California, Inc. (2001) 94
Cal.App.4th 151, 172; see also Wal-Noon Corp. v. Hill (1975) 45
Cal.App.3d 605, 650) Here, Plaintiff has pled no facts which differentiate his
cause of action for breach of contract and his cause of action for unjust
enrichment. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer
to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. Leave
to amend is granted only in so far as Plaintiff may add facts separate of the
loan agreement which constitute unjust enrichment.
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Allegations of Ability to
Pay 
 
Christofferson requests the
Court strike the following allegations as improper: 
 
“Within two (2) years prior
to the filing of the original Complaint in this action, Defendants further
breached the Agreement, in that Defendants were able to repay to Plaintiffs,
and are presently able to repay to Plaintiffs, the remaining outstanding balance
of the Loans, and/or Defendants have been derelict in their efforts to acquire
the means to repay the Loans, including but not limited to the failure and
refusal to sell the Residence.” (FAC ¶ 17.) 
 
Christofferson contends
that these allegations are conclusory statements of law supported by facts.
Christofferson argues that the statements are conclusory because they contain
no facts which explain the condition upon which the loan must be repaid. Christofferson
argues Plaintiff alleges no facts as to her ability to repay the loan which
would trigger the repayment condition. Christofferson cites to no authority
that supports Plaintiff is required to state such facts at the pleading stage.
The Court finds Plaintiff’s allegations are not conclusory statements of law.
Such statements in this instance would be akin to “Christofferson is in breach
of the loan agreement”. Here, Plaintiff has alleged that Christofferson has
assets which could satisfy the loan if sold. The value of those assets and
whether they cover the loan amounts is a matter for discovery and the current
uncertainty does not merit the striking of the allegations. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to
strike these allegations is DENIED. 
 
Marital Privilege 
 
Christofferson’s motion
requests that Exhibits A-F attached to the FAC to be stricken, however she
withdraws this request as to Exhibit A in her reply. 
 
Portions of Exhibits B-F
are email exchanges between Christofferson and her former husband Adam Shell.
Christofferson argues these communications fall under the marital privilege of
Evidence Code § 980, which provides “[A] a spouse... whether or not a party,
has a privilege during the marital or domestic partnership relationship and
afterwards to refuse to disclose, and to prevent another from disclosing, a
communication if he or she claims the privilege and the communication was made
in confidence between him or her and the other spouse while they were spouses.”

 
A review of the material
shows that these communications were private emails from Christofferson to Adam
Shell regarding their personal finances. Plaintiff argues that there is no
expectation of privacy in these communications such that the privilege would be
invoked. The Court disagrees. To make a marital communication “in confidence”
one must intend nondisclosure and have reasonable expectation of privacy;¿both
factors must be shown before invocation of marital privilege will be honored.
 (People v. Von Villas (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 175, 229.) “While a
communication between a husband and wife is presumed to be confidential, if the
facts show that the communication was not intended to be kept in confidence,
the communication is not privileged.” (People v. Cleveland (2004)
32 Cal.4th 704, 743 [internal citation omitted].)
 
Here, the Court finds both
factors have been shown by Christofferson. The email communications between
them are presumed confidential as a matter of law and no facts have been
alleged which indicate Christofferson ever intended the communications to become
public. It also stands to reason that an individual has an expectation of
privacy in their private email communications. Accordingly, the motion to
strike these portions of Exhibits B-F is GRANTED. 
 
Accountant Privilege
 
Christofferson also
requests the Court strike the portions of Exhibits B-F which are communications
between herself and Plaintiff, as Plaintiff served as her accountant.
Christofferson argues the communications contain information which would be
subject to the accountant-client privilege established by Business and
Professions Code § 5063.3.  The Court
notes that Plaintiff provides no argument to this point in his opposition. 
 
The Court has granted the
striking of these exhibits pursuant to Evidence Code § 980, as such, a ruling
as to accountant-client privilege is moot.. 
 
Exhibit C
 
Exhibit C contains an email
exchange which the Court has already determined to be subject to the marital
communications privilege. The remaining portion of the Exhibit is a communication
between Christofferson and another representative from Plaintiff’s accounting
firm. Plaintiff concedes that this communication was inadvertently included and
is irrelevant to the instant action. (Oppo. p. 6.) Accordingly, the motion to
strike this portion of Exhibit C is GRANTED.
 
Sealing of First Amended
Complaint / Filing of Revised First Amended Complaint
 
Having ruled that Exhibits
B-F of the First Amended Complaint are protected by Evidence Code § 980 from
disclosure, permitting these records to remain public would countervene the
purpose of the marital communication privilege and Evidence Code § 980.   As such, pursuant to California Rules of
Court, Rule 2.550 the Court finds an overriding interest in maintaining he
confidentiality set for the in Evidence Code § 980 as balanced against the
right of public access to records.  The
Court further finds that the overriding interest supports sealing the records,
a substantial probability exists that the protection afforded by Evidence Code
§ 980 will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed.   The sealing is narrowly tailored to the
First Amended Complaint only.   Due to
technical issues regarding e-filing with the Court, part of the document cannot
be sealed once it is already filed.   As such, the entire document must be sealed;
however, Defendants shall file within 10 court days a revised FAC which
includes Exhibit A, but excludes Exhibits B-F such that an unredacted FAC may
be on file.  No less restrictive means
exist to achieve the overriding interest.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Carla
Christofferson’s Demurrer came on regularly for hearing on December 1, 2023, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE FIRST, THIRD, AND FOURTH CAUSES
OF ACTION ARE OVERRULED.
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION IS
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS
SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE ALLEGATIONS LOCATED IN FAC
PARAGRAPH 17 IS DENIED.
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE EXHIBITS B THROUGH F IN THE
COMPLAINT IS GRANTED.   THE COURT FURTHER
ORDERS THAT THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT BE SEALED TO PROTECT THE CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION.   TO COMPLY WITH CRC 2.550, DEFENDANT SHALL FILE
A REVISED FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WHICH EXCLUDES THE PROTECTED EXHIBITS B-F
WITHIN 10 COURT DAYS. THE COURT ORDERS PLAINTIFF TO EXCLUDE SUCH COMMUNICATION
IN ANY SUBSEQUENT COMPLAINT. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, CHRISTOFFERSON TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 1, 2023                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 