 Case Number:  22STCV02016    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO BIFURCATE 
Hearing Date: 5/17/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV02016 SCOTT HARBER vs
CITY OF SANTA MONICA 
Moving Party: Defendant City of Santa Monica
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO BIFURCATE IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE
 
Defendant’ motion to bifurcate is DENIED
without prejudice to Defendant raising this issue for the trial judge to
consider, on its own motion, at the time that the judge rules upon motions in
limine.  The Court orders that the bifurcation
briefing be included in the trial binders in Tab B along with any motions in
limine filed in the case.  The Court recognizes that CRC Rule 3.57(c) states, “A motion in limine may not be used for the
purpose of seeking an order to try an issue before the trial of another issue
or issues,” and thus this order should not be construed in a way that
contradicts this rule.  Defendant may direct the trial court to this order, which should
not be construed to in any way to bind the trial court in making a bifurcation
decision on its own motion.
 
Defendant properly sought a bifurcation order
in advance of the trial date.¿(See
Code Civ. Proc., § 598 (court to issue order bifurcating case on noticed motion
by the pretrial conference or, absent a pretrial conference, no later than 30
days in advance of trial).)¿Given that in the Personal Injury Hub system this case will be tried
by a different judicial officer than the one ruling on this motion at this
time, the Court finds it appropriate for the trial judge to determine whether
bifurcation is warranted.¿  
 
Conclusion 
¿ 
Based on the foregoing, the motion to
bifurcate is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.