  Case Number:  20STCV17922    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY
Hearing Date: 5/17/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV17922 LUCY NAZARIAN, et
al. vs COSTCO WHOLESALE
Moving Party: Defendant Costco 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARYJUDGMENT IS DENIED 
 
Background
 
On May 11, 2020, Plaintiff filed the present
case against Defendant Costco for premises liability and general negligence.
Plaintiff alleges that on July 16, 2018, at 5 p.m., Plaintiff tripped and fell
on a sticky substance on the floor of Costco’s produce section. Costco now
moves the Court for summary judgment, arguing that: (1) the alleged condition
causing Plaintiff to fall was open and obvious, (2) Defendant did not have
constructive notice of the alleged condition, and (3) Plaintiff cannot prove the
existence of an alleged dangerous condition.
 
Legal Standard¿¿ 
¿¿ 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through
the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite its allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve its dispute.” Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843. “Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A “defendant moving for summary judgment must
show the plaintiff’s causes of action have¿no merit.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849, emphasis added.)
In other words, summary judgment is not to be granted simply because a case is
“weak” or because a “weak” showing was made in opposition. (Hagen v.
Hickenbottom¿(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 168, 187-188, superseded by statute on
another point as recognized in¿Rice v. Clark¿(2002) 28
Cal.4th 89, 96;¿Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc.¿(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 589, 722. [“to avoid summary judgment a
showing need not be strong; it need only be sufficient to raise a triable issue
of fact.”].)¿¿ 
¿ 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial
burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there
are no triable issues of material fact.” Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519. A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). The elements of negligence are (1) a legal duty owed to
plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage
to plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006)
137 Cal. App. 4th 292, 318.)¿ 
¿ 
Defendant has two methods to shift the burden
of proof. In addition to the standard method of presenting evidence that
negates an essential element, the defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery
responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an
essential element of the cause of action sued upon. (Union Bank v. Superior
Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 590.)¿“Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).¿¿ 
 
Analysis
 
Open
and Obvious Dangerous Condition
 
The
elements of a premises liability and negligence cause of action
are the same: duty, breach, causation and damages. (Castellon
v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) “The owner of
premises is under a duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such
premises in order to avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk
of harm. A failure to fulfill this duty is negligence.” (Brooks v.
Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619; Annocki v.
Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)
 
“Generally, if a danger is so obvious that a person could
reasonably be expected to see it, the condition itself serves as a warning, and
the landowner is under no further duty to remedy or warn of the condition.” (Krongos v.
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 387, 393.) 
 
However, this is not always the case. (Ibid.) “[T]he
obviousness of a condition does not necessarily excuse the potential duty of a
landowner, not simply to warn of the condition but to rectify it.” (Martinez
v. Chippewa Enterprises, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1179, 1184.) The
obviousness of a danger “may obviate the duty to warn of its
existence,” but if “if it is foreseeable that the danger may
cause injury despite the fact that it is obvious (e.g, when necessity requires
persons to encounter it), there may be a duty to remedy the
danger, and the breach of that duty may in turn form the basis for liability . .
. .” (Osborn v. Mission Ready Mix (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 104,
122.)  Thus, "it is foreseeable that even an obvious
danger may cause injury, if the practical necessity of encountering the danger,
when weighed against the apparent risk involved, is such that under the
circumstances, a person might choose to encounter the danger." (Id.
at 121.)
 
Defendant’s undisputed material fact relating to the open and
obvious dangerous condition states that Plaintiff was not watching where she
was going at the time of the incident. (UMF Nos. 14 and 19.) After Plaintiff
fell, she saw a "mess on the ground" (UMF No. 15), which was very
sticky and a dark color. (UMF No. 16.)  Defendant
only analyzed whether or not the condition was open and obvious but failed to
present further evidence to negate the foreseeability that the alleged
condition might cause injury.
 
Defendant failed to analyze
foreseeability in the context identified in Osborn. Although Defendant
made a brief argument regarding foreseeability, it rehashes the same argument
that Plaintiff made in relation to “open and obvious: Plaintiff was not looking
where she was walking and did not observe the substance on the floor (Motion at
pg. 7).  But that does not address the
foreseeability issue that the court envisioned in Osborn. Specifically,
it does not address the necessity of encountering the danger and the
foreseeability of injury.  Thus,
Defendant’s incomplete analysis has failed to meet its initial burden in
showing that the alleged condition was open and obvious.  In addition, based on the photos provided, it
simply is not clear to the Court that the alleged cause of the fall – some sort
of sticky substance on the floor – was, in fact, open and obvious.
Causation
Defendant argues that
the alleged condition that caused Plaintiff to fall did not exist, and
therefore Defendant cannot prove causation or notice. Defendant introduces the
declaration of David Martinez, a Costco employee who inspected the area where
Plaintiff had fallen shortly after the fall. Martinez did not observe any water
or other substances on the ground, nor did he observe any skid marks or other
signs of a fall. (Declaration of David Martinez, ¶ 3.) On this basis, Defendant
has met its initial burden.
Plaintiff produced the
declaration of Jack Piandaryan, who declares that the area where Plaintiff fell
was dirty and that Plaintiff tripped on a dirty substance on the floor, causing
her to fall. Piandaryan does not, however, indicate that he saw the fall.  (Declaration of Jack Piandaryan, ¶¶ 4-6.) He
also took photographs of the scene immediately after the incident; those
photographs show skid marks in contradiction to Martinez's declaration and the
presence of a possible dark substance. (Exhibit A to Declaration of Jack
Piandaryan.) While Defendant challenges the validity of those photos, that is a
credibility call for the trier of fact. 
In any event, the photographs appear to conform with Plaintiff’s
testimony that after she fell, she observed that the ground was sticky and
dark. (Deposition of Lucy Nazarian 26:9-16.) Plaintiff has raised a triable
issue of fact as to the existence of the alleged condition causing her to trip
and fall.
Constructive Notice
As to constructive
notice, the applicable rule as to constructive notice is whether "[t]he
defective condition existed long enough so that it would have been discovered
by an owner who exercised reasonable care." (Bridgman, supra, 53 Cal.2d at
p. 447.) 
Defendant, in
fulfilling its initial burden, needs to show how long the condition existed and
if, by exercising reasonable care, it would have discovered the condition. 
Factually Devoid Discovery
Reponses 
Although Defendant can
meet its initial burden by introducing Plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery
responses, Defendant must demonstrate: (1) Plaintiff’s discovery responses fail
to set forth facts and identify evidence supporting Plaintiff’s allegations;
and (2) the court can reasonably infer from the proffered discovery and
responses that Plaintiff is unable to produce any additional evidence. (Andrews
v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 96, 102-103.) Plaintiff must
have been afforded adequate opportunity for discovery (Union Bank v. Sup.Ct.
(Demetry) (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 590) or have declared no further
information following extensive discovery. (Weber v. John Crane, Inc.
(2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1433, 1441-1442.) Defendant does not satisfy its burden
of proof by producing discovery responses that do not exclude the possibility
that Plaintiff may possess or may reasonably obtain evidence sufficient to
establish its claim. (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th
1433, 1441-1442.)
Plaintiff responded
"unknown at this time" when asked to specify any and all facts in
support of Plaintiff’s contention that Defendant Costco knew of the “dangerous
condition” or should have known of the existence of the dangerous condition.  However, these responses were made in
September 2020, just months after the complaint was filed.  This response at that time does not exclude
the possibility that Plaintiff may reasonably obtain evidence sufficient to
establish its claim. Thus, Defendant failed to meet its initial burden through
the route of Plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.
Affirmative Evidence
Defendant produced affirmative
evidence in the form of a declaration of Costco employee Juan Del Solar, whose
duties included walking around all the areas of the store that are open to the
public, observing all conditions that exist therein to clean and remove any
potentially hazardous conditions. Upon completion of his floor walks, Del Solar
would fill out the bottom part of the “Daily Floor Walk / Safety Inspection”
sheet by putting the time of the beginning and end of his floor walk and
printing his name. During his floor walks, Del Solar would walk the entirety of
the areas of the store open to the public and ensure he did not observe any
dangerous conditions. If Del Solar encountered a foreign substance, spill,
debris, dangerous, or unsafe condition during one of his floor walks, he would
either clean it himself or immediately and promptly call for another Costco
Warehouse employee to clean it up. Further, he would mark it in the “Action
Log” section. On the date of the incident, Del Solar performed a floor walk
from 4:15 to 4:51 p.m. Had Mr. Del Solar seen any dangerous conditions such as
that alleged by Plaintiff, he would have taken action. Further, he would have
noted such condition and remedial action in the “Action Log” section of the
Floor Walk Inspection Sheet. He did not note any such action in the “Action
Log” section of the Floor Walk Inspection Sheet. (Del Solar Decl., ¶¶ 4-5 and
Ex. A1 thereto (Ex. A1 filed separately under seal pursuant to Stipulated
Protective Order).) 
Del Solar walked around
the store from 4:15 pm to 4:51 pm on the date of the incident and did not
observe any dangerous condition. It is unclear from Del Solar’s declaration
when he inspected the produce area where Plaintiff allegedly fell. Assuming Del
Solar did a thorough inspection, the alleged condition could not have existed
before 4:15 pm, but might have appeared after he inspected the produce area,
putting the existence of the alleged condition anywhere from 1 to 45 minutes
before Plaintiff’s fall at 5:00 pm.
"It is ordinarily
a question of fact for the jury whether, under all the circumstances, the
defective condition existed long enough so that it would have been discovered
by an owner who exercised reasonable care." (Ortega v. Kmart Corp.
(2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1209 [Sapp v. W.T. Grant Co.,172 Cal.App.2d 89,
91-92 [liability found when patron stepped on a spool of thread and there  had been no inspection for a period of 20
minutes]; Hale v. Safeway Stores, Inc., 129 Cal.App.2d 124, 128 [non-suit
improper when customer slipped on banana and no inspection for a period of
"12, 15, or 30 or more minutes"]; Louie v. Hagstrom's Food Stores,
Inc., 81 Cal.App.2d 601, 607-609 [liability found when patron slipped in pool
of syrup and no inspection for between 15 to 25 minutes]]). Moreover, “a person
operating a fruit and vegetable section in a store should at least, as to that
portion of the premises, in the exercise of ordinary care, maintain a more
vigilant outlook than would be required in the operation of some other type of
business where the danger of things falling on the floor upon which a person
might easily slip and fall is not so obvious.” (Hale, 129 Cal.App.2d at
132.)
It is uncertain when Del
Solar inspected the produce area where the alleged incident occurred and
therefore the alleged dangerous condition could have been in existence anytime
from 1 minute to 45 minutes before Plaintiff allegedly fell. In light of Sapp
and other cases finding liability for a period of non-inspection between 10 to
30 minutes, plus the aggravating factor that the alleged incident occurred in
the chilled room where the berries were located (Deposition of Lucy Nazarian,
Vol. 2, at 75:18- 76:6), the Court finds whether Costco exercised reasonable
care and should have constructive notice of the alleged condition is a question
for the jury to decide.
Conclusion
Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment is DENIED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.
 
 

 