  Case Number:  19SMCV01614    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Singer v. Related
California Urban Housing, et al.
CASE NO.:                19SMCV01614
MOTIONS:               Motion for Summary Judgment
by Related Fund Management, LLC (filed May 30, 2024)
                                    Motion
for Summary Judgment by Related Partners, Inc. (filed May 30, 2024)
                                    Motion
for Summary Judgment by Related Sales, Inc. (filed May 30, 2024)
                                    Motion for
Summary Judgment by RFM Holdco, LLC (filed May 30, 2024)
HEARING DATE:   8/15/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment in any action or
proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The purpose of the law
of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or
more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one
or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for
damages, as specified in¿Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.”¿(CCP,¿§
437c(f)(1).)¿If a party seeks summary adjudication as an alternative to a
request for summary judgment, the request must be clearly made in the notice of
the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior Court¿(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542,
1544.)¿ “[A] party may move for summary adjudication of a legal issue or a
claim for damages other than punitive damages that does not completely
dispose of a cause of action, affirmative defense, or issue of duty
pursuant to” subdivision (t). (CCP,¿§ 437c(t).)¿ 
 
To prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.¿(CCP, §¿437c(c).)¿The motion cannot succeed unless
the evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts;
the court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when¿a material fact is the witness’s¿state of mind and
“that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s] affirmation
thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).)¿ 
 
Once the moving party has met their burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party “to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP §
437c(p)(1).) “[T]here¿is no
obligation on the opposing party... to establish anything by affidavit unless
and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every
element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”¿(Consumer Cause,
Inc. v.¿SmileCare¿(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿ 
¿ 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary judgment
motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to
delimit the scope of the issues and to¿frame¿the outer measure of materiality
in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co.¿(2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the
burden of a defendant moving for summary judgment only requires that he or she
negate plaintiff's theories of liability¿as alleged in the complaint;
that is, a moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical
possibility not included in the pleadings.” (Ibid.)¿ 
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
The moving defendants seek judicial notice of the third amended complaint
(TAC) and statements the Court made in its December 27, 2023, ruling on the
defendants’ demurrer. Defendant RFM Holdco, LLC (“RFMH”) separately seeks judicial notice of a
screenshot from Delaware Department of State, Division of Corporations Entity
Details for RFM Holdco, LLC, to show that the corporation was formed as a
limited liability company in Delaware on June 24, 2019.  The Court grants the request for judicial
notice as to all documents but not as to the hearsay allegations therein.
(Evid. Code, § 452(c), (d), and (h).)
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
Defendants’ objections filed on August
9, 2024, are overruled.
 
Analysis
 
Like their co-defendants who moved for summary judgment
on August 8, 2024, Related Fund Management, LLC (“RFM”), Related Partners, Inc.
(“RPI”), Related Sales, Inc. (“RSI”), and RFM Holdco, LLC (“RFMH”) move for
summary judgment, arguing that Plaintiff has no evidence to support her alter
ego and/or aiding and abetting theories of liability. Plaintiff opposes each
motion.
 
“‘Alter ego is a limited doctrine, invoked only where
recognition of the corporate form would work an injustice to a third person.’
[Citation.] ‘The essence of the alter ego doctrine is that justice be done . …
Thus the corporate form will be disregarded only in narrowly defined
circumstances and only when the ends of justice so require.’ [Citation.]” (Zoran
Corp. v. Chen (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 799, 810.  “Whether a party is liable under an alter-ego
theory is normally a question of fact.” (Id. at 811.)  Courts have identified the “conditions under
which the corporate entity may be disregarded, or the corporation be regarded
as the alter ego of the stockholders, necessarily vary according to the
circumstances in each case inasmuch as the doctrine is essentially an equitable
one and for that reason is particularly within the province of the trial
court.’  [Citation.]” (Id. at 811
[italics in original].)  “Nevertheless,
it is generally stated that in order to prevail on an alter-ego theory, the
plaintiff must show that ‘(1) there is such a unity of interest that the
separate personalities of the corporations no longer exist; and (2) inequitable
results will follow if the corporate separateness is respected.’  [Citation.]” (Id.)  
 
As to unity of interest between the corporation and its shareholders,
this element can be proved “upon a showing of a close ownership and control of
the entire organizational framework.” (Rosen v. E. C. Losch, Inc. (1965)
234 Cal.App.2d 324, 333.)  Another factor
is the 
undercapitalization
of the entity.” (Id. at p. 334.) “The decisions likewise hold that
personal liability will attach when the corporation is rendered insolvent due
to the manipulation of assets and liabilities between entities so as to
concentrate the assets in one and the liabilities in another.” (Id.) 
 
Zoran identified a non-exhaustive factors that the Court should look for in determining
whether to apply an alter-ego basis of liability, including:  
 
1.     Commingling of funds and other assets,
failure to segregate funds of the separate entities, and the unauthorized
diversion of corporate funds or assets to other than corporate uses;
2.     The treatment by an individual of the
assets of the corporation as his own; 
3.     The failure to obtain authority to
issue stock or to subscribe to or issue the same; 
4.     The holding out by an individual that
he is personally liable for the debts of the corporation; 
5.     The failure to maintain minutes or
adequate corporate records, and the confusion of the records of the separate
entities; 
6.     The identical equitable ownership in
the two entities; 
7.     The identification of the equitable
owners thereof with the domination and control of the two entities; 
8.     Identification of the directors and
officers of the two entities in the responsible supervision and management;
sole ownership of all of the stock in a corporation by one individual or the
members of a family; 
9.     The use of the same office or business
location; 
10.  The employment of the same employees
and/or attorney; 
11.  The failure to adequately capitalize a
corporation; the total absence of corporate assets, and undercapitalization; 
12.  The use of a corporation as a mere
shell, instrumentality or conduit for a single venture or the business of an
individual or another corporation; 
13.  The concealment and misrepresentation
of the identity of the responsible ownership, management and financial
interest, or concealment of personal business activities; 
14.  The disregard of legal formalities and
the failure to maintain arm's length relationships among related entities; 
15.  The use of the corporate entity to
procure labor, services or merchandise for another person or entity; 
16.  The diversion of assets from a
corporation by or to a stockholder or other person or entity, to the detriment
of creditors, or the manipulation of assets and liabilities between entities so
as to concentrate the assets in one and the liabilities in another; 
17.  The contracting with another with
intent to avoid performance by use of a corporate entity as a shield against
personal liability, or the use of a corporation as a subterfuge of illegal
transactions; and 
18.  The formation and use of a corporation
to transfer to it the existing liability of another person or entity.
 
(Zoran, supra,
185 Cal.App.4th at pp. 811-812.)  These
factors are not exhaustive and should be considered among other factors that
are presented in a particular case.  (Id.
at p. 812.)
 
            According to the TAC, RMFH is a
defendant in this action because it owned and controlled an entity (The Related
Realty Group, Inc. (“TRRG”)), TRRG is the general partner of another defendant
entity (The Related Companies, L.P. (“TRCLP”)), TRCLP owned and controlled
another defendant entity (Related California Residential, LLC (“RCR”), RCR
employed and paid the salaries of the people controlling Santa Monica Urban
Housing A, LLC (“SMUHA”), which developed, marketed, and sold The Waverly,
where Plaintiff’s condominium is located. (TAC ¶¶ 2, 7, 13-14, 18.)  The TAC also alleges that RMFH was “at all
relevant times an agent, principal, representative, or affiliate of the other
defendants, knew of the wrongful conduct described below and coordinated their
actions to facilitate the wrongful conduct, thus becoming a substantial cause
of Plaintiff’s harm such that each should be held jointly and severally liable
for Plaintiff’s damages.” (TAC ¶ 20.)
 
Finally, the TAC alleges that (1) some defendants
defrauded Plaintiff by concealing the defects in her condominium, and (2) some
defendants “aided and abetted” those defrauding defendants. The “[a]iding and
abetting Defendants’ actions were [allegedly] a substantial factor in causing
Plaintiff’s harm because, without their knowledge and assistance, SMUHA and
other Defendants would not have been able to conceal the water intrusion and
fenestration problems and related lawsuits from Plaintiff. Aiding and abetting
Defendants acted as de facto developers, made decisions and signed documents on
SMUHA’s behalf, marketed for sale units at The Waverly, lent their reputation
to entice buyers like Plaintiff, and conducted and oversaw repeated and futile
repairs at Unit 201, among other things. Aiding and abetting Defendants are
thus equally liable for SMUHA’s and other Defendants’ fraud and therefore
equally liable to Plaintiff for compensatory damages or rescission and for
punitive damages.” (TAC, ¶ 78.)  The TAC
does not specify which group RFMH falls into (i.e., the defrauding or the “aiding
and abetting” defendants). 
 
The Court finds that RMFH has met its initial burden of
showing that Plaintiff’s fraud, violation of real estate seller’s duty to
disclose, negligence, and breach of fiduciary duty claims based on an alter ego
claim have no merit through the following undisputed facts. In her responses to
the defendant’s request for admission, Plaintiff admitted that she (1) never
entered into any agreement directly with Holdco (RMFH), (2) had no
communications directly with Holdco prior to her purchase, (3) never had
communications directly with Holdco, (4) she did not rely on any
representations made specifically by Holdco in making the decision to purchase
her unit, and (5) has no evidence that Holdo provided any funds to SMUHA.
(Separate Statement [of undisputed material facts] Opposing RFMH’s MSJ, filed
August 1, 2024 (“RFMH-Plaintiff UMF”), ¶¶ 4, 5, 6.) It is also undisputed that RFMH’s
business operations do not now and never have had any involvement with the
project known as The Villages at Santa Monica (“TVSM”), where The Waverly is
located. (RFMH-Plaintiff UMF, ¶ 9.) RFMH is not a member of SMUHA, does not
commingle funds or assets with any defendant entity and only uses its funds for
its own corporate purposes. (RFMH-Plaintiff UMF, ¶ 12.)
 
The Court also finds that RFMH has met its initial burden
of showing that Plaintiff’s claims against the defendant on the theory of
“aiding and abetting” have no merit. Under an aiding and abetting theory, a
defendant must have actual knowledge of the “specific primary wrong” being
committed and gave substantial assistance to the wrongful conduct. (Goonewardene
v. ADP, LLC (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 154, 188.) Here, it is undisputed that the
corporation was formed in Delaware on June 24, 2019. (RFMH-Plaintiff UMF, ¶ 8.)
The TAC alleges that Plaintiff purchased her unit in May 2016. (TAC, ¶¶ 52,
66.) Therefore, before Plaintiff purchased the condominium, RFMH could not have
aided and abetting the alleged fraudulent concealment of the alleged defects in
her condominium unit because the defendant was not formed at the time of
purchase. There is also no allegation that between June 24, 2019, when RFMH was
formed, and September 13, 2019, when Plaintiff filed this action, RFMH aided
and abetted the alleged futile repairs of her condominium. 
 
Therefore, as to RFMH, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to
show that triable issues of material fact exist as to those two theories.  In opposition, Plaintiff argues that RFMH
commingles assets. (Opposition to RFMH Motion, p. 8:13.)  However, as stated above, Plaintiff agreed
that it was undisputed that RFMH does not commingle funds or assets with any
defendant entity. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that RFMH is the entity through
which TRCLP Principals own and control RFM, and RFM is the entity that provides
Real Estate Investment Services to TRCLP—all within the “Related Companies”
Organization. However, “‘[t]he pleadings delimit the issues to be
considered on a motion for summary judgment. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Laabs
v. City of Victorville (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1253.) “Thus, a
‘defendant moving for summary judgment need address only the issues raised by
the complaint; the plaintiff cannot bring up new, unpleaded issues in his or
her opposing papers.’ [Citation.]” (Id.)  Here,
Plaintiff did not plead that RFM-TRCLP-RFMH theory in her TAC. Therefore, she
is precluded from raising that theory now. 
 
Given that Plaintiff has failed to meet her burden as to
RFMH, that defendant’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
 
With regard to RSI’s motion, the Court finds that the
defendant has failed to meet its initial burden. RSI moves for summary
judgment, suggesting that it was merely engaged by SMUHA and SMUHC to provide
sales and marketing services for TVSM, and, therefore, could not be liable for
Plaintiff’s alleged harm. However, Plaintiff asserts the third cause of action
for negligence against RSI. “In general, each person has a duty to act with
reasonable care under the circumstances.” (Regents of University of
California v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 619.) Here, the TAC
alleges during the marketing and sale process, the defendants (presumably,
including RSI) intentionally concealed “in the Public Report and otherwise . .
.” the defects with Plaintiff’s unit. (TAC ¶¶ 65, 88.) RSI has not produced
evidence showing that it did not act negligently with regard to its sales and
marketing services. Since summary judgment can only be granted if there are no
triable issues of fact and RSI has not moved for summary adjudication of
Plaintiff’s claims, the Court finds that RSI has failed to meet its initial
burden of summary judgment. Therefore, the burden does not shift to Plaintiff
as to RSI’s motion. 
 
Accordingly, RSI’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.

 
With regard to RPI, the TAC alleges the defendant “employed
or paid salaries of persons
responsible
for managing many of the affiliated entities, including SMUHA, and thereby
directed, profited from, and/or participated in the wrongful acts . . ..” (TAC ¶
16.) RPI moves for summary judgment, arguing that it was not involved in the
development of TVSM, was not a member or shareholder in any alter ego
defendant, and that it merely provides internal corporate services such as
payroll. However, the employment of the same employees is a factor that can
suggest an alter ego relationship between the defendant entities. 
 
Therefore, even if the Court were to find that RPI has
met it burden of showing that triable issues of material fact do not exist,
Plaintiff has met her burden of showing that triable issues do exist as to
whether RPI was an alter ego by producing transcript whereby David Katz
testified that “[RPI] is an entity that employs all of the Related employees.”
(Plaintiff’s Compendium of Evidence, Exhibit 207, p. 14:16-19.)
 
Accordingly, RPI’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.

Lastly, the Court also finds that triable issue exists as
to RFM’s motion for summary judgment. The defendant moves for summary judgment,
arguing, among other things, that it was not involved in the development of
TVSM, RFM has never specifically communicated with or interacted with Plaintiff,
it is not a member or shareholder of any alter ego defendant in this action, it
was not a member of SMUHA, it is merely a financial services company that
provides real estate assets investments and advisory services, and does not
have a financial ownership interest in SMUHA. However, Plaintiff has shown
triable issues exist as to those facts by producing evidence indicating that
the defendant belonged to TRCLP’s “Internal Investment Committee,” which
oversaw the development of TVSM, where Plaintiff purchased Unit 201. (Pl.
Comp., Ex. 65, pp. 16:17 - 17:6; Ex. 107, ¶ 3.) That is sufficient to defeat
summary judgment.
Accordingly, RFM’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
