 Case Number:  22NWCV00148    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  C THE BICYCLE CASINO v.
MOMENI
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV00148
HEARING:  11/30/23
 
#2
 
Plaintiff
Bicycle Casino’s unopposed motion for terminating sanctions is GRANTED. Defendant
FARHAD MOMENI’s Answer is STRICKEN. The
request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.
 
Moving
Party to give Notice. 
 
No
Opposition filed as of November 27, 2023.
 
CCP
§2023.030 provides, in part: “To the extent authorized by this chapter
governing any particular discovery method or any other provision of this title,
the court, after notice to any affected party, may impose the [sanctions]
against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process,
including monetary and issue and terminating sanctions.” Failing to respond to
an authorized method of discovery and disobeying a court order to provide
discovery are both misuses of the discovery process.” (CCP §§2023.010 (d) and
(g).) Sanctions which may be imposed for a misuse of the discovery process
include “terminating sanctions.” 
 
Plaintiff
seeks terminating and monetary sanctions because Defendant is refusing to
participate in the discovery process. Specifically, Defendant has failed to
comply with this Court’s March 2, 2023 Discovery Order. 
 
Defendant
does not oppose the instant Motion, and did not file Oppositions to the
underlying five discovery motions granted on March 2, 2023. 
 
It
is a commonly stated axiom that discovery sanctions “should be appropriate to
the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978)
84 Cal.App.3d 771, 793.) However, a court is empowered to apply the ultimate
sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with
discovery obligations. The refusal to reveal material evidence is deemed to be
an admission that the claim or defense is without merit. (Id. at
794-795.) 
 
Where no Opposition to the instant Motion has been filed as of November
27, 2023 it is undisputed that Defendant is unwilling to comply with their
discovery obligations. 
The Court finds that terminating sanctions are warranted here. Plaintiff
is entitled to seek discovery from Defendant, and Defendant’s refusal to
participate in this litigation has thwarted Plaintiff’s legitimate
interests.  The court has already imposed
monetary sanctions upon Defendant as part of its March 2, 2023 orders.  The court determines that imposing additional
monetary sanctions, or anything short of terminating sanctions, would be
ineffective.   
 
The motion for terminating sanctions is GRANTED as indicated above.
Defendant’s Answer is STRICKEN. The Court DENIES monetary sanctions as
terminating sanctions are sufficient redress. 
 