 Case Number:  21SMCV01662    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Clayton v. Malibu
West Swimming Club, et al.
CASE NO.:                21SMCV01662
MOTION:                  Motion
to Lift Discovery Stay (CCP 425.16(g).)
HEARING DATE:   6/7/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Discovery is automatically stayed
upon the filing of an anti-SLAPP motion. (CCP, § 425.16(g); The Garment
Workers Center v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1156, 1161.) “The
court, on noticed motion and for good cause shown, may order that specified
discovery be conducted notwithstanding this subdivision.” (Id.) “If the
plaintiff makes a timely and proper showing in response to the motion to
strike, that a defendant or witness possesses evidence needed by plaintiff to
establish a prima facie case, the plaintiff must be given the reasonable
opportunity to obtain that evidence through discovery before the motion to
strike is adjudicated.” (Lafayette Morehouse, Inc. v. Chronicle Publishing
Co. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 855, 868.) “The trial court, therefore, must
liberally exercise its discretion by authorizing reasonable and specified
discovery timely petitioned for by a plaintiff… when evidence to establish a
prima facie case is reasonably shown to be held, or known, by defendant or its
agents and employees. (Id. see Matson v. Dvorak (1995) 40
Cal.App.4th 539, 548 [on prong 2 of the anti-SLAP analysis, plaintiff must
demonstrate, through admissible evidence, “a sufficient prima facie showing of
facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the
plaintiff is credited”]; see also Sipple v. Foundation for National Progress
(1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 226, 247 [trial court did not abuse its discretion in
refusing to permit limited discovery when the appellant did not explain what
additional facts he expected to uncover and why discovery is necessary to carry
his burden].) The fact that the evidence necessary to establish the plaintiff’s
prima facie case is in the hands of the defendant or third party is only one
factor. (Garment Workers, supra, 117 Cal.App.4th at 1162.) “The trial
court should consider whether the information the plaintiff seeks to obtain
through formal discovery proceedings is readily available from other sources or
can be obtained through informal discovery.” (Id.)
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Plaintiff’s objections are OVERRULED.
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiffs Samantha and Royce
Clayton move for an order lifting the discovery stay pursuant to section
425.16(g). Plaintiffs argue that they are entitled to conduct limited discovery
tailored to establishing motive (regarding racial discrimination claims) and
whether Riddick’s actions and decision-making were made in good faith or were
unreasonable, arbitrary, or capricious (regarding the breach of the CC&R
claims). Plaintiffs seek discovery regarding the following topics, in the form
of depositions and related requests for production of documents as to Riddick
and the Person Most Knowledgeable of Malibu West: 1) “me too” evidence or “comparative
evidence” (e.g., how other similarly situated homeowners at Malibu West,
including Riddick, were treated when they asked for approval of plans and for
variances); 2) decision making related to the rejections of Plaintiffs’ plans; 3)
Malibu West’s approval of Riddick’s plans for an ADU and approval of plans for
the rebuild of his home; 4) statements made by the Riddicks in their lawsuit
regarding the support provided to them by Malibu West for the ADU; 5) admissions/statements
the Riddicks made to the press regarding unpermitted ADUs at Malibu West being
allowed; 6) other unpermitted ADUs at Malibu West; and 7) the basis for
threatening and seeking injunctive relief against Plaintiffs.
 
The Court agrees evidence of the
Board/Riddick’s motive would be generally required to make a prima facie
showing under the intentional infliction of emotional distress claim and race
discrimination claims (FEHA, Unruh). (Government Code section 12955, et seq.; Civ. Code
section 51 et seq.; see Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051 [a defendant’s conduct is
“outrageous” when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community].) Further, the CC&R-based
claims (breach of CC&Rs, Davis-Sterling Act, Declaratory Relief, Equitable
Relief) require evidence of the Board/Riddick’s bad faith or unreasonable,
arbitrary, or capricious decision making. (TAC para. 130.) Defendants Riddick
and Malibu West also would necessarily have unique information on their motives
and/or bad faith. Thus, the Court has discretion to allow limited discovery
into such matters.
 
That said, plaintiffs may only be afforded
a “reasonable opportunity” to obtain evidence through discovery before the special
motion to strike is adjudicated. The record here shows Plaintiffs were already
afforded such an opportunity. The case has been pending for several years prior
to Riddick’s motion to strike. The initial complaint was filed on October 15,
2021. The operative third amended complaint (TAC) relies on mostly the same
allegations stated in the original complaint. Plaintiffs challenged the
Defendants’ denial of their requests for a variance, and accused the Board of racial
bias. Moreover, throughout the pendency of the suit, the parties engaged in
regular discovery. (See Newcomb Decl., ¶¶2-7.) The TAC was then filed on
December 1, 2023. Riddick was later added as Doe 1 on March 14, 2024. Plaintiff
could have propounded discovery (and presumably did propound discovery) on the
board’s motivations, which necessarily included Riddick’s motivations.  Plaintiff thus had 3.5 years to litigate these
issues as to the Board’s motives, including Riddick. In fact, Plaintiff likely
discovered some basis for Riddick’s personal liability through such efforts,
and accordingly added him into the action. Plaintiff therefore already had
plenty of opportunity to discover information on the exact topics cited above. 
 
On this procedural posture, where
Plaintiff had the opportunity to conduct discovery already, Plaintiff has not
shown good cause for further discovery. Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.