 Case Number:  23VECV01899    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  W Frank Harris v. Jason Desrouleaux
 
demurrer 
 
Date of Hearing:        January
19, 2024                               Trial Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV01899
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Jason Desrouleaux  
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Frank Harris 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 1, 2023, Plaintiff Frank Harris
filed a complaint against Defendant Jason Desrouleaux p/k/a Jason Derulo
(“Derulo”) for breach of contract, promissory estoppel, quantum meruit,
accounting, and declaratory relief. Plaintiff was Defendant’s professional
manager for recording and entertainment for over 20 years. Plaintiff alleges
pursuant to the parties’ 2014 Oral Agreement, Derulo is obligated to pay Harris
commissions on all engagements, agreements, and contracts substantially
negotiated or entered into while Harris was acting as Derulo’s personal
manager. However, despite sending Plaintiff Commission Statements reflecting
the  amounts owed to Harris, Derulo has
failed and/or refused to pay the commissions owed to Harris as set forth in the
NuKing and JDI Commission Statements. Plaintiff further alleges in addition to
the amounts set forth in the NuKing and JDI Commission Statements, Derulo owes
Harris his 15 percent commission on the revenue that Derulo has received,
directly or indirectly through his companies. 
 
Request for entry of default was
entered August 14, 2023. Plaintiff and Defendant entered a stipulation to set
aside the default and on October 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling: 
 
Defendant Jason Desrouleaux’s Demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
disucssion 
 
Defendant Jason Desrouleaux, professionally known as Jason Derulo,
demurs to the First Amended Complaint filed by Plaintiff Frank Harris on the
grounds each cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to support a claim
against Defendant. 
 
Breach of Contract
 
Defendant demurs to the first cause of action for breach of
contract on the grounds Plaintiff fails to allege a sufficiently certain and
definite contract, the alleged 2014 Oral Agreement is an invalid oral
modification of the 2009 Management Agreement, and the alleged 2014 Oral Agreement
is barred by the statute of frauds. 
 
The elements for breach of contract cause of action are: (1)
existence of contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach (or anticipatory breach); and (4)
resulting damage.  (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. N. Y. Times Co.
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) “A written contract may be pleaded by
its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached
to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal effect.”
(McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.)
“In order to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must allege the
substance of its relevant terms.” (Id.) 
 
Defendant first argues a contract must be so sufficiently definite
“for the court to ascertain the parties’ obligations and to determine whether
those obligations have been performed or breached.” (Bustamante v. Intuit,
Inc. (2006) 141 Cal. App. 4th 199, 209.) In the 2009 Management Agreement, Derulo
agreed to pay Harris 20% of his “Gross Earnings” during a five-year term. After
the expiration of the five-year term, their relationship would automatically
terminate, and Derulo agreed to pay Harris tiered residual commissions that
decreased over time – 15% for the first year, 10% for the second, third, and
fourth year, and 5% for the fifth year and every year following. Defendant
contends as a result, Plaintiff’s claims that the 2014 Oral Agreement adopts
“the same terms and conditions” as the written 2009 Management Agreement is
inconsistent with his claims that he continued to serve as Derulo’s manager and
received a 20% commission on all Derulo’s gross earnings for eight and a half
years under the 2014 Oral Agreement. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff Harris argues the complaint specifically
identifies the relevant terms of the parties’ 2014 Oral Agreement and the
commission amount due to be paid under that agreement and Defendant’s hyper
technical reading of the complaint is incorrect. Plaintiff contends the
complaint specifically alleges the 2014 Oral Agreement remained in effect until
September 24, 2022 and until that date, Harris was entitled to—and in fact,
received—20 percent commissions, and after that date, Harris was entitled to
reduced commission rates. 
 
The court finds the complaint sufficiently alleges definite terms
of a contract for the purposes of a demurrer. Paragraph 15 of the complaint
alleges in January 2014, Defendant and Plaintiff orally agreed that Plaintiff
would continue to act as Defendant’s personal manager, performing the same
services then being performed, on the same terms and conditions then existing under
the 2009 Management Agreement, including Derulo’s obligation to pay Harris a commission
of 20 percent of any and all Gross Earnings received by Defendant during the
parties’ professional. (FAC ¶15.) The complaint goes on to say the agreement
called for defendant to continue paying Plaintiff, after termination of the
parties’ professional relationship, 15 percent of Derulo’s Gross Earnings
derived from engagements, contracts and agreements entered into or
negotiated while the parties’ professional relationship remained in effect.
(FAC ¶15.) These allegations sufficiently show the basic aspects of the
contract.  
 
Next, Defendant argues regardless of the above inconsistencies in
Harris’ allegations, the purported 2014 Oral Agreement constitutes an invalid
oral amendment to the terms of the written 2009 Management Agreement, which is
expressly prohibited therein. Defendant contends where a written agreement
“expressly prohibits modification other than by a signed writing, however, a
contract claim based on subsequent oral modifications is not cognizable” and
“must be dismissed.” (Min Prods. PTE. Ltd v. Fireforge, Inc. (2015) WL
13907702 at *10.) The 2009 Management Agreement was for a set term of five
years and expressly stated that “no modification, amendment, waiver,
termination or discharge of any provision hereof shall be binding upon the
parties unless confirmed by a written instrument executed by the parties.” (FAC
Ex. 1 ¶ 13(a).) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Derulo mischaracterizes the
allegations of the complaint. Plaintiff contends the complaint alleges that “as
the term 2009 Management Agreement expired,” the parties orally entered into a
new agreement “under which Harris would continue to act as Derulo’s personal
manager on the same terms and conditions existing under the 2009 Management
Agreement.” Moreover, even if the complaint did allege an oral modification of
the written 2009 Management Agreement, Plaintiff contends the parties may
modify a written contract by executed oral agreement, waiver, or estoppel even
if the written contract expressly precludes oral modification. (See LGCY
Power, LLC v. Superior Court (2022) 75 Cal. App. 5th 844, 866-868; Biren
v. Equality Emergency Medical Group, Inc. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 125, 141; Conely
v. Matthes (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1453, 1466.) 
 
The court finds as alleged, the 2014 Oral Agreement is not a
modification of the 2009 Management Agreement. “Whether a writing has been
modified by an executed oral agreement is a question of fact.” (Grove v.
Grove Valve & Regulator Co. (1970) 4 Cal.App.3d 299, 313.) The FAC
alleges the 2009 Management Agreement expired and in January 2014, the parties
orally agreed Plaintiff could continue to represent Defendant and receive 20%
commission until the relationship is terminated and thereafter, Plaintiff would
receive 15% commission. 
 
Lastly, Defendant argues the Statute of Frauds applies to the
alleged 2014 Oral Agreement. According to Harris, the 2014 Oral Agreement
adopted and incorporated “the same terms and conditions” as the written 2009
Management Agreement, which included a fixed five-year term followed by tiered
residual commissions for at least another five years (and possibly in
perpetuity). As noted above, the court finds the complaint does not allege a
fixed five-year term for the 2014 Oral Agreement. Moreover, as alleged, the
2014 Oral Agreement may be terminable at will. (See White Lighting Co. v.
Wolfson (1968) 68 Cal.2d 336, 344.) 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action for
breach of contract is OVERRULED. 
 
Promissory Estoppel
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of action for promissory
estoppel on the grounds Harris has failed to allege any detrimental reliance
calling for the application of the promissory estoppel doctrine. 
 
“The elements of promissory estoppel are (1) a promise, (2) the promisor
should reasonably expect the promise to induce action or forbearance on the
part of the promisee or a third person, (3) the promise induces action or
forbearance by the promisee or a third person (which we refer to as detrimental
reliance), and (4) injustice can be avoided only by enforcement of the
promise.”  (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 780, 803, reh’g denied (Apr. 11, 2013), review denied (July 10,
2013).) “The party claiming estoppel must specifically plead all facts relied
on to establish its elements.”  (Smith v. City and County of San
Francisco (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 38, 48.)  A conclusory allegation of
detrimental reliance is insufficient.  (See id.)             “If the promisee's performance
was requested at the time the promisor made his promise and that performance
was bargained for, the doctrine is inapplicable.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irr.
Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 249.) 
 
Defendant contends Harris merely asserts that he served as
Derulo’s manager based upon Derulo’s promise to pay commissions. Thus, the
detrimental reliance upon which Harris bases his claim for promissory estoppel
is nothing more than the existence of the purported 2014 Oral Agreement. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues his claim for promissory estoppel
is sufficient because Harris pleads that he relied on Derulo’s promise to pay
for his management services to Harris’ detriment and that he was injured as a
result. The complaint alleges “Harris reasonably relied on [Derulo’s] promise
[to pay commissions] to his injury and detriment, in part, because based upon
Derulo’s promise, Harris diverted his professional efforts and time that would
have been spent working for other clients and potential clients to Derulo.”
(FAC ¶ 51.) 
 
The court finds Plaintiff’s allegations sufficient for the
purposes of a demurrer. In Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 768, 779–780, the Court of Appeal found the plaintiff sufficiently
alleged a claim for promissory estoppel when the defendants promised to pay plaintiffs
an amount sufficient to retire upon the sale of the company if they remained
employed, the promise was sufficiently clear and definite and plaintiffs relied
on this promise to their detriment by remaining employed there and forgoing
other employment and residential opportunities. As noted above, Plaintiff has
alleged a clear and definite promise to continue to pay Plaintiff 20%
commission until the parties terminated their professional relationship and
Plaintiff relied on that promise to his detriment by diverting his professional
efforts and time that would have been spent on other clients. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action is
OVERRULED. 
 
Quantum Meruit 
 
Defendant demurs to the third cause of action for quantum meruit
on the grounds Harris’ quantum meruit claim does not turn on whether Derulo was
unjustly enriched for having received a benefit from Harris. 
 
To recover in quantum meruit, a party need not prove the existence
of a contract [citations], but it must show the circumstances were such that
‘“the services were rendered under some understanding or expectation of both
parties that compensation therefor was to be made.”’ (Huskinson & Brown
v. Wolf (2004) 32 Cal.4th 453, 458.) ‘“The measure of recovery in quantum
meruit is the reasonable value of the services rendered, provided they were of
direct benefit to the defendant.”’ [Citation.] ‘[A] plaintiff must establish
both that he or she was acting pursuant to either an express or implied request
for such services from the defendant and that the services rendered were
intended to and did benefit the defendant.’” (Advanced Choices, Inc. v.
State Dept. of Health Services (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 1661, 1673; see Chodos
v. Borman (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 76, 96–97.)  
 
Defendant argues the crux of Plaintiff’s claim is that he is
entitled to commissions on Derulo’s gross earnings from any engagement that
arose during his time as manager regardless of whether Harris was involved at
all. As a result, because Harris claims entitlement for services he did not
render and for benefits he did not confer upon Derulo, his quantum meruit claim
fails.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the complaint alleges that Derulo received
a direct benefit from Harris’ efforts. (FAC, ¶ 56.) The reasonable value of
Harris’ services is a quintessential factual issue. (See, e.g., Children’s
Hosp. Cent. California v. Blue Cross of California (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
1260, 1275 (reasonable value set by market rates, expert testimony, or the
parties’ own contract).) Since Harris pled that his services created
significant value for Derulo, but Harris has not been appropriately compensated,
the cause of action must stand.
 
The court finds Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a claim for
quantum meruit. “ ‘”The measure of recovery in quantum meruit is the reasonable
value of the services rendered provided they were of direct benefit to the
defendant.”[Citations.]’ (Ibid.) In other words, quantum meruit is
equitable payment for services already rendered.” (E.J. Franks Construction,
Inc. v. Sahota (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1123, 1128.) The complaint alleges
specific performances Harris provided to defendant, including meeting with
various publishing companies regarding a potential book deal for Derulo,
advising Derulo and representing his interests in negotiations with Adobe
Software, which resulted in a brand deal for Derulo, and so on. (FAC ¶56.) While
a portion of the complaint may rely on engagements that arose during Plaintiff’s
time as manager regardless of whether he was involved at all, “[a] demurrer is
not the appropriate vehicle to challenge a portion of a cause of action
demanding an improper remedy.” (Caliber Bodyworks, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 365, 384-85.)
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.

 
Accounting
 
Defendant demurs to the fourth cause of action for accounting on
the grounds the accounting claim depends entirely on Plaintiff having stated
viable claims for breach of contract, promissory estoppel, and quantum meruit. 
 
As the court has overruled the demurrer to the breach of contract,
promissory estoppel, and quantum meruit causes of action, Defendant’s demurrer
to the fourth cause of action for accounting is OVERRULED. 
 
Declaratory Relief 
 
Defendant demurs to the fifth cause of action for declaratory
relief on the grounds Harris’ claim for declaratory relief is duplicative of
his claim for breach of contract. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1060 provides that “Any person
interested . . . under a contract, . . . may, in cases of actual controversy
relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties, bring an
original action or cross-complaint in the superior court for a declaration of
his or her rights and duties . . . including a determination of any question of
construction or validity arising under the instrument or contract.”
(Emphasis added.) 
 
Defendant argues a declaratory relief action will not lie to
determine issues raised in other causes of action before the court as “the
object of the [declaratory relief] statute is to afford a new form of relief
where needed and not to furnish a litigant with a second cause of action for
the determination of identical issues.” (California Ins. Guar, Ass ‘n v.
Sup. Ct. (Jakes) (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 1617, 1623-1624.) As such, Harris’
claim for declaratory relief is duplicative of his claim for breach of contract
in that it is merely another attempt to validate the unwritten terms of his
alleged oral agreement. 
 
The court disagrees. Demurrer is appropriate when “an alleged
cause of action adds nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory of
recovery, containing only allegations of other causes of action.” (Cisco
Systems, Inc. v. STMicroelectronics, Inc. (2014) 77 F.Supp.3d 887, 896; see
also Rodrigues v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501
[sustaining, without leave to amend, demurrer to a cause of action entirely
duplicative of preceding causes of action].) The breach of contract cause
of action focuses on the $1 million in commissions and the declaratory relief
cause of action focuses on future revenue that Derulo will receive from
engagements, agreements, and contracts entered into while Harris was acting as
Derulo’s manager.   
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action is
OVERRULED. 