 Case Number:  22VECV01364    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  W JANET YONJUNG
JHA v. SMAN TONYALA, et al.
 
MOTIONS BY PLAINTIFF
JANET YONJUNG JHA FOR ORDER COMPELLING RESPONSES OF DEFENDANTS SMAN TONYALA AND
BUAKAI TONYALA TO PLAINTIFF'S FIRST SET OF REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
AND FIRST SET OF FORM INTERROGATORIES and Defendants Sman Tonyala and Buakai
Tonyala’s Motions to Set Aside Order Deeming Requests for Admissions, Set One,
Admitted
 
Date of Hearing:        January
19, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV01364
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 19, 2022, Plaintiff Janet
Yonjung Jha filed a first amended complaint against Defendants Sman Tonyala and
Buakai Tonyala asserting causes of action for specific performance and breach
of written agreement. Plaintiff alleges on August 30, 2022, Plaintiff, as
buyer, and Defendants, as sellers, entered into a California Residential
Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions (the "Agreement"),
pursuant to which Plaintiff agreed to purchase and Defendants agreed to sell
for a total purchase price of $900,000.00 certain residential real property.
However, on September 6, 2022, Plaintiff alleges Defendants, through their
broker and agent, expressly repudiated the Agreement by unequivocally notifying
Plaintiff that Defendants would refuse to perform their obligations under the
Agreement and to sell the Subject Property to Plaintiff.
 
Defendants filed a cross-complaint
against Plaintiff, Federico Cabral, Mission Real Estate, Inc. and Gerardo
“Jerry” Ascencio on November 28, 2022, asserting causes of action for
indemnification, apportionment of fault, declaratory relief, intentional infliction
of emotional distress, fraud in the inducement and misrepresentation,
conspiracy, elder abuse, breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, and breach of fiduciary duty. Defendants filed a
Second Amended cross-complaint on November 15, 2023 to allege 1. fraudulent inducement
2. financial elder abuse 3. breach of fiduciary duty 4. constructive fraud5.
declaratory relief. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants Sman Tonyala and Buakai
Tonyala’s Motions to Set Aside Order Deeming Requests for Admissions, Set One,
Admitted are GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff Janet Yonjung Jha’s Motions
for Order Compelling Responses of Defendants Sman Tonyala and Buakai Tonyala to
Plaintiff's First Set of Requests for Production of Documents and Form
Interrogatories are MOOT.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.                   
DEFENDANTS SMAN
TONYALA AND BUAKAI TONYALA’S MOTIONS TO SET ASIDE ORDER DEEMING REQUESTS FOR
ADMISSIONS, SET ONE, ADMITTED
 
Defendants Sman Tonyala and Buakai Tonyala move the court for an
order setting aside the Court’s September 11, 2023 order deeming admitted
Requests for Admissions, Set One (RFAs I), propounded by Plaintiff Janet
Yonjung Ja on Defendants. 
 
The court may permit withdrawal or amendment of an admission only
if it determines that the admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect, and that the party who obtained the admission will not be
substantially prejudiced in maintaining that party's action or defense on the
merits.” (CCP § 2033.300(b).) “The court may impose conditions on the granting
of the motion that are just, including, but not limited to, the following: (1)
An order that the party who obtained the admission be permitted to pursue
additional discovery related to the matter involved in the withdrawn or amended
admission. (2) An order that the costs of any additional discovery be borne in
whole or in part by the party withdrawing or amending the admission.” (CCP §
2033.300(c)(1)-(2).)  
 
“[A]ny doubts in ruling on a motion to withdraw or amend an
admission must be resolved in favor of the moving party.” (New Albertsons,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1408 (the record did
not “clearly establish” the mistake in admitting the matter was inexcusable or
show the withdrawal of the admission would prejudice the other party).)  Such requirement comports with the policy in
favor of trial being held on the merits. (Id.) “The court's discretion
to deny a motion under [CCP § 2033.300] is limited to circumstances where it is
clear that the mistake, inadvertence, or neglect was inexcusable, or where it
is clear that the withdrawal or amendment would substantially prejudice the
party who obtained the admission in maintaining that party's action or defense
on the merits.” (Id. at 1420-21; see also Wilcox v. Birtwhistle
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 973 (By permitting relief, . . . we eliminate such
undeserved windfalls [caused by a party’s failure to timely respond to RFAs] and
the resulting subversion of the policy favoring the resolution of lawsuits on
the merits.)
 
Defendants contend they are hard of
hearing, speak poor English, and understand it even more poorly and require
translation. However, none of the document served upon the pro per Tonyalas in
this proceeding have been translated to Thai for them. It was not until their
daughter realized how prejudiced they were and found counsel to get involved in
the case that they understood their obligations with respect to discovery
responses.  As such, Defendants’ failure understand
the legal documents served upon them and take action in response was mistake,
inadvertence and excusable neglect for unsophisticated foreign 80+ year old
retirees in poor health. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
Tonyalas have failed to present any basis for granting their motion. Plaintiff
contends the Tonyalas clearly understood their obligation to respond to the
RFAs as their daughter, Ms. Rowe, requested additional time to respond to the
RFAs. Moreover, the motion clearly spelled out the consequences of failing to
provide responses to the RFAs. Yet no opposition was filed to the motion and
neither the Tonyalas nor Ms. Rowe appeared at the hearing on the motion.
Plaintiff also contends the fact that the Tonyalas were in pro per until
recently is no excuse. (See Stover v. Bruntz (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 19,
31.) Plaintiff states if the court decides to grant the motion, the granting of
the motion should be conditioned on the Tonyalas' paying Jha $22,305.00. 
 
The court finds excusable neglect. In Stover,
the pro per plaintiff argued the court “should have set the deemed admissions
aside because as a pro per litigant she was unfamiliar with the discovery
statutes.” (Stover, supra, 12 Cal.App.5th at p. 31.) The Court of
Appeal rejected this argument and refused to afford pro per litigants “greater
consideration than other litigants and attorneys.” (Id.) The Court of
Appeal found the plaintiff “was not entitled to disregard the rules for timely
responding to discovery and she was not immune from the consequences of a
failure to do so.” (Id.) Stover is distinguishable, however, as
here defendants do not merely state that they were self-represented as an
explanation of their mistake and neglect; they also present evidence of their
advanced age, ill- health and lack of even basic understanding of English.  The court has had the opportunity observe
them in court and finds their claims about their language abilities and
advanced age credible; neither has appeared to understand the proceedings even
when assisted by their daughter and a Thai interpreter.  Accordingly, the court finds that they have
established mistake or excusable neglect. 

 
As for Plaintiff’s request for fees/costs, Plaintiff requests: $1,777.50
for preparing the RFAs, $1,442.50 as awarded in the motion to compel, $6,320.00
for preparing an MSJ based on Defendants’ admissions, $2,765.00 for preparing
the instant opposition, and $10,000 to take depositions of the Tonyalas on
facts previously established by the deemed admitted RFAs. Section
2033.300(c)(2) provides: “The court may impose conditions on the granting of the motion
that are just, including, but not limited to, the following: (2) An order that
the costs of any additional discovery be borne in whole or in part by the party
withdrawing or amending the admission.”  (C.C.P. Section 2033.010 See also Rhule v.
WaveFront Technology, Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1223.)   The
court grants the request in the reduced amount of $8,000, which constitutes reasonable
attorney fees for preparing the motion for summary judgment based on the RFAs
and for preparing the instant opposition. 
The court does not find any further sanction justified or reasonable.
Defendants remain separately responsible for the sanctions previously ordered
in the amount of $1442.50. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants Sman Tonyala
and Buakai Tonyala’s Motions to Set Aside Order Deeming Requests for
Admissions, Set One, Admitted are GRANTED. 
 
II.                 
PLAINTIFF JANET
YONJUNG JHA’S MOTIONS FOR ORDER COMPELLING RESPONSES OF DEFENDANTS SMAN TONYALA
AND BUAKAI TONYALA TO PLAINTIFF'S FIRST SET OF REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF
DOCUMENTS AND FORM INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Plaintiff Janet Yonjung Jha’s motions
for Order Compelling Responses of Defendants Sman Tonyala and Buakai Tonyala to
Plaintiff's First Set of Requests for Production of Documents and Form
Interrogatories are MOOT. On December 18, 2023, both Defendants’ responses to
Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One, as well as production of D1-172, were served. (Kim Decl. ¶3, Exhs. 1-5.) 
 
Plaintiff still request monetary
sanctions against the Tonyalas in the amount of $1,305.00. The court grants Plaintiff’s
request. 