 Case Number:  21STCV37834    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  B Hearing: 11/26/2024Re: 21STCV37834 Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Augment or Amend Expert Witness List[TENTATIVE] RULING:Plaintiff’s motion for leave to augment or amend their expert witness list is DENIED.I. BACKGROUNDOn October 13, 2021, Plaintiff Rancho Palos Verdes Estates Community Association (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint for damages and injunction against Defendants Giovanni Funiciello (“Giovanni”), Christina Funiciello (“Christina”), CSI Services (“CSI”), Frank Colaruotolo (“Colaruotolo”), and Does 1 to 10 (collectively “Defendants”).Plaintiff is a homeowners association (“HOA”) that owns, occupies, and controls the common area of Rancho Palos Verdes Estates Community (“RPVE”). (Complaint ¶ 1.) RPVE is a gated community whose entrance lies south of Crest Road. (Ibid.)Giovanni and Christina Funiciello own a home north of Crest Road, across the street from RPVE. (Complaint ¶ 2.) Plaintiff alleges that five utility poles have been on the Funiciello property since at least 2004 and that, in 2019, Defendants began work to move at least three of these poles to RPVE’s property. (Ibid. at ¶¶ 7 and 8.) As a result, Plaintiff seeks damages and an injunction.On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for leave to augment their expert witness list.On June 7, 2024, the case was reassigned to the Honorable Karen Moskowitz in Department B of Van Nuys Courthouse East, effective June 24, 2024.On May 16, 2024, Giovanni and Christina (hereinafter “the Funiciellos”) filed their opposition.On May 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed their reply.II. LEGAL STANDARDTo obtain leave to amend or augment an expert witness list, moving party must show either that (1) it could not have been expected in the exercise of reasonable diligence to call the expert at the time of the original exchange, or (2) the failure was through mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect. (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 2034.620(c).) Further, the Court must consider any prejudice to the opposing parties caused by reliance on the initial expert information of the witnesses already provided. (CCP § 2034.620(a) and (b).) As such, relief must be sought promptly after deciding to call the expert. (CCP § 2034.620(c)(2)(A).)The type of cognizable prejudice which the Court considers is opposing party’s reliance on a previous list of experts, such that they are not prepared and cannot be prepared in time for trial.(Dickison v. Howen (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1471, 1479.) Courts do not weigh that new experts might give testimony unfavorable to the opposing party. (Ibid.) “The decision to grant relief from the failure to designate an expert witness is addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court. . .” (Ibid. at 1476.)“A motion under subdivision (a) shall be made at a sufficient time in advance of the time limit for the completion of discovery under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010) to permit the deposition of any expert to whom the motion relates to be taken within that time limit. Under exceptional circumstances, the court may permit the motion to be made at a later time.” (CCP § 2034.610(b).) Additionally, the motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under § 2016.040. (CCP § 2034.610(c).)III. ANALYSISMeet and ConferPlaintiff’s counsel fails to provide a meet and confer declaration pursuant to § 2034.610(c). Therefore, Plaintiff fails to meet the statutory requirements for a motion to augment or amend their expert witness list pursuant to § 2034.610. As a result, Plaintiff’s motion is denied.Notwithstanding this procedural defect, the Court chooses to discuss the merits of Plaintiff’s motion.Plaintiff’s BurdenPlaintiff seeks to designate David Marcus, Esq. (“Marcus”) as a replacement for expert witness Larry Lawrence Lacombe (“Lacombe”). (Rees Decl. ¶ 13.) Lacombe is a land title expert. (Lacombe Decl. ¶ 1.) Lacombe contacted Plaintiff’s counsel on February 20, 2024, to resign from the case for reasons that cannot be disclosed due to attorney-client privilege. (Rees Decl. ¶¶ 6 and 7.) Lacombe declares that his resignation had nothing to do with anticipated testimony. (Lacombe Decl. ¶ 3.)Plaintiff argues that they could not have been expected, through reasonable diligence, to designate Marcus as an expert witness at the time of the parties’ witness exchange. Plaintiff only seeks to add Marcus as a substitute for previously designated expert Lacombe, who unexpectedly resigned from the case. (See Rees Decl. ¶¶ 6 and 7; Lacombe Decl. ¶ 3.)Plaintiff promptly sought relief after deciding to substitute Marcus. Plaintiff learned of Lacombe’s unavailability on February 20, 2024. (Rees Decl. ¶ 7.) On February 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application for permission to augment their expert witness designation to identify a new title expert. (Ibid. at ¶ 9.) Plaintiff also asked for a trial continuance. On February 24, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s ex parte application without prejudice and granted leave for Plaintiff to seek relief through a regularly noticed motion. (Ibid. at ¶ 11.) The Court continued the trial date to June 20, 2024. (Ibid.) On May 30, 2024, the Court advanced andvacated the trial, determining that the action was erroneously filed as a personal injury matter and required transferring to an independent calendar court. (See May 30, 2024, Minute Order.) A new trial date has yet to be set.Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff has met their burden under CCP § 2034.610.Prejudice to DefendantsThe Court now considers possible prejudice to Defendants.Defense counsel argues that Plaintiff is attempting to replace their land title expert with a seasoned trial lawyer, poised to advocate for Plaintiff’s position from the witness stand “under the guise of an expert witness.” (Opposition p. 2:4-8.) To support their argument, defense counsel notes that Plaintiff failed to disclose their initial expert list.Plaintiff’s initial expert disclosure, provided by defense counsel, states that Lacombe may testify on “the plaintiff’s rights in the destroyed trees and the land where the trees were located.” (Bortz Decl. Exh. B [Plaintiff’s initial expert disclosure].) On the other hand, Marcus’s designation states that he may testify as to any issue within his expertise, including “disputes regarding easements, boundaries, trees, forged instruments, mechanic’s liens, priorities of liens, and breach of contract and bad faith claims against title insurance companies.” (Rees Decl. Exh. 2 [augmented expert designation].)Plaintiff’s designation of Marcus as an expert witness would unduly prejudice Defendants. Marcus is a trial attorney with decades of experience, while Lacombe is a vice president at a title insurance company. Therefore, their expertise vastly differs, making Marcus an ill-suited replacement for Lacombe.IV. CONCLUSIONAccordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to augment or amend their expert witness list is DENIED on both procedural and substantive grounds.Moving party is ordered to give notice.