 Case Number:  22STCV36634    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      November 7, 2024                                       TRIAL DATE:  November
10, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Jane Doe C.L. v. Doe 1, A Public Entity
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV36634
 





















 
MOTION
TO QUASH AND/OR MODIFY SUBPOENAS TO MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. COMMUNITY HOSPITAL,
TO CONCENTRA URGENT CARE, AND TO
KAISER
PERMANENTE-CENTRAL ROI UNIT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Jane
Doe C.L.
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
            On November
21, 2022, Plaintiff, Jane Doe C.L., initiated this action against Defendant,
Doe 1, a public entity, and Does 2 through 50, for childhood sexual assault and
abuse that occurred in 1974 or 1975.  On
March 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the Complaint naming Los Angeles
Unified School District (LAUSD) as Doe 1. 
She asserts causes of actions for (1) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and
Retention Based on Government Code Sections 815.2 and 820, (2) Failure to
Report Suspected Child Abuse (Government Code Sections 815.2, 815.6, and 820),
(3) Negligent Supervision of a Minor Government Code Sections 815.2 and 820, and
(4) Negligence (against Does 41 through 50). 

 
            In relevant
part, the Complaint alleges that Plaintiff was sexually assaulted and molested
by her schoolteacher Thomas DeWitt (“DeWitt”). 
Dewitt was an employee of the LAUSD at the 68th Street Elementary School.  At the time of the alleged assaults,
Plaintiff was eight or nine years old. 
The Complaint further alleges that administrators, teachers, and staff
at the school received complaints and warnings about DeWitt’s improper
behavior, including that DeWitt used his position of trust and authority to
sexually assault female students, that DeWitt inappropriately touched female
students, that DeWitt was overly close with female students, and other
complaints of a similar nature.  However,
LAUSD failed to investigate DeWitt’s conduct or to adequately supervise him.  Plaintiff alleges that she suffered physical
and emotional injuries.
 
On August 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Quash and/or
Modify Subpoenas to Martin Luther King Jr. Community Hospital, to Concentra
Urgent Care, and to Kaiser Permanente-Central ROI Unit.
 
On October 25, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition.
 
On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD


If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands such as unreasonable violations of the right
of privacy.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
 
III.         DISCUSSION 
Defendant’s subpoena seeks medical documents
from Plaintiff’s medical providers, Martin Luther King Jr. Community Hospital (MLK),
Concentra Urgent Care (Concentra), and Kaiser Permanente-Central ROI Unit (KP).  The subpoenas seek Plaintiff’s medical and
billing records from the last twenty years. 
Plaintiff challenges the subpoenas on the following grounds: (1) the
information sought is privileged and invasive of Plaintiff’s constitutional
right to privacy; and (2) the subpoenas are overbroad in scope.  Because Plaintiff’s privacy and overbreadth
arguments are one in the same, the court addresses them together.
Privacy
The right of privacy of individuals
is protected by the California Constitution. (Cal. Const., Art. I, § 1.) In
ruling on discovery motions, the Court must balance the privacy claims of the
responding party with the requesting party’s need for the information. (Schnabel
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 718-722.)  In Hill v.
National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35, the California
Supreme Court fashioned a framework for evaluating potential invasions of
privacy.  The party asserting the right
of privacy must establish (1) a “legally protected privacy interest”; (2) an
“objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances”; and
(3) a “threatened intrusion that is serious.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 552 (Williams).) 
If Plaintiff meets this standard, Defendant must then show that the
requested documents are “directly relevant” to the litigation.[1]
   
Defendant agrees Plaintiff
satisfies the threshold requirements under Hill.  Nonetheless, Defendant argues the balancing
test favors disclosure of Plaintiff’s insurance records, medical, records,
bills, claims files, and any other documents contained within the insurance
company’s files because the subpoenas are directly relevant to investigate
Plaintiff’s claims of injuries as a result of Defendant’s alleged conduct. 
            In her reply, Plaintiff states she
supplemented her responses to Defendant’s discovery requests and now asserts “substantial emotional and
mental injuries, including, but not limited to, feelings of depression, severe
anxiety, and feelings of mistrust and frustration, sadness, social anxiety,
grief, sleep issues, among others”. 
(Shakh Decl. ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff did
not indicate she obtained any treatments for physical or emotional injuries,
let alone at the medical facilities that are the subject of Defendant’s
subpoenas.  For this reason, Plaintiff
argues the subpoenas are not relevant to discover any treatments to the
foregoing injuries. 
 
Based on the filings in connection to this
issue, the court is inclined to modify the subpoenas to track Plaintiff’s
asserted injuries: namely, depression, severe anxiety, and feelings of mistrust
and frustration, sadness, social anxiety, grief, sleep issues.  By filing this lawsuit, Plaintiff has waived, at least
partly, her rights to privacy. Plaintiff cannot prevent discovery simply
because she did not seek treatment for her alleged injuries.  The records sought by the subpoenas would
still be relevant to ascertain, for example, whether there were other causes
for Plaintiff’s injuries.  Further, although
the court recognizes that twenty years of records is a significant intrusion,
the unique facts of this case warrant discovery into this time period.  Plaintiff was 57 years old at the time of the
filing of this lawsuit.  The alleged
abuse occurred when she was 8 or 9 years old. 
Given this background, 20 years is not an unreasonable time period.
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
The Motion to Quash is GRANTED in part, and DENIED in part.  The court modifies the subpoenas to seeks
records tailored to Plaintiff’s injuries: depression, severe anxiety, and feelings of mistrust and frustration,
sadness, social anxiety, grief, sleep issues.
 
Plaintiff to give notice, unless waived.  
 
Dated:   November 7,
2024                                      




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 


