 Case Number:  23NWCV02922    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  C GARIBAY VS. CINTAS
CORPORATE SERVICES, INC.
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV02922
HEARING:  4/24/24 @ 9:30 A.M.
 
#7
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Plaintiff-in-Intervention’s
motion for leave to file complaint-in-intervention is GRANTED.
 
Moving
Party to give NOTICE.
 
The
motion is unopposed as of April 19, 2024. 
 
 
This is a slip-and-fall case. On November 5,
2022, Plaintiff slipped and fell due to wet mats while he was at Thyssenkrupp –
Copper & Brass Sales at 13338 Order Drive, Santa Fe Springs, California
90670. Defendant Cintas Corporate Services, Inc. allegedly negligently set wet
mats and did not use reasonable care to prevent harm to Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff-in-Intervention Sentry Casualty
Company seeks leave to intervene in the complaint based on Labor Code section
3853 and Code of Civil Procedure section 387. 
 
Discussion
 
“A
nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or
ex parte application.  The petition shall include a copy of the proposed
complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds
upon which intervention rests.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).) 
 
“The
court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the
action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: 
 
(A)¿A
provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene. 
(B)¿The person seeking
intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is
the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition
of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that
interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or
more of the existing parties.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 387, subd. (d)(1).) 
 
Where
an employee brings an action for damages proximately caused by a third person,
an employer who pays or becomes obligated to pay compensation, or salary in
lieu of compensation, may likewise make a claim or bring an action against the
third person.  (Lab. Code, § 3852.)  “[T]he employer may recover in
the same suit, in addition to the total amount of compensation, damages for
which he or she was liable including all salary, wage, pension, or other
emolument paid to the employee or to his or her dependents.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“A
workers’ compensation carrier is authorized to attempt recovery of benefits
paid either through the maintenance of an independent action (Lab. Code, §
3852), intervention in the employee’s action (Lab. Code, § 3853), or assertion
of lien rights in the employee’s recovery (Lab. Code, § 3856, subd.
(b).)”  (Catello v. I.T.T. General Controls (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d
1009, 1015, fn. 7.) 
 
Sentry
Casualty Company seeks leave to file a complaint-in-intervention on grounds
that Copper and Brass Sales, a division of Thyssenkrupp Materials, N.A., Inc. as
Plaintiff’s employer, has a legal right to intervene and Sentry Casualty
Company is subrogated to the rights of Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s
employer.  
 
In
support, Sentry Casualty Company offers a declaration from its counsel who
states that Sentry Casualty Company is the workers’ compensation carrier that
insures Plaintiff’s employer, Copper and Brass Sales. (Decl. Salley, ¶ 3.) 
Sentry Casualty Company has become obligated to pay workers’ compensation
benefits to Plaintiff pursuant to the workers’ compensation laws of the state
of California. (Decl. Salley, ¶ 5.)  
 
Based on the above, the
motion is granted. Intervenor shall separately file
the complaint in intervention and serve notice of the court’s decision” to
parties who have appeared. (Code Civ. Proc. § 387, subd. (e).) 
 