 On March 6, 2023, Plaintiff AMAG, Inc. filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) fraudulent conversion, (2) misrepresentation, (3) constructive fraud, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, and (5) declaratory relief.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Vlaze Media Networks, Inc. sought to avoid the judgment against it in case no. BC587406 by fraudulently transferring certain assets to the other Defendants or with the help of the other Defendants.   On May 1, 2023, Anastasiia Arseneva filed the operative Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) for (1) breach of written contract, (2) quantum meruit, (3) violation of Pen. Code §§ 528.5, 529, and (4) declaratory relief. There are now 6 Motions to Compel Further Responses at issue.Motion -089 Arseneva seeks to compel further responses to her requests for admission, set two, propounded on Omar Zambrano. The Motion is denied because Arseneva did not meet and confer in good faith.  Rather, she sent out a meet and confer letter and then filed the instant Motion the next day.  This is plainly insufficient.Motion -636 Arseneva seeks to compel further responses to her requests for production propounded on Zambrano.   This Motion is untimely.  The Motion must be filed within 45 of receiving responses.  (CCP § 2031.310(c).)  Even taking into account the later email service date of January 24, 2024, for the subject responses, the deadline to file the instant Motion was March 13, 2024, when the Motion was actually filed much later on May 13, 2024.  Thus, the Motion is denied.Motion -391Arseneva seeks to compel further responses to her requests for admission, set one, and form interrogatories from Zambrano.The Motion is granted as to RFA nos. 19-20, 22-23 and 25 because it is not apparent that Zambrano ever actually supplemented his responses as promised.  A further response should be provided as Zambrano promised: “A reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in the particular request has been made, and that information know[n] or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable that party to admit the matter.”The Motion is granted as to RFA no. 29 because the scope of discovery is broad and whether Cubas used multiple social security numbers might ultimately lead to admissible evidence with respect to the forgery claims against Cubas.The Motion is denied as to RFA no. 31/34 which states: “Admit that YOU applied for a loan from All Star financial, which was guaranteed by Marc Cubas.”  Arseneva has failed to establish that a response could lead to admissible evidence.The Motion is granted as to RFA no. 35, which states, “Admit that Anastasiia Arseneva paid for YOUR charges, for services, to Northwest Registered Agent LLC.”  The scope of discovery is broad and Zambrano’s arguments are irrelevant and/or seek to reframe the RFA.The Form Interrogatories (“FIs”) all seek information about Arseneva’s alleged contracts.  The Motion is denied as to all FIs because Zambrano’s response denying the existence of any contract was sufficient, as was the objection about the term “incident” having no application to this matter.In sum, the Motion is granted in part as set forth herein.  Further responses are to be provided within 20 days.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Motion -331 Zambrano seeks to compel further responses to his requests for admission, set one, from Arseneva. Request no. 5 states, “Admit that YOU have no evidence that OMAR ZAMBRANO forged YOUR signature to any document.”   The Response was that “Responding party lacks information and belief sufficient to determine the truth or falsity of the request despite a reasonable inquiry into the matter.”  This is insufficient.  Trial is impending.  Arseneva should either admit or deny the request.   The response to Request no. 8 is insufficient for the same reasons. Request nos. 18-19 state, “Admit that at no time were YOU on the payroll of any of the entities named in YOUR SAC” or on the payroll of Zambrano/Zambrano Law.  The Motion is denied as to these requests because Arseneva properly denied the requests and the objections are superfluous and irrelevant.  These objections are hereby stricken.  The Motion is granted in part as set forth herein.  Further responses are to be served within 5 days.  If a verification is still outstanding, that too must be provided.  Motion -727 Zambrano seeks to compel further responses to his special interrogatories (“SI”), set one, from Arseneva.   The Motion is granted as to SI nos. 68-69, which seek the identity of Arseneva’s cell phone carrier and all documents that would show this.  The objections lack merit.The Motion is granted as to SI nos. 70-76, which relate to Arseneva’s allegations that she has large tax liabilities due to Cross-Defendants’ fraudulent actions.  The objections lack merit.The Motion is granted as to SI no. 77 because Arseneva should indicate a date and not only the time of the incident.  In sum, the Motion is granted.  Arseneva is to provide further responses within 20 days.Motion -159 Arseneva seeks to compel further responses to her requests for production nos. 1-13 from Sydney Cubas.  Arseneva submitted a 108-page separate statement for these 13 requests.   The requests at issue seek: (1) all documents and videos that show the subject office burglary; (2) all documents or videos that show that the burglary suspect was a woman that looks like Arseneva; (3) video surveillance of the burglary; (4) all telephone records of a report about the burglary to the police; (5) all telephone records of a report about the burglary to an insurance company; (6) all emails about the burglary; (7) all text messages about the burglary; (8) all hard drives or thumb drives having videos and matters pertaining to the burglary; (9)-(11) duplicative and vexatious requests for videos; (12) all communications about the burglary; and (13) all ESI that pertains to the burglary.  In response, Sydney argues that she emailed her seven surveillance videos to Arseneva and that when Arseneva complained that she couldn’t open them, Sydney then delivered a thumb drive of all the videos. In Reply, Arseneva, in typical unhelpful fashion, ignores the contention about a thumb drive and continues to complain about inaccessible emails. Because a thumb drive was apparently delivered, the Motion is denied as to request nos. 1-3 and 9-13. For request nos. 4-8, Sydney responded that: “RESPONDING PARTY conducted a diligent search and made reasonable inquiries in an attempt to comply with the request but is unable to produce any Documents in her possession, custody, or control that are responsive to this request. and RESPONDING PARTY will comply with this request. RESPONDING PARTY has never possessed any non-privileged Documents that are responsive to this request.” For these requests, Sydney should indicate, if possible, the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.  (CCP § 2031.230.)  Also, if there are privileged documents, then Sydney should provide a general basis and explanation for the existence of the privilege.   The Motion is granted in part as set forth herein.  Further responses are to be provided within 20 days.  The Court declines to award sanctions. Zambrano to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 