 Case Number:  22STCV33331    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
Hearing Date: 12/6/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV33331 ASEMASH GEBRU vs
MICHAEL WIRANEGARA
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: GRANTED 
 
On October 12, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present auto accident case. On March 27, 2024, the Court
issued an order stating “There is no proof that the Defendant(s) has/have been
served in this action,” and scheduled an Order to Show Cause Re: Failure to
File Proof of Service/Alternatively Trial Setting Conference for October 14,
2024. The Court indicated that if no proof of service was filed by the next
court date, the case might be dismissed pursuant to CCP §§ 581(g), 583.410, and
583.420(a)(1), as well as California Rules of Court, rule 3.110(f).
On October 14, 2024, no
proof of service had been filed, and the Court dismissed the case pursuant to
various statues including CCP § 583.420(a), which permits dismissal if service
is not made within two years after the action is commenced against the
defendant. On October 24, 2024, Plaintiff moved the Court for reconsideration
based on new facts. 
Plaintiff’s counsel
submitted a declaration and documents indicating that Plaintiff has been
engaged in settlement discussions with Defendant's insurer, Farmers Insurance,
since shortly after the incident in 2021. These negotiations have continued
through 2024, partly due to delays stemming from Plaintiff's ongoing medical
treatment and associated complications. Notably, Plaintiff’s medical care was
interrupted because she hesitated to continue chiropractic treatment during the
COVID-19 pandemic.
Upon receiving the
Court’s March 2024 order indicating that the case might be dismissed if no
proof of service was filed, Plaintiff's counsel demonstrated diligence in
attempting to serve Defendant. Counsel engaged a seasoned process server and
investigator to locate Defendant. Recognizing the difficulty of serving
Defendant at the address provided at the time of the accident, the investigator
initiated a statewide search to determine Defendant’s current residence. These
efforts revealed that Defendant had moved out of the Los Angeles area and was
residing in Washington State. On October 11, 2024, just days before the
scheduled order to show cause hearing, the investigator successfully identified
Defendant’s current address. Steps were being taken to retain a local process
server when the Court dismissed the case.
Plaintiff has
introduced new facts and evidence demonstrating diligence in prosecuting this
case, facts that were not available to or relied upon by the Court when it made
its prior decision. Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for
reconsideration and vacates its October 14, 2024, order of dismissal.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 