 Case Number:  22STCV03287    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  27 MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT¿ 
Hearing Date: 12/6/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV03287 KATHRYN
LEWIS vs ZOE DIMME-ALEXEFF, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendants Malibu
Triathlon Productions, LLC; USA Triathlon of Colorado; USA Triathlon; Brennan
Lindner; and Generic Events, the event organizers 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
 
Ruling:  The Court will hear from
the parties re below 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT¿ Hearing Date: 12/6/24¿ CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV03287 KATHRYN LEWIS vs ZOE DIMME-ALEXEFF, et al. Moving Party: Defendants Malibu Triathlon Productions, LLC; USA Triathlon of Colorado; USA Triathlon; Brennan Lindner; and Generic Events, the event organizers Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ Notice: Sufficient¿  Ruling:  The Court will hear from the parties re below  The Court has the following questions/arguments that it would like the parties to address: 1. Is it fair to state that ultimately the issue here is the following: whether Plaintiff has raised a sufficient basis for a trier of fact to find that Defendants were grossly negligent? 2. Plaintiff requested more time for discovery to fully oppose this MSJ.  What, if anything, did Plaintiff learn from that discovery that should be significant to the Court’s ruling?  What, if anything, did Defendants learn? 3. The parties appear to differ on whether the accident occurred at the location that a flagger was supposed be – Defedants, in particular, emphasize that the flagger would have been 200 feet away and across PCH.  Please discuss and provide specific references to evidence the Court should consider in determining the facts related to flagger location vis-a-vis the incident. 4. Defendants appear to contend that the use of the word flagger vs. volunteer was simply an issue of “renaming.”  That seems unlikely given that various witnesses testified in such a way as to distinguish a flagger from a volunteer.  Please provide argument. 5. Plaintiff contends that: (1) "Had the highly visible and trained flagger been present at the location as required, they would have ensured the signage was properly placed according to the plan and not removed early; their presence would have deterred drivers from attempting to make an illegal U-turn, and they would have been able to actively stop and redirect drivers in the act of making an illegal U-turn" and (2) "Had the flagger been present at the location as required, they would have observed Ms. Dimmel-Alexeff stopped perpendicular to the highway...and would have been able to stop and redirect them from completing the illegal U-turn." These contentions appear to be entirely speculative and also dependent on flagger location as referenced above.  Please address. 6. Gross negligence requires conduct that reflects either a "want of even scant care" or "an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of conduct." (City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 754.)  In the present case, Defendants implemented various safety measures, such as barricades, cones, signs, and police presence, to ensure participant safety during the triathlon. While trained flaggers were not provided, volunteers were stationed at key locations, demonstrating that Defendants took efforts to address safety concerns.  How does this amount to “want of even scant care”? The parties are free to make any other arguments that they believe will clarify their positions, but the Court does not want them to simply re-argue what is in their briefing – the Court has read their briefing. 