 Case Number:  23STCV20307    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH
SETTLEMENT 
Hearing Date: 12/6/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV20307 IVAN JAVIER
BURGOS et al. vs KENNETH PANITZ et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff Ivan Burgos 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
 
Ruling: GRANTED 
 
Legal Standard
 
CCP section 877.6(a)(1) provides that “[a]ny
party to an action wherein it is alleged that two or more parties are joint
tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on
the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . .
and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .” (Code. Civ. Proc.,
§ 877.6(a)(1).) “A determination by the court that the settlement was made in
good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further
claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.”¿(Id.,
§ 877.6(c).)¿Although a determination that a settlement was
in good faith does not discharge any other party from liability, “it shall reduce the claims against the others
in the amount stipulated” by the settlement.¿(Id.,
§ 877(a).) 
Factors to consider in determining if a
settlement was made in good faith include “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’
total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability, the amount paid in
settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial.”¿(Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)¿“Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and
insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of
nonsettling defendants.”¿(Id.)¿ 
The evaluation of whether a settlement was
made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of information
available at the time of settlement.”¿(Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)¿“[A] court not only looks at the alleged tortfeasor’s potential liability to the plaintiff, but it
must also consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged to be responsible
for the same injury.”¿(TSI
Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159,
166.)¿ “Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an
important consideration for the trial court in determining whether to approve a
settlement by an alleged tortfeasor.” (Id.) 
“The party asserting the lack of good faith
shall have the burden of proof on that issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6(d).)¿The party asserting the lack of good faith can establish that the
proposed settlement was not a settlement made in good faith by showing the
settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” in relation to the Tech-Bilt
factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute.¿(Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499-500.)
 
Unopposed Motion
 
An unopposed motion for determination of good
faith of settlement need not contain a full and complete discussion of the Tech-Bilt
factors (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38
Cal.3d 488) by declaration or affidavit; rather, a bare bones motion setting
forth the grounds of good faith and a declaration containing a brief background
of the case is sufficient. (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987)
192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)
 
Discussion
 
On August 23, 2023,
Plaintiffs Ivan Burgos and Daniel Burgos filed their complaint against
Defendants Kenneth Panitz, Mirna Panitz, Parts Authority, LLC, and Steven
Mendoza. On or about September 24, 2024, Plaintiff Ivan Javier Burgos and
Defendants Kenneth Panitz and Mirna Panitz reached a settlement for the
Defendants’ policy limit of $100,000.00. Plaintiff now moves the Court for a
determination of good faith settlement. None of the other Defendants filed an
opposition to this motion.
Since the motion is
unopposed, the standard for granting it is less stringent; a simple motion
setting forth the grounds of good faith along with a declaration providing a
brief background of the case is sufficient. Plaintiff has not only satisfied
this basic requirement but has also exceeded it by discussing the various Tech-Bilt
factors in detail.
Given that the settlement
represents the policy limit of $100,000.00, Plaintiff has demonstrated that it
falls within the "reasonable range" required for a finding of good
faith. No other party filed an opposition disputing the fairness of the
settlement. 
Accordingly, the motion for
determination of good faith settlement is granted.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 