 Case Number:  23STCV09150    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES AND
DEPOSITION
Hearing Date: 12/6/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV09150 ERIK
ALCATRAZ-GONZALEZ, et al. vs JOSE LUIS AGUIRRE
Moving Party: Defendant Jose Luis
Aguirre
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: GRANTED 
 
On June 12, 2024,
Defendant Jose Luis Aguirre propounded Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and a Request for Production of Documents, Sets One, to
Plaintiff Erik Alcatraz-Gonzalez. Plaintiff’s counsel requested several
extensions to respond by August 13, 2024, citing continued difficulty in
contacting Plaintiff. After August 13, 2024, no further extension requests were
made, and no further extensions were granted. To date, Defendant has not
received any responses. Defendant now moves the court to compel initial
responses. Plaintiff did not file an opposition or any other submission to the
Court indicating that the discovery responses at issue were provided prior to
the hearing. Accordingly, the motions are granted, and Plaintiff is ordered to provide
verified and complete responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents, Sets One, without
objections, within 20 days of today.
On July 9, 2024,
Defendant served a Notice of Deposition to Plaintiff, scheduled for July 23,
2024. On July 19, 2024, Plaintiff objected to the deposition on the grounds of
unavailability and stated that the deposition was unilaterally scheduled but
promised to provide available dates. To date, Defendant has not received any
dates of availability from Plaintiff, and Plaintiff’s counsel has stated that
they have not had contact with Plaintiff since May 2024. Defendant now moves
the court to compel Plaintiff’s deposition. Plaintiff did not file an
opposition.
Defendant properly
noticed the deposition under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.210.
Plaintiff has failed to appear or provide alternative dates, despite objecting
to the initial scheduling and promising to do so. While Plaintiff’s counsel has
stated they cannot reach their client, this does not excuse Plaintiff’s
discovery obligations. Defendant is entitled to Plaintiff’s deposition to
prepare for trial. Accordingly, Plaintiff is ordered to appear for his
deposition within 20 days of today.
Defendant requests
sanctions in the amount of $1,100, which the Court finds reasonable. Further,
sanctions are mandatory, and the Court finds Plaintiff has not acted with
substantial justification. Plaintiff initiated this case but appears unwilling
to engage in discovery or communicate with his counsel. Therefore, sanctions in
the amount of $1,100 are ordered against Plaintiff only, payable within 20 days
of today. 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
Bottom of Form
 