 Case Number:  21STCV31189    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES, SET THREE 
Hearing Date: 12/6/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV31189 MARY-CARMEN GALARZA vs SUPER CENTER CONCEPTS, INC
Moving Party: Plaintiff Mary-Carmen Galarza 

Responding Party: Defendant Super Center Concepts, Inc. dba Superior Grocers
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: GRANTED in part
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DOCUMENTS 
Hearing Date: 12/6/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV31189 MARY-CARMEN GALARZA vs SUPER CENTER CONCEPTS, INC
Moving Party: Plaintiff Mary-Carmen Galarza 

Responding Party: Defendant Super Center Concepts, Inc. dba Superior Grocers
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: DENIED
 
TENTATIVE 
  
Background
On July 5, 2023,
Plaintiff Mary-Carmen Galarza (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative first amended
complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant Super Center Concepts, Inc. dba Superior
Grocers (“Defendant”) for premises liability and negligence, alleging that on
July 4, 2021, she slipped and fell on an oily substance at a Superior Grocery
store.  
On April 8, 2024,
Plaintiff propounded Specially Prepared Interrogatories, Set Three. (Sandoval
Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. C.) On June 10, 2024, Defendant served a response. (Id.,
Exh. E.) The parties agreed that motions to compel would be tolled for two
weeks after Defendant produced documents. Plaintiff asserts nothing has been
produced. (Id. ¶ 14, Exh. G.) 
Plaintiff now moves to
compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Three, number 14.
Plaintiff also moves to compel documents that were demanded in a deposition
notice; the deposition was conducted on March 20, 2024. Plaintiff also seeks
monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies.  
Meet and Confer
There have been
multiple informal discovery conferences (“IDC”) related to the issue of past
civil complaints for slip and falls at the subject store. On May 3, 2024 and
August 1, 2024, the Court held IDCs and deemed the issues resolved. However,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to follow through with its
representation that it would supplement its response. (Sandoval Decl. ¶ 13.) 
Analysis
I. Compel Further Response to Special
Interrogatories
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.300(a) provides that “on receipt of a response to interrogatories,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if
the propounding party deems that any of the following apply:¿ 
(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is
evasive or incomplete.¿ 
(2) An exercise of the option to produce documents
under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate.¿ 
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without
merit or too general.”¿ 
 
The motion must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.300(b)(1).) “Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right
to compel a further response to the interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.300(c).)¿¿ 
“The court shall impose
a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.300(d).)¿¿¿
Here, Plaintiff seeks
to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Three, number
14.  
Special Interrogatory number 14
asks: “IDENTIFY (the term “IDENTIFY” shall mean to state the full case name,
date filed, and case number) all COMPLAINTS (the term “COMPLAINT” shall mean
all civil actions filed in any courthouse) against YOU (the term “YOU” shall
mean Defendant Super Center Concepts Inc., or any of its fictitious business
names such as but not limited to Superior Grocers) for the SUBJECT STORE (the
term “SUBJECT STORE” shall refer to Superior Store #101 located at 10211 S.
Avalon Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90003) for the time period of July 4, 2016
through July 3, 2023 pertaining to any slip or falls.”
Defendant objected that
this interrogatory is overly broad, violates attorney client privilege, work
product, is not relevant, and violates a privacy right. However, Defendant also
agreed to supplement the response as outlined in the May 20, 2024 IDC.[1] 
In opposition,
Defendant concedes that it agreed to supplement this response and provide the
information on civil lawsuits relating to slip and fall incidents at the
subject store for the past five years, but has been delayed due to “changes in
Defendant’s counsel, the workload of Defendant’s counsel and of Defendant’s
representatives, the passing of Defendant’s representative who was the Person
Most Knowledgeable in this matter, the broadness and ambiguity of the initial
request, and in the need for analysis of filed lawsuits to determine which are
responsive.” (Opp., 2.) Defendant asserts it can provide the responses before
the hearing for this motion. 
Defendant’s counsel
asserts he substituted into this case on July 29, 2024. (Lara Decl. ¶ 2.)
Defendant also asserts that its claims manager, Ignacio Nunez, passed away,
which further delayed production. (Id. ¶ 4.) 
In opposition,
Defendant does not appear to object to the production, and therefore fails to
show that the objections based on attorney client privilege, work product, and
privacy, have merit. 
However, the Court
finds that complaints after the incident do not appear relevant. Here,
Plaintiff alleges the incident occurred on July 4, 2021. The Court finds that a
five-year period before the incident would be reasonable. Therefore, any
Complaints should be limited to incidents that occurred five years before July
4, 2021.  
Given the slight
modification of the interrogatory, the delays caused by Mr. Nunez’s death, and
Defendant’s representation that responses are forthcoming, the Court declines
to award sanctions. 
Therefore, the Court
GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set Three. Defendant shall provide further responses in
accordance with the findings in this order within 10 days. 
II. Compel Production from Deposition
Notice
Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.480,  
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or
to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. 
(b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” 
“If the court
determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery, it
shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the
resumption of the deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(i).)  
“The court shall impose
a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.480(j).)  
As an initial matter,
the Notice of Motion states this motion is brought under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450(a) and 2025.480(b). The memorandum in support relies
primarily on section 2025.450 which applies when a deponent fails to appear or
proceed with a deposition. Here, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant’s person most
knowledgeable, Ignacio Nunez, was deposed on March 20, 2024, but that he failed
to provide document demand number 1. Therefore, the Court finds that section
2025.480 is more appropriate since that section applies when the deponent
appears but fails to answer a question or produce any document in the demand. 
Number 1
requests: All DOCUMENTS pertaining to any slip and fall incidents at 10211 S.
Avalon Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90003 for the time period of July 4, 2016
through July 4, 2023.
In opposition,
Defendant again asserts that it will provide the relevant documents. 
However, the deposition
transcript was certified March 26, 2024. (See Pl. Exh. B.) Therefore, Plaintiff
had until May 25, 2024 to file this motion (60 days after March 26, 2024,
pursuant to section 2025.480(b)). Because the motion was not timely filed, it
is denied. (See Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th
123, 136 [the 60-day deadline is mandatory].) 

 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 


