  Case Number:  21STCV29817    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV29817




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to Amend Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Henry Leslie and Tamarra
  Williams 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
August 12, 2021, Plaintiffs Henry Leslie and Tamarra Williams (“Plaintiffs”)
filed a complaint against Gerardo Rendon Venegas, Western Freight Carrier,
Inc., and Does 1 to 50 for injuries resulting from a motor vehicle accident. On
October 25, 2021, Western Freight Carrier, Inc. (“Defendant”) filed an answer. 
 
On
January 29, 2022, Defendant Gerardo Rendon Venegas (“Decedent”) passed away. (Kim
Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 1.)
 
On January 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion for leave to
file an amended complaint to add “Estate of Decedent Gerardo Rendon Venegas,
Deceased” as a defendant. Trial is currently set for March 11, 2024. Defendant does
not oppose the motion but filed a response. Plaintiffs filed a reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Amendment
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 576, “[a]ny judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in
relevant part: “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the
time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ 
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments,
for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same
lawsuit.”¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d
1045, 1047.)¿ The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If
the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan
v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.)  Moreover, “it is an abuse of discretion for
the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or
prejudiced by the amendment.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing
party did not establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
“The court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the
action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial
(The Rutter Group 2022) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter Weil & Brown).)  Denial of a motion to amend is rarely
justified if the motion is timely made and granting the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.)  However, if the party seeking the amendment
has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge
has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at ¶ 6:655, citations
omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not grounds for denial.
“If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other
side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an
abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if sought as late as the
time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) 
“Prejudice exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial,
along with loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased
burden of discovery, etc.  . . .  But the fact that the amendment involves a
change in legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the
opposing party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.”  (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656,
citations omitted.)
 
“Even if some prejudice is shown, the judge may still permit the
amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is authorized to grant leave ‘on
such terms as may be proper.’”  (Weil
& Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.)  For example, the court may cause the party
seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in preparing for
trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del Arroyo Hotel,
42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).) 
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324:  Procedural
Requirements
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to
amend a pleading before trial must: 
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleadings,
which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments;
 
(2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be
deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and
 
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”
 
In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before
trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the
following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
 
 (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper;
 
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and
 
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
Probate Code section 550
 
Probate Code section 550 provides: “(a) Subject to the
provisions of this chapter, an action to establish the decedent's liability for
which the decedent was protected by insurance may be commenced or continued
against the decedent's estate without the need to join as a party the
decedent's personal representative or successor in interest. (b) The remedy
provided in this chapter is cumulative and may be pursued concurrently with
other remedies.” 
 
Probate Code section 552 provides: “(a) An action under
this chapter shall name as the defendant, “Estate of (name of decedent),
Deceased.” Summons shall be served on a person designated in writing by the
insurer or, if none, on the insurer. Further proceedings shall be in the name
of the estate, but otherwise shall be conducted in the same manner as if the
action were against the personal representative. …” 
 
Probate Code section 553 provides: “The insurer may deny or
otherwise contest its liability in an action under this chapter or by an
independent action. Unless the personal representative is joined as a party, a
judgment in the action under this chapter or in the independent action does not
adjudicate rights by or against the estate.” 
 
Probate Code section 554 provides: “(a) Except as provided
in subdivision (b), either the damages sought in an action under this chapter
shall be within the limits and coverage of the insurance, or recovery of
damages outside the limits or coverage of the insurance shall be waived. A
judgment in favor of the plaintiff in the action is enforceable only from the
insurance coverage and not against property in the estate.” 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, Plaintiffs have not satisfied the procedural
requirements for making this motion because they did not include a copy of the
proposed amended complaint. 
 
Plaintiffs argue they were informed of Decedent’s death in June 2023.
(Kim Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs state Defendant refused to allow leave to amend the
complaint without a trial continuance to file a motion for summary judgment.
(Id. ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs appear to argue they did not bring this motion earlier because
they were busy defending three motions in this case and attempting to mediate
the issues. (Motion, 3, Kim Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs possess verified discovery
responses from Decedent prior to his passing and assert they will be ready for
trial on the current date. However, in reply, Plaintiffs concede a short
continuance will likely be needed in order to serve Decedent’s insurer. 
 
Defendant does not oppose but asserts that this amendment will require
additional discovery on the Estate’s behalf and thus, warrant a trial
continuance. However, since Plaintiffs are pursuing this matter under Probate
Code section 550, any recovery will be limited to the Decedent’s insurance
policy, and not against property of the Estate. Regardless, the Court declines
to address Defendant’s request to continue trial without a noticed motion.  
 
Second, Defendant also notes that Plaintiffs former counsel received
notice of Decedent’s death on July 25, 2022. (Mijanovic Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs
do not address this point in reply. 
 
However, given that Plaintiff’s proposed amendment seeks to merely
substitute the estate of Decedent, and without authority that the Court is
required to deny the motion for failing to attach a proposed pleading, the
motion for leave to amend is granted. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend their complaint is granted.
Plaintiffs shall file and serve the amended complaint within 10 days.
 
Plaintiffs to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 