 Case Number:  23STCV18233    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
LAWRENCE “LEON” GIBSS
  AVRAMIDIS, ,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ILDICO INC. dba WESTIME, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCv18233
  Hearing Date:  June 10, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file Second
  amended complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 2, 2023, Plaintiff LAWRENCE
“LEON” GIBSS AVRAMIDIS, an individual (“Avramidis”) filed this action against
Defendants ILDICO INC. dba WESTIME, a California Corporation, and JEAN “JOHN”
SIMONIAN, an individual, in which Avramidis alleged a number of wage and hour
claims, contract claims, Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”) claims, and Unfair
Competition claims. 
Avramidis filed a First Amended Complaint
on August 25, 2023 adding a claim under the Private Attorneys’ General Act. 
On August 29, 2023, Avramidis filed a
request for dismissal without prejudice as to his FEHA.  
On September 4, 2023, Avramidis’ counsel
allegedly had a phone call with defense counsel in which Avramidis’ counsel explained
that he intended to add the FEHA claims through an amended pleading. 
 
Avramidis now seeks leave to amend his
complaint to add causes of action for: (1) Disability Discrimination under
FEHA; (2) Disability Harassment under FEHA; (3) Retaliation Under FEHA, and (4)
Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation under FEHA.  Avramidis also seeks to add reference to
violations of Labor Code § 2751 to the PAGA claim
            On May 6, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the
instant motion for leave to file a second amended complaint. Defendants filed their
opposition on May 28, 2024.  Plaintiffs
filed their reply on June 3, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court may, in the furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc, §§ 473, subd. (a), 576.) Courts must apply a policy
of liberality in permitting amendments at any stage of the proceeding,
including during trial, when no prejudice to the opposing party is shown. (Duchrow
v. Forrest (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1377.) In determining the extent of
prejudice to the opposing party, the court must consider various factors, such
as whether the amendment would delay trial or increase the discovery burden. (Demetriades
v. Yelp, Inc. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 294, 306.)
A motion for leave to amend a complaint
must be accompanied by a declaration that explains: (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
3.1324(b).)
DISCUSSION
As stated previously Avramidis now seeks to
add causes of action for: (1) Disability Discrimination under FEHA; (2)
Disability Harassment under FEHA; (3) Retaliation Under FEHA, and (4) Failure
to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation under FEHA.  Avramidis also seeks to add reference to
violations of Labor Code § 2751 to the PAGA claim
            Defendants’ oppositions mainly
center around the argument that it would be prejudiced by this amendment.  The court disagrees. The trial is not until
December 2024, and there is plenty of time to serve written discovery regarding
four FEHA causes of action that Defendants have known about for nearly a year.  Also, the depositions have not yet occurred, and
Defendants have time to file a motion for summary judgment.  If Defendants need additional time for
discovery and/or motions, a brief continuance would be granted by the court.
            Defendant’s opposition fails to show
prejudice, which is the primary factor in denying leave to amend. (See Duchrow,
supra, 215 Cal.App.4th at p. 1377 [amendments are liberally granted absent
prejudice to the opposing party].) As such, the Court is disinclined to deny
Plaintiff leave to amend. Defendants retain the opportunity to conduct discovery
and/or motions.  The court would also be
receptive to a brief continuance of the trial to accommodate defendants.
 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file
a second amended complaint is GRANTED.   Plaintiff shall file their second amended
complaint within 5 days of this order.  