 Case Number:  24STCV01615    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  32      FERNANDO    BARAJAS-SALOMON,                          Plaintiff,             v.   101    GRANITE COUNTERTOP LLC, et    al.,                               Defendants.           Case No.:  24STCV01615     Hearing Date: June 10, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE: DEFENDANT STYLENQUAZA LLC’S MOTION TO    QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS                BACKGROUND On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff Fernando  Barajas-Salomon filed this product liability action against various defendants.  Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint on March 18, 2024,  asserting (1) negligence, (2) products liability – failure to warn, (3)  products liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) breach of  implied warranties, and (6) loss of consortium.  Plaintiff has named dozens of  geographically diverse defendants, including the moving party here, Stylenquaza  LLC, a Texas limited liability company. On May 9, 2024, Stylenquaza (“Defendant”)  moved to quash service of the summons on Plaintiff’s FAC for lack of personal  jurisdiction. Plaintiff filed no opposition.   LEGAL  STANDARD Under California Code of Civil Procedure  section 418.10, a defendant, on or before the last day of their time to plead  or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve  and file a notice of motion to quash service of summons on the ground of lack  of jurisdiction over them. (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  California law permits a Court to exercise  either “general” or “special” jurisdiction over a foreign entity. (Pavlovich  v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268-269.)  “[A] court may assert general jurisdiction  over foreign (sister-state or foreign-country) corporations to hear any and all  claims against them when their affiliations with the State are so ‘continuous  and systematic’ as to render them essentially at home in the forum State.” (Daimler  AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117, 127 [internal citations omitted],  emphasis added.)  In the absence of general jurisdiction, a  court might still exercise specific jurisdiction over a defendant in a given  cause of action, depending on “the ‘ “relationship among the defendant, the  forum, and the litigation.” ’ ” (Helicopteros Nacionales de Colombia v. Hall  (1984) 466 U.S. 408, 414.) A court may exercise special jurisdiction when “(1)  the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits;  (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts  with the forum; and (3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport  with fair play and substantial justice.” (Pavlovich v. Superior Court, supra,  29 Cal. 4th 262, 269, emphasis added.)  “When a nonresident defendant challenges  personal jurisdiction the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate by a  preponderance of the evidence that all necessary jurisdictional criteria are  met. [Citation.] This burden must be met by competent evidence in affidavits  and authenticated documentary evidence. An unverified complaint may not be  considered as an affidavit supplying necessary facts.” (Jewish Defense  Organization, Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054-55.)   DISCUSSION             Once  Defendant challenged jurisdiction, the burden shifted to Plaintiff. Plaintiff  filed no opposition. On that ground alone, the motion is granted.             Also,  absent any factual rebuttal, Defendant successfully demonstrates the Court  lacks personal jurisdiction.  Defendant lacks  the sort of systemic contacts necessary for general jurisdiction. As to  specific jurisdiction: Stylenquaza’s participation in Vicostone’s general distribution  chain does not show purposeful availment in California. And  Stylenquaza’s chief officer, An Nguyen, attests uncontradicted that  Stylenquaza’s involvement in West Coast distribution is practically negligible.  (Nguyen Decl., ¶ 6.) Stylenquaza rarely ships any goods to California, much  less any goods that might have injured Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff has  failed to show Stylenquaza purposely availed itself of California’s benefits  or, to the extent Stylenquaza has contacts with California, that Plaintiff’s  dispute arises from those contacts.   CONCLUSION             The motion is granted.  


 
FERNANDO
  BARAJAS-SALOMON, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
101
  GRANITE COUNTERTOP LLC, et
  al.,

 
                        Defendants.



 
  Case No.:  24STCV01615
 
  Hearing Date: June 10, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
DEFENDANT BEST-WAY MARBLE AND TILE CO.,
  INC.’S DEMURRER TO AND MOTION TO STRIKE 
  PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT




 


 


 BACKGROUNDOn January 19, 2024, Plaintiff Fernando
Barajas-Salomon filed this product liability action against various defendants.
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint on March 18, 2024,
asserting (1) negligence, (2) products liability – failure to warn, (3)
products liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) breach of
implied warranties, and (6) loss of consortium. According to the complaint, from 2005 to
2023, Plaintiff worked as a cutter, fabricator and/or installer of Defendants’
stone products. (FAC ¶¶ 172-175.) As a result of this work, Plaintiff came into
contact with “inherently hazardous stone products manufactured, imported,
supplied, distributed, contracted, and/or brokered, by the named Defendants and
Does 1-100.” (Id., ¶ 177.) Specifically, Plaintiff was “exposed to and inhaled
stone dust containing silica and other toxins and carcinogens.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff
allegedly developed lung disease and is at increased risk of developing other
silica-related diseases. (Id., ¶ 178.) Plaintiff alleges that he “has had to
receive substantial medical treatment, including hospitalizations and
surgeries, and will require lung transplantation.” (Id., ¶ 179.)On May 10, 2024, defendant Best-Way Marble
& Tile Co., Inc. demurred to and moved to strike portions of Plaintiff’s
FAC. On May 28, 2024, Plaintiff opposed, and on June 3, 2024, Best-Way replied. LEGAL
STANDARDA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
(Ibid.) The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint,
as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.) MEET AND CONFERBefore filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)            Best-Way’s counsel’s declaration and
attached exhibit demonstrate that Counsel made a good-faith attempt to meet and
confer. (Azad Decl., ¶ 3 and Exh. A.) Plaintiff’s counsel rebuffed their
efforts. (Id., Exh. A [email from R. Metzger: “I ... do not have the
time to waste regarding demurrers and motions to strike ... .”].)            Defendant’s counsel satisfied its
obligations.            Plaintiff’s counsel is admonished to
review the Los Angeles County Local Court Rules, Appx. 3.A(d)(1): “Counsel
should at all times be civil and courteous in communicating with adversaries,
whether in writing or orally.” DISCUSSIONI.         Demurrer            Best-Way
demurs only to Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of actoin against it for fraudulent
concealment. The demurrer is sustained.                        1. Specificity Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed
to plead fraud with the requisite specificity. However, the rule of specificity
“is intended to apply to affirmative
misrepresentations.” (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System &
Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) “[I]t is harder to
apply this rule to a case of simple nondisclosure. How does one show ‘how’ and
‘by what means’ something didn't happen, or ‘when’ it never happened, or
‘where’ it never happened?” (Ibid.) Plaintiff cannot provide specific
details on nonexistent statements. For pleading purposes, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged that Defendants failed to disclose the hazardous nature of
their stone products, thereby inducing Plaintiff to purchase or use Defendants’
products, leading to his injuries. (FAC ¶¶ 1219-1227.) Therefore, the fraud
claim does not fail for lack of specificity.             2.
Special Relationship“There are four
circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable
fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (Bigler-Engler v.
Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311, internal citations omitted.) In
the absence of a fiduciary relationship, the latter three circumstances still “presuppose
the existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant.”
(Ibid.) “[S]uch a relationship can only come into being as a result of
some sort of transaction between the parties . . . from direct
dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the
defendant and the public at large.” (Id. at pp. 311-312.)    A fraudulent concealment claim is
actionable in toxic exposure cases. (See Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1198-1200.) However, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff has failed to allege the requisite special relationship giving rise
to a duty to disclose. The court in Bigler-Engler acknowledged that a
duty to disclose may arise in relationships such as “seller and buyer.” (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311.) Here, Plaintiff
alleges that he “purchased and/or received toxic stone products from Defendants.”
(FAC ¶ 1226.) For pleading purposes, this supports a transactional relationship
between Plaintiff and Defendant. (See also Arnold v. Dow Chemical Co.
(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 698, 720-21 [privity may exist between the seller of a
hazardous product and the intended ultimate user, even if that user did not
directly purchase the product].) Plaintiff is not merely a member of the
general public. Rather, Plaintiff was exposed to silica as a result of his
occupation, which specifically involved the purchase or usage of
silica-contaminated stone from Defendant. Therefore, the FAC sufficiently
alleges a transactional relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose.             II.        Motion
to Strike            Best-Way
moves to strike (1) references to and claims for punitive damages, in their
entirety or as to itself only, and (2) a “catch-all” allegation that Best-Way
marketed “other silica-containing stone products to be identified during the
course of discovery”. (FAC, 54:15.)            a.
Punitive Damages            “In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)            As discussed above, Plaintiff has
adequately pled the fraudulent concealment claim. Fraud is an independent basis
for punitive damages. Additionally, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew of
the hazardous nature of its products for an extended period of time yet
concealed the nature and extent of such hazards. (See, e.g., FAC ¶¶ 359,
361, 394, 395.) Even if this did not constitute fraud, it would constitute a
conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights and safety. Therefore, the complaint
adequately pleads punitive damages.             b. Additional Products to be
Identified in Discovery            Defendant seeks to strike the phrase
“and other silica-containing stone products to be identified during the course
of discovery.” (FAC ¶ 171.) As discussed above, the heightened standard under Bockrath
requires Plaintiff to “identify each product that allegedly caused the injury.”
(Bockrath, supra, 21 Cal.4th at p. 80.) The catchall allegation in the
FAC would allow Plaintiff to base liability on any number of unidentified
products, thereby contravening Bockrath. Plaintiff has no response to
this contention in his opposition. Therefore, the phrase is stricken.  CONCLUSION            Defendant’s demurrer is overruled.            Defendant’s motion to strike is
granted in part.              









































































