  Case Number:  20STCV30395    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  74 Jackson
Stoops v. Stephen Wei-Liang Leng, et al.
Plaintiffs’ Motion for an Order of
Additional Time to Complete the Deposition of Defendant Stephen Leng
 
The
court considered the moving papers. The opposition was not timely filed. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1005 [“All papers opposing a motion […] shall be filed with the
court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days […] before the
hearing.”].) 
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a dispute over shoes.
            On
August 10, 2020, Plaintiffs Jackson Stoops and Guiding Hands Social Club, LLC
(Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendant Stephen Wei-Liang Leng
(Defendant Leng) and others.
            On
June 23, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint.
            On
September 15, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint. In the
operative complaint, Plaintiffs alleged breach of contract, “money had and
received,” unjust enrichment, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, violation of
Business & Professions Code section 17200, violation of Civil Code section
1750, violation of Penal Code section 496, and conversion.
            On
August 3, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel took the deposition of Defendant Leng.
However, the parties were unable to cover all the issues within seven hours.
            On
October 3, 2023, Plaintiffs filed this motion for an order of additional time
to complete the deposition of Defendant Leng.
DISCUSSION
            With this motion, Plaintiffs seek an
extra four hours of deposition testimony from Defendant Leng. Plaintiffs claim
they could not cover all the necessary issues at prior depositions because Defendant
Leng did not understand many questions, his answers were longwinded, and his
counsel kept interrupting him. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.290,
subdivision (a), a deposition examination is limited to seven hours of total
testimony. But the court must allow additional time if necessary to fairly
examine the deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.290, subd. (a).) The court must
also allow more time if the deponent, another person, or any other circumstance
impedes or delays the examination. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.290, subd. (a).)
Given Defendant Leng’s conduct at prior depositions and his lack of timely
opposition, the court will permit an extra four hours of deposition
examination.
CONCLUSION
            Based on the foregoing, the court grants
Plaintiffs’ motion for an order of additional time to complete the deposition
of Defendant Leng.
            Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice.