 Case Number:  23TRCV00381    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 5, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV00381
(related to case no. 21IWUD02179)
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Juanita
Canche Pech v. Lucila Parra; et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendant, Antonio Trujillo  
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Plaintiff, Juanita Canche Pech
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       None
set.  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Antonio Trujillo’s Demurrer¿ 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAINED
in part and OVERRULED in part. 
 
 
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
February 10, 2023, Plaintiff, Juanita Canche Pech (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendants, Lucila Parra, Antonio Trujillo, and DOES 1
through 20. On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging
causes of action for: (1) Quiet Title; (2) Financial Elder Abuse; (3) Fraud;
(4) Violation of Penal code § 496; and (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress; and (6) Breach of Contract. 
 
Defendant,
Antonio Trujillo files a Demurrers to the SAC. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On February 2, 2024,
Defendant, Antonio Trujillo filed his demurrer against the SAC. On February 23,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On February 26, 2024, Defendant Trujillo
filed a reply brief.
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
 
            With Antonio Trujillo’s demurrer, he requested this Court
take judicial notice of the following documents: 
 
1.     True
and correct copies of the first sets of Trujillo’s Requests for Admissions,
Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories served on the office of
Plaintiff’s counsel in this action. 
2.     2.
True and correct copies of Plaintiff’s verified responses to Trujillo’s first
sets of Requests for Admissions, Form Interrogatories and Special
Interrogatories. 
3.     A
true and correct copy of an email string between counsel for Trujillo and
Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the meet and confer process on Trujillo’s
proposed demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint. 
4.     A
true, correct and conformed copy of the Notice of Ruling filed by Trujillo
regarding the court’s ruling on Trujillo’s demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint.
5.     A
certified copy of the Grant Deed by which Plaintiff and Lucila Parra acquired
title the 111th Street Property as joint tenants, recorded in the official
records of Los Angeles County on October 15, 2010 as Instrument No.
20101473943.
6.     A
certified copy of the Grant Deed by which Plaintiff transferred her 50%
interest in the 111th Street Property to Lucila Parra, recorded in the official
records of Los Angeles County on November 12, 2025 as Instrument No.
20151379271.
 
The Court DENIES the RFJN as to the
discovery requests and responses as being outside the four corners of the SAC,
but GRANTS the Request and takes judicial notice of the other documents. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A. Legal Standard 
¿ 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if it is
ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
B. Antonio Trujillo’s Demurrer  
 
Trujillo demurs to the SAC on the grounds that he argues each
cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
and are uncertain. 
 
 
Quiet
Title 
 
Sham
Pleading 
 
            First, Trujillo argues that the Sham
Pleading Doctrine precludes the SAC from alleging facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Trujillo for Quiet Title. Under the sham pleading
doctrine, plaintiffs are precluded from amending complaints to omit harmful
allegations, without explanation, from previous complaints to avoid attacks
raised in demurrers or motions for summary judgment.¿ (Deveny v. Entropin,
Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 408, 426.)¿ The sham pleading
doctrine also prevents a party from adding facts inconsistent with earlier
versions of a pleading.¿ (Id. at 425-26.)
 
            Here,
Defendant Trujillo argues that Plaintiff’s addition to the end of paragraph 9
of the SAC, asserting a conspiracy between Trujillo and Lucila to trick
Plaintiff into signing the Quitclaim Deed is a sham pleading as it is
inconsistent with, and contradictory to, Plaintiff’s allegations in her FAC,
which do not include Trujillo among the parties who committed fraud or had
knowledge of Plaintiff’s challenge to the validity of the Quitclaim Deed.
Specifically, the SAC states: “Both Lucila and Trujillo concealed from Juanita
at all relevant times that they conspired to have Lucila deprive Juanita of her
rightful 50% interest in the property via Quitclaim and, after doing so,
arrange for Mr. Trujillo to purchase the entirety of the Property from Lucila.”
(SAC, ¶ 9.) 
 
            Trujillo
also notes that when responding to his recent set of discovery, Plaintiff was
asked to identify all persons having knowledge she did not intend to sign the
Quitclaim deed, and that Plaintiff’s verified responses identified parties who
were not Trujillo. As such, Plaintiff argues that there is no way Plaintiff can
square her verified discovery responses with a new allegation that Trujillo
hatched a secret plot with Lucila to have Lucila sell the property to Trujillo
eight (8) years in the future. Defendant Trujillo argues that those discovery
responses, which do not identify Trujillo as being among the persons who
allegedly know Plaintiff did not intend to sign the Quitclaim Deed are
inconsistent with, and diametrically opposed to, the new amended allegation at
the end of paragraph 9, stating Trujillo knew Plaintiff did not intend to sign
the quitclaim deed. But on a demurrer the Court cannot consider discovery
responses or other evidence outside the four corners of the plaintiff’s pleading
and its attachments, plus matter of which the Court takes judicial notice.
 
However, the Court does not view
this as a new allegation. It may be new to paragraph 9, and thus, being
integrated to the first cause of action for quiet title, however, in both the original
Complaint, and the FAC, Plaintiff alleged facts of conspiracy. For example, in
the original Complaint, Plaintiff alleged that: “Antonio assisted Lucila in
obtaining the property for wrongful use..” (Complaint, ¶ 20.) Further, in the
FAC, Plaintiff alleges that “Antonio encouraged Lucila to deprive Juanita of
her rightful ownership interest in the Property with the goal of eventually
purchasing the Property free and clear of any obligation to a lifelong tenant.”
(FAC, ¶ 17.) Further, the FAC states, “Antonio assisted Lucila by encouraging
her fraudulent conduct in obtaining the Property from Juanita with the goal of
his eventual purchase of the Property from Lucila.” (FAC, ¶ 20.) Instead, the
key difference in the SAC, is that this allegation is made in paragraph 9 of
the Complaint, and thus, can be re-alleged, and incorporated, into the cause of
action for Quiet Title, instead of only being alleged in the Second Cause of
Action for Financial Elder Abuse. Thus, the demurrer is not sustained on the
sham pleading argument. 
 
Insufficient Fact Alleged 
 
Defendant Trujillo maintains that
the cause of action for quiet title fails because insufficient facts have been
alleged to dispute her signature on the quitclaim deed. As noted in the Court’s
previous ruling on demurrer, in an action for quiet title,
Plaintiff must plead (1) “[a] description of the property that is the subject
of the action,” specifically the location of tangible personal property and the
legal description and street address or common designation of real property,
(2) “[t]he title of the plaintiff as to which a determination under this
chapter is sought and the basis of the title,” (3) “[t]he adverse claims to the
title of the plaintiff against which a determination is sought,” (4) “[t]he
date as of which the determination is sought,” and (5) “[a] prayer for the
determination of the title of the plaintiff against the adverse claims.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 761.020.) 
 
Previously,
in the November 15, 2023 ruling, this Court noted that it agreed with Defendant
Trujillo’s prior argument that the FAC failed to allege sufficient facts to
establish the quitclaim deed was voidable based on fraud because the FAC made
no mention of whether Plaintiff asked what the document to be signed was, or
what its effect was. The same is true as to the SAC. The SAC notes, as did the
FAC, that the Quitclaim deed was written in English, and that Plaintiff was not
sufficiently literate in English, (SAC, ¶ 9.) Although the allegation notes
that Plaintiff had asked her daughter what the document was and why the delay
occurred prior to seeing the document (SAC, ¶ 9), once Plaintiff and her
daughter were at the escrow office, there is no mention of Plaintiff asking her
daughter or anyone else what the document was, or whether she could have an
English translation. (SAC, ¶ 9.) The allegation merely states that “[n]either
Lucila nor Ms. Mason explained to Juanita the identity of the document she
signed. (SAC, ¶ 9.) This is insufficient for the same reason it was in the FAC.

 
As
such, the cause of action for Quiet Title as against Defendant Trujillo is
SUSTAINED. As this is Plaintiff’s third bite at the apple, the Court is not
inclined to grant leave to amend unless counsel explains what new allegation can
and will be added to address this pleading defect. 
 
Financial
Elder Abuse 
Defendant Trujillo, next  demurs to the SAC on the grounds he argues the
cause of action for financial elder abuse fails because it is uncertain. “[F]inancial
abuse of an elder . . . occurs when a person or entity does the following:
(1) Takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of an
elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
(2) Assists
in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or personal
property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to
defraud, or both.
(3) Takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in taking, secreting,
appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal property of an elder
or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.
(Welf. & Inst. Code, §
15610.30, subd. (a).) Elder abuse claims are statutory causes of action and
therefore must be pleaded with particularity. (See Covenant Care, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790, citing Lopez v. Southern Cal.
Rapid Trans. Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795). “Generally,
‘California has adopted the common law rule for subjecting a defendant to
liability for aiding and abetting a tort. “Liability may . . . be imposed on
one who aids and abets the commission of an intentional tort if the person (a)
knows the other’s conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial
assistance or encouragement to the other to so act or (b) gives substantial
assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result and the person’s own
conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third
person.” [Citations.].’”  (Das v. Bank of America, N.A. (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 727, 744.)
            Here, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has pleaded
this cause of act with sufficient particularity. The SAC alleges that Defendant
Trujillo “encouraged Lucila to deprive Juanita of her rightful ownership
interest in the Property with the goal of eventually purchasing the property
free and clear of any obligations of a lifelong tenant.” (SAC, ¶ 17.) Further,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Trujillo, “assisted Lucila by encouraging her
fraudulent conduct in obtaining the Property from Juanita with the goal of his
eventual purchase of the Property from Lucila.” (SAC, ¶ 20.) Plaintiff contends
that “this assistance and [Defendant Trujillo’s] subsequent purchase of the
property, having knowledge of Junaita’s 
rights to the same, constitutes a wrongful use and retention of the
property.” (SAC, ¶ 20.) The SAC does not contain allegations of “actual
knowledge” on part of Trujillo that Lucila’s conduct constituted a breach of
duty, nor “substantial assistance” or “substantial encouragement.” As such, the
demurrer is SUSTAINED. Plaintiff may provide oral argument as to whether she
can cure this deficiency.
Violation
of Penal Code § 496
 
Defendant Trujillo argues that Plaintiff has not stated
sufficient facts to state a cause of action for violation of penal code § 496. Penal Code section 496
provides, in pertinent part:  
 
“(a) Every person who buys or receives any property that has been
stolen or that has been obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion,
knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals, sells,
withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any property from the
owner, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be punished by
imprisonment in a county jail for not more than one year, or imprisonment
pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170. However, if the value of the
property does not exceed nine hundred fifty dollars ($950), the offense shall
be a misdemeanor, punishable only by imprisonment in a county jail not
exceeding one year, if such person has no prior convictions for an offense
specified in clause (iv) of subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2) of subdivision
(e) of Section 667 or for an offense requiring registration pursuant to
subdivision (c) of Section 290. 
 
… 
 
(c) Any person who has been injured by a violation of subdivision
(a) or (b) may bring an action for three times the amount of actual damages, if any,
sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable attorney's
fees.”  
 
(Emphasis added.) (Capitalization
added.)  “Theft” is
defined as follows: “Every person who shall feloniously steal, take, carry,
lead, or drive away the personal property of another, or who shall fraudulently
appropriate property which has been entrusted or him or her, or who shall
knowingly and designedly, by any false or fraudulent representation or
pretense, defraud any other person of money, labor, or real or personal property,… is guilty of theft.” (Pen. Code, § 484, subd.
(a).)  
 
Here, the Defendant Trujillo sates
that this cause of action fails because the SAC makes no allegation Trujillo
made any misrepresentations to Plaintiff about signing the quitclaim deed or
had any involvement in that transaction, and because Trujillo acquired title as
a BFP. The SAC alleges that Defendant Trujillo (and Para) wrongfully and by
fraud, artifice and trickery obtained possession of Plaintiff’s 50% portion of
the property, and constituting theft as described by California Penal Code §
484(a) (SAC, ¶ 30.) Other portions of the SAC state that Defendant Trujillo and
Parra conspired to have Parra’s mother (Plaintiff) sign over her 50% interest
in the property so that she could sell it to Trujillo and get 100% of the
profits. These allegations suggest that Defendant Trujillo would not be a BFP,
and that he would have known the property was acquired by unlawful means. As
such, based on the face of the pleading, the Court OVERRULES demurrer as to
this cause of action. 
 
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
            Lastly, Defendant Trujillo contends
that Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress. Plaintiff does not include any opposition to this argument.
“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be
outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated
in a civilized community.” (Wilson v.
Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)
            Although the cause of action for IIED is against
Defendant Trujillo, there are no specific facts as against him. Plaintiff, in a
conclusory fashion, alleges that: Defendants’ outrageous conduct was intended
to cause Juanita emotional distress a one could only expect after she learned
her daughter swindled out of 50% ownership in the property. (SAC, ¶ 34.)  Further, the SAC alleges that as a result of
Defendants’ outrageous conduct, Juanita suffered emotional distress and said
conduct was a substantial factor in causing Juanita emotional distress. (SAC, ¶
35.) A search of the SAC does not reveal any allegation of intentional or
reckless conduct on the part of Defendant Trujillo. As such, the Court SUSTAINS
demurrer as to this cause of action. 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
Defendant Trujillo’s demurrer is SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED in part. without
leave in part and SUSTAINED with leave to amend in part. 
¿¿¿ 
Defendant Trujillo is ordered
to give notice.¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
 