 Case Number:  23TRCV00618    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    March 5, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      23TRCV00618
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Laura Einsetler; Frank Einsetler v. Villa
Capri Townhomes Homeowners Association, et al.   
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Plaintiff,
Laura and Frank Einsetler’s Motion to Compel Villa Capri Townhomes Homeowners
Association
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Defendant, Villa Capri Townhomes Homeowners Association
(No Opposition)
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       April 7, 2025 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Defendant, Villa Capri Townhomes Homeowners Association to respond to Form
Interrogatories 
(2)  Motion to Compel
Defendant, Villa Capri
Townhomes Homeowners Association to respond to Special Interrogatories 
                                                (3) Motion to Compel
Defendant, Villa Capri
Townhomes Homeowners Association to respond to Requests for Production of Documents 
                                                (4) Motion to Deem
Requests for Admission as Admitted 
                                                (5) Request for
Sanctions 
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) Motion to Compel
Defendant, Villa Capri
Townhomes Homeowners Association to respond to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED
(2)  Motion to Compel
Defendant, Villa Capri
Townhomes Homeowners Association to respond to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED
                                                (3) Motion to Compel
Defendant, Villa Capri
Townhomes Homeowners Association to respond to Requests for Production of Documents is GRANTED
                                                (4) Motion to Deem
Requests for Admission as Admitted is GRANTED in part as discussed below and the
hearing continued to April 8, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. pending timely receipt of the
Court-ordered verified written admissions, denials, or statements of inability
to do either
                                                (5) The Requests for Monetary
Sanctions for each motion is CONTINUED to April 8 as well, pending supplemental
evidence bearing on the claimed $400 hourly rate 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On March 2, 2023, Plaintiffs, Laura Einsetler and
Frank Einsetler (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, Villa Capri Townhomes Homeowners Association (“Defendant”), and
DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Breach of
Governing Documents/Enforcement of Equitable Servitudes; (2) Negligence; (3)
Nuisance; (4) Trespass; (5) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing; and (6) Declaratory Relief.  These claims arise out of a leaking water pipe
or pipes that allegedly caused damage to Plaintiffs’ unit in their residential
premises for which Plaintiffs allege the HOA was responsible.
 
Per the moving papers, on September 26, 2023,
Plaintiffs, Laura and Frank Einsetler served Defendant, Villa Capri Townhomes
Association with Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Requests for
Production of Documents and Motion to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted.
Plaintiffs note that on October 30, 2023, Defendant’s responses were due.
Plaintiffs assert that no extensions were requested nor received. 
 
As such, Plaintiffs seek a Motion to Compel initial
responses to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for
Production of Documents. Plaintiffs also seek an order to deem Requests for
Admission as Admitted. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On December 22, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
these Motions to Compel and Requests to Deem Request for Admission Admitted. To
date, no opposition has been filed and there is no indication that even tardy
responses were provided by Plaintiff or its counsel.
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Motions to
Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests
for Production of Documents, Set one
 
Legal Standard 
A party must respond to
interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260,
subd. (a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed does not provide
timely responses, the requesting party may move for an order compelling responses
to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also
waives the right to make any objections, including one based on privilege or
work-product protection. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no
time limit for a motion to compel responses to interrogatories other than the
cut-off on hearing discovery motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are
required before filing a motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411
Further, where there has been no timely response to a Code
of Civil Procedure § 2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300.) Failure to timely respond waives all
objections, including privilege and work product. Thus, unless the party to
whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise
objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to
compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not
attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion. Where the
motion seeks only a response to the inspection demand, no showing of "good
cause" is required. 
 
 
 
Discussion 
 
            Here, Plaintiff
request this Court order Defendant to respond to Plaintiffs’ Form
Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One. Plaintiffs’ moving papers assert that
Defendant has failed to respond to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests and request
this Court for an order compelling Defendant to respond to the propounded
discovery requests, without objections, and with verified responses. The Court
grants this request and requires Defendant to serve verified responses to the
propounded discovery, without objections by March 26, 2024.   
 
B.    Motion
to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted
 
Legal Standard 
Additionally, Code of Civil Procedure
section 2033.290, subdivision (a), provides that “[o]n receipt of a particular
response to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move
for an order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or
both of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive
or incomplete[;] (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or
too general.”  Notice of the motion must be
given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise the
propounding party waives the right to compel a further response. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (c).) The motions must also be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(b).)    
 
Discussion 
 
            Here, as noted
above, Defendant completely failed to respond to this propounded discovery as
well. For the same reasons as the interrogatories and requests for production
of documents, this Court GRANTS this motion in part and requires Defendant to
serve verified responses to the Requests for Admission by March 26, 2024, with the
more devastating consequence of deeming the RFAs admitted to be imposed if no
verified admissions, denials, or statements of inability to admit or deny are
timely served by that date.  The Court
will continue the hearing on the RFA motion to a date two weeks past the March
26 deadline so Plaintiffs’ counsel can submit a supplemental declaration advising
the Court if the Court-ordered RFA responses are or are not timely served, in
the same declaration as counsel addresses the hourly rate issue noted below.  
 
C.    Sanctions
Here,
Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendants for the four (4) of these motions
in the amount of in the amount of $2,880 per motion to compel initial responses
and $2,800 for the Motion to Deem RFAs as Admitted.  Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel.¿¿(CCP. §§ 2030.290(c),¿2030.300(d),¿2031.300(c),¿and
2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are not mandatory if the court “finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿¿(Id.) 
            Plaintiff’s
sanction amount is based on Plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration noting that for
the motion to compel initial responses, he spent 1.8 hours preparing the
motions at $400/hour, expects to spend 2.4 hours analyzing an opposition and
preparing a reply brief and another 3 hours preparing for and attending the
hearing on this motion. For the Motion to Deem Requests for Admission as
admitted, counsel states he spent 1.6 hours preparing the motion at $400/hour,
expects another 2.4 hours analyzing an opposition and preparing a reply brief
and another 3 hours preparing and attending the motion.
            This Court
notes that no opposition or reply briefs were filed on either of the four
motions, and the 3 hours allocated to each of the motions for time spent for
preparing and attending the hearing are duplicative and excessive. As such, if
this Court were to award sanctions at this time, it would award them in a
significantly lower amount than as requested. Further, the declarations
supporting the sanctions states in a conclusory way that $400 per hour is reasonable
for an attorney of the same years of practice and experience, but the declarations
do not say what counsel’s experience or unspecified years of practice are in
doing.  The Court thus will continue the
hearing on the sanctions issue pending receipt of additional evidence bearing
on the claimed hourly rate.  
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice. 
 
 