 Case Number:  22TRCV00923    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 March 5, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV00923  CASE NAME:                        Pedro Flores, et al.  v. Kadiatu Bangura, et al.    ATTORNEY NAME:             Plaintiffs, Alberto Flores and  Romario Avalos’, attorney, Alan S. Turlington   TRIAL DATE:                        October  28, 2024   MOTION:                              (1) Motion to be Relieved as Counsel    Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.      I.                     Background     On  October 12, 2022, Plaintiff, Pedro Flores, Alberto Flores, and Romario Avalos,  filed a Complaint against Defendant, Kadiatu Bangura and DOES 1 through 50. The  Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence; and (2)  General Negligence.    On  February 8, 2024, Plaintiffs, Romario Avalos and Alberto Flores, counsel of  record, Alan S. Turlington (“Turlington”) filed a Motion to be Relieved as  Counsel.    II.                  Legal Standard & Discussion     Code of Civil Procedure § 284 states that  “the attorney in an action…may be changed at any time before or after judgment  or final determination, as follows: (1) upon the consent of both client and  attorney…; (2) upon the order of the court, upon the application of either  client or attorney, after notice from one to the other.”  (Code Civ. Proc.  § 284; CRC 3.1362.)  The withdrawal request may be denied if it would  cause an injustice or undue delay in proceeding; but the court's discretion in  this area is one to be exercised reasonably.  (See Mandell v. Superior  (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4; Lempert¿v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.)    In making a motion to be relieved as  counsel, the attorney must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of  Court 3.1362.  The motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of  Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the client – Civil  (MC-051); Declaration “stating in general terms and without compromising the  confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship” reasons the motion was  brought (MC-052); and a Proposed Order (MC-053).  (Ibid.)  The  forms must be filed and served on all parties who have appeared in the  case.  (Ibid.)    Here, Plaintiffs, Romario  Avalos and Alberto Flores counsel, Turlington, moves the Court  to relieve him as attorney of record for Plaintiffs, Romario Avalos and Alberto  Flores. Turlington properly filed a Notice of Motion, Motion to be Relieved as  Counsel, Declaration, and Proposed Order in accordance with Cal. Rules of Court  3.1362. On February 8, 2024, all forms for the pending motion were served on Plaintiffs  Romario Avalos and Alberto Flores by mail. Turlington notes that Plaintiff,  Romario Avalos’ last known address has been confirmed by telephone and by the  client confirming that his electronic service address is the client’s current  electronic service address within the past thirty 30 days. Further, additional  service by regular U.S. mail is to the client’s last known mailing address as  confirmed by skip trace conducted in the last 30 days. Turlington also noted  that Plaintiff, Alberto Flores’ last known address by the same means as above.  Further, on February 8, 2024, proof of service for said documents were filed  with the Court.    In the declaration Turlington notes that “irreconcilable differences  have arisen between client and attorney due to a disabling conflict, which  involves privileged client communications, prohibiting the attorney from  continuing to carry out the representation without breaching ethical duties.”   Since Plaintiffs, Romario  Alavos and Alberto Flores’ attorney has complied with all procedural  requirements in filing a motion to be relieved as counsel and because the  withdrawal would not cause an injustice or undue delay in proceedings, the  Court finds that withdrawal of  Alan S. Turlington as attorney of record for Plaintiffs,  Romario Alavos and Alberto Flores can be accomplished without undue prejudice  to their interests.    III.               Conclusion & Order    For the foregoing reasons, Alan S.  Turlington’s, Motion to Be Relieved As Counsel is GRANTED and the Order will be  signed at the hearing. “After the order is signed, a copy of the signed order  must be served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the  case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) The Order on this Motion will not  be effective “until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on Plaintiff  and Defendant has been filed with the court.” (Id.)    Moving party is ordered to  give notice.  