  Case Number:  21STCV45883    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    March 5, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   21STCV45883
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Mary E. Evans v. County of Los Angeles, et
al.  
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                   Plaintiff, Mary E. Evans 
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant,
County of Los Angeles
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                            April 18, 2024
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave
to File First Amended Complaint 
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) ARGUE.   Plaintiff needs to provide details in
oral argument as to the chronology of events giving rise to the need to amend a
suit filed in 2021 at this late date. 
Given the looming trial date, the Court may give Plaintiff the
option of continuing the trial with a granting of the motion, or keeping the trial
date and the Court denying the motion
 
¿¿ 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On December 16, 2023, Plaintiff, Mary Evans (“Plaintiff”)
filed a Complaint against Defendant, County of Los Angeles (“County”). The
Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Trespass; and (2) Negligence. The
Complaint is based on the following facts: On August 6, 2020 Plaintiff was
informed via email from a staff person at the office of Los Angeles County’s
Fourth District that there was no problem with the landscaping at the
Sunnyridge Property. Plaintiff contends that the email indicated that the
Sunnyridge Property was in full compliance with the County’s fire department
requirements, and that there was “nothing to do at [that] time.” Nonetheless,
Plaintiff asserts that starting on August 19, 2020, Plaintiff’s property
was damaged by Defendants’ improper and unwarranted removal of a significant
amount of plant material, professionally irrigated landscaping that consisted
in large part of a green privacy barrier comprised of a row of plant materials
with root crowns inside Evans’ property existing for the primary purpose of
visual privacy barrier and erosion control for the Sunnyridge Property.
 
Plaintiff
asserts that the property damage to her landscaping severely damaged the market
value of the Sunnyridge Property and will cost in excess of $25,000 to replace.

 
After a procedural stipulation to postpone the hearing on
this motion pending settlement and mediation discussions, Plaintiff now moves forward
on her Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On September 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Leave
to Amend and file First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). On November 13, 2023, Defendant
County filed an opposition. On November 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a reply
brief. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 Leave to amend is permitted
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. The
policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so
strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . .. [citation]. 
A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice
to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also
comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations
that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
B.    Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
asserts that the parties spent several months attempting to reach an informal
resolution to Plaintiff’s claims – all to no avail. However, Plaintiff contends
that when discovery was reinitiated, and Defendant served supplemental discovery
responses, it became apparent to Plaintiff that the facts existed to support
the newly sought causes of action. (McGonigle Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff argues
that that there is still sufficient time or Defendant to file a responsive
pleading before trial, the Complaint does not add significantly different
allegations, and the amendments are essential additions to the allegations
previously set forth. Plaintiff further notes that Defendant has not yet
deposed Plaintiff, and thus will have a full opportunity to seek her testimony
regarding the new allegations and claims. 
 
            In
opposition, County argues that Plaintiff’s new allegations are barred by the
Doctrine of Variance. County argues that Plaintiff’s Government Code tort claim
submitted prior to filing this lawsuit identified a single incident and made no
mention or reference to any condemnation, planning, or continuing use of
Sunnyridge Property by Defendant. Specifically, County points out the claim
presentation requirement, that the facts alleged in the complaint, including
the damages alleged to have been suffered by Plaintiff, must be consistent with
the facts within the government claim. County argues that Plaintiff never
submitted a new or amended Government Code claim relating to the proposed new
causes of action proves they are unrelated and a separate claim. 
 
            County
next argues that Plaintiff’s proposed amendment is precluded and should not be
permitted because Plaintiff has known about her claims since no later than
February 2021, almost two years ago, and has failed to seek leave to amend her
Complaint until now, on the eve of trial.  
 
            Here,
Plaintiff arguably has not satisfied her burden under California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) Although Plaintiff has
included a copy of the proposed FAC, and has specified by reference to pages
and lines the allegations that would be deleted and added, Plaintiff has not adequately
shown what caused the delay in making the new allegations. On numerous
occasions, Plaintiff blames the delayed receipt of County’s supplemental
responses. However, nowhere in Plaintiff’s moving or responding papers does
Plaintiff indicate WHEN she received said supplemental responses. The County suggests
Plaintiff could have brought these additional claims as early as three years
ago (February 2021). As such, the Court requires oral argument as to what
caused the delay in bringing these amendments. If Plaintiff has had the
supplemental discovery responses for years, and is just now seeking leave to
file an amendment,  the Court will be
more inclined to deny this motion.
 
            In context of the Government Claim
Presentation requirements, Plaintiff asserts in her reply brief that the facts
asserted in the FAC are consistent with those in the originally filed
Complaint, and that she satisfies the claim presentation requirement. If this
Court grants this motion, The County would be entitled to demur to the FAC, and
conduct analysis and possibly discovery as to whether Plaintiff’s new causes of
action meet the Government claims presentation requirements. A hearing on a motion
for leave to amend is not the preferred vehicle for the Court engaging in this
analysis. Accordingly, the Court would postpone the trial again if it
determines to grant the motion for leave to amend. 
 
            Lastly, this Court notes that County
argues it will face substantial prejudice if this case were to move forward as it
would provide County only a matter of days to conduct an inquiry into
Plaintiff’s additional causes of action. The Court also notes that the parties
have already stipulated once to continue trial and all related trial dates, and
that the new date is barely five weeks away. Certainly, if this Court were to
allow an amended filing at this stage, a further trial continuance would be
required to enable the County time to demur and potentially for the parties to
conduct discovery as to the new causes of action. 