 Case Number:  19STCV42431    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
27, 2023                   TRIAL
DATE:  December 1, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                                Richard Harris v. Park La Brea, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV42431
 





















 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY
      


 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Universal Protection Service LP
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
            
            On February
14, 2023, Defendant, Universal Protection Service LP, filed these motions to
compel verified responses to Set One of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories,
and Request for Production of Documents from Plaintiff, Richrd Harris.  Defendant does not seek sanctions against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff is self-represented.
                                                     
            The motions
were heard on August 24, 2023.  The Court
found that the motions were procedurally defective because the proofs of
service indicated Plaintiff, in pro per, was not served with these motions pursuant
to California Rules of Court, rule 2.253, subdivision (b)(3).  The Court continued the motions to September
25, 2023 to allow Defendant to serve Plaintiff with notice of these motions by
non-electronic means.  
 
            The motions
were heard on September 25, 2023.  Defendant
did not file proofs of service prior to the hearing.  At the hearing, Plaintiff agreed to accept
service via electronic service.  Richard
Harris was directed to file an opposition in compliance with Code of Civil
Procedure section 1005.
 
            On
September 29, 2023, Defendant filed proofs of service showing Plaintiff was
served with the motions by mail and email.
 
            The motions
are unopposed.[1]
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD TO COMPEL DISCOVERY
RESPONSES¿ 
¿ 
            If a party
to whom interrogatories and inspection demands were directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order to compel
responses without objections.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b),
2031.300, subd. (b).)¿ Failure to timely serve responses waives objections to
the requests.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).)¿¿¿¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant
properly served Plaintiff with the at-issue discovery on June 22, 2022.  After Plaintiff did not timely serve
responses, Defendant moved to compel Plaintiff’s responses.  The Court granted the motion on November 16,
2022.  However, to date, Plaintiff has
not provided responses.  (See Rivera Decls.)  Defendant is entitled
to an order compelling Plaintiff’s verified, objection-free responses to Defendant’s
First Set of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for
Production of Documents.¿
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The motions
are granted.  Plaintiff, Richard Harris, is ordered to provide verified,
objection-free responses to Defendant’s First Set of Form Interrogatories,
Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents within 10 days
of this order.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 27,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 


