 Case Number:  23BBCV01601    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 22, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01601

 



MP:  


Southern California Regional Rail
  Authority (Defendant) 




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Michael Perkins (Plaintiff) brings this
action against Southern California Regional Rail Authority aka Metrolink
(Metrolink). Plaintiff alleges he was injured when the doors of a Metrolink train
closed on him. 
 
Metrolink brings a motion to compel Plaintiff’s
deposition. Plaintiff has rendered no opposition to the motion. 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450(a).)
 
Here, Metrolink states that it noticed Plaintiff’s
deposition on six separate occasions and Plaintiff has failed to appear each
time. (Krutcik Decl. Exhs. A-F.) Plaintiff’s first deposition was noticed for
December 28, 2023, with subsequent dates for January 11, 2024, January 25,
2024, January 31, 2024, February 7, 2024, and February 13, 2024. Metrolink
states that after the initial December 28 non-appearance, they negotiated with
Plaintiff’s counsel for the new date of January 11. (Mot. p. 2.) After several
more non-appearances, Metrolink noticed the deposition for February 7, 2024.
(Krutcik Decl. Exh. B.) On February 7 Plaintiff’s counsel appeared, but Plaintiff
did not as the result of technical difficulties. (Krutcik Decl. Exh. D.) Metrolink’s
counsel and Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to re-notice the deposition for February
13. (Id.) Neither Plaintiff nor his counsel appeared at the February 13
hearing. (Krutcik Decl. Exh. F.) 
 
Metrolink demonstrates that Plaintiff
failed to proceed with the duly noticed deposition despite multiple attempts to
meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the nonappearances. (C.C.P.
§ 2024.450(a), (b)(2).) Accordingly, Metrolink’s unopposed motion to compel the
deposition of Plaintiff is GRANTED. 
 
If a motion to compel deposition is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who
noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. § 2025.450(g)(1).) 
 
Defendant’s counsel estimates their
office 19 hours to be spent in attempting to conduct Plaintiff’s deposition and
preparing this motion at the hourly rate of $300. While the Court understands
Metrolink’s frustration at Plaintiff’s repeated nonappearance, the Court finds
that two hours for each deposition is an appropriate sanction, which is 12
hours (2 hours x 6 missed depositions). Additionally, the estimated time in
reviewing the opposition and preparing a reply is inapplicable as the motion is
unopposed. Accordingly, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $3,600. Sanctions
are awarded jointly and severally against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel.  The Court will order Plaintiff’s deposition
within the next 30 days unless another date is expressly agreed to in writing by
Defendant’s counsel.   
 
The Court also advises that a violation
of the Court’s order will result in an Order to Show Cause Re Evidentiary
Sanctions, up to and including precluding Plaintiff from testifying at trial or
having a declaration considered at any motion for summary judgment.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Southern California
Regional Rail Authority aka Metrolink’s
Motion to Compel the Deposition of Michael
Perkins came on regularly for
hearing on March 22, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF PLAINTIFF MICHAEL PERKINS IS GRANTED. 
 
SANCTIONS
ARE AWARDED IN THE AMOUNT OF $3,600 AS AGAINST PLAINTIFF AND HIS COUNSEL, JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY.  PAYMENT OF SANCTIONS IS DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, METROLINK TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
March 22, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 