 Case Number:  23BBCV02944    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 22,
2024

MOTION
TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02944

 



MP:  


Vessel CA Operations LLC, Vessel
  Operating Holdco LLC, Vessel Enterprises LLC & REEF Platform U.S.
  Operations LLC (Defendants)




RP:  


None 



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Kinya
Properties LLC (Plaintiff) brings this action against Vessel CA Operations LLC, Vessel Operating Holdco LLC,
Vessel Enterprises LLC, REEF Platform U.S. Operations LLC (collectively REEF
Defendants) and Emin A. Ihsanoglu. Plaintiff alleges that REEF Defendants breached
the terms of a Commercial Lease Agreement for the property known as 11053 Ventura Blvd, Studio City, CA 91604. 
 
REEF Defendants
now move to strike the following portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint: 
 
·        
Page 3, lines
3-4: “Said LEASE provides that Plaintiff shall be awarded reasonable attorney
fees and costs incurred herein and Plaintiff hereby requests same.” 
 
·        
Page 3, line 9: “…
reasonable attorney fees and…” 
 
Plaintiff
has rendered no opposition to the motion. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motions to strike are used to reach
defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such
as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.)
The proper procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to
strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. §
435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of
motion to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant
matters include immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or
those not pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. §
431.10.) The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Attorneys' fees can only be
recovered pursuant to contract or statute. (C.CP. § 1021.5; see also Ilshin
Investment Co., Ltd. V. Buena Vista Home Entertainment, Inc. (2011) 195
Cal.App.4th 612, 627 ["The American Rule is that each party in a lawsuit
ordinarily shall bear its own attorney's fees unless there is express statutory
authorization to the contrary. Attorney fees are not recoverable unless a fee
award is expressly authorized by either statute or the parties' contract.”].) 
 
Here, the Plaintiff alleges
they are entitled to pursue attorney’s fees pursuant to the Commercial Lease
Agreement (the Agreement), attached to the Complaint as Exhibit 1. Paragraph 41
of the agreement which reads: 
 
In any action or proceeding arising out of this agreement, the
prevailing party between Landlord and Tenant shall be entitled to reasonable
attorney fees and costs from the non-prevailing Landlord or Tenant, except as
provided in paragraph 35A.
 
(Compl. Exh. 1, ¶ 41.)

 
REEF Defendants argue that the
Agreement does not allow for attorney’s fees where a party has not attempted to
resolve the matter via mediation. Paragraph 35 of the agreement reads: 
 
If for any dispute or claim to which this paragraph applies, any
party commences an action without first attempting to resolve the matter
through mediation, or refuses to mediate after a request has been made, then
that party shall not be entitled to recover attorney fees, even if they would
otherwise be available to that party in any such action
 
(Compl. Exh. 1, ¶ 35.)

 
REEF Defendants argue that
Plaintiff did not attempt to resolve the matter prior to litigation and
therefore should be barred from recovering attorney’s fees under the Agreement.
As such, REEF Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees is
a matter which is an irrelevant matter pursuant to C.C.P. § 436. 
 
The Court finds that a
motion to strike is an inappropriate vehicle by which to address REEF
Defendants’ concerns. As with demurrers, the grounds for a motion to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading under attack, or on a matter which the
court may judicially notice (e.g. the court's own files or records). (C.C.P. § 437.)
Here, while the terms of the Agreement are within the four corners of the Complaint,
the facts as to whether Plaintiff attempted mediation is not. REEF Defendants’
assertion that Plaintiff failed to attempt mediation does not appear within the
Complaint itself or from any judicially noticed fact. 
 
Further, neither of the
cases relied upon by REEF Defendants are procedurally on point. While the California
Court of Appeals in Leamon v. Krajkiewcz upheld a contractual
provision almost verbatim the one in the Agreement here, the trial court order
was on a motion to tax costs after judgment and not a motion to strike. (Leamon
v. Krajkiewcz (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) Leamon does not
rectify the issue that Plaintiff’s alleged failure to mediate is a fact outside
the scope of a motion to strike.
 
REEF Defendants also cite Careau
& Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc.  which held “Where
contractual liability depends upon the satisfaction or performance of one or
more conditions precedent, the allegation of such satisfaction or performance
is an essential part of the cause of action.” (Careau & Co. v. Security
Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1389.) The Court
agrees that the failure to allege satisfaction of conditions precedent can be
fatal to a cause of action for breach of contractual liability. Regardless, Careau
concerned a motion for judgment on the pleadings and a direct challenge to
a cause of action for contractual liability. Here, REEF Defendants do not
challenge the cause of action for breach, only that the provision for
attorney’s fees has triggered. Careau contains no aversion to a motion
to strike. 
 
REEF Defendants have not
shown that Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees is a matter which is
irrelevant based on the face of the Complaint or facts subject to judicial
notice. Accordingly, the motion to strike is DENIED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Vessel CA Operations
LLC, Vessel Operating Holdco LLC, Vessel Enterprises LLC & REEF Platform
U.S. Operations LLC’s Motion to Strike came on
regularly for hearing on March 22, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, REEF PLATFORM
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
March 22, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 