 Case Number:  23BBCV02125    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 22, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02125

 



MP:  


Hyundai Motor America (Defendant)




RP:  


Ben and Nina Kass (Plaintiffs)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Ben and Nina Kass (Plaintiffs) bring this action against Hyundai Motor
America (Hyundai) for claims arising out of the
purchase of a 2020 Hyundai Santa Fe (the Subject Vehicle). The Complaint
alleges several causes of action for violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act. 
 
Hyundai
now moves to compel Plaintiffs’ claims against them to arbitration. Hyundai
argues these claims are subject to arbitration pursuant to the agreement contained
in the Subject Vehicle’s “Owner’s Handbook & Warranty Information”.
Plaintiffs oppose the motion and Hyundai replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
1281.2 states: “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement arbitrate the controversy exists.” 
 
A party
seeking to compel arbitration has the initial burden to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the existence of a valid and enforceable
arbitration agreement. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) If the moving party has met its initial burden, then the
burden shifts to respondents to prove the falsity or unenforceability of the
arbitration agreement. (Id.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The burden of production as
to this finding shifts in a three-step process. (Gamboa v. Northeast
Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.) First, the moving party
bears the burden of producing prima facie evidence of a written agreement to
arbitrate, which can be met by attaching a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the opponent’s signature or by setting forth the agreement’s
provisions. (Id.) If the moving party meets this burden, the opposing
party bears, in the second step, the burden of producing evidence to challenge
its authenticity. (Id.) If the opposing party produces evidence sufficient
to meet this burden, the third and final step requires the moving party to
establish, with admissible evidence, a valid arbitration agreement between the
parties. (Id.)
 
Hyundai, as the moving
party, necessarily bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence. Hyundai offers a copy
of the “Owner’s Handbook & Warranty Information” it states, “accompanied
the sale of the vehicle”. (Willette Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. B.) The arbitration
language in the warranty states: 
 
If you purchased or leased your Hyundai vehicle in the State of
California, you and we each agree that any claim or disputes between us
(including between you and any of our affiliated companies) related to or
arising out of your vehicle purchase, use of your vehicle, the vehicle
warranty, representations in the warranty, or the duties contemplated under the
warranty, including without limitation claims related to the failure to conform
a vehicle to warranty, failure to repurchase or replace your vehicle, or claims
for a refund or partial refund of your vehicle’s purchase price (excluding
personal injury claims), shall be resolved by binding arbitration at either
your or our election, even if the claim is initially filed in a court of law…
 
IF YOU PURCHASED OR LEASED YOUR VEHICLE IN CALIFORNIA, YOUR
WARRANTY IS MADE SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION. BY
ACCEPTING BENEFITS UNDER THIS WARRANTY, INCLUDING HAVING ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED
UNDER WARRANTY, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH
THESE TERMS, PLEASE CONTACT US AT OPT-OUT@HMAUSA.COM WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF
YOUR PURCHASE OR LEASE TO OPT-OUT OF THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION.
 
Despite their presentation
of the arbitration agreement in the Owner’s Manual, the Court finds Hyundai has
not shown prima facie evidence of a valid agreement to arbitrate. 
 
“To form a valid contract
there must be a meeting of the minds, i.e., mutual assent. Mutual assent
is determined under an objective standard applied to the outward manifestations
or expressions of the parties, i.e., the reasonable meaning of their words and
acts.” (Moritz v. Universal City Studios LLC (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 238,
246 [internal citations and quotation marks omitted].) Mutual assent is
determined under an objective standard applied to the outward manifestations or
expressions of the parties, i.e., the reasonable meaning of their words
and acts …’” (Chicago Title Ins. Co. v. AMZ Ins. Services, Inc. (2010)
188 Cal.App.4th 401, 422.) 
 
Here, there is no signature
on the agreement to arbitrate, nor is there a place to provide one or any other
mechanism for an affirmative assent from the buyer. This alone is not fatal if
Hyundai had shown that Plaintiffs were made aware of the arbitration agreement’s
existence, but Hyundai has not. Hyundai makes no representations as to where
the Owner’s manual was located or if Hyundai made its existence known to
Plaintiffs at the time of purchase. The most Hyundai has contended is that the
Warranty Booklet accompanied the sale of the Subject Vehicle. This is insufficient
and fails to explain whether it was provided before the sale of the Subject
Vehicle or even if it was provided before Plaintiffs took the Subject Vehicle
in to Hyundai’s authorized repair facilities. Without a signature or an
assertion that Plaintiff received the agreement, Hyundai has not shown a valid
arbitration agreement exists. 
 
Estoppel 
 
Hyundai argues that
Plaintiffs should be estopped from asserting that the absence of a signature on
a written contract precludes the enforcement of a contract’s arbitration
clause. Hyundai argues that Plaintiffs, by virtue of bringing the Subject Vehicle
into Hyundai’s authorized repair facilities, availed themselves of the contract’s
benefits. 
 
In support of this argument
Hyundai cites Boucher v. Alliance Title Co., Inc. which held that “[A]
party may be estopped from asserting that the lack of his signature on a
written contract precludes enforcement of the contract’s arbitration clause
when he has consistently maintained that other provisions of the same contract
should be enforced to benefit him…” (Boucher v. Alliance Title Co., Inc.
(2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 269) 
 
The Court finds Boucher distinguishable.
Boucher concerned a motion to compel an employee to arbitrate his labor
claims. (Id. at 265.) The Boucher court considered a situation in
which a parent corporation sought to compel arbitration pursuant to an
agreement the employee signed with a subsidiary. (Id. 269.) In Boucher,
there was no question as to the existence of a valid arbitration agreement. The
facts addressed by the California Court of Appeal’s decision clearly indicate
that the employee was presented and signed the agreement. (Id. at 265.) 
 
Here, Hyundai has not shown
by a preponderance of the evidence that a valid agreement to arbitrate of which
Plaintiffs availed themselves. Plaintiffs are not simply averring that the
agreement isn’t signed, they are stating that they were not made aware that it
existed. Further, Hyundai has not shown that any of Plaintiffs’ actions were a
knowing attempt to directly benefit from the contract (See Crowley Maritime
Corp. v. Boston Old Colony Ins. Co. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1061, 1070 [“[A]
nonsignatory ‘is estopped from avoiding arbitration if it knowingly seeks the
benefits of the contract containing the arbitration clause.”].) 
 
Conclusion

 
The Court
finds that Hyundai has not carried its initial burden of demonstrating a valid
and enforceable arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence.
Accordingly, the motion to compel arbitration is DENIED. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Hyundai Motor America’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration came on regularly for
hearing on March 22, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS DENIED.
 
THE CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS CONTINUED TO JULY
2, 2024.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, HYUNDAI TO GIVE
NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
March 22, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 