  Case Number:  21BBCV00927    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 22, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION & STAY ACTION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 21BBCV00927

 



MP:  


Pitfire Artisan Pizza & Deluxe
  Foods, LLC (Defendants)




RP:  


Roberto Chaidez, on behalf of the
  State of California and other aggrieved persons (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Roberto Chaidez, on
behalf of the State of California and other aggrieved persons (Plaintiff),
brings this action under the Private Attorney General Act (PAGA) against
Pitfire Artisan Pizza & Deluxe Foods, LLC (Defendants). Plaintiff alleges
that he and other employees of Defendants were subject to several violations of
the California Labor Code. 
 
Defendants now move
to compel Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims to arbitration. Plaintiff opposes arguing
that Defendants have waived their right to compel arbitration. In the
alternative, Plaintiff argues that the agreement cannot be compelled to
arbitration because it is unconscionable. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motion to
Compel
 
C.C.P. §
1281.2 states: “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement arbitrate the controversy exists.” 
 
A party
seeking to compel arbitration has the initial burden to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the existence of a valid and enforceable
arbitration agreement. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) If the moving party has met its initial burden, then the
burden shifts to respondents to prove the falsity or unenforceability of the
arbitration agreement. (Id.) 
 
Stay 
 
Once
arbitration has been compelled, in whole or in part, a stay of proceedings is
mandatory if the issues in the arbitration and the pending action overlap.
(C.C.P. § 1281.4 (if a court “has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is
an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this
State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon
motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until
such earlier time as the court specifies.”)) 
 
“The
purpose of the statutory stay [under section 1281.4] is to protect the
jurisdiction of the arbitrator by preserving the status quo until arbitration
is resolved. In the absence of a stay, the continuation of the proceedings in
the trial court disrupts the arbitration proceedings and can render them
ineffective.” (Federal Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th
1370, 1374-1375 [citations omitted].) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request for Judicial Notice

 
Defendants request judicial
notice of several filings with this Court throughout the course of this
litigation. Defendants state the Court may take notice of these filings as
proceedings under Evid. Code § 452. 
 
Defendants request judicial
notice of these documents for the purpose of proving they did not waive their
right to arbitrate and have asserted it throughout litigation. These filings
are unnecessary for the Court’s determination of the waiver matter. Further
Defendant does not provide a copy of the material, as they are required to do
by California Rules of Court. (California Rules of Court, Rule 5.115 [“A party
requesting judicial notice of material under Evidence Code section 452 or 453
must provide the court and each party with a copy of the material.”].) Accordingly,
Defendants request is DECLINED. 
 
Objections 
 
Plaintiff objects to the
declaration of Jaime Boalbey (submitted with the motion in its entirety), on
grounds of lack of foundation and lack of firsthand knowledge. Plaintiff also
objects to the portions of the declaration which attest that Defendants’
arbitration agreement is voluntary on the same grounds. As Vice President of
Human Resources for Defendants, Boalbey is appropriately positioned to testify
as to the forms used by Defendants in hiring individuals. Whether signing the
arbitration provision is a condition for employment is a matter which would
logically be within her knowledge. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s objections are
OVERRULED. 
 
The Agreement 
 
Neither party disputes that
an arbitration agreement exists in the agreements between the parties; however,
Plaintiff believes it is not enforceable. Plaintiff executed an Alternative
Dispute Resolution Agreement (the Agreement) on December 27, 2019. (Mot. Exh.
1.) 
 
Waiver
 
Defendants argue that they
have not waived arbitration because they were precluded from compelling arbitration
of individual PAGA claims under California law. Defendants argue that after the
United States Supreme Court decision in Viking River Cruises, Inc. v.
Moriana, they now have a valid right to compel arbitration. The Court
agrees that no waiver has occurred here. 
 
Under the Federal
Arbitration Act, a party waives its right to compel arbitration if it (1) knows
of an existing right to arbitration and (2) acts inconsistently with that
right. (See Morgan v. Sundance (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1708, 1714.) 
 
Prior to the ruling in Viking
River, there was no “individual component to a PAGA action, because “every
PAGA action is a representative action on behalf of the state.” (Kim v.
Reins Int’l California, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal. 5th 73, 87, quoting Iskanian
v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles LLC (2014) 59 Cal. 4th 348, 387). As a
result, various courts have held that employers may not require employees to
“split” PAGA actions in a manner that puts individual and non-individual
components of a PAGA claim into bifurcated proceedings. (See, e.g., Perez v.
U-Haul Co. of California (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 408, 420-421; Williams v.
Superior Court (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 642, 649; Reyes v. Macy’s Inc.
(2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1123-1124.)
 
Viking River determined that “the FAA preempts the rule of Iskanian
insofar as it precludes division of PAGA actions into individual and
non-individual claims through an agreement to arbitrate.” (Viking River
Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S. Ct. 1906, 1924.) Thus, the
arbitration of a plaintiff’s individual claims in a PAGA action is now
permitted.
 
Prior to the decision in Viking
River, the relief Defendants now seek was barred by controlling precedent
of the California Supreme Court. (See Iskanian supra, 59 Cal.4th 348.)
In short, there was no existing right to arbitration for Defendants to
knowingly waive.
 
Unconscionability 
 
Agreements to arbitrate
will not be enforced if they are unconscionable. Unconscionability has two
components: procedural and substantive. (Little v. Auto Stigler, Inc.
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071.) Both procedural and substantive
unconscionability must be present to avoid arbitration but need not be present to
the same degree. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services
(2002) 24 Cal.4th 83, 115.) 
 
Though both types of
unconscionability must be present, they do not need to be present in equal
amounts. The Supreme Court of California expressed that procedural and
substantive unconscionability work as a sliding scale, so "the more
substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural
unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa." (Armendariz supra, 24 Cal.4th at
114.)
 
Procedural
Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff first argues that
the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it is a contract of
adhesion. The Court disagrees with this categorization. 
 
Procedural
unconscionability focuses on the oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power between the parties generally demonstrated by a contract of
adhesion which is “imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining
strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to
the contract or reject it.” (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2004)
120 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1280-1281 [internal quotations omitted].)
 
Here, Defendants have
demonstrated that the Agreement was not one of adhesion because it was not
presented as a condition of Plaintiff’s employment. Defendants provide the
declaration of Boalbey in support. Boalbey declares that the arbitration
program included in the Agreement is voluntary and that signature on the
arbitration agreement is not a condition of employment. (Boalbey Decl.
¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s argument that the papers were not explained to him may
speak to procedural unconscionability, but he does not go so far as to declare
that his employment was contingent on his signing the Agreement or that he even
requested the provision to be explained to him. Plaintiff presents no evidence that
the Agreement was required for his employment. The Court finds the contract is
not one of adhesion.
 
Plaintiff also argues that
the Agreement was unconscionable as the result of not being presented in
Spanish. Plaintiff declares that he is a native Spanish speaker, and his
understanding of English is extremely limited. (Chaidez Decl. ¶ 6.) As
noted by Plaintiff, courts have found procedural unconscionability to result
where an agreement was not presented to the signee in a language they could
read. In Nunez v. Cycad Management LLC, the California Court of Appeal for
the Second district found that an employer’s failure to present an arbitration
agreement in Spanish, when the employer knew he did not understand English,
amounted to a showing of oppression. (Nunez v. Cycad Management LLC
(2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 276, 284.) However, the same district in Caballero v.
Premier Care Simi Valley LLC previously held that “Generally, a party may
not avoid enforcement of an arbitration provision because the party has limited
proficiency in the English language. If a party does not speak or understand
English sufficiently to comprehend a contract in English, the Court of Appeal
opined that it is incumbent upon the party to have it read or explained to him
or her.” (Caballero v. Premier Care Simi Valley LLC (2021) 69
Cal.App.5th 512, 518-519.) 
 
The discrepancy between the
rulings in Caballero and Nunez need not be resolved to adjudicate this
motion. Defendant has provided evidence which rebuts Plaintiff’s declaration. In
Boalbey’s supplemental declaration, she states that was the one to interview
Plaintiff for his position of cook, and she conducted this interview in English
experiencing no communication issues. (Boalbey Supp. Decl. ¶ 3.) Boalbey also states
that Plaintiff informed her he had prior management experience and a desire to
grow with the company. (Id.) Further, Boalbey attests that it is company
policy to provide ample time to complete the onboarding process, and that their
policy is to provide a Spanish translator to those employees who request it.
(Boalbey Supp. Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) The Court notes that Plaintiff’s declaration is
silent as to the time he was provided to review and sign the documents, only
that he was not allowed to take them home. (Chaidez Decl. ¶ 9.) Further, Plaintiff
makes no representation that he voiced concerns about being unable to read the
paperwork. 
 
In light of Defendant’s
declarations, the Court finds that the failure to provide a Spanish language
translation was not indicative of oppression or surprise. Given Plaintiff’s
performance in the interview with Boalbey, Defendants had no reason to believe
that Plaintiff lacked an understanding of English sufficient to review the
documents and raise any concerns. Further, to the extent that Defendants were
mistaken as to Plaintiff’s language proficiency, Plaintiff never raised
concerns to them along these lines. In light of the foregoing, the Court finds no
procedural unconscionability results. 
 
Lastly, Plaintiff argues
there is additional procedural unconscionability because Defendant did not
provide a copy of the JAMS rules with the proposed arbitration agreement. The
Court of Appeal in Cisneros Alvarez stated, "the failure to provide
a copy of the arbitration rules generally raises procedural unconscionability
concerns only if there is a substantively unconscionable provision in the
omitted rules." (Cisneros Alvarez v. Altamed Health Services
Corporation (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 572, 590.) While the Cisneros
Alvarez decision concerned the American Arbitration Association rules,
rather than JAMS, the difference is not determinative of the holding. Here,
Plaintiff does not argue that any of the provisions of the JAMS rules are
unconscionable, nor did he argue why the link to those rules were
insufficient.   In modern times here in
California, internet connection via cell phones or free Wi-Fi is
ubiquitous.   There is no added procedural unconscionability
for failure to provide the JAMS rules to Plaintiff with the Agreement,
especially when the link to those rules were provided to the Plaintiff.   The failure to provide a hyper-link that
would have taken the Plaintiff to the rules via an electronic device is of
little consequence to support a claim for unconscionability. 
 
As a finding of both
procedural and substantive unconscionability is required to prevent enforcement,
the Court finds that there was no procedural unconscionability and as such the
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
Substantive
Unconscionability 
 
Although the Court has
already determined no procedural unsociability exists, the Court will still engage
in an analysis regarding substantive unconscionability.   
 
Plaintiff first argues that
the Agreement is substantively unconscionable because the Agreement renders the
arbitration process inaccessible. 
 
Plaintiff cites to OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho. In OTO the California Supreme Court held that the
arbitration process of an employer was substantively unconscionable because it
made the arbitration process virtually inaccessible to employees. (OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 131.) The OTO court found that
the process was confusing and the agreement in question did not provide
instructions on how to initiate the arbitral process. (Id.) Nor did the OTO
agreement contain an explanation of where arbitration rules could be found. (Id.)
Plaintiff states that the Agreement here is much the same, in that it provides
no information to the signee as to how to initiate the arbitration process. 
 
The Court finds this
situation distinguishable from OTO. First, the procedure in the OTO court
was non-standard arbitral process created by the employer. (Id. at 119.)
The Court contrasted the complex process in OTO with the relatively
simple Berman Process, which provided easier access to employees. (Id.
at 131.) Where the Berman process consisted of standardized rules, the
employer’s process was completely silent as to how to initiate an arbitration,
file a claim, or how to contact an arbitrator. (Id.) Here, the Agreement
provides that the JAMS rules will govern the conduct of arbitration. The
Agreement provides a link to the current JAMS rules. (See Mot. Exh. 1, p. 6.)
Plaintiff argues that because the Agreement was provided in paper, the link is
useless as a tool to inform employees about the arbitral process. The Court
finds this argument speaks more to procedural unconscionability than
substantive. Substantive unconscionability is concerned with the content of an
agreement, not the circumstances in which it is presented. The Agreement
provides that disputes are submitted before a single and neutral arbitrator
from a JAMS panel and using the JAMS procedural rules for the resolution of
employment disputes. Unlike in OTO, there is no cryptic process or
obfuscation of the rules that apply to arbitration under this Agreement. The
Agreement establishes that a widely known arbitral body with standardized rules
governs the agreement and directs employees to their website. The Court does
not find this to be indicative of substantive unconscionability. 
 
Lastly, Plaintiff argues
that the Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it seeks to compel
arbitration of claims which only apply to employees. Plaintiff cites to the
relatively recent Appellate decision in Hasty v. American Automobile Assn.
etc. In Hasty the California Court of Appeal for the Third District
held that a provision which precluded class/representative actions was
substantively unconscionable. (Hasty v. American Automobile Assn. etc. (2023)
98 Cal.App.5th 1041, 1063.) The court reasoned that because employees were the
only parties likely to bring a representative/class action, the inclusion of
this waiver was unilateral to an unconscionable degree. (Id.) 
 
The Court notes that Hasty
did not hold the preclusion of representative/class actions to be
sufficient to show substantive unconscionability on its own. The Hasty court
has already found its agreement to be substantively unconscionable by virtue of
a unilateral confidentiality clause. (Id. at 1060.) The Hasty court
also found a significant degree of procedural unconscionability by virtue of
the agreement appearing in an adhesion contract and the hiding of the
arbitration provision with the use of small type face and dense conditions. (Id.
at 1057.) 
 
Here, the Court must
reconcile the holding in Hasty with the realities of this case. The
provision waiving representative/class actions is clearly one-sided, as
Defendants would likely never seek to bring this kind of action against an
employee. However, the Agreement concerns a great deal of disputes which would
apply to both parties including non-payment of wages, discrimination, and
wrongful termination. “Arbitration agreements that primarily require
arbitration of the type of claims only employees bring against employers are
substantively unconscionable as being “one-sided and harsh.” (Navas v. Fresh
Venture Foods, LLC (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 626, 636 [emphasis added].)
The Court does not find the Agreement is intended primarily to require
arbitration of representative/class actions. While the provision renders the
Agreement somewhat unconscionable, it is not to a high degree. 
 
Conclusion & Stay
 
The Court finds that
Defendants have not waived their right to arbitration, as they were required to
wait for the decision in Viking River. While Plaintiff has demonstrated
a modicum of procedural unconscionability, he has not demonstrated substantial
substantive unconscionability so as to render the Agreement unenforceable.
Accordingly, the motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
As concerns Defendants’ requested
stay, the Court find staying the nonindividual PAGA claims until the
arbitration is completed is the approach supported in the California Supreme
Court's recent decision in Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (Adolph
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1123-24 ["First,
the trial court may exercise its discretion to stay the non-individual claims
pending the outcome of the arbitration pursuant to section 1281.4 of the Code
of Civil Procedure…Uber makes no convincing argument why this manner of
proceeding would be impractical or would require relitigating Adolph's status
as an aggrieved employee in the context of his non-individual claims, and we
see no basis for Uber's concern."].)
 
Further, allowing the
claims to proceed in tandem is less efficient given Plaintiff may ultimately be
found to lack PAGA standing. (See Rocha v. U-Haul Co. of California
(2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 65, 77-78 ["[A]n adjudication that determines that a
violation has not occurred, like the arbitrator's finding regarding U-Haul's
alleged violations in this case, does not merely address injury or redress, but
finally determines 'the fact of the violation itself-precisely the situation
the California Supreme Court noted was not present in Kim. Once the Labor Code
violations based on which a plaintiff seeks to qualify for PAGA standing have
been finally adjudicated, the extent to which that adjudication prevents a
plaintiff from qualifying for standing will depend on general principles of
issue preclusion."].) Such a finding of lack of standing would entirely
waste any efforts and resources spent on litigating Plaintiff's representative
claims if the claims proceeded concurrently.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Pitfire Artisan Pizza
& Deluxe Foods, LLC’s Petition to Enforce Arbitration came on regularly for hearing on March 22, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION OF PLAINTIFF’S
INDIVIDUAL PAGA CLAIMS IS GRANTED. 
 
THE ACTION IS STAYED WITH RESPECT TO PLAINTIFF’S
REPRESENTATIVE PAGA CLAIMS UNTIL THE ARBITRATION IS RESOLVED. 
 
THE COURT SETS AN OSC RE: ARBITRATION FOR OCTOBER
10, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANTS TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
March 22, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 