 Case Number:  22BBCV00262    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 22, 2024

MOTION FOR
ATTORNEY’S FEES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00262

 



MP:  


FAAS Properties, LLC (Defendant)




RP:  


Anthony Bouyer (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Anthony Bouyer
(Plaintiff) brought this action against FAAS Properties, LLC (Defendant),
alleging Defendant’s property contained conditions which discriminated against
Plaintiff as a disabled person. The case proceeded to trial and the jury
rendered a special verdict judgment in favor of Defendant. 
 
Defendant now moves
to recover attorney’s fees Defendant contends they are entitled to fees
pursuant to 42
U.S.C. § 12205. In the alternative Defendant seeks recovery of fees
incurred
after the rejection of its offer pursuant to C.C.P. § 998. Plaintiff opposes
the motion and defendant replies. 
  
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS: 
 
Plaintiff objects to various
portions of the declaration of Rachelle Golden. 
 
Plaintiff objects to Exhibits
A & B, which are billing statements for Defendant’s counsel, as
inadmissible hearsay. These objections are OVERRULED. 
 
“For the
purpose of fixing attorney’s fees,” the trial court “is not bound by technical
rules of evidence, since it is not trying an issue in the case and is merely
seeking information upon which to base its order.” (Frank v. Frank
(1963) 213 Cal.App.2d 135, 138,; Rose v. Rose (1895) 109 Cal. 544, 546;
see Padilla v. McClellan (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 1100, 1106-1107, [“courts
determine the reasonableness of attorney fees every day by ruling on motions,”
based on “declarations only, not live testimony” in “hearings [that] are
usually short” and “[t]rial courts are afforded wide discretion to determine
the amount of attorney fees within that framework”].)
 
Plaintiff’ objections to paragraphs 4
which summarize the fees and costs are likewise OVERRULED. 
 
Plaintiff’s objections to the contents
of paragraph 5 as irrelevant are also OVERRULED. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Plaintiff’s
Claims 
 
Plaintiff’s
sole cause of action in his First Amended Complaint (FAC) was for “Violation of
the UCRA, California Civil Code § 51 et seq.” 
 
Plaintiff’s
prayer for relief requested: (1) a declaratory judgment that Defendant violated
42 U.S.C. § 12181 and California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act, California Civil
Code § 51, et seq.; (2) an injunction enjoining Defendant from further
violations of 42 U.S.C. § 12181 and California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act,
California Civil Code § 51, et seq.; (3)$4,000 in damages for each additional
occurrence; and (4) reasonable attorney’s fees, litigation expenses, and costs
of suit pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 12205 and California Civil Code § 52. 
 
Parties’
Arguments 
 
The
parties disagree as to whether 42 U.S.C. § 12205 or
California Civil Code § 52 governs this motion. If 42 U.S.C. § 12205
governs, Defendant can recover attorney’s fees. If California Civil Code § 52
governs, Defendant cannot recover fees. 
 
42 U.S.C.
§ 12205 provides, “In any action or administrative proceeding commenced
pursuant to this chapter, the court or agency, in its discretion, may allow the
prevailing party, other than the United States, a reasonable attorney’s fee,
including litigation expenses, and costs, and the United States shall be liable
for the foregoing the same as a private individual.” This is a bilateral fee
provision, meaning that the prevailing party may recover regardless of their
status as plaintiff or defendant. 
 
California
Civil Code § 52 provides, in relevant part, “Whoever denies, aids or incites a
denial, or makes any discrimination or distinction contrary to Section 51,
51.5, or 51.6, is liable for each and every offense for the actual damages, and
any amount that may be determined by a jury, or a court sitting without a jury,
up to a maximum of three times the amount of actual damage but in no case less
than four thousand dollars ($4,000), and any attorney’s fees that may be
determined by the court in addition thereto, suffered by any person denied the
rights provided in Section 51, 51.5, or 51.6.” 
 
Civil
Code § 52 is a unilateral fee provision, allowing only a prevailing plaintiff
to recover attorney’s fees. (See Turner v. Association of American Colleges
(2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058-1060.) This is contrasted to other relevant
sections of the Civil Code, specifically §§ 55 (governing recovery under the
California Disabled Persons Act), which provide for bilateral recovery of fees.

 
Defendant
argues that, because Plaintiff specifically invoked the ADA in his FAC, 42
U.S.C. § 12205 should apply. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s invocation of
the ADA in his FAC brings his action under 42 U.S.C. § 12205 because the
statute applies to actions brought “pursuant” to the ADA. Plaintiff responds by
citing to a variety of cases which concern federal question jurisdiction. 
 
Discussion
of 42 U.S.C. § 12205 & California Civil Code § 52
 
The Court
finds the citations to federal question jurisdiction are irrelevant for
purposes of this motion. This is a state action in front of state court
concerning a state statute. This is a not a question of whether the Court has
jurisdiction, it is instead a question of preemption. 
 
The
California Supreme Court decision in Jankey v. Lee is instructive. In Jankey,
the California Supreme Court considered whether the bilateral fee provision of
Civil Code § 55 was in conflict with 42 U.S.C. § 12205. (Jankey v. Lee (2012)
55 Cal.4th 1038, 1047.) Here the conflict was not who could recover,
instead the parties disagreed over the circumstances of recovery. (Id.)
Where 42 U.S.C. § 12205 permits the recovery of attorney’s fees to any
prevailing party, Civil Code § 55 permits recovery for a prevailing defendant
only where they have shown the claims were frivolous. (Id.) In addition,
42 U.S.C. § 12205 makes recovery mandatory, while Civil Code § 55 makes
recovery discretionary. (Id.) The defendant in Jankey, having
prevailed at trial, sought attorney’s fees pursuant to plaintiff’s
failure to prevail on his Civil Code § 55 cause of action. (Id. at
1043.) The plaintiff opposed the award, claiming that Civil Code § 55 was
preempted by the ADA. (Id.) 
 
In analyzing
42 U.S.C. § 12201(b), the Jankey court found that it was the intent of
Congress that nothing in the ADA would be construed to “invalidate the
remedies, rights, and procedures of any…law of any State or political
subdivision of any State or jurisdiction that provides greater or equal
protection for the rights of individuals with disabilities than are afforded by
this Act. (Id. at 1049.) The Jankey court explained that the
function of this code section was to ensure that laws enacted by States with the
intent to afford greater protections to disabled persons were not preempted by
the provisions of the ADA. (Id.) The court noted that, “[n]either the
text of the construction clause nor any other language in the ADA addresses how
to determine whether a state law affords equal or greater protection than the
ADA.” (Id. at 1050.) 
 
In the
absence of statutory explanation, the Court looked to the Congressional history
of the statute to ascertain what was meant by “greater protection”. (Id.)
Ultimately the court concluded that “Congress embraced a cafeteria approach in
which those with disabilities, rather than being restricted to a single federal
remedy, could pick and choose from among federal and state remedies and
procedures the avenues for relief they thought most advantageous. It follows
that if a state remedial scheme is in any regard superior to the ADA, courts
should conclude it is not preempted and instead allow plaintiffs the choice
whether to seek relief under federal law, state law, or both.” (Id. at
1051.) 
 
In
applying the principles of preemption derived from the legislative history, the
Jankey court found that Civil Code § 55 was not preempted by the ADA. (Id.)
The court reasoned that because the provision of the ADA generally required a higher
barrier of proof than the Civil Code, the ADA did not preempt. (Id.) In
essence, if any provision of the Civil Code would make the process of
maintaining and recovering a claim more accessible to a disabled person it is
not preempted by the ADA. The court added that it was irrelevant whether other
provisions of the Civil Code were less advantageous to a potential plaintiff,
so long as the state law affords better protection in some respect. (Id.
at 1052.) 
 
Here, the
Court finds the reasoning of Jankey requires the application of Civil
Code § 52. Civil Code § 52 affords greater protections to the disabled by
virtue of shielding them from liability for attorney’s fees in instances where
they do not prevail. Courts have held that the California Legislature’s intent
in enacting Civil Code § 52 was expressly to provide greater protections for
disabled persons that that provide by the ADA. (See Section 1 of Stats.1992, c.
913 [“It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this act to strengthen
California law in areas where it is weaker than the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-336) and to retain California law when it provides
more protection for individuals with disabilities than the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990.; see also Turner supra,193 Cal.App.4th at 106
[“the statutory language authorizing fee awards only to prevailing plaintiffs
reflects a determination that prevailing defendants should not receive a fee
award for hours spent defending such claims. This is reflected strongly in the
legislative history to section 52, when, in 1976, it was amended to include the
unilateral fee-shifting provision by Assembly Bill No. 2553.”].) 
 
Simply
put, to hold that the ADA’s fee provision preempts the California’s fee
provision would be to strip Civil Code § 52 of the greater protection it
intends to afford disabled persons. This would be contrary not only to the
intent of the California legislature but also the Federal legislature. 
 
Further,
the Court finds that Plaintiff’s invocation of the ADA renders his cause of
action as one made under the ADA rather than the Unruh Civil Rights Act.
Plaintiff’s aversion to the ADA was intended to advance the well-established
argument that a violation of the ADA is a de facto violation of the Unruh Civil
Rights Act. (See Munson v. Del Taco, Inc. (2009) 46 Cal.4th 661,
631 [“As noted, Assembly members were told that by adding subdivision (f) to
section 51 the bill would make a violation of the ADA a violation of the Unruh
Act.”].) The Court does not find the invocation of the ADA in the FAC
transforms Plaintiff’s claim into one which is no longer governed by the
California Civil Code. 
 
To avoid
any uncertainty, if permitted under 42 USC §12205 and related California law
the court would exercise its discretion and impose attorney’s fees; however,
the Court does not believe it has the authority to do so,
 
Discussion
of C.C.P. § 998 Offer 
 
The Court
notes that Civil Code § 52 does not operate to bar Defendant’s request for
attorney’s fees pursuant to C.C.P. § 998. The obligation to pay costs under CCP
§ 998 does not arise from the nature of the parties’ claims, but instead from
CCP § 998 itself, which imposes an obligation to pay costs arising out of a
party’s behavior as a litigant. (Glassman v. Safeco Ins. Co. of
America (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1281, 1314.)
 
C.C.P. §
998(c)(1) provides if a defendant made an offer that is not accepted and the plaintiff
fails to obtain a more favorable judgment or award in any action or proceeding plaintiff
shall pay defendant’s costs from the time of the offer.  Furthermore, the court, in its discretion may
order the plaintiff to pay a reasonable sum to cover postoffer costs of the
services of expert witnesses, who are not regular employees of any party,
actually incurred and reasonably necessary in either, or both, preparation for
trial or arbitration, or during trial of the case by the defendant, in addition
to defendant’s costs.
 
Whether a
pre-trial offer of judgment was reasonable and made in good faith, under the
cost-shifting offer of judgment statute is a burden placed on the offferee. (Covert
v. FCA USA, LLC (2022) 73 Cal.App.5th 821, 834.) Whether offer of
judgment is made in good faith is based on whether, at the time it was made, it
carried reasonable prospect of acceptance by offeree. (Glassman supra,
90 Cal.App.5th at 1314.) 
 
“The
court inquires First, was the CCP section 998 offer within the range of
reasonably possible results at trial, considering all of the information the
offeror knew or reasonably should have known? Second, did the offeror know that
the offeree had sufficient information, based on what the offeree knew or
reasonably should have known, to assess whether the offer was a reasonable one
such that the offeree had a fair opportunity to intelligently evaluate the
offer?” (Id. [internal citations and quotation marks omitted].) 
 
Here,
Defendant rendered a 998 settlement offer of $1 on November 28, 2023. (Golden
Decl. Exh. K.) Defendant argues that at the time the 998-settlement offer was
made, Plaintiff should have been reasonably aware that his action was without
merit. Defendant states that they rendered discovery responses in July of 2022,
in which they asserted that the property was a drive-thru and not subject to
wheelchair compliance. (Reply. p. 8.) Defendant argues that a simple Google
Street View search could have revealed to Plaintiff that the establishment was
a drive thru that was not subject to wheelchair accessibility requirements.  Furthermore, Plaintiff actually visited the
site and would have been aware of this information prior to filing the lawsuit.
(Golden Decl. Exh. 219.) Defendant further states that Plaintiff was presented
with the Google Street View images, which depicts a car positioned at the
drive-thru, at his June 12, 2023 deposition. (Goden Supp. Decl. Exh. N.) Based
on the information presented at trial, which would have, or reasonably should
have, been known the offer of $1.00 with all side paying their own costs and
expenses was not unreasonable.
 
Plaintiff
does not address the “reasonableness” requirement in earnest. Plaintiff makes
no arguments or showing as to his knowledge at the time the 998-settlement
offer was made. Instead, Plaintiff’s argument proceeds entirely that the offer
was unreasonable because it accounted for only 0.25% of the possible $4,000
statutory recovery. However, courts have found that nominal settlement awards
are not per se unreasonable.
 
The Court
finds that the 998-settlement offer was reasonable given the information
available to Plaintiff regarding the drive-thru. An apparently “token” offer of
e.g., one dollar may—or may not—be a reasonable offer under § 998. The issue is
not, precisely, the amount; the issue is whether the offer has an objectively
reasonable prospect of acceptance. (Bates v. Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital,
Inc. (2012) 204
Cal.App.4th 210, 220.) Here, Plaintiff’s sole focus on the dollar amount of the
offer misstates the standard of reasonableness. The question is not whether Defendant
offered a substantial enough settlement, it is instead whether Plaintiff could
have evaluated the offer as reasonable in light of the circumstances. 
 
“If a defendant makes a low
offer shortly before trial based upon potent evidence likely to insulate
defendant from liability, and if the evidence was reasonably available to
plaintiff, defendant’s offer may qualify as a valid section 998 offer even
though plaintiff did not in fact know of the information because he failed to
investigate or pursue discovery.” (Santantonio v. Westinghouse Broadcasting
Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 102, 120 [internal citations omitted].) Here,
Plaintiff has presented no evidence or substantive argument as to why he found
the offer unreasonable. Defendant has demonstrated that through discovery,
Plaintiff was aware that his claims were likely without merit, to wit he went
to a drive through tobacco store to purchase a bottle of water. Here, unlike Santantonio,
which discussed only negligence in discovering facts, Defendant was actually
aware of the facts necessary to make this determination. 
 
The Court finds Defendant has
fulfilled their burden to show a valid settlement offer under C.C.P. § 998 was
made. The Court also finds that Plaintiff has failed to carry the subsequent
burden to show this offer was unreasonable or not made in good faith.   Nonetheless, the Court would award attorney’s
fees if it were permitted to do so; however, the Court does not conclude it has
such authority in this instance.
 
Recovery of Fees 
 
Regardless
of the reasonableness of Defendant’s offer, C.C.P. § 998 does not automatically
allow them to recover attorney’s fees as postoffer costs. C.C.P. § 998 does not
provide greater rights to attorney fees than provided for by the underlying
statute or contract. (Oakes v.
Progressive Transp. Servs., Inc. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 486, fn. 6 citing Scott Co. v. Blount, Inc. (1999) 86
Cal.Rptr.2d 614.) A party with no statutory or contractual basis to recover
attorney fees cannot add them to the verdict when deciding whether a 998 offer
was exceeded. (Id.) 
 
As
discussed above, Defendant has not shown that they are entitled to the recovery
of attorney’s fees by function of statute. As such, Defendant’s recovery under
C.C.P. § 998 is limited to post offer costs. The Court notes that billing
statements attached to Defendant’s declarations do not separate costs from
attorney’s fees, nor has Defendant submitted a memorandum of costs.  
 
Conclusion

 
The Court
would deny the motion for attorney’s fees pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 12205. Defendant
may pursue costs pursuant to CCP §998 or a Memorandum of Costs as a prevailing
party should they so choose.  
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
FAAS Properties, LLC’s
Motion for Attorney’s Fees came on regularly for
hearing on March 22, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES IS DENIED. 
 
DEFENDANT MAY STILL PURSUE COSTS PER CCP §998 OR
A MEMORANDUM OF COSTS AS THE PREVAILING PARTY PURSUANT TO CCP §1032 ET SEQ.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
March 22, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 