 Case Number:  22STCV21262    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 22,
2024

MOTION FOR
PROTECTIVE ORDER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22STCV21262

 



MP:  


City of La Cañada Flintridge
  (Defendant)




RP:  


Wayneider Singh Anand (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Wayneider Singh Anand
(Plaintiff) brings this action against the City of La Cañada Flintridge (La
Cañada) in connection with a December 4, 2021 incident which claimed the life
of Plaintiff’s wife. Plaintiff alleges La Cañada failed to maintain safe
conditions for a crosswalk located at Foothill Boulevard and Union Street.
Plaintiff alleges that because of this failure, his wife was struck by a
vehicle while crossing the street. 
 
Before the Court is a
motion for a protective order filed by La Cañada. La Cañada requests a
protective order preventing the disclosure of its Highway Safety Improvement Program (“HSIP”) grant
applications and its Systemic Safety Analysis Reports (“SSAR”) along with
documents that were prepared in connection with those applications and reports.
La Cañada asserts documents which are privileged from disclosure pursuant to 23
USCA § 407.
 
Of
key importance to this motion is a Public Works and Traffic Commission Agenda
Report (Public Works Report) which was generated by La Cañada on April 11,
2022. La Cañada maintains this Public Works Report was created in response to a
demand made by Plaintiff on January 19, 2022. (Mot. Exh. K.) La Cañada asserts
the Public Works Report is privileged because it contains information directly
pulled from HSIP applications and SSAR and analysis thereof. Specifically, La
Cañada states the Public Works Report inadvertently included portions of the
City’s 2018 SSAR and 2020 HSIP application. This information was also included
in La Cañada’s response to a series of Public Records Requests.  
 
Plaintiff
contends the Public Works report is discoverable and functions to waive the
privilege of 23 USCA § 407 because the report was published on the city’s
website. Plaintiff argues posting the report publicly waives the privilege
asserted by La Cañada and renders the HSIP applications and SSAR discoverable. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS: 
 
La Cañada
presents the declarations of three city employees: Patrick DeChellis
(DeChellis), Arabo Parseghian (Parseghian), and Tania Garcia (Garcia).
Plaintiff objects to the portions of these declarations which attest that the
disclosure of HSIP and SSAR data was inadvertent. Plaintiff objects to each on
identical grounds that they lack foundation, are hearsay, and the declarant
lacks personal knowledge.  Plaintiff’s
objections are OVERRULED. 
 
The Court
finds that DeChellis, Parseghian, and Garcia all clearly indicate their
positions as city officials. Each declarant establishes a knowledge of the
underlying dispute and the accident. The Court finds the question of whether or
not a document should be included in a public address is a matter within the
knowledge of the Director of Public Works, the Director of Administrative
Services, and the City Clerk respectively. Each declaration describes the
Public Works Report and the Public Records Request upon which the declarant’s
statement is made. 
 
Further,
the Court finds Plaintiff’s argument that the declarations are based on nothing
but the advice of La Cañada’s counsel to be unpersuasive. Plaintiff cites to
the deposition testimony of DeChellis, Parseghian, and Gracia state where they state
they conferred with the city attorneys on this matter. The fact that the
declarants consulted with La Cañada’s attorneys does not indicate that they
were told to state the disclosure was inadvertent. Each declarant has
demonstrated personal knowledge of the situation and relevant documents and is
experienced in their position such that they can independently testify as to
whether that information should have been included. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Before,
during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected
natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. (C.C.P.
§ 2025.420, (a).) The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under C.C.P. § 2016.040. (Id.) 
 
The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (C.C.P. § 2025.420(b).) Moreover, there are “no time limits within
which an application for a protective order must be filed” (Stadish v.
Superior Court (1999) 71 Cal. App. 4th 1130, 1144.)
 
C.C.P. §
2025.420(b), provides a nonexclusive list of permissible directions that may be
included in a protective order. “[T]he burden is on the party seeking the
protective order to show good cause for whatever order is sought.” (Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
This
is the second motion for protective order concerning these documents that La
Cañada has filed. The Court denied the first motion without prejudice. In doing
so, the Court found that La Cañada had waived the privilege by virtue of
publishing the Public Works Report on their website. The Court further found
that La Cañada had not appropriately demonstrated that the disclosure in the
Public Works Report was inadvertent. In renewing their motion, La Cañada does
not advance any new theories of law concerning the federal privilege or waiver
issues. Rather, La Cañada now presents their motion accompanied by declarations
of city employees. La Cañada asserts these declarations serve as evidence that
the publishing of the Public Works Report was inadvertent and has since been
removed from public access. 
 
The Court will provide a brief recap of
the Plaintiff’s argument regarding waiver and then address the parties
arguments as to the new evidentiary showings.
 
Waiver 
 
Plaintiff’s argument concerning waiver
primarily derives from California Government Code (“Gov. Code”) § 6254(k). The
Court notes Gov. Code § 6254(k) was relocated in the government code effective
January 1, 2023 and now resides at Gov. Code § 7927. Plaintiff specifically
argues that Gov. Code § 6254.5 (now Gov. Code § 7921.505) creates a waiver of
privilege where information was disclosed voluntarily. 
 
In Ardon v. City of Los
Angeles (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1176, the California Supreme Court explicitly
held that the waiver provision of the California Public Records Act applied to
intentional, and not involuntary disclosures. The California Supreme Court
reasoned that this interpretation was consistent with the legislative purpose
of the Public Records Act. (Ardon supra, 62 Cal.4th 1176 at 1184.) While
the privilege asserted in Ardon was attorney client privilege, its
stands to reason that this holding would similarly apply to privileges asserted
under federal law. As such, if La Cañada’s disclosure of the 2018 SSAR and 2020 HSIP application were inadvertent,
they did not waive their privilege. 
 
Declarations 
 
La Cañada presents the
declarations of DeChellis, Parseghian, and Tania Garcia as evidence of
inadvertence. The Court will provide a brief summary of each declaration. 
 
DeChellis states that he is
the Director of Public Works for La Cañada and has been for five years.
(DeChellis Decl. ¶ 2.) DeChellis states that on January 19, 2022, the city
of La Cañada received an email from Plaintiff regarding roadway safety and
demanding an explanation for the incident involving Plaintiff’s wife. (Id.
¶ 2.) DeChellis states the city was aware of the accident and wanted to
thoroughly respond to Plaintiff. (Id. ¶ 3.) DeChellis then states that
“In the City’s concerted effort to provide answers to its grieving
residents…the City inadvertently published information derived from its 2018
Systematic Safety Analysis Report Program.” (Id. ¶ 4.) 
 
Parseghian is the Director
of Administrative Service for La Cañada. (Parseghian Decl. ¶ 1.) Parseghian’s
declaration also attests to the email received by the City. (Id. ¶ 2.)
Parseghian states that La Cañada responded to the email by producing the Public
Works Report “without realizing the sensitive and protected nature” of its
contents. (Id. ¶ 3.) Parseghian also states that the Public Works Report
and the related minutes from the public meeting have been removed from La
Cañada’s website. (Id. ¶ 5.) 
 
Garcia is the City Clerk
for La Cañada and has been for nine years. (Garcia Decl. ¶ 1.) Garcia states
that La Cañada received a Public Records Request on March 3, 2022 from Versus
Forensic in Roseville, California. (Id. ¶ 2.) In response, La Cañada provided
records for the intersection requested from years 2011 to 2021. (Id.)
Garcia states that La Cañada’s HSIP application was inadvertently included in
the application. (Id. ¶ 3.) Garcia also states that the Public
Works Report was produced in response to a residents Public Records Request on
April 1, 2022. (Id. ¶ 4.) 
 
Depositions 
 
In the time between the
first and second motions, Plaintiff conducted depositions of DeChellis,
Parseghian, and Garcia. Plaintiff argues that their deposition testimony
refutes any assertion that the inclusion of the SSAR and HSIP information was
inadvertent. 
 
When questioned about his
declaration, DeChellis stated that he had no personal involvement in creating
the Public Works Report. (Oppo. Exh. 1, DeChellis Depo 132: 8-18.) The report
was actually produced by Farhad Iranitalab, La
Cañada’s Traffic Engineer. (Id.) DeChellis also testified that it is
standard procedure to publish staff reports to the Public Works and Traffic
Commission on the city website. (DeChellis Depo 141: 9-11.) 
 
The portions of the of
Parseghian deposition do not speak to inadvertent disclosure. The deposition
excerpt provided merely attests that it only took Paraseghian around 15 minutes
to remove the information from the La Cañada website. (Oppo. Exh. 3, Parseghian
Depo. 83: 3-8.) 
 
Garcia testified that as the
City Clerk, her procedure in responding to Public Records Requests would
consist of reviewing the documents compiled by her department personnel (Opp.
Exh. 2, Garcia Depo 18: 12-24.) Garcia could not recall whether she sought
approval for any of the documents from another authority before responding to
the March 3, 2022 Public Records Request. (Garcia Depo 42: 14-19.) In response
to the April 1, 2022 Public Records Request, Garcia testified that the City
Attorney’s office was involved in replying. (Garcia Depo 84: 7-10.) Garcia
testified that the City Attorney made the decision to redact certain
information from the documents prepared by the clerk’s office in response to
the request. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff also conducted a
deposition Farhad Iranitalab (Iranitalab). In his deposition Iranitalab
testifies that all of the information in the Public Works Report was intended
to be provided. (Oppo. Exh. 4, Iranitalab Depo 134: 18-9, 22.) Iranitalab also testified
that the report was reviewed by DeChellis and went through a revision process.
(Iranitalab Depo 137: 16-22.) 
 
Inadvertent Disclosure 
 
Plaintiff’s main contention
in opposition is that none of the declarations show the disclosure of the HSIP
and SSAR data was inadvertent. The Court notes that neither party defines inadvertence
within the context of this motion. As the statute is silent on what constitutes
a “voluntary” disclosure, we are left to define inadvertent disclosure in the
negative. 
 
First, Black's Law
Dictionary defines inadvertence as an “accidental oversight; a result of
carelessness.” (Black's Law Dict. (9th ed. 2009) p. 827.) This definition
comports with the common sense understanding of the word inadvertence. Simply
put, it means that something occurred by mistake due to lack of care. 
 
The Court also finds a review of the analysis in Ardon
to be helpful. In determining whether inadvertent disclosure waived privilege,
the Ardon court analyzed the legislative intent of the statute. (Ardon
supra, 62 Cal.4th at
1183.) The court held that it was not likely the Legislature intended to enact
the statute such that any mistaken disclosure would constitute a waiver of
privilege. (Id.) The court further held that it was more likely the
statutory purpose was to allow for waiver where a public agency made a
“voluntary and knowing disclosure.” (Id.) 
 
Lastly, the Court notes the
context of inadvertence as it is employed in C.C.P. § 473, which governs
motions for relief. Courts considering the use of inadvertence in the context
of C.C.P. § 473 have found the word was used to distinguish intentional or deliberate
conduct from accidental. (See Heritage Residential Care, Inc. v. Division of
Labor Standards Enforcement (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 75, 85.) 
 
Taken together, the Court
construes inadvertence in this case to mean that La Cañada did not purposefully
include the HSIP and SSAR data in the Public Works Report or responses to the
Public Records Requests. Having reviewed the declarations and the deposition
testimony, the Court finds the disclosure was indeed inadvertent. 
 
The declarations of
DeChellis, Parseghian, and Garcia attest that the information should not have
been included in any of the disclosures. While Plaintiff’s depositions reveal
that a great deal more care could have been taken, the fact remains that the
inclusion of the materials appears to have been a mistake. Just because
DeChellis did not catch the issues with the Public Works Report does not mean
that La Cañada made a knowing disclosure. The same can be said for the City
Attorney’s failure to redact the information in response to the April 1, 2022
request. The information attested to in the depositions only reveals that the
city employees included this information by mistake. Whether or not these
mistakes could or should have been prevented, the fact remains that the
disclosure was not “voluntary and knowing”.
 
As concerns the deposition
of Iranitalab, Plaintiff contends that he stated everything in the Public Works
Report was intended to be included. The Court notes that Iranitalab’s inclusion
of the privileged data in the Public Works Report may have been intentional,
but this does not mean its subsequent publishing on La Cañada’s website was
also intentional. It is clear that an editorial process occurred which should
have caught the mistaken inclusion of privileged information but did not. Again,
a mistake in editing does not constitute a knowing disclosure. 
 
Conclusion 
 
In short, the Court La
Cañada has submitted sufficient evidence that the disclosure of HSIP and SSAR
data was inadvertent. This having been determined, the Court also finds La
Cañada has shown good cause for the application of a protective order pursuant
to 23 USCA § 407. La Cañada is to submit
a proposed order for the Court to review and approve. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
The City of La Cañada
La Cañada’s Motion for Protective Order came on
regularly for hearing on March 22, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER IS GRANTED. 
 
LA CAÑADA IS TO PREPARE AND SUBMIT A PROPOSED
ORDER FOR THE COURT TO SIGN.  
 
UNLESS NOTICE
IS WAIVED BY ALL PARTIES, LA CAÑADA TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
March 22, 2024
                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 