 Case Number:  23BBCV02845    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 22,
2024

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02845

 



MP:  


Hami
  Golbar, Fred Golbar, and Gol 5 Properties, LLC (Defendants)  




RP:  


Brandon Brooks (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Brandon Brooks (Plaintiff) brings this action against Hami
Golbar, Fred Golbar, and Gol 5 Properties, LLC (collectively Defendants) regarding an apartment Plaintiff rented from Defendants (the
Subject Property). Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to remedy a number of
deficient conditions at the Subject Property. 
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint contains 14 causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Statutory Breach of the Warranty of
Habitability (Civil Code §§1941, 1941.1 and 1942.4), (3) Violation of Civil
Code §1942.4, (4) Violation of Civil Code §1942.5, (5) Tortious Breach of the
Warranty of Habitability, (6) Violation of Business & Professions Code
§17200, et seq., (7) Private Nuisance, (8) Negligence, (9) Breach of the
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, (10) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress,
 (11) Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress, (12) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing, (13)
Violation of LAMC 45.33, (14) Violation of Civil Code § 789.3(a)
 
Defendants now generally demur to the seventh,
ninth, tenth and eleventh causes of action in the Complaint arguing Plaintiff
failed to allege sufficient facts. Defendants also move to strike Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages. Plaintiff opposes and Defendants reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.           
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a
demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable
matters. (C.C.P. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311,
318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes
the truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged
pleading. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how
unlikely or improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true
for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural
Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not
include contentions; deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a
court may take judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d
at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a
complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the grounds that the
pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or
that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse
of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is a
reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motions to strike are
used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by
demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435,
436, and 437.) The proper procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading
is a motion to strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made
under C.C.P. § 435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435 [notice of motion to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).)
Irrelevant matters include immaterial allegations that are not essential to the
claim or those not pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim.
(C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The court may also “[s]trike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436
(b).)
 
II.           
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a)
and 435.5(a) requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer and/or motion to strike.
Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were met. (Mantovani
Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Facts 
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint
contains an omnibus facts section incorporated by reference into each of his 14
causes of action. 
 
Plaintiff alleges
that shortly after commencing tenancy, someone stole his parking spot (Compl. ¶
28.) Plaintiff also alleges that his vehicle was vandalized after his parking
spot was reassigned (Compl. ¶ 29); the Subject Property had its gas service
interrupted for a prolonged period for repairs. (Compl. ¶32); this gas interruption
caused him to experience severe health symptoms because he could not use his
fireplace and other gas appliances (Compl. ¶ 34); and the gas remains turned
off for the building. (Compl ¶ 35.) 
 
Plaintiff also
alleges that Defendants did not provide the necessary accommodations after he
was furloughed during the Covid-19 pandemic. (Compl. ¶ 36.) Instead, Plaintiff
alleges he was served with a 3-day notice to quit which was followed by two
unlawful detainer suits. (Compl. ¶ 37.) 
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint
also contains a list of alleged defective conditions of the Subject Property
which include infestations, extensive water damage, and unsafe/unsanitary
common areas. (Compl. ¶ 26.) Plaintiff does not provide any further
allegations as to the nature of these defects or when they occurred. (Compl.
¶ 26.) Plaintiff alleges that he has contacted Defendants with respect to
these defects several times, but the problems persist. (Compl. ¶¶ 41-49.)
Plaintiff alleges he was forced to hire his own pest and mold inspection
companies. (Compl. ¶ 50.) 
 
Seventh COA – Private
Nuisance – Sustained with Leave to Amend
 
To
establish an action for private nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must prove an
interference with his use and enjoyment of his property; (2) the invasion of
the plaintiff’s interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be
substantial, that is, that it causes the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual
damage; (3) the interference with the protected interest must not only be
substantial, but it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such
a nature, duration, or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with
the use and enjoyment of the land.” (Mendez
v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263, [citations,
italics, brackets, and quotation marks omitted].)

 
Defendants argue that
Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action pursuant to C.C.P. § 431.10(e).
Defendants argue that the nuisance cause of action fails because it is based
upon the same set of facts as Plaintiff’s third cause of action for negligence.
In support of their argument, Defendants rely on El Escorial Owners’ Assn.
v. DLC Plastering, Inc. and Melton v. Boustred.
 
In El Escorial,
the California Court of Appeals found that “Where negligence and nuisance
causes of action rely on the same facts about lack of due care, the nuisance
claim is a negligence claim.” (El Escorial Owners’ Assn. v. DLC Plastering,
Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349.) Likewise, the court in Melton found
that a demurrer is properly sustained where a nuisance claim is merely a clone
of the negligence claim. (Melton v. Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521,
542.) 
 
Plaintiff attempts to
distinguish El Escorial, arguing that some courts have allowed
plaintiffs to litigate nuisance causes of action in relation to housing
conditions. (See El Escorial supra, 154 Cal.App.4th at 1348 citing to Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 919.) Plaintiff also states that
his cause of action is not duplicative of the negligence cause of action
because the facts alleged speak to both negligence and intentional conduct. 
 
The Court finds
Plaintiff’s argument unpersuasive. The case law is clear that a plaintiff is
required to allege facts which are specific to their nuisance claims. That
Plaintiff’s facts could speak to either negligence or intentional
conduct is of no import, as Plaintiff has failed to distinguish them. Plaintiff
bases his negligence and nuisance claim on the exact factual allegations and
states no facts specific to his negligence cause of action.
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Ninth COA – Breach of
the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment – Sustained without Leave to Amend
 
The elements of a
claim for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment are: (1) a lease agreement
between plaintiff and defendant; (2) absence of language contrary to the
implied covenant that tenant shall have quiet enjoyment and possession; (3) act
or omission of the landlord, or anyone claiming under the landlord, which “substantially
interfere[s] with a tenant[‘]s right to use and enjoy the premises for the
purposes contemplated by the tenancy”; and (4) an applicable remedy. (See Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005)
125 Cal.App.4th 578, 588-591.)
 
Defendants demur to
this cause of action as duplicative of Plaintiff’s breach of contract claims. Defendants
cites to Ginsberg v. Gamson which held “[W]hen the landlord has breached
the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment, but the tenant remains in possession
of the premises, the tenant’s remedy is to ‘sue for breach of contract damages.’”
(Ginsberg v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 873, 902.) 
 
A split authority
exists as to whether a demurrer can be sustained based on the ground that a
cause of action is duplicative. Some courts have recognized it as a proper
basis for sustaining a demurrer. (See Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners
Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290; see also Award
Metals, Inc. v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1128, 1135 [“But
stating them in two causes of action, as real party has done, is merely
duplicative pleading which adds nothing to the complaint by way of fact or
theory. For that reason, the demurrer should have been sustained as to this
cause of action …”].)
 
Other courts have
found that a cause of action is not subject to demurrer merely for being
duplicative of another cause of action. (See Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF
Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 889-90 [“BTC went on to
argue that this was a distinction without legal significance, and that the
court should sustain the demurrer because the third cause of action ‘mirrors
[the] first cause of action for concealment and is duplicative.’ This is not a
ground on which a demurrer may be sustained.”].)
 
The Court finds that
Plaintiff’s cause of action is subject to demurrer as duplicative. Given that
warranty of quiet enjoyment is implied in the terms of every contract for
lease, it follows that any breach of the covenant would qualify as a breach of
contract. Plaintiff appears to agree, as his cause of action for breach of
contract specifically states, “The Agreement…ensured Plaintiff the right to the
quiet enjoyment of the premises.” (Compl. ¶ 59.) Further, the facts upon
which Plaintiff bases these causes of action are the same. Plaintiff’s cause of
action does not present any facts or legal theory which would not be subsumed
by his breach of contract cause of action. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  
 
Tenth COA – IIED –
Sustained with Leave to Amend
 
The prima facie elements
for intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Outrageous
conduct must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds usually tolerated in a
civilized community. (Wilson v. Hynek
(2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, [citation and ellipses omitted].)
 
Defendants first
argue that Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged “extreme and outrageous
conduct” in order to sustain this action. 
 
Courts have found
that allegations of refusal to remediate mold and other harmful building
conditions can constitute extreme and outrageous conduct. In Burnett v.
Chimney Sweep, plaintiffs repeatedly complained of a mold issue and
defendant landlord refused to remediate. (Burnett v. Chimney Sweep
(2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057.) The trial court granted defendant’s motion for
judgment on the pleadings without leave to amend. The Court of Appeals reversed
the judgment, holding that whether the landlord’s refusal to rectify the mold
issue was extreme and outrageous presented a factual question for the jury. (Id.
at 1069, citing Stoiber supra, 101 Cal.App.3d 903.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff
alleges the Subject Property suffers from a variety of defective conditions and
has repeatedly notified Defendants regarding these deficiencies. Plaintiff asserts
he emailed about these conditions on October 20, 2021, July 14, 2022, August
26, 2022, April 12, 2023, and April 13, 2023. (Compl. ¶ 41.) However,
Plaintiff’s allegations as to Defendants response is not clear. Plaintiff does
not allege that Defendants completely ignored these contacts and refused to
remediate. Instead, Plaintiff alleges “Defendants’ responses have been
inconsistent and inadequate, allowing the infestation and unsanitary conditions
to persist.” (Compl. ¶ 52.) 
 
Plaintiff’s pleadings
as to Defendants’ response are crucial because an unsuccessful attempt to
remediate is not the legal equivalent of an outright refusal to remediate. If
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants outright refused to remediate, he has
sufficiently stated a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress.
If, however, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants attempted insufficient
remediation efforts, his claim speaks more to negligence. Burnett and Stoiber
both dealt with landlords that refused remediate. At current the Court
finds the allegations of the Complaint fall short of those required to find “extreme
and outrageous” conduct, however Plaintiff could add facts to remedy this
deficiency. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Eleventh COA – NIED –
Sustained with Leave to Amend
 
A negligent
infliction of emotional distress cause of action is permitted in two types of
actions: “bystander” and “direct victim” cases. (Ess v. Eskaton Properties,
Inc. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 120, 127.) “Direct victim cases involve the
breach of a duty owed [to] the plaintiff that was assumed by the defendant,
imposed on the defendant as a matter of law, or arose out of a preexisting
relationship between the two.” (Id. [citations omitted].) Direct victim
cases involve instances where a plaintiff has established a special
relationship between themselves and the tortfeasor, such as a fiduciary or
guardian. (See Christen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 884; Burgess
v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1073.) 
 
Here Plaintiff has
pled no facts which establish a special relationship between himself and
Defendants. Plaintiff only argues in opposition that negligent infliction of
emotional distress is a legally cognizable claim. This argument does not
address the matter of whether that legal claim applies to Plaintiff’s
situation. Plaintiff has pled no facts which distinguish his claim as either a
bystander or direct victim claim. Outside of these instances there is no
recognized cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress, as
it is encompassed in a common law negligence claim. (See McMahon v. Craig
(2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 1502, 1509.) 
 
Accordingly, the
demurer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED. While it seems unlikely, it is
not impossible that Plaintiff could add facts speaking to a special
relationship. As such, 20 days’ leave to amend is granted. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendants seek to
strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages and all references to
Defendants’ conduct as “malicious” “oppressive” “despicable” or “outrageous”.
Defendants brief argues (1) that Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged
punitive damages for failure to allege oppression, fraud, or malice and (2)
that Plaintiff’s allegations supporting punitive damages against Gol 5
Properties are not sufficiently particular pursuant to Civil Code § 3294(b).
Defendants do not brief why the individual references to their conduct as “malicious”
“oppressive” “despicable” or “outrageous” should be stricken. Accordingly, the
Court construes the motion to strike as being directed at Plaintiff’s claim for
punitive damages generally. 
 
The Court notes that
Plaintiff’s punitive damages claims are, at least in part, derived from the
tenth and eleventh causes of action. Given the Court has sustained the demurrer
to those causes of action with leave to amend, Defendants’ motion strike
punitive damages is MOOT. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Hami Golbar, Fred Golbar, and Gol 5 Properties, LLC’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike
came on regularly for hearing on March 22, 2024 with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE SEVENTH, TENTH, AND ELEVENTH
CAUSES OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE NINTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS MOOT.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT GOL 5 TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
March 22, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 