 Case Number:  23SMCV05402    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Sokolow
v. Rexford Flats, LLC, et al., Case No. 23SMCV05402
Hearing
date April 30, 2024
Defendants’
Motion to Strike Special and Punitive Damages
Plaintiff
alleges defendant Mehrdad and defendants Rexford Flats and Bedford Flats’
property manager entered her apartment, causing her dog to escape and be struck
by a car. On March 20, 2024 the court overruled defendants’ demurrer and continued
the motion to strike special and punitive damages to allow for supplemental
briefings.
Special
Damages (Emotional Damages)
Generally,
absent physical injury, a cause of action for negligence based on property
damage cannot give rise to an award of special damages for emotional distress. Lili
Butler-Rupp, et al. v. Lourdeaux (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1220, 1228.
Emotional distress damages are available when a plaintiff alleges trespass to
chattels based on intentional injury to a pet. Plotnik v. Meihaus (2012)
208 Cal.App.4th 1590.
Rexford argues
emotional distress damages are not available for damage to personal property,
and plaintiff is barred from recovering damages for a negligence claim because
she did not sustain physical injuries. 
Per Plotnik,
supra, emotional distress damages can be recovered when someone
acted in a way that results in a pet’s injury or death. 208 Cal.App.4th
at 1607, 1611. Rexford tries to distinguish Plontik, arguing they did
not intentionally harm the pet, but this is unavailing because Plontik
reversed McMahon v. Craig (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 1502. Id
at pg. 1611. McMahon involved a veterinarian’s negligent treatment that resulted
in a dog’s death in which emotional distress damages were disallowed. It is not
necessary for defendants to have intentionally injured the dog to be liable for
emotional distress damages. Plaintiff needs to maintain a cause of action for
trespass to chattels. Id. at 1607. The motion to strike for special
damages is DENIED. 
Punitive
Damages
Punitive
damages are available “[f]or wrongful injuries to animals being subjects of
property, committed willfully or by gross negligence, in disregard of
humanity[.]” Cal. Civ. Code §3340.
Defendants argue plaintiff
did not sufficiently allege malice or outrageous conduct, arguing much of the
conduct upon which plaintiff bases this claim are conversations in which
plaintiff allegedly told Mehrdad to be careful about the dog. In supplemental
briefing, Rexford argues punitive damages should not attach when the conduct is
directed toward personal property, but this reasoning fails, as it is a crime
to cause an animal to be cruelly killed. Pen. Code 597(b). Upon review of the
pleadings, plaintiff sufficiently alleges Mehrdad acted with gross negligence
and consciously disregarded the consequences of her actions. It is further alleged
Mehrdad discarded the unconscious dog. The allegations are sufficient to
support a claim for punitive damages on demurrer. Motion DENIED.