..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22SMCV02196
Plaintiff's Name: MB
Defendant's Name: DDZ, et al.
People: MB, DDZ, BDZ (Defendant's wife)
Company: Plaintiff's surrogacy company (name not specified)
Places: California, Illinois, Palm Springs
Dates: August 22, 2022, August 25, 2022, July 2022, September 2022
Events: DDZ's marital difficulties, DDZ's revelation of private facts, mediation attempt, court action
Money: Attorneys' fees
Intentions: DDZ's alleged intent to harm MB by revealing private facts
Facts: DDZ's marital problems, DDZ's accusations against MB and BDZ, DDZ's revelation of private facts to various people
Disputes: Punitive damages, attorneys' fees
Acts: DDZ's revelation of private facts, Plaintiff's attempt to mediate dispute, Defendant's denial of attorneys' fees
Agreements: Surrogacy agreement, mediation clause
Laws: Civil Code Section 3294, Code of Civil Procedure section 1021, California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322(b)
Case Citations: Coll. Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159
Statutes: Civil Code Section 3294, Code of Civil Procedure section 1021
Roles:
  - Judge: ruling on motion to strike punitive damages and attorneys' fees
  - Plaintiff: seeking punitive damages and attorneys' fees
  - Defendant: opposing punitive damages and attorneys' fees
Significant Statements:
  - "In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code Section 3294."
  - "Plaintiff alleges, as a matter of ultimate fact, that Defendant DDZ was motivated and intended to harm Plaintiff by disclosing allegedly private facts."
  - "The motion is DENIED as to the request for punitive damages."
  - "The motion is GRANTED as to attorney's fees without leave to amend."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages and attorneys' fees brought by Defendant DDZ. The motion was denied as to punitive damages, as the judge found that there was sufficient evidence to support a claim of intentional harm by DDZ. However, the motion was granted as to attorneys' fees, as the judge found that the plaintiff had failed to demonstrate a reasonable probability of successful amendment of the claim.

The judge's ruling is based on the allegations in the plaintiff's second amended complaint, which set forth a claim for punitive damages and attorneys' fees based on DDZ's alleged intentional disclosure of private facts about the plaintiff. The judge found that the plaintiff had alleged sufficient facts to support a claim of intentional harm by DDZ, and therefore denied the motion to strike the punitive damages claim.

However, the judge granted the motion to strike the attorneys' fees claim, as the plaintiff had failed to demonstrate a reasonable probability of successful amendment of the claim. The judge found that the plaintiff's allegations were insufficient to support a claim for attorneys' fees, as the purported attorneys' fees clause in the surrogacy agreement did not provide for fees in the context of a court action.
