  Case Number:  22STCV11897    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  April 7, 2022, Plaintiff Audrey Peters (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against  Defendants Cameron David Arthur Herber (“Herber”), BC2 Environmental, LLC  (“BC2”), and Does 1-20 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence.  On  August 23, 2022, Herber and BC2 (“Defendants”) find an answer.  On  January 25, 2023 and February 1, 2023, Defendants filed notices of related  cases stating that this case was related to Los Angeles Superior Court case number  22TRCV00997 (Audrey Gayl Peters vs. Stacia Elizabeth Trimmer).  The Court did not rule on the requests to  deem the cases related, apparently because the case number provided for the  related case was incorrect.  Defendants  did not file a corrected notice of related cases.  On  April 19, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to consolidate this case with Los  Angeles Superior Court case number 22TRCV00996 (Audrey Gayl Peters vs. Stacia  Elizabeth Trimmer).  The Court denied the  request because the cases were pending in different departments and had not been  deemed related cases.  (Local Rule  3.3(g).)  On  August 2, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to coordinate this case with Los Angeles Superior Court case number 22TRCV00996  (Audrey Gayl Peters vs. Stacia Elizabeth Trimmer).  The motion is set for hearing on October 2,  2023.  Trial  is current scheduled for April 18, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUEST  Defendants  request that the Court coordinate this case with case number 22TRCV00996.  LEGAL STANDARD  Code  of Civil Procedure section 403 provides:  “A judge may, on motion, transfer an action or actions  from another court to that judge’s court for coordination with an action  involving a common question of fact or law within the meaning of Section 404.  The motion shall be supported by a declaration stating facts showing that the  actions meet the standards specified in Section 404.1, are not complex as  defined by the Judicial Council and that the moving party has made a good faith  effort to obtain agreement to the transfer from all parties to each action.  Notice of the motion shall be served on all parties to each action and on each  court in which an action is pending. Any party to that action may file papers  opposing the motion within the time permitted by rule of the Judicial Council.  The court to which a case is transferred may order the cases consolidated for  trial pursuant to Section 1048 without any further motion or hearing.  “The Judicial Council may adopt rules to implement  this section, including rules prescribing procedures for preventing duplicative  or conflicting transfer orders issued by different courts.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 403.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 404.1 provides:  “Coordination of civil actions sharing a common  question of fact or law is appropriate if one judge hearing all of the actions  for all purposes in a selected site or sites will promote the ends of justice  taking into account whether the common question of fact or law is predominating  and significant to the litigation; the convenience of parties, witnesses, and  counsel; the relative development of the actions and the work product of  counsel; the efficient utilization of judicial facilities and manpower; the calendar  of the courts; the disadvantages of duplicative and inconsistent rulings,  orders, or judgments; and, the likelihood of settlement of the actions without  further litigation should coordination be denied.”  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 404.1.)            California  Rules of Court, rule 3.500, provides in part:            “A  motion to transfer an action under Code of Civil Procedure section 403 must  conform to the requirements generally applicable to motions, and must be  supported by a declaration stating facts showing that:  "(1)  The actions are not complex;  "(2)  The moving party has made a good-faith effort  to obtain agreement to the transfer and consolidation from all parties to the  actions; and  "(3)  The moving party has notified all parties of  their obligation to disclose to the court any information they may have  concerning any other motions requesting transfer of any case that would be  affected by the granting of the motion before the court." (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.500(c).)            Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rule 3.3(h) provides in  part:  “Coordination motions  seeking to transfer a case or cases to the Central District shall be filed and  heard in Department 1.”  (LASC Local Rule 3.3(h).)  DISCUSSION            Defendants ask the Court to coordinate this case (22STCV11897)  with case number 22TRCV00996 by transferring case number 22TRCV00996 from the Inglewood Courthouse, where it is  pending, to the Spring Street Courthouse, where this case (22STCV11897) is  pending.  The  Inglewood courthouse belongs to the Southwest Judicial District of Los Angeles.  The Spring Street Courthouse belongs to the  Central Judicial District of Los Angeles.   Therefore, Defendants are required to comply with Local Rule 3.3(h),  which provides that “Coordination motions seeking to transfer a case or cases  to the Central District shall be filed and heard in Department 1.”  The Court  denies the motion without prejudice to filing a motion in Department 1.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES the motion to coordinate cases filed by Defendants Cameron David  Arthur Herber and BC2 Environmental, LLC without prejudice.  Moving  parties are are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.