 Case Number:  23STCV28338    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



RAUL E.
  ZAMORA, et al., 
  
         vs.
 
ABODE
  COMMUNITIES.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV28338
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 25, 2024



 
Defendant Abode Communities’ motion
to compel arbitration of Plaintiffs Raul E. Zamora’s and Antonio Perez’s individual
PAGA claims in this action is granted. 
Plaintiffs’ representative PAGA claim is not compelled to arbitration
and is stayed pending arbitration of Plaintiffs’ individual PAGA claims.
The Court sets a non-appearance case review for July 25, 2025, at 8:30
a.m.  The parties are directed to submit
a joint statement five calendar days in advance, apprising the Court of the
status of the arbitration.
 
Defendant Abode Communities (“Abode”) (“Defendant”) moves for an
order compelling arbitration of all claims asserted by Plaintiffs Raul E.
Zamora (“Zamora”) and Antonio Perez (“Perez”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) and staying
the instant action during the pendency of arbitration.  (Notice of Motion, pgs. 1-2; 9 U.S.C. §2;
C.C.P. §§1281.2, 1281.4.)  Defendant also
moves to arbitrate Plaintiffs’ individual PAGA claim and request that this
court dismiss Plaintiffs’ non-individual PAGA claim to the extent that it
exists pursuant to the Arbitration Agreement, the Federal Arbitration Act, and
the United States Supreme Court Viking River Cruises v. Moriana decision.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2.)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
Plaintiffs’ 7/12/24 request for judicial notice of the Declaration
of Grant Folsom in support of Defendant Viking River Cruises, Inc’s motion to
compel arbitration (P-RJN, Exh. 1), is granted.
 
Background
On November 20, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant action for penalties
pursuant to Labor Code §§2699, et seq. for violations of Labor Code §§201, 202,
203, 226(a), 226.7, 510, 512, 1194, 1194.2, 1199, and 2802.  (See Complaint ¶¶1-2.)  Defendant filed the instant motion on February
6, 2024.  Plaintiffs filed their opposition
on July 12, 2024.  Defendant filed its
reply on July 18, 2024.
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
A.  Arbitration Agreements
1.    
The Arbitration
Agreements are enforceable
Federal
law provides for enforcement of this Arbitration Agreement. The Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §1, et seq. (“FAA”), establishes a strong
federal policy in favor of arbitration of disputes where a written arbitration
agreement exists. Section 2 of the FAA provides, in pertinent part that “[a]
written provision . . . to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter
arising out of such contract . . .  shall
be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable.”  (9 U.S.C. §2.) 
The purpose of the FAA is to “reverse the longstanding judicial
hostility to arbitration agreements.” (Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane
Corp. (1991) 500 U.S. 20, 24.)  The
FAA places arbitration agreements “on an equal footing with other contracts and
[requires courts] to enforce them according to their terms.”  (AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion (2011)
563 U.S. 333, 339; see also Rent-A-Center West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010)
561 U.S. 63, 67 [“The FAA reflects the fundamental principle that arbitration
is a matter of contract.”].)  The FAA will
preempt not only a state law that “discriminat[es] on its face against
arbitration,” but also a state law that “covertly accomplishes the same
objective by disfavoring contracts that (oh so coincidentally) have the
defining features of arbitration agreements.”  (Kindred Nursing Centers Limited
Partnership v. Clark (2017) 137 S.Ct. 1421, 1426.)
The
United States Supreme Court has specifically held that the FAA applies to
employment contracts: “[A]s a matter of law the answer is clear.  In the Federal Arbitration Act, Congress has
instructed federal courts to enforce arbitration agreements according to their
terms.”  (Epic Systems Corp. v. Lewis (2018)
138 S.Ct. 1612, 1619 [holding that employees must submit to arbitration
agreements including those with collective action waivers].)  
The
FAA restricts a court’s inquiry related to compelling arbitration to two
threshold questions: (1) whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between
the parties; and (2) whether the agreement covers the dispute.  (Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002)
537 U.S. 79, 84.)  Here, both criteria
are satisfied. First, Plaintiffs agreed to arbitration when they entered into
the respective Employee Acknowledgement and Agreements (collectively, “Arbitration
Agreements”) that contained the relevant arbitration clause.  (Decl.
of Cole ¶3, Exh. 2 at ¶2.) 
Second, the Arbitration Agreements
expressly cover “all disputes that may arise out of or be related in any way to
[Plaintiffs’] employment, including but not limited to the termination of [Plaintiffs’]
employment and [Plaintiffs’] compensation” between Plaintiffs and Abode.  (Decl. of Cole ¶3, Exh. 2 at ¶2.)  
California
law also favors arbitration for dispute resolution. The California Arbitration
Act (“CAA”), codified at C.C.P. §1281 et seq., provides, “A written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such
grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.”  (C.C.P. §1281; see also Grafton Partners
L.P. v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 944, 955 [“[U]nlike predispute
jury waivers, predispute arbitration agreements are specifically authorized by
statute.”].)  
“California
law, like federal law, favors enforcement of valid arbitration agreements.”  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97, 99.)  The public policy in favor of arbitration is
so strong that California courts have held that an employee is “bound by the
provisions of the [arbitration] agreement regardless of whether [he] read it or
[was] aware of the arbitration clause when [he] signed the document.”  (Brookwood v. Bank of America (1996)
45 Cal.App.4th 1667, citing Macaulay v. Norlander (1992) 12 Cal.App.4th
1.)  The only prerequisite for a court to
order arbitration is a determination that the parties have entered into an
agreement to arbitrate the dispute.  (United
Transportation Union v. Southern California Rapid Transit District (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 804, 808.)  Thus, arbitration
must be ordered “unless the agreement clearly does not apply to the dispute in
question.”  (Vianna v. Doctors’
Management Co. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)
Defendant
proved the existence of an arbitration agreement with Plaintiffs.  Defendant submitted evidence that on October
26, 2021, Perez signed his Arbitration Agreement, and on December 23, 2021,
Zamora signed his Arbitration Agreement. 
(See Decl. of Cole
¶3, Exh. 2.)  
Plaintiffs
do not argue that they did not enter into valid Arbitration Agreements with
Defendant, rather, they argue their representative PAGA action must remain
before this Court and cannot be compelled to arbitration.  (See Opposition, pgs. 7-9.)  This argument will be addressed in turn.
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant proved the existence of a valid Arbitration
Agreement with Plaintiffs that is enforceable by Defendant. 
 
2.    
Covered Claims
The
Arbitration Agreements state, in part:
I and the Company agree to
utilize binding individual arbitration as the sole and exclusive means to
resolve all disputes that may arise out of or be related in any way to my
employment, including but not limited to the termination of my employment and
my compensation. I and the Company each specifically waive and relinquish our
respective rights to bring a claim against each other in a court of law. Both I
and the Company agree that any claim, dispute, and/or controversy that I may
have against the Company (or its owners, directors, officers, managers,
employees, or agents), or the Company may have against me, shall be submitted
to and determined exclusively by binding arbitration… The only exception to the
requirement of binding arbitration shall be for claims arising under the
National Labor Relations Act which are brought before the National Labor
Relations Board, claims for medical and disability benefits under the
California Workers’ Compensation Act, Employment Development Department claims,
or other claims that are not subject to arbitration under current law.
 
(Decl.
of Cole ¶3, Exh. 2 at ¶2.)
The
Arbitration Agreements also provide:
All claims brought under this
binding arbitration Agreement shall be brought in the individual capacity of
myself or the Company. This binding arbitration Agreement shall not be
construed to allow or permit the consolidation or joinder of other claims or
controversies involving any other employees or parties, or permit such claims
or controversies to proceed as a class or collective action. No arbitrator
shall have the authority under this agreement to order any such class or
collective action. By signing this agreement, I am agreeing to waive any
substantive or procedural rights that I may have to bring an action on a class
or collective basis.
 
(Decl.
of Cole ¶2, Exh. 2 at ¶3.)  This clause
of the agreement is silent as to PAGA claims.
          Further, the Arbitration Agreements
contain a severability clause: “If any term, provision or portion of this
Agreement is determined to be void or unenforceable it shall be severed and the
remainder of this Agreement shall be fully enforceable.”  (Decl. of Cole ¶2, Exh. 2 at ¶6.)
          Defendant’s argument that Plaintiffs’
individual PAGA claims must be compelled to arbitration and Plaintiffs’
representative PAGA claims should be stayed in this Court pending the
completion of individual arbitration in the interest of judicial efficiency is
well taken.  Here, Plaintiffs’ individual
PAGA claims arise from their employment relationship with Defendant and are
therefore governed by the Arbitration Agreements.  
Pursuant
to the California Supreme Court’s ruling in Adolph v. Uber Technologies,
Inc., “[n]othing in PAGA or any other relevant statute suggests that
arbitrating individual claims effects a severance. When a case includes
arbitrable and nonarbitrable issues, the issues may be adjudicated in different
forums while remaining part of the same action.”  (Adolph v.
Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th
1104, 1124.)  The Adolph Court further
stated: 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.4 states that upon “order[ing] arbitration of a controversy which
is an issue involved in an action,” the court should “stay the action.” It
further provides that “[i]f the issue which is the controversy subject to arbitration
is severable, the stay may be with respect to that issue only.” Section 1281.4
does not contemplate that the compelled arbitration of an issue in controversy
in the action is a separate action. The statute makes clear that the cause
remains one action, parts of which may be stayed pending completion of the
arbitration.
(Id.,
at pgs. 1124-1125.)
Here,
Defendant met their burden of establishing the Arbitration Agreement covers the
causes of action asserted in Plaintiffs’ complaint as to their individual PAGA
claims and such claims can be compelled to arbitration.  However, Defendant cannot compel Plaintiff’s
representative PAGA claims, and Defendant concedes that such claims should be
stayed in this Court.  (Reply, pg. 5.)
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ covered claims relating to their individual PAGA action relate to
the Arbitration Agreement and can therefore be compelled to arbitration.  Plaintiffs’ representative PAGA action does
not relate to the Arbitration Agreement and therefore cannot be compelled to
arbitration.
 
B.
Unconscionability
“[P]rocedural
and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Armendariz,
24 Cal.4th at pg. 102.)  Courts invoke a
sliding scale which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the
contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater
harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves, i.e., the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to conclude that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.  (Id.,
at pg. 114.)  Plaintiffs bear the burden
of proving that the provision at issue is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable.  
Plaintiffs
do not argue the issue of unconscionability and therefore concede this issue.
 
C.   
Stay of Current
Action
Pursuant
to C.C.P. §1281.4, if an application has been made to a court involving order
to arbitrate a controversy and such application is undetermined, the court
where the application is pending shall, upon motion of a party to the action,
stay the action until the application for an order to arbitrate is determined.  (C.C.P. §1281.4.)
The
Adolph Court stated, with respect to staying a representative PAGA
action pending the resolution of an individual PAGA claim in arbitration:
[T]he trial court may
exercise its discretion to stay the non-individual claims pending the outcome
of the arbitration pursuant to section 1281.4 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Following the arbitrator’s decision, any party may petition the court to
confirm or vacate the arbitration award under section 1285 of the Code of Civil
Procedure. If the arbitrator determines that Adolph is an aggrieved employee in
the process of adjudicating his individual PAGA claim, that determination, if
confirmed and reduced to a final judgment (Code Civ. Proc., §1287.4), would be
binding on the court, and Adolph would continue to have standing to litigate
his nonindividual claims. If the arbitrator determines that Adolph is not an
aggrieved employee and the court confirms that determination and reduces it to
a final judgment, the court would give effect to that finding, and Adolph could
no longer prosecute his non-individual claims due to lack of standing. (See
Rocha v. U-Haul Co. of California (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 65, 76-82, 304
Cal.Rptr.3d 587)
 
(Adolph,
14 Cal.5th at pgs. 1123-1124.)
Here,
it would be prudent for this Court to stay Plaintiffs’ representative PAGA
claims to avoid unnecessarily duplicative and potentially conflicting rulings
on whether Plaintiffs are “aggrieved employees” under the PAGA statute.
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ representative PAGA cause of action in this case is stayed pending
arbitration of Plaintiffs’ individual PAGA claims.
 
D.  
Conclusion
Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiffs’ individual PAGA claims is granted.  Plaintiffs’ representative PAGA claims are
not compelled to arbitration and remain under this Court’s jurisdiction and are
stayed pending arbitration. 
The Court sets a
non-appearance case review for July 25, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.  The parties are directed to submit a joint
statement five calendar days in advance, apprising the Court of the status of
the arbitration.
Moving Party to
give notice.

 
Dated:  July _____, 2024
                                                                             





  