 Case Number:  23STCV09455    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  19 I. Plaintiff Guadalupe Pharmacy, Inc's unopposed Motion to Compel Defendant Santa Maria Pharmacy, Inc. to Respond to 1) Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and 2) Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, are GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to serve verified responses to the above discovery, without objections, within thirty (30) days.  Plaintiff Guadalupe Pharmacy, Inc's Motion to Establish Admissions (Deemed Admitted) Against Defendant Santa Maria Pharmacy is GRANTED.  The truth of the matters sought therein are hereby deemed admitted this date. The request for monetary sanctions in the amount of $560.00 against Defendant Santa Maria Pharmacy, Inc. is granted as to each motion, for a total of $1,680.00, payable within thirty (30) days through Plaintiff's counsel for record.  The Court finds that Defendant has engaged in abuse of the discovery process in failing to respond to a valid method of discovery, resulting in Plaintiff incurring the reasonable expenses determined above. (Code of Civ. Proc. sections 2023.010(d); 2023.030(a).)  The Court reduces the amount of sanctions awarded because no oppositions were filed. Counsel for Plaintiff to give notice. II. Plaintiff San Marcos Pharmacy, Inc's unopposed Motion to Compel Defendant Santa Maria Pharmacy, Inc. to Respond to 1) Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and 2) Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, are GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to serve verified responses to the above discovery, without objections, within thirty (30) days.  Plaintiff San Marcos Pharmacy, Inc's Motion to Establish Admissions (Deemed Admitted) Against Defendant Santa Maria Pharmacy is GRANTED.  The truth of the matters sought therein are hereby deemed admitted this date. The request for monetary sanctions in the amount of $560.00 against Defendant Santa Maria Pharmacy, Inc. is granted as to each motion, for a total of $1,680.00, payable within thirty (30) days through Plaintiff's counsel for record.  The Court finds that Defendant has engaged in abuse of the discovery process in failing to respond to a valid method of discovery, resulting in Plaintiff incurring the reasonable expenses determined above. (Code of Civ. Proc. sections 2023.010(d); 2023.030(a).)  The Court reduces the amount of sanctions awarded because no oppositions were filed. Counsel for Plaintiff to give notice. 