  Case Number:  23VECV00218    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  T AMENDMENT TO COMPLAINT
The court signed the amendment to complaint on
11/28/2023 in error.  In it, Mr. Kurtz
states that a defendant was erroneously named ADR Inc. instead of ADR
Design, Inc.  This was incorrect.  He was trying to change the name of the plaintiff.  This form
was not the correct way to change the name of the plaintiff and it is the
court's intention to vacate the amendment as void.
 
            [TENTATIVE] ORDER: 
Defendant KAIO Construction Group, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Complaint is
OVERRULED.
            Defendant KAIO Construction Group,
Inc.’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but not as to facts in dispute or
hearsay.
            Introduction 
            Defendant KAIO
Construction Group, Inc. (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff ADR Inc.’s
(Plaintiff) Complaint.  Defendant’s
demurrer placed the Complaint’s only cause of action (COA) for breach of
contract into issue.
            Discussion  

            Defendant
argued that Plaintiff is not a duly licensed contractor and cannot seek
enforcement of the contract.  (Bus. &
Prof. Code sec. 7031.)  This is a
misstatement of the law.  The statute
only prohibits an unlicensed contractor from “bringing or maintaining an action,
or recover in law or equity in any action, in any court of this state for the collection of compensation for
the performance of any act or contract where a license is required by this
chapter.  (Italics added.)”  Plaintiff alleged that Defendant was a
contractor performing “R&R” for a new house pad, providing excavating
services in the basement, and performing “R&R” services on the
driveway.  (Compl. par. 6, Exh. 1.)  It is undisputed that Defendant would need to
be licensed to be paid on the contract for their services if they
were seeking compensation on the contract.          However,
there is no allegation in the Complaint or fact alleged in the attached
contract that required Plaintiff to perform an act or contract where a license
is required.  Plaintiff’s act,
performance, or obligation under the contract was to pay monies to Defendant.  Paying a subcontractor, as is applicable here,
does not require a license under this chapter.  Further, the
relief sought in this action is not for “compensation” but for redress in
damages incurred for Defendant’s alleged failure to perform and/or demanding
sums over the amount agreed upon in the contract.  Because the complaint does not assert that Plaintiff
was required to perform an act or contract that required a license, the statute
is inapplicable.  Because the contractor
licensing statute is inapplicable on the face of the complaint, the demurrer is
not persuasive.  
            Defendant
argued that the contract is unenforceable because Plaintiff was a suspended
corporation at the relevant times.  However,
Defendant’s request for judicial notice did not present any judicially
noticeable facts to support this contention. 
The demurrer asserted that the Secretary of State’s records were
attached to the request for judicial notice but none was attached.  The contention is made based upon facts
outside the four corners of the pleading and facts were not attached to the
request for judicial notice.  Because the
contention is unsupported, the argument is unpersuasive.
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED.  
            IT
IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.