  Case Number:  23STCV20886    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  11 The People of the State of California v. Express Scripts, Inc.
(23STCV20886)
 
Tentative Ruing Re: Demurrer
 
Date:                           12/17/24
Time:                          10:30
am
Moving Party:           OptumRX, Inc., et al. (collectively
“Defendants”)
Opposing Party:        The People of the State of California
(the “People” or “Plaintiff”)
Department:              11
Judge:                        David S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ demurrer is overruled, except the safe-harbor portion is
sustained with leave to amend.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendants are Pharmacy Benefit Managers
(“PBMs”).  They “administer
prescription-drug benefits for health-plan sponsors, including employers,
government entities, and unions.”  [Citation.]  “When a beneficiary of a
prescription-drug plan goes to a pharmacy to fill a prescription, the pharmacy
checks with a PBM to determine that person’s coverage and copayment
information.”  [Citation.]  “[T]he PBM [then] reimburses the pharmacy for
the prescription, less the amount of the beneficiary’s copayment.”  [Citation.] 
“The prescription-drug plan, in turn, reimburses the PBM.”  [Citation.]
 
Plaintiff sued Defendants for their alleged
contributions to the opioid crisis. 
Plaintiff claims Defendants created a public nuisance.
 
(7/18/24 Ruling Re: Motion to Stay Pending
Appeal, p. 1.)  
 
Here, Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s
second amended complaint (“SAC”). 
Plaintiff alleges two causes of action, one for statutory public
nuisance, and one for common-law public nuisance.  The demurrer challenges both counts.
 
LAW
 
When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer
as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5
Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.”  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the
plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the
defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Allegations
 
The SAC alleges the following:
 
CLAIM
FOR RELIEF
Public
Nuisance
Violations
of California Civil Code Sections 3479 and 3480
 
272. The People
reallege and incorporate by reference all other paragraphs of this Complaint as
if fully set forth herein unless inconsistent with the allegations in this
Count, and further alleges: 
 
273. Civil Code
Section 3479 provides that “[a]nything that is injurious to health . . . or is
indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of
property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property
. . . is a nuisance.” 
 
274. Civil Code
Section 3480 defines a “public nuisance” as “one which affects at the same time
an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon individuals may
be unequal.” 
 
275. Pursuant to
Section 731 of the Civil Code, this action is brought by the People to abate
the public nuisance created by the Defendants in the County of Los Angeles. 
 
276. A public
nuisance cause of action is established where a defendant knowingly created or
assisted in the creation of a substantial and unreasonable interference with a
public right. 
 
277. Civil Code
Section 3490 states that “[n]o lapse of time can legalize a public nuisance,
amounting to an actual obstruction of public right.” 
 
278. Each Defendant
has created or assisted in the creation of a condition that is injurious to the
health of and interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property of
entire communities or neighborhoods or of any considerable number of persons in
the County of Los Angeles in violation of Civil Code Sections 3479 and 3480. 
 
279. The significant
interference with public rights is described in detail throughout this
Complaint and includes but is not limited to: 
 
a. The creation and
fostering of an illegal, secondary market for prescription opioids; 
 
b. Easy access to
prescription opioids by children and teenagers; 
 
c. A staggering
increase in opioid abuse, addiction, overdose, injuries, and deaths;  
 
d. Infants being
born addicted to opioids due to prenatal exposure, causing severe withdrawal
symptoms and lasting developmental impacts; 
 
e. Employers have
lost the value of productive and healthy employees; and 
 
f. Increased costs
and expenses relating to healthcare services, law enforcement, the criminal
justice system, social services, and education systems. 
 
280. The public
nuisance is substantial and unreasonable. 
Defendants’ actions caused and continue to cause the public health
epidemic described above in the County of Los Angeles, and that harm outweighs
any offsetting benefit.   
 
281. Defendants have
created and maintained a public nuisance through their ongoing conduct of
facilitating and encouraging the use of dangerously addictive opioids by
colluding with manufacturers to place opioid drugs on formularies with
preferred status, declining to impose limits on their approval for use in
exchange for payments and fees from manufacturers, assisting in promoting but
failing to disclose the real risks and appropriate limits on the use of
opioids, failing to use the wealth of data available to them to identify and
address signs of over-prescribing, illegitimate and dangerous use of opioids,
misuse, abuse, and diversion, and failing to maintain effective controls
against diversion in the operation of their mail order pharmacies.  Their conduct caused utilization of opioids
to skyrocket, and Defendants failed to take measures to restrict their
utilization even as evidence of the epidemic mounted, including in the County,
flooding the County with opioids and facilitating and encouraging the flow and
diversion of opioids into an illegal, secondary market, resulting in
devastating consequences to the County and its residents. 
 
282. Defendants
knew, or should have known, that their conduct would create or assist in the
creation of the public nuisance – i.e., the opioid epidemic.   
 
283. Defendants’
actions were, at the very least, a substantial factor in opioids becoming
widely available and widely used and, therefore, widely misused and
diverted.  Defendants’ actions were, at
the very least, a substantial factor in the dissemination of misleading
information about the risks and benefits of opioids for the treatment of
chronic pain.  Because of Defendants’
actions in using their unique position to increase the availability of opioids
in the marketplace and inflate opioid sales, because of their collusion with
manufacturers in the deceptive marketing of opioids, and because of Defendants’
special position within the closed system of opioid distribution, without
Defendants’ actions, opioid use, misuse, abuse, and addiction would not have
become so widespread, and the opioid epidemic that now exists would have been
averted or much less severe.  
 
284. The public
nuisance – i.e., the opioid epidemic – created, perpetuated, and maintained by
Defendants can be abated and further recurrence of such harm and inconvenience
can be abated.   
 
285. Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure § 731, the People request an order providing for
abatement of the public nuisance that Defendants created or assisted in the
creation of, and enjoining Defendants from future violations of Civil Code §§
3479 and 3480.
 
SECOND
CLAIM FOR RELIEF
Common
Law Public Nuisance
 
286. The People
reallege and incorporate by reference all other paragraphs of this Complaint as
if fully set forth herein unless inconsistent with the allegations in this
Count, and further allege: 
 
287. A public
nuisance is a substantial and unreasonable interference with a right common to
the public.  
 
288. Defendants,
individually and acting through their employees and agents, have intentionally,
recklessly, or negligently engaged in conduct or omissions which endanger,
injure, and interfere with the health, safety, or comfort of the public in the
County of Los Angeles by their provision of PBM and mail order pharmacy
services in and to the residents of the County.   
 
289. Defendants’
acts and omissions offend, substantially and unreasonably interfere with,
public rights common to all, such as the public health, public safety, public
peace, and the public comfort. Defendants had control over their conduct in Los
Angeles County and that conduct has had an adverse effect on the public right.
The public nuisance caused by Defendants has caused significant harm to the
residents of the County.   
 
290. Defendants’
conduct is unreasonable.  
 
291. Defendants’
conduct is not insubstantial or fleeting. It has caused deaths, serious
injuries, and a severe disruption of public peace, health, order and safety; it
is ongoing, and it is producing permanent and long-lasting damage.   
 
292. Defendants have
created and maintained a public nuisance through their ongoing conduct of
facilitating and encouraging the use of dangerously addictive opioids by
colluding with manufacturers to place opioid drugs on formularies with
preferred status, declining to impose limits on their approval for use in
exchange for payments and fees from manufacturers, assisting in promoting but
failing to disclose the real risks and appropriate limits on the use of
opioids, failing to use the wealth of data available to them to identify and
address signs of over-prescribing, illegitimate and dangerous use of opioids,
misuse, abuse, and diversion, and failing to maintain effective controls
against diversion in the operation of their mail order pharmacies.  Their conduct caused utilization of opioids
to skyrocket, and Defendants failed to take measures to restrict their
utilization even as evidence of the epidemic mounted, including in the County,
flooding the County with opioids and facilitating and encouraging the flow and
diversion of opioids into an illegal, secondary market, resulting in
devastating consequences to the County and its residents. 
 
293. Defendants
knew, or should have known, that their conduct would create or assist in the
creation of the public nuisance – i.e., the opioid epidemic.   
 
294. Defendants’
actions were, at the very least, a substantial factor in opioids becoming
widely available and widely used and, therefore, widely misused and
diverted.    Because of Defendants’
actions in using their unique position to increase the availability of opioids
in the marketplace and inflate opioid sales, because of their collusion with
manufacturers in the deceptive marketing of opioids, and because of Defendants’
special position within the closed system, without Defendants’ actions, opioid
use, misuse, abuse, and addiction would not have become so widespread, and the
opioid epidemic that now exists would have been averted or much less
severe.  
 
295. Defendants’
conduct directly and proximately caused the significant harm described herein,
and that harm outweighs any offsetting benefit.   
 
296. The County
suffered special injuries distinguishable from those suffered by the general
public. The County has incurred and continues to incur substantial harms
requiring investigation, monitoring, treating, policing, and remediating the
opioid epidemic.
 
297. Defendants’
misconduct alleged in this case does not concern a discrete event or discrete
emergency of the sort a political subdivision would reasonably expect to occur,
and is not part of the normal and expected costs of a local government’s existence.  
 
298. The public
nuisance – i.e., the opioid epidemic – created, perpetuated, and maintained by
Defendants can be abated and further recurrence of such harm and inconvenience
can be abated. 
 
299. The People
request an order providing for abatement of the public nuisance that Defendants
created or assisted in the creation of, and enjoining Defendants from
continuing the injurious conduct described herein.
 
(SAC, ¶¶ 272-299, bold and
italics in original.)
 
Analysis
 
Defendants assert that five
federal laws preempt Plaintiff’s causes of action:
 
* the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act (“ERISA”);
 
* the Medicare Act;
 
* the Affordable Care Act
(“ACA”);
 
* the Federal Employee Health
Benefits Act (“FEHBA”); and
 
* the Defense Department’s
TRICARE program (“TRICARE”).
 
Defendants also assert that the
California safe-harbor statute applies.
 
ERISA
 
“The provisions of ERISA ‘supersede
any and all State laws insofar as they . . . relate to any employee benefit
plan[.]’”  (Alaska v. Express Scripts,
Inc. (D. Alaska May 22, 2024, No. 3:23-cv-00233-JMK) 2024 WL 2321210, at *9
[quoting 29 U.S.C. section 1144(a)].)  “This includes ‘all state common
law causes of action[.]’”  (Ibid.
[quoting Olson v. General Dynamics Corp. (9th Cir. 1991) 960
F.2d 1418].)  “While the language of ERISA’s express preemption clause is
broad, ‘the need for workable standards has led the U.S. Supreme Court to
reject “uncritical literalism” in applying the clause.’”  (Ibid. [quoting Gobeille v. Liberty Mutual
Insurance Co. (2016) 577 U.S. 312].) 
To that end, “the [High] Court has instructed that ERISA preempts ‘two
categories of state laws.’”  (Ibid.
[same].)  “‘First, ERISA pre-empts a state law if it has a “reference to”
ERISA plans[,]’ that is, ‘where a State’s law acts immediately and exclusively
upon ERISA plans or where the existence of ERISA plans is essential to the law’s
operation.’”  (Ibid. [same].)  “Second,
ERISA pre-empts a state law that has an impermissible ‘connection with’ ERISA
plans, meaning a state law that governs [ ] a central matter of plan
administration or interferes with nationally uniform plan administration.”  (Ibid. [same].) 
 
Reference
 
Defendants contend “Plaintiff’s
claims are [] preempted because they impermissibly make ‘reference to’ ERISA
plans”:
 
. . . ERISA preempts
state-law claims if “the existence of a[n ERISA-covered] plan is a critical
factor in establishing liability” and there would be “no cause of action if
there [wa]s no plan.” [Citation.] That description applies to the claims here.
Although Plaintiff’s allegations focus on PBM conduct, the Complaint recognizes
that insurers and other PBM clients—not the PBMs—made the final decisions that
allegedly contributed to a nuisance. For example, the allegedly defective
formularies were “offered” to ERISA plans by the PBMs, but impacted plan
beneficiaries only when they were “accept[ed]” or “adopted” by the plans. [Citation.]
Moreover, if the ERISA plans did not exist, there would be no public nuisance
liability as to those plans. By its own admission, Plaintiff has “no cause of
action if there [wa]s no plan” that adopted Defendants’ formularies. [Citation.]
Plaintiff’s claims relating to the administration of any ERISA plans are
therefore preempted.
 
(Demurrer, p. 9; see also Reply,
p. 8 [“Plaintiff’s public nuisance claims ‘reference’ ERISA plans because
Plaintiff must prove that the nuisance ‘affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons.’  [Citation.] 
The nuisance cannot affect ‘an entire neighborhood or community’ without
affecting individuals covered by ERISA plans.”].)
 
Plaintiff
claims Defendants fail to pass the “reference to” test:
 
. . . The People
seek to hold the PBMs liable for creating and maintaining a public nuisance in
the form of the opioid epidemic “whether or not the plans they service fall
within ERISA’s coverage” and thus does not refer to ERISA plans. [Citation.]
The People’s claims focus on the PBMs’ activities outside the confines of any
particular plan; it challenges Defendants’ misconduct related to the standard,
national formulary offerings they made available to insurers and plan sponsors,
some of which are not covered by ERISA. “Although a portion of the plan
sponsors that adopt Express Scripts[, Inc.’s (“Express Scripts”)] formularies
are covered by ERISA,” the federal district court in Alaska explained, “the
State’s causes of action would persist with or without ERISA-covered plans as
they would proceed with respect to Express Scripts’ formularies adopted by
[non-ERISA] plans,” including “plans offered by government or religious
entities, Medicare and Medicaid plans, and individual plans offered by
insurers, such as ACA exchange plans.” [Citation.]
 
(Opposition, p.
7.)
 
Plaintiff is correct; the
district court did consider the same issue. 
The State of Alaska filed a public-nuisance case “against Express
Scripts for its alleged role in fueling the opioid epidemic in Alaska.”  (Alaska, supra, 2024 WL 2321210, at
*1.)  “The State allege[d] that Express
Scripts substantially contributed to the opioid epidemic . . . in its capacity
as a PBM, a research provider, and a mail order pharmacy.”  (Ibid.) 
In part, the State “assert[ed] that Express Scripts colluded with opioid
manufacturers to increase prescription opioid sales in Alaska by favorably
placing certain opioids on its formularies and failing to put in place
safeguards that would have reduced the illegitimate use and dissemination of
these drugs.”  (Ibid.)  Notably, the district court found the
“reference to” test unsatisfied:
 
. . . Under the
first “reference to” prong, state law is preempted where “the existence of
ERISA plans is essential to the law’s operation” or if “the existence of [an
ERISA-covered] plan is a critical factor in establishing liability” and there
would be “no cause of action if there [was] no plan.” Here, the existence
of ERISA-covered plans is not essential to the State’s claims. The State’s
Complaint addresses Express Scripts’ conduct with respect to formularies that
it offers to insurers and plan sponsors. Although a portion of the plan
sponsors that adopt Express Scripts’ formularies are covered by ERISA, the
State’s causes of action would persist with or without ERISA-covered plans as
they would proceed with respect to Express Scripts’ formularies adopted by
plans offered by government or religious entities, Medicare and Medicaid plans,
and individual plans offered by insurers, such as ACA exchange plans.
 
(Id. at *9, footnotes
omitted.)  
 
As support, the district court
analogized Rutledge v. Pharmaceutical Care Management Association (2020)
592 U.S. 80 and New York State Conference of Blue Cross & Blue Shield
Plans v. Travelers Co. (1995) 514 U.S. 645:
 
In Rutledge
v. Pharmaceutical Care Management Association, the U.S. Supreme Court came
to a similar conclusion, deciding that an Arkansas law regulating the price at
which PBMs reimburse pharmacies for the cost of prescription drugs covered by
health plans “does not act immediately and exclusively upon ERISA plans because
it applies to PBMs whether or not they manage an ERISA plan.” The Court
noted that the law regulates PBMs “whether or not the plans they service fall
within ERISA’s coverage” and specifically gave the counter-example that “PBMs
contract with a variety of healthcare plans and programs that are not covered
by ERISA, including Medicaid, Medicare, military, and market place
plans.” Similarly, in New York State Conference of Blue Cross
& Blue Shield Plans v. Travelers Insurance Co., the Court held
that a New York law requiring hospitals to collect surcharges from patients
covered by a commercial insurer, but not those covered by Blue Cross/Blue
Shield did not impermissibly make “reference to” ERISA plans. The Court
reasoned that “[t]he surcharges are imposed upon patients and HMO’s, regardless
of whether the commercial coverage or membership, respectively, is ultimately
secured by an ERISA plan, private purchase, or otherwise, with the consequence
that the surcharge statutes cannot be said to make ‘reference to’ ERISA plans
in any manner.” Here, as in both Rutledge and Travelers,
the State's claims with respect to Express Scripts’ formularies cannot be said
to make “reference to” ERISA plans as they address formularies regardless as to
whether they are adopted by an ERISA plan or a non-ERISA plan.
 
(Id. at 10, footnotes omitted.)
 
Alaska is not binding, but
it is persuasive as to this issue.  The
Court agrees with the district court’s analysis, including the Rutledge
and Travelers discussions, and finds that Defendants’ argument should be
rejected.
 
Connection
 
Defendants
assert:
 
Plaintiff’s claims
target the PBM Defendants’ work for ERISA plans. . . .
 
* * *
 
Plaintiff’s claims
squarely seek to dictate ERISA plans’ choices regarding coverage of
prescription opioids. Plaintiff’s principal theory is that the PBM Defendants
allegedly designed formulary offerings and UM tools in ways that increased
opioid use and then declined to make alterations to abate the alleged nuisance.
[Citation.] As such, Plaintiff’s claims concern plans’ benefits structure as to
the placement of prescription opioids on formularies that health plans adopt
and control, the alleged lack of prior authorization requirements, the alleged
failure to impose quantity limits, the alleged failure to investigate and deny
claims based on concerns of fraud or abuse, and the alleged exclusion of
certain opioid addiction treatments. [Citation.] Plaintiff seeks injunctive
relief to enjoin Defendants from engaging in these actions or inactions [citation],
which would require ERISA plans to “adopt a certain scheme of substantive
coverage.” [Citation.] These allegations “strik[e] at the heart of . . .
benefit design” and are therefore preempted under the ERISA preemption clause. [Citation.]
 
(Demurrer, pp. 7, 8.)
 
Plaintiff
contends “Defendants’ argument mis-frames the People’s case”: 
 
The People are not
requiring the coverage of non-opioid drugs or treatments in place of opioid
drugs (even in the PBMs’ formulary offerings). Shaw v. Delta Air Lines
(1983) 463 U.S. 85, 90, on which Rutledge relies, involved New York’s
“Disability Benefits Law” [citation], which “requires employers to pay certain
benefits to employees unable to work because of nonoccupational injuries or
illness.” That state statute, the Supreme Court said, “requires employers to
pay employee specific benefits,” and thus “relate[s] to” benefit plans.  [Citation.] 

 
By contrast here,
the People’s state law claims seek to enjoin Defendants “from performing any
further acts in violation of” state law. [Citation.] Those acts and practices
include “colluding with manufacturers to place opioid drugs on formularies with
preferred status [and] declining to impose limits on their approval for use in
exchange for payments and fees from manufacturers.” [Citation.] Defendants
engaged in this misconduct “even though they knew that dangerous numbers of
opioids were being utilized in the County and the nation and were causing an
unprecedented crisis of addiction, overdose, and death.” [Citation.] The People
are not requiring PBMs (or anyone) to cover non-opioid drugs or treatment; the
People are requiring PBMs to stop their acts and practices which resulted in a
public nuisance.  
 
(Opposition, pp. 5, 6, underlined
case names added, footnote omitted.)
 
In reply, Defendants state that
“Plaintiff’s Complaint, accepted as true, seeks to impose liability for and
pursue injunctive relief against ERISA plans based on formulary and UM
decisions, which would require changes to substantive health care coverage.”  (Reply, p. 8.)
 
The Court returns to Alaska.  The district court applied the “connection
with” test and held that ERISA did not preempt the State’s claims:
 
Under the second
“connection with” prong, a state law has an impermissible connection with ERISA
plans if “acute, albeit indirect, economic effects” of the state law “force an
ERISA plan to adopt a certain scheme of substantive coverage or effectively restrict
its choice of insurers.” Put differently, a state law has an impermissible
connection with ERISA if it would “require providers to structure benefit plans
in particular ways, such as by requiring payment of specific benefits, or by
binding plan administrators to specific rules for determining beneficiary
status.” However, ERISA does not preempt state law “if a law merely
affects costs” or “alter incentives for ERISA plans without forcing plans to
adopt any particular scheme of substantive coverage.” 
 
The State’s claims
do not have an impermissible “connection with” ERISA plans as they do not
dictate any particular scheme of substantive coverage. True, the State’s claims
target Express Scripts’ plan administration. For example, the State alleges
that Express Scripts structured their formularies in a manner that increased
opioid usage, such as by placing opioids as preferred drugs and changing prior
authorization requirements and other requirements that would limit access to
opioids. But the State’s success on its claims would not dictate any
particular scheme of coverage. Although the State seeks injunctive relief
barring Express Scripts from engaging in further deceptive acts or practices
and from engaging the conduct that caused the alleged public nuisance, an
injunction would not require Express Scripts to cover alternative,
non-medication treatments, cover less addictive treatments, or otherwise
structure benefit plans in any particular way. Indeed, Express Scripts could
structure its formularies in the same exact manner as it did prior to this
suit. That is because the State’s CPA and public nuisance claims are not
merely based on the structure of the formularies, but on the manner in which
Express Scripts arrived that their structure: allegedly by ignoring evidence
that suggested the need for utilization management due to its financial
agreements with manufacturers and desire for profits.
 
(Alaska, supra, 2024 WL
2321210, at *10, footnotes omitted.)
 
Again, Alaska is
persuasive.  On this issue, the Court agrees
with the district court’s reasoning.  The
decision supports Plaintiff’s position.[1]

 
Medicare Act
 
Defendants contend “[t]he
Medicare Act . . . preempts Plaintiff’s claims with respect to plans covered by
Medicare Part D – the part of Medicare that provides prescription drug
coverage.”  (Demurrer, p. 9.)  Specifically, Defendants claim:
 
. . . The Part D
preemption clause [] provides that the “standards established under [Part D]
shall supersede any State law or regulation (other than State licensing laws or
State laws relating to plan solvency) with respect to [Part D prescription
drug] plans which are offered by [Part D sponsors].” [Citations.] Courts
applying the Medicare Part D preemption clause have observed that it is
“unmistakably broad.” [Citations.] 
 
Plaintiff’s attempt
to impose public nuisance liability based on how prescription drugs, including
opioids, are selected and priced on formularies, including for Medicare Part D
plans, [citations], necessarily is preempted because the Medicare Act already
includes detailed “standards” governing Part D formularies. [Citation.] These
standards include the requirements that (i) each Part D formulary include at
least two drugs “within each therapeutic category and class,” including both
long-acting and short-acting prescription opioids [citation]; and (ii) CMS
review and approve every Part D plan’s formulary (including any tiered
formulary structure or utilization management program) [citation]. In other
words, CMS dictates the types of drugs that must be included on a Part D
formulary (including opioids), and only CMS may review and approve all Part D
plan formularies, including UM. 
 
By seeking to second
guess the formularies and UM adopted in accordance with CMS standards and
approved by CMS itself, Plaintiff’s claims steer directly into the Medicare
Part D preemption clause. [Citations.] Imposition of public nuisance liability
on the PBM Defendants based on the design of CMS-approved formularies, or
potential equitable relief intended to alter those formularies or UM
requirements, would impermissibly undermine CMS’s determinations and the
Congressional intent behind the law. [Citations.] Plaintiff cannot use
California law and causes of action to supplant CMS’s decisions about how
prescriptions opioids are covered and administered on Part D plans. [Citation.]
Plaintiff’s claims as to Part D plans are preempted.
 
(Id. at pp.
10-11, footnote omitted.)
 
Plaintiff disagrees.  The People insist that their causes of action
“do not require PBMs (or anyone) to cover or not cover opioid or non-opioid
drugs.”  (Opposition, p. 8.)  “Nor do they establish standards for the
review and approval of Part D plan formularies.”  (Ibid.) 
What they require, instead, is for “PBMs to stop their acts and
practices which resulted in a public nuisance, including colluding with
manufacturers to place opioids on formularies with preferred status and
declining to impose limits on their approval for use in exchange for kickbacks.
[Citations.]”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff contends Medicare Part D does not
cover collusion allegations.  (See ibid.
[citing Pharmaceutical Care Management Association v. Wehbi (8th
Cir. 2021) 18 F.4th 956].) 
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff
is misrepresenting the SAC.  (See Reply,
pp. 3-5, 8.)  They contend the Alaska
court held that Medicare Part D preempted similar allegations.  (See id. at pp. 8-9 [citing Alaska,
supra, 2024 WL 2321210].)
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff
that the gravamen of the SAC is collusion. 
The People claim Defendants “collud[ed] with opioid manufacturers to
give opioids preferred status on [Defendants’] formularies without restrictions
in exchange for payments and fees[.]” 
(Opposition, p. 2.)  This theory
is alleged in multiple paragraphs.  (See,
e.g., SAC, ¶¶ 27, 99-113, 115, 174, 181-185, 194, 242-246, 281, and 292.)[2]
 
In Alaska, the district
court evaluated a nearly identical collusion theory and dismissed it.  The plaintiff theorized that Express Scripts
“colluded with opioid manufactures to increase prescription opioid sales in
Alaska by favorably placing certain opioids on its formularies and failing to
put in place safeguards that would have reduced the illegitimate use and
dissemination of th[o]se drugs.”  (Alaska,
supra, 2024 WL 2321210, at *1.)  The
district court found the theory preempted:
 
Express Scripts
contends that the State's claims act “with respect to” CMS standards because
they seek to impose liability based on how Express Scripts selected and priced
drugs on Medicare Part D formularies, which CMS regulates by providing detailed
“standards.” Among other things, CMS regulations require that “[a] Part D
sponsor that uses a formulary under its qualified prescription drug coverage”
must meet requirements, including requirement that “a Part D sponsor's formulary
must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee that ...
[b]ases clinical decisions on the strength of scientific evidence and standards
of practice,” “[c]onsiders whether the inclusion of a particular Part D drug in
a formulary or formulary tier has any therapeutic advantages in terms of safety
and efficacy,” and “[r]eviews policies that guide exceptions and other
utilization management processes, including drug utilization review, quantity
limits, generic substitution, and therapeutic interchange.” The State's
claims act “with respect to” this standard as they seek to impose liability for
the structure of formularies which CMS requires be developed and reviewed in a
specific manner. Accordingly, Medicare Part D preempts the State's claims
insofar as they seek to impose liability for Express Scripts' administration of
Part D plans.
 
(Id. at *11,
footnotes omitted.)
 
The Court
disagrees with Alaska.  The Court
is not convinced that Plaintiff’s nuisance causes of action infringe on
Medicare Part D.  The People do not seek
to force Defendants to remove opioids from the formularies.  The goal of their claims is merely to stop
manufacturers and PBMs from colluding when it comes to giving preferred
status.  At the pleading stage, at least,
the Court believes the goal can be achieved without affecting CMS standards and
requirements.  If nothing else, the
potential impact of Plaintiff’s requested relief raises a factual question that
should be fleshed out through discovery.
 
The demurrer is
overruled.[3]   
 
As a matter of
guidance, Wehbi does not appear to help Plaintiff.  There, “a national trade association
representing PBMs” sued North Dakota officials to enjoin enforcement of two
North Dakota statutes that regulated PBMs and pharmacies.  (Wehbi, supra, 18 F.4th at
966.)  The Eighth Circuit Court of
Appeals found some of the provisions preempted and some not.  Plaintiff highlights the fact that the
provisions had “no bearing on whether a drug [could] be listed on a formulary,
and [they] contain[ed] no language banning formularies or compelling Part D
plans to cover any drugs.”  (Id. at 974;
see also Opposition, p. 8.)  But the
provisions regulated different conduct than is at issue here.  (See Wehbi, supra, 18 F.4th
at 964-966.)  The decision does not speak
to whether Medicare Part D preempts collusion-rooted nuisance claims.
 
ACA
 
According to Defendants, under
ACA regulations, “every individual or small group plan administered by . . .
Defendants in California is required to have at least as many opioids in each
category and class as California’s benchmark plan.”  (Demurrer, p. 12.)  Defendants state that “California’s benchmark
plans have consistently included multiple prescription opioids in two
opioid-specific USP classes that cover long-acting and short-acting
opioids.”  (Ibid.)[4]  For example, Defendants claim “California’s
benchmark plan covered three long-acting opioids and eight short-acting opioids
from 2014 to 2016 [citation], and three long-acting opioids and seven
short-acting opioids from 2017 to 2024 [citation].”  (Ibid.) 
Defendants contend “[t]his implicitly preempts Plaintiff’s claim that
inclusion of opioids on . . . Defendants’ formularies establishes liability for
public nuisance.”  (Ibid.; see also
Reply, p. 5 [arguing that, “by challenging Defendants’ alleged collusion with
manufacturers to place prescription opioids on formularies, Plaintiff is
necessarily challenging the placement of prescription opioids on
formularies”].)
 
Plaintiff makes two
arguments.  One, the regulations do not apply
to Defendants.  (See Opposition, p. 9 n.8
[claiming Defendants fail to demonstrate that they qualify as “health insurance
issuers”].)  Two, the SAC does not allege
that “Defendants are liable because their formularies include opioids[.]”  (Id. at p. 9.)  The People contend the requested injunctive
relief “would not require Defendants to remove opioids from their formularies
or affect the number or type of opioids that could be included.”  (Ibid. [stating that Plaintiff “seek[s] to
enjoin Defendants from engaging in the conduct that caused the public nuisance,
including ‘colluding with manufacturers to place opioid drugs on formularies
with preferred status [and] declining to impose limits on their approval for
use in exchange for payments and fees from manufacturers’ while knowing that
‘dangerous numbers of opioids were being utilized in the County and the nation
and were causing an unprecedented crisis of addiction, overdose, and death’ and
while representing that their formulary offerings were based on safety and
efficacy”].)
 
The first argument is
persuasive.  The regulations require “[a]
health insurance issuer that offers health insurance coverage” to “ensure that
such coverage includes the essential health benefit package.”  (42 U.S.C.A. § 300gg-6, 54 CFR
147.150(a).)  “A ‘health insurance
issuer’ is ‘an insurance company, insurance service, or insurance organization
. . . which is licensed to engage in the business of insurance in a State and
which is subject to State law which regulates insurance.’”  (Opposition, p. 9 n.8 [quoting 42 USCA §
300gg-91(b)(2), § 144.103].)  Defendants
appear to admit that they do not constitute health insurance issuers.  (See Reply, p. 9 n.4 [stating that “[m]any of
the PBM Defendants’ plan sponsor clients are subject to
the ACA’s regulations, and the PBM Defendants administer those clients’
formularies”], emphasis added; see also Grasso Enterprises, LLC v. Express
Scripts, Inc. (E.D. Mo. Mar. 4, 2015, No. 4:14cv1932), 2015 WL 10781579, at
*4 [pharmacies conceding that Express Scripts, Inc., a PBM, is not a health
insurance issuer].)
 
The demurrer is overruled.     
 
FEHBA and TRICARE
 
Plaintiff says the SAC “does not
include claims related to Defendants’ conduct in carrying out FEHBA contracts
or TRICARE contracts.”  (Opposition, p.
10.)  In fact, Plaintiff asserts that
“there is no claim to preempt” because “[t]he People have specifically and
unambiguously disclaimed any such claims.” 
(Id. at pp. 10, 13; see also id. at pp. 11-12 [citing People of the
State of Calif. v. Eli Lilly and Co. (C.D. Cal. June 28, 2023, No.
2:23-cv-01929-SPG-SK) 2023 WL 4269750 (“Eli Lilly”), People of the State
of Calif. v. Express Scripts, Inc. (C.D. Cal. Feb. 28, 2024, No.
2:23-cv-08570-SPG-PD) 2024 WL 841197 (“Express Scripts”), and Westchester
County v. Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (S.D.N.Y. June 18, 2024, No.
23-CV-6096(CS)) 2024 WL 3043121 (“Mylan Pharmaceuticals”)].)
 
Defendants contend the
“disclaimer is ineffective in light of the sweeping nature of Plaintiff’s . . .
claims.”  (Demurrer, p. 15.)  They claim the Ninth Circuit recently rejected
a similar disclaimer.  (See Reply, p. 9
[citing People of the State of California v. CaremarkPCS Health LLC (9th
Cir. Aug. 13, 2024, Nos. 23-55597, 23-55599) 2024 WL 3770326 (“CaremarkPCS”)].)
 
Eli Lilly, Express
Scripts, and Mylan Pharmaceuticals involved motions for remand.  The district courts granted the motions
because the plaintiffs had disclaimed all claims and recoveries related to the
defendants’ conduct concerning federal healthcare plans.  (See Eli Lilly, supra, 2023 WL
4269750, at *2-*7; see also Express Scripts, supra, 2024 WL 841197, at
*4-*5; Mylan Pharmaceuticals, supra, 2024 WL 3043121, at *6-*9.)
 
The words of the Eli Lilly,
Express Scripts, and Mylan Pharmaceuticals disclaimers were
important to the courts’ analyses.  The
following chart collects the words:
 



Cases


Disclaimers
 




Eli
  Lilly
 


As
  discussed more fully in the body of the Complaint, this lawsuit relates to
  the unlawful, unfair, and fraudulent inflation of insulin's price and the
  relationship of that inflation to the PBM Defendants' market power. It does
  not challenge the creation of custom formularies for a federal officer, such
  as for any Federal Employees Health Benefits Act or TRICARE governed health
  benefits plan. Furthermore, it does not seek to recover moneys paid by the
  federal government pursuant to such plans, nor does it seek the recovery of
  federally mandated co-pays that were paid by such plans' patients. As such,
  the Complaint does not seek relief from any PBM Defendants that is governed
  by or available pursuant to any claim(s) involving a federal officer
  associated with any Federal Employees Health Benefits Act or TRICARE-governed
  health benefits plan.
 




Express
  Scripts


This
  lawsuit relates to the Defendants’ conduct in the non-federal market which
  resulted in the increased use, abuse, and diversion of opioids. The
  allegations in this Complaint do not include and specifically exclude
  Defendants’ provision of PBM or mail order pharmacy services pursuant to
  contracts with the Department of Defense, the Office of Personnel Management,
  the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs, the Veterans Health Administration,
  or any other federal agency. . . .
 




Mylan
  Pharmaceuticals
 


[T]his
  lawsuit relates to Defendants’ unlawful conduct that has created, perpetuated,
  contributed to, and maintained, a serious public health crisis of opioid abuse, addiction,
  morbidity, and mortality throughout New York state. The Defendants must be
  held accountable to abate the nuisances they have caused in communities
  across the state. This lawsuit does not seek damages related to the federal
  government or for conduct undertaken pursuant to contracts with the federal
  government, nor does it challenge the creation of custom formularies for, or
  on behalf of, a federal government agency or federal officer, such as for any
  Federal Employees Health Benefit Act (“FEHBA”), TRICARE-governed health
  benefits plan or any other federal plan. Furthermore, it does not seek
  to recover moneys paid by the federal government pursuant to such plans. As
  such, the Complaint does not seek relief from any PBM Defendant that is available
  pursuant to any claim(s) involving a federal government agency, federal
  officer or federal government contracting officer associated with any FEHBA
  or TRICARE-governed health benefits plan or federal health insurance program;
  nor pharmacy care services provided to the federal government; nor remedies
  that would interfere with or otherwise affect any federal plan, including but
  not limited to any remedies that would interfere with or affect the
  formularies, utilization management policies and programs, or administration
  of any Federal Plan; the uniform administration of the TRICARE program or the
  provision of healthcare services to U.S. military servicemembers, veterans,
  and their beneficiaries; or services provided under a contract that requires
  the exclusive use of any federal government formulary, including the
  Department of Defense's Uniform Formulary, that specifies the drugs
  authorized, sets requirements for prior authorization and utilization
  reviews, and/or assures medical necessity, clinical appropriateness and/or
  cost-effectiveness, and/or establishes a prescription restriction program for
  TRICARE federal health insurance program members and/or beneficiaries.
 
This
  lawsuit does not contain claims against the Defendants that are federal in
  character related to prescriptions adjudicated or processed under any federal
  program or federal contract, including OptumRx's contract with the Veterans
  Health Administration or pharmacy care services provided to the federal
  government, Express Script's contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense,
  the TRICARE health care program, and other health plans participating in the
  FEHBP overseen or administered by the federal government; nor does it include
  requests for relief governed by, or available pursuant to claims associated
  with any FEHBP or TRICARE-governed health benefits plan; nor claims against
  Defendants involving beneficiaries under federal healthcare programs or federal
  plans; nor federal prescription claims adjudicated or processed for plans
  controlled or sponsored by federal government agencies or entities or those
  processed according to a federal formulary design or Medicare Part D plans;
  nor conduct as a fiscal intermediary on behalf of the federal government; nor
  conduct governed or managed by a federal officer or federal government
  contracting offer [sic], or basic governmental tasks fulfilled or
  carried out by a Defendant on behalf of the federal government; nor
  determinations as to the appropriateness of restrictions on a TRICARE
  member's prescriptions, which are to be determined by a federal officer; nor
  conduct considered to be undertaken by any defendant as a statutorily
  authorized alter ego of the federal government; nor any
  contract that provides and/or requires federal government subjection,
  guidance and/or control over a Defendant's performance and/or the
  prescription drugs included in formularies. Plaintiff further disclaims any
  claims herein regarding: (1) conduct related to prescription claims for
  federal plans that may or may not have caused an oversupply of prescription
  opioids or caused or contributed to the harms for which Plaintiff seeks
  recovery, (2) Express Scripts’ pharmacy benefits management or mail order
  pharmacy work for the Department of Defense under any TRICARE Contract and
  pertaining to health plans under FEHBA, including the operation of mail order
  pharmacies in accordance with contractual guidelines set by the federal
  government; and (3) OptumRx's work for the Veterans Health Administration
  and/or the federal government.
 
Plaintiff
  disavows any cause of action or claim for recovery related to opioids
  distributed to military personnel, veterans, federal customers or health plan
  beneficiaries under the authority or direction of a federal officer, federal
  agency, or pursuant to any federal contract; or any statutory mandate to
  provide health care to beneficiaries of federal plans, military personnel or
  veterans and/or their beneficiaries through the TRICARE federal health
  insurance program; contracts pertaining to pharmacy benefit management and
  mail order pharmacy services for federal employees, including pertaining to
  the TRICARE Home Delivery/Mail Order Pharmacy, or programs such as Meds by
  Mail; or federal contracts where a federal officer or agency directed or
  exercised guidance and control over Defendants’ conduct as described
  generally in this lawsuit; the operation or management of a TRICARE mail
  order pharmacy; or federal contracts pertaining to dispensing by mail order
  pharmacies to beneficiaries of federal plans, military personnel or veterans
  and/or their beneficiaries; or prescription claims under a contract between
  Defendants and the federal government.
 
Plaintiff
  expressly disclaims and disavows any and all federal claims or questions
  related to opioids at issue in this lawsuit and disavows any cause of action
  or claim for recovery related to opioids at issue that could give rise to
  federal subject matter jurisdiction under either 28 U.S.C. § 1331 (federal question) or 28 U.S.C. § 1442(a)(1) (federal officer). Plaintiff
  is not seeking relief for any and all claims for damages against any
  Defendant whose conduct whether by omission or commission, was engaged in at
  the behest of the United States or any agency or person acting under him or
  under color of such office to the extent that such a claim would implicate
  federal court jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1442(a)(1), predicated on preemption by the
  TRICARE statute and the FEHBA, or the government contactor's defense
  articulated in Boyle v. United Technologies Corp.,
  487 U.S. 500, 108 S.Ct. 2510, 101 L.Ed.2d 442 (1988). All such claims that legitimately
  implicate such defenses, in the unlikely event that they exist and are
  factually supported, are not asserted and are hereby expressly and
  preemptively disclaimed. Plaintiff hereby puts any Defendant who may
  nonetheless assert such defenses as a basis for federal jurisdiction over
  this case on notice that Plaintiff seeks no recovery for injuries as a result
  of conduct that meets the three-prong Boyle test and constitutes actions
  of a federal officer sufficient to trigger jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1442(a)(1). Plaintiff specifically advises all
  Defendants of their position that such an express, clear and unequivocal
  disclaiming of exposures and of claims implicating the Boyle defense, as well as any other
  claims that legitimately implicate 28 U.S.C. § 1442(a)(1), render any potential future
  removal of this case to federal court on one of these clearly-disclaimed
  bases objectively unreasonable under Martin v. Franklin Capital Corp.,
  546 U.S. 132, 126 S.Ct. 704, 163 L.Ed.2d 547 (2005).
 



 
In CaremarkPCS, the Ninth
Circuit reversed Eli Lilly.  The
panel found that the disclaimer did not support remand since it “fail[ed] to explicitly release
claims or possible recovery from rebate practices as they relate to FEHBA and
TRICARE.”  (CaremarkPCS, supra,
2024 WL 3770326, at *1, emphasis in original.)
 
Given these authorities, and the
wording of the disclaimers at issue there, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff.  The remand standard is
different than the demurrer standard. 
Moreover, Plaintiff’s disclaimer is broader and more explicit than the Eli
Lilly disclaimer was and is closer to the Mylan Pharmaceuticals
disclaimers.  Paragraph 34 alleges:
 
34. This lawsuit
relates to the Defendants’ conduct in the non-federal market which resulted in
the increased use, abuse, and diversion of opioids.  The allegations in this Complaint do not
include and specifically exclude Defendants’ provision of PBM or mail order
pharmacy services pursuant to contracts with the Department of Defense, the
Office of Personnel Management, the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs, the
Veterans Health Administration, or any other federal agency.  The Complaint does not challenge the creation
of custom formularies or administration or management of such formularies for
or by a federal officer or federal agency, such as for any Federal Employees
Health Benefits Act, Veterans Health Administration, or TRICARE governed health
benefits plan, or any other federal health benefit plan.  The Complaint does not challenge Defendants’
provision of mail order pharmacy services pursuant to contracts with the
Department of Defense, the Office of Personnel Management, U.S. Department of
Veteran Affairs, the Veterans Health Administration, or any other federal
agency, and does not challenge the Defendants’ administration or operation of
the TRICARE Home Delivery/Mail Order Pharmacy. 
The Plaintiff does not seek to recover moneys paid by the federal
government pursuant to such plans, nor does it seek recovery of federally
mandated co-pays that were paid by such plans’ patients.  The Plaintiff does not challenge opioid prescriptions
adjudicated or processed by Defendants under federal contracts.  The Plaintiff does not seek declaratory
relief, injunctive relief, abatement relief, or any other relief for the
conduct of Defendants related to the provision of any services pursuant to
contracts with the Department of Defense, the Office of Personnel Management,
the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs, the Veterans Health Administration, or
any other federal agency.
 
(SAC, ¶ 34.)  This allegation coupled with Plaintiff’s
clear statement in the opposition brief (see Opposition, pp. 10-14)
demonstrates that Plaintiff is disclaiming all potential relief connected to
the FEHBA and TRICARE contracts.  The
allegation and statement should be taken as true, and the demurrer should be
overruled.
 
The demurrer is overruled, yet
the Court is willing to grant Plaintiff leave to amend the disclaimer to ensure
that it complies with CaremarkPCS.[5]
 
Safe Harbor
 
Civil
Code “section 3482 confers a statutory immunity that is a complete defense to a
nuisance claim.”  (City of Norwalk v.
City of Cerritos (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 977, 986 (“Norwalk”).)  “Section 3482 provides that ‘[n]othing which
is done or maintained under the express authority of a statute can be deemed a
nuisance.’”  (Ibid.)  “Although its plain language refers to statutory authority,
the immunity conferred by section 3482 also applies to acts authorized by
regulations and ‘other express government approvals’ (such as permits).”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)  
 
“To
ensure that section 3482-based immunity goes no further than the Legislature
contemplated, courts construe that immunity narrow[ly].”  (Ibid., internal quotation marks
omitted.)  “Consequently,  immunity
from public nuisance liability under section 3482 applies only if the acts
complained of [as a nuisance] are authorized either (1) by the express terms of
the statute under which the justification is made, or (2) by the plainest and
most necessary implication from the powers expressly conferred.”  (Id. at 987, internal quotation marks
omitted.)
 
Defendants
contend section 3482 bars the nuisance causes of action because the Insurance
Code and Knox-Keene Act “require formularies to include ‘medically necessary’
drugs.”  (Demurrer, p. 17.)  Defendants assert that “prescription opioids
are ‘medically necessary[.]’”  (Ibid.;
see also Reply, pp. 9-10.)
 
The
Court disagrees.  The cited statutes and
regulations – Insurance Code section 10123.201, Health and Safety Code section
1342.71(c), Welfare and Institutions Code section 14059.5, Code of Regulations
title 10, section 2594.4(a)(3), Code of Regulations title 28, section
1300.67.005(c)(4), Health and Safety Code section 124961(d), Health and Safety
Code section 1367.215(a), and Code of Regulations title 10, section 2218.82(e)
(see id. at pp. 17-18) – generally mandate that “medically necessary” opioids
be placed on formularies, and covered by health plans, but they do not
authorize the collusion scheme alleged in the SAC, explicitly or
implicitly.  I agree with Plaintiff on
this point.  (See Opposition, pp. 14-18.)  Indeed, this Court made an analogous finding
in June 2024 in People of the State of California v. Eli Lilly and Co.
(23STCV00719), another PBM case that alleged the same rebates conspiracy.  (See id. at Ex. B, pp. 5-7 [overruling the
PBMs’ safe-harbor demurrer].)
 
Next,
Defendants argue that section 3482 immunizes them because “California reviews
and approves formularies . . . through a strict regulatory approval
process.”  (Demurrer, p. 18; see also id.
at pp. 19-20; Reply, p. 10.)
 
Reviewing
and approving formularies is different than giving Defendants permission to
collude with manufacturers.  (See
Opposition, p. 18.)  Safe-harbor-wise, it
is a material distinction, particularly since Plaintiff claims “Defendants
deceived the public and regulators” about “the construction of their
formularies.”  (Ibid. [citing paragraphs
98 and 106].)  
 
Nevertheless,
the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend. 
Paragraphs 98 and 106 do not discuss the regulators.  (See SAC, ¶¶ 98, 106.)  The extent of the deception – what information
was or was not disclosed to the regulators – is a factual question, but, first,
Plaintiff needs to amend to actually plead that the deception
occurred.  The Court believes the
amendment would suffice to overcome Defendants’ safe-harbor defense.
 
 


