  Case Number:  24STCV19085    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Friday, October 18, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   24STCV19085
CASE NAME:                        Kenneth J. Abdalla v. Marshall and Stevens Incorporated. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Kenneth J. Abdalla
OPPOSING PARTY:             Defendant Marshall and Stevens
Incorporated 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not set. 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion for a
Preliminary Injunction
OPPOSITION:                        7 October 2024
REPLY:                                  14
October 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Plaintiff’s request for a preliminary
injunction is granted. Plaintiff is ordered to provide an undertaking. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On July 31, 2024,
Kenneth J. Abdalla (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Marshalls and
Stevens Incorporated (“Defendant” or “M&S”) and Does 1 to 50. The Complaint
alleges three causes of action for:
1)    
Breach of Contract;
2)    
Tortious Interference with Contractual Relationship; and
3)    
Tortious Interferences with Prospective Economic
Relationship. 
 
Plaintiff now moves for
a preliminary injunction. Defendant M&S opposes the Motion. The matter is
now before the court. 
 
motion for
a preliminary injunction
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
“A preliminary injunction may be granted
at any time before judgment upon a verified complaint, or upon affidavits if
the complaint in the one case, or the affidavits in the other, show
satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist therefore.” (CCP, § 527(a).) “A preliminary injunction is an interim
remedy designed to maintain the status quo pending a decision on the merits.” (MaJor v. Miraverde Homeowners Assn. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 618, 622.) 
 
(a) An injunction may be granted in the
following cases: 
 
(1) When it appears by the complaint that
the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and the relief, or any part
thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act
complained of, either for a limited period or perpetually. 
 
(2) When it appears by the complaint or
affidavits that the commission or continuance of some act during the litigation
would produce waste, or great or irreparable injury, to a party to the
action. 
 
(3) When it appears, during the
litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or threatens, or is about to
do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the
rights of another party to the action respecting the subject of the action, and
tending to render the judgment ineffectual. 
 
(4) When pecuniary compensation would not
afford adequate relief. 
 
(5) Where it would be extremely difficult
to ascertain the amount of compensation which would afford adequate
relief. 
 
(6) Where the restraint is necessary to
prevent a multiplicity of judicial proceedings. 
 
(7) Where the obligation arises from a
trust.
 
(CCP,
§ 526(a).) 
 
 “Before issuing a preliminary injunction, the
trial court must ‘carefully weigh the evidence and decide whether the facts
require[ ] such relief.’ [Citation.] The court evaluates the credibility of
witnesses and makes factual findings on disputed evidence.” (Fleishman v.
Superior Court (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 350, 356.) 
 
A
judge is not precluded from granting a preliminary injunction merely because of
conflicts in the evidence. (See National Subscription
Television v. Formula International, Inc. (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 308, 314.) Because a hearing on a preliminary
injunction is not a “trial of a question of fact” within the meaning of CCP §
632, a judge is not required to issue a statement of decision, even on request.
(Oiye v. Fox (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1049.) A
plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must show the absence of an adequate
damages remedy at law. (CCP § 526(a)(4).) Mandatory preliminary injunctions rarely are
granted, and are reserved for extreme cases where the right is established
clearly. (Teachers Ins. & Annuity Assn. v. Furlotti (1999) 70
Cal.App.4th 1487, 1493.)
 
A preliminary injunction ordinarily cannot take effect
unless and until the plaintiff provides an undertaking for damages which the
enjoined defendant may sustain by reason of the injunction if the court finally
decides that the plaintiff was not entitled to the injunction. (See CCP, §
529(a); CRC, rule 3.1150(f); City of South San Francisco v. Cypress Lawn
Cemetery Assn. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 916, 920.)
 
II.        Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant M&S requests that the court take
judicial notice of four documents related to the request by Plaintiff to remove
John Curtis as receiver in the Utah action. The request was filed on October
17, 2024, long after Defendant M&S had filed its opposing papers and after
Plaintiff’s reply was due, thus denying Plaintiff an opportunity to respond.
Accordingly, the court denies Defendant’s request for judicial notice. 
 
III.      Discussion
 
A.        Factual Summary
 
This dispute arises out of a
contract for the engagement of services from a firm that was subsequently
merged and acquired by another firm with interests adverse to the Plaintiff.
Plaintiff was the former manager of a Project, the Union Square Hotel
Condominium Project, located in Utah. Plaintiff is the subject of litigation
regarding his management of the Project by the Project’s Association (the “Utah
Action”). (Abdalla Decl., ¶ 2.) 
 
On October 19, 2019, John H.
Curtis (“Curtis”), from Rocky Mountain Advisory, LLC (“Rocky Mountain” or
“RMA”), was appointed as Receiver by the Project’s Association. (Id., ¶
3.) In 2024, the receivership was terminated as to all matters other than a
remaining dispute involving Plaintiff and his entities. (Ibid.) 
 
As part of the litigation
regarding the Project, on or about September 2, 2022, Plaintiff hired Jeff
Picket from Corporate Financial Advisors, Inc. d/b/a Lone Peak Valuation Group
(“Lone Peak”). (Abdalla Decl., ¶ 4.) Lone Peak agreed to provide expert services
to Plaintiff and that the services would constitute confidential work product
as it was rendered in connection with the dispute with the receiver. (Motion,
at p. 1: 9-12.) Plaintiff and Lone Peak signed and entered into an
Engagement Agreement[1] wherein the Parties agreed: 
 
The work undertaken by Consultant [Pickett] and Lone Peak in
connection with this engagement is being done for and under the direction of
Counsel, and is part of Counsel's work product. Except as provided below,
Consultant and Lone Peak shall not disclose any confidential or proprietary
information to any third party.
 
(Compl., Ex. A at p. 2; see
also Abdalla Decl., ¶ 5, Ex.  A  at p. 2.) 
The Engagement Agreement
further provides:
 
As a condition of this engagement, Counsel and Client agree
that Lone Peak and its employees may be engaged by parties with interests that
are adverse to and may not be consistent with the interests of Client and
Counsel, so long as those adverse interests are unrelated to the Services
being provided by Lone Peak hereunder. Lone Peak and its employees
reserve the right to accept unrelated engagements with other parties, and will
not be required to advise Client of such engagement in the future. Where appropriate,
Lone Peak will institute procedures to protect the confidential information
provided by Client and Counsel on this engagement. 
 
(Compl., Ex. A at p. 4
[emphasis added]; see also Abdalla Decl. Ex. A at p. 4.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts that over the
past months, Lone Peak and its employees have acquired a wealth of knowledge
regarding the dispute with the receiver and have met with Plaintiff’s counsel
to develop and share defense strategies for the Utah Action. (Abdalla Decl., ¶
8.) These include work studying and critiquing the work performed by the
receiver, John Curtis of RMA. (Id., ¶ 9.) Confidentiality of the
information provided and shared by Lone Peak is a critical concern for
Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 16) The Engagement Agreement provides in the relevant
part: 
 
Except as provided below, Consultant and Lone Peak shall not
disclose confidential and proprietary information to any third party.
Consultant and Lone Peak may disclose confidential or proprietary information
(a) to Lone Peak’s employees, agents, or contractors who are involved in this
engagement, or (b) with Counsel’s written consent, or (c) when required by law
to do so. 
 
(Compl., Ex. A at p. 2; see
also Abdalla Decl. Ex. A at p. 2.) 
 
On March 26, 2024, Marshall and
Stevens (“M&S”) acquired Rocky Mountain, Mr. Curtis’ firm. (Abdalla Decl.,
¶ 18.) A week later, on April 3, 2024, M&S acquired Lone Peak. (Id.,
¶ 18.) Accordingly, Rocky Mountain and Lone Peak are not part of the same firm,
M&S. (Id., ¶¶ 20-24.) Plaintiff is concerned that because Lone Peak
and Rocky Mountain are owned by the firm (“M&S), Plaintiff’s confidential
information is at risk of disclosure as “the information we have provided to
Mr. Pickett and the work product created by him are now owned by Marshall &
Stevens and accessible by Mr. Curtis.” (Id., ¶ 26.) Consequently, on
June 6, 2024, Plaintiff terminated his contract with Lone Peak and now seeks
repayment of the fees paid to Lone Peak totaling about $150,643.75. (Id.,
¶¶ 14, 28.). 
 
Plaintiff now seeks to prevent
M&S from acting adversely in connection with the dispute with the receiver
and now requests a preliminary injunction upon the following terms: 
 
1. An order directing that, during the pendency of the
above-captioned action, Defendant, and each and all of its officers, directors,
agents, employees, representatives, attorneys and successors, and each and all
persons acting in concert or participating with them and each of them, are
enjoined, restrained, and prohibited from engaging in, committing, or
performing, directly or indirectly, by any means whatsoever, any of the
following acts:
 
a. Participating as a party in the litigation styled Charles
Raeburn et al. vs. Kenneth Abdalla, et al, filed in the Third Judicial
District Court for Summit County, Utah. Civil No. 170500482 (the “Raeburn
Litigation”); 
 
b. Cooperating or otherwise working in concert with any
party in the Raeburn Litigation in any capacity, whether as a consultant
or expert witness or otherwise; 
 
c. Taking any action related to the Raeburn
Litigation that is adverse to Abdalla; 
 
d. Disclosing to any person or entity any information
whatsoever relating to the services performed by Defendants for the benefit of
Abdalla;
 
e. Destroying, concealing or disposing of any Writings (as
defined in Evidence Code § 250) relating to the merger of Defendant Marshall
and Stevens Incorporated with Lone Peak Valuation and Rocky Mountain Advisors,
or relating to any services provided by either of them in connection with the Raeburn
Litigation.
 
“In deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction to a
plaintiff, a trial court must weigh two interrelated factors: (1) The
plaintiff's likelihood of success on the merits at trial, and (2) the harm to
the plaintiff if the injunction is not issued against the harm to the defendant
if it is.” (Yee v. American National Ins. Co.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 453, 456.) The
burden of proof is on the plaintiff as the moving party “to show all elements
necessary to support issuance of a preliminary injunction.”  (O'Connell
v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.)   
 
B.        Likelihood to Succeed on the Merits  
            
            1.         Breach of
Contract
 
The elements of a claim for breach of contract are: “(1) the
existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal. 4th 811,
821.) In addition, the complaint must demonstrate damages proximately caused by
the breach. (St. Paul Ins. v. American Dynasty (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th
1038, 1060.) Furthermore, “the complaint must [also] indicate on its face
whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct.” (Otworth v.
Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458-59 citing
CCP, § 430.10(g).) ¿“[A]ll essential elements of a breach of contract cause of
action [] must be pleaded with specificity.”¿(Levy v. State Farm Mutual
Automobile Ins. Co. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1, 5.)
 
Plaintiff’s
declaration asserts that Lone Beak breached the Engagement Agreement by
“negotiating and entering into a business alignment with a litigation
adversary[.]” (Abdalla Decl., ¶ 17.) The Complaint asserts that M&S as Lone
Peak’s successor in interest  “breached
the Engagement Agreement by, among other things, exposing Plaintiff’s
confidential and proprietary information and litigation work-product to
Plaintiff’s adversaries, Curtis and Bateman, in the [Utah] Action and becoming
financially interested in both sides of the [Utah] Action.” (Compl., ¶ 26.) Due
to M&S prior acquisition of Rocky Mountain, its subsequent acquisition of
Lone Peak “created an unwaivable and incurable conflict of interest to
Plaintiff’s detriment and in violation of Plaintiff’s rights under” the
Engagement Agreement. (Id., ¶ 17.) “[I]n the period leading up to these
mergers, there was a due diligence process in which the conflicts of interest
were directly discussed and in which the secrets of clients, including
Plaintiff, were exposed to all parties involved including transactional counsel
for the merging parties.” (Id., ¶ 18.) “As a result of Defendant’s
acquisitions of [Rocky Mountain] and [Lone Peak], the plaintiff in the [Utah]
Action acquired the confidential work product of Plaintiff prepared by [Lone
Peak] and harmed Plaintiff not only in the revelation of its work product to
its litigation adversary but setting Plaintiff back in the litigation by
forcing him and his related parties to locate and retain a new expert.” (Id.,
¶ 19.) 
 
                        2.         Tortious Interference with Contract
 
“The elements of a cause of action for intentional interference
with contractual relations are ‘(1) the existence of a valid contract between
the plaintiff and a third party; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of that
contract; (3) the defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of
the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.’ ” (Redfearn v.
Trader Joe's Co. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 989, 997, citing Reeves v. Hanlon(2004)
33 Cal.4th 1140, 1148.) 
 
“[T]he same wrongful act may constitute both a breach of contract
and an invasion of an interest protected by the law of torts.”¿ (North
American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 774.)
However, “conduct amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious only
when it also violates a duty independent of the contract arising from
principles of tort law.”¿ (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551
[italics added]; see also Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia
Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 515 [‘ “An omission to perform a contract
obligation is never a tort, unless that omission is also an omission of a legal
duty.” ’ [internal quotation marks and citations omitted].)
 
The second cause of action
asserts that M&S as successor of Lone Peak, caused a disruption to and
breached the Engagement Agreement by acquiring Lone Peak and “providing access
to the confidential information to Curtis, Plaintiff’s litigation adversary.”
(Compl., ¶ 32.) 
 
3.         Tortious Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage
 
“The five elements for
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage are: (1) an
economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's
knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the
defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the
acts of the defendant.” (Youst v. Longo (1987) 43 Cal.3d 64, 71, fn. 6.)

 
A claim for intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage requires that the interference
be wrongful by some legal measure other than the fact of the interference
itself. (Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11
Cal.4th 376, 378.) “[A]n act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that
is, if it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common
law, or other determinable legal standard.” (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed
Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1159.) 
 
The third cause of action
alleges that Defendant M&S, along with Rocky Mountain and Lone Peak were
aware that Plaintiff and Rocky Mountain had adverse interests but proceeded
with due diligence anyway. (Compl., ¶ 38.) 
Despite being aware of these conflicts, Defendant M&S proceeded with
the acquisition of Lone Peak and harmed Plaintiff “by creating a conflict of
interest and by exposing Plaintiff’s confidential information and work-product
with Plaintiffs’ litigation adversary, Curtis, who is a partner in Defendant
after Defendant’s acquisition of [Rocky Mountain].” (Id., ¶ 39.) 
 
Plaintiffs may state a breach
of contract claim against Defendant M&S on the basis that M&S is the
successor in interest of Lone Peak and is responsible for Lone Peak’s breaches
of the Engagement Agreement when it agreed to the merger with M&S and took
a position directly adverse to Plaintiff. However, the breach of contract claim
presumes that M&S is a party to the Engagement Agreement. The tort of
intentional interference with contractual relations is committed only by
“strangers—interlopers who have no legitimate interest in the scope or course
of the contract's performance.” (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi
Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 514.) Consequently, as pled, the second
and third causes of action fail. 
 
While Plaintiff may plead
alternative theories of recovery, Plaintiff has failed to state that he pleads
the second and third causes of action in the alternative to the first cause of
action.  “When a pleader is in doubt
about what actually occurred or what can be established by the evidence, the
modern practice allows that party to plead in the alternative and make
inconsistent allegations.” (Mendoza v. Continental Sales Co. (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1395, 1402.) Secondly, the second and third causes of action
require that Plaintiff plead an independent wrongful conduct, something the
Complaint fails to do. Consequently, the second and third causes of action fail
as a matter of law. 
 
Defendant M&S asserts that
Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim will fail because Plaintiff has not shown
that there was an actual disclosure of Plaintiff’s confidential information.
The court agrees that Plaintiff has failed to put forth any evidence to support
the finding that M&S has disclosed Plaintiff’s financial information to Mr.
Curtis or his agents, even during the acquisition process. 
 
Plaintiff also asserts that
Defendant M&S breached the Engagement Agreement via the merger because the
Engagement Agreement specifically prohibited Lone Peak, and its successors,
from engaging with parties with adverse interests that are related “to the
Services being provided by Lone Peak hereunder.” (Compl., Ex. A at p. 4
[emphasis added]; see also Abdalla Decl. Ex. A at p. 4.) 
 
Defendant
M&S asserts it did not breach the Engagement Agreement because Lone Peak
has not provided any services that conflict with Plaintiff’s interests in the
Summit Action, or in any other action, for that matter.
 
The
Acquisition did not “merge” Lone Peak and Rocky Mountain into one entity such
that there is (or ever was) a unity of employees, physical offices, and
computer systems. (Pickett Decl., ¶ 12.) Lone Peak and Rocky Mountain are
wholly owned subsidiaries of Defendant. (Id., at ¶ 10.) Therefore, the
fact that post-acquisition, the firms ended up on the opposite side of the
Utah Action does not automatically create a conflict of interest. Jeff Pickett,
asserts that: 
 
Since the acquisition, Lone Peak and
Rocky Mountain have continued to operate separately. We maintain separate
physical offices, as Lone Peak is located in Cottonwood Heights, Utah and Rocky
Mountain is located in Salt Lake City. As was the case before the Acquisition, the
firms have continued to retain completely separate staff. I do not have any
access to Rocky Mountain's client files or email databases and Rocky Mountain's
employees do not have access to Lone Peak's files.  I have not spoken to Curtis or any other
Rocky Mountain employee regarding Abdalla or the [Utah] Action. . . Due to the
impending acquisition and in compliance with the American Institute of  CPAs Code of Professional Conduct ("AICPA
Code"), I instituted several safeguards to ensure Abdalla's strict
confidentiality. 
 
(Pickett
Decl., ¶ 14.) 
 
Defendant
asserts that M&S is now the parent company of Lone Peak and Rocky Mountain,
making the latter entities wholly owned subsidiaries of M&S. (Pickett
Decl., ¶ 10.) 
 
“Therefore,
the fact that post-Acquisition, the firms ended up on opposite side of the
[Utah] Action did not automatically create a conflict of interest.”
(Opposition, at p. 6:10-11.) Defendant M&S further stated that on January
5, 2024, Mr. Pickett explained the acquisition to Plaintiff and that the two
firms would remain separate and continue “we would continue to have separate
email servers and file servers so that neither firm would have access to the
other's files, and that we would have separate budgets and financial
statements.” (Pickett Decl., ¶ 11.) Mr. Pickett asserts that while “Abdalla was
concerned, [] he told me he was comfortable moving forward with my engagement.”
(Ibid.) Plaintiff disputes this. (Abdalla Supp. Decl., ¶ 5.) 
 
Based
on the above, Defendant M&S asserts that Plaintiff cannot show that the
Engagement Agreement was breached as there was no exposure of confidential
information or a conflict of interest.
 
As
the party seeking the injunction, Plaintiff bears the burden of showing that
when M&S became the parent company of Lone Peak, they ceased to be separate
entities such that there now exists conflicts of interest between Plaintiff and
M&S. “In general, a parent company is not liable on a contract signed by
its subsidiary ‘simply because it is a wholly owned subsidiary.’ ” (Cohen v.
TNP 2008 Participating Notes Program, LLC (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 840, 861.)
 
Mere Agency or Instrumentality.
When one corporation (the parent company) owns the shares of another (the
subsidiary) and exercises sufficient control over the latter's activities, the
parent may be liable on the contracts or for the torts of the subsidiary, which
is treated as a mere agency or “instrumentality” of the parent. Stock ownership
alone is not enough; the subsidiary may be wholly owned, but may nevertheless
be independently managed and controlled, and in that case the separate
corporate entity will be recognized. However, if in addition to ownership there
is relatively complete management and control by the parent, equity may
in the interests of justice disregard the entity and treat the corporations as
one.
 
(9
Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (11th ed. 2017) Corporations, § 19 Liability of
Parent for Obligations of Subsidiary [italics original].)
 
As
the party seeking the injunction, the burden is on Plaintiff to show that
M&S and Lone Peak do not maintain separate corporate formalities and “the
nature and extent of the control exercised over the subsidiary by the parent is
so pervasive and continual that the subsidiary may be considered nothing more
than an agent or instrumentality of the parent” that Lone Peak’s separate
corporate status should be disregard and the court should “reasonably deem the
subsidiary an agent of the parent under traditional agency principles.” (Sonora
Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 541.) “‘Control’
in this context means the degree of direction and oversight normal and expected
from the status of ownership; it comprehends such common characteristics as
interlocking directors and officers, consolidated reporting, and shared
professional services.” (Id., at pp. 540-541.) The parent company “must
veer into management by the exercise of control over the internal affairs of
the subsidiary  and the determination of
how the company will be operated on a day-to-day basis.” (F. Hoffman-La
Roche, Ltd. v. Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 797.) 
 
Plaintiff offers no evidence
that Plaintiff’s confidential information has been disclosed or is at risk of
disclosure. “An injunction cannot issue
in a vacuum based on the proponents' fears about something that may happen in
the future. It must be supported by actual evidence that there is a realistic
prospect that the party enjoined intends to engage in the prohibited activity.”
(Korean Philadelphia Presbyterian Church v. California Presbytery
(2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1069, 1084.) 
 
Plaintiff
offers a website printout asserting that it shows that Mr. Curties and Mr.
Pickett both appear as senior people at M&S’s Salt Lake City senior team.
(Abdalla Decl., ¶ 24, Ex. C.) First, the website printout is “hearsay when offered to prove the truth of matters stated
therein.” (Stoneking v. Briggs (1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 563, 576.) 
 
Second,
the website printout of M&S is insufficient to show that M&S exercises
complete control over Lone Peak’s day-to-day activities such that an actual
conflict of interest exists between M&S, as the parent company of Lone
Peak, and Plaintiff. Plaintiff fails to put forth evidence that Lone Peak is
now an agent of M&S. Plaintiff offers no evidence that M&S has or plans
to disclose Plaintiff’s confidential information in the Utah Action with Mr.
Curtis. Plaintiff fails to show that Mr. Curtis has access to Plaintiff’s
confidential information and that such access is not based merely on the
fact that M&S is the parent company of both Lone Peak and Rocky Mountain. Plaintiff
also fails to show that Mr. Pickett is a managing agent of M&S such that
his knowledge can be imputed to M&S. 
 
Plaintiff
offers more evidence on reply, which the court does not consider, and which if
considered would be insufficient to find that M&S and Lone Peak are not
separate corporate entities or that there is a probable risk of disclosure of
Plaintiff’s confidential information. “Points raised for the first time in a
reply brief will not be considered.” (Malmstrom v. Kaiser Aluminum
& Chemical Corp. (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 299, 320.) The fact that
Lone Peak’s annual statement was executed by “Jeff Settembrino, Chairman” who
also appears as a “Chairman” for M&S is insufficient to show that M&S
is in an agency relationship with Lone Peak. (Leichter Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 2-6 Ex.
B, C.) “The parent's general executive control over the subsidiary is not
enough; rather there must be a strong showing beyond simply facts evidencing
“the broad oversight typically indicated by [the] common ownership and common
directorship” present in a normal parent-subsidiary relationship.” (Sonora,
supra, (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th at p. 542.) 


Finally,
the court does not consider if the Utah trial court’s denial of Plaintiff’s
request to remove Mr. Curtis as a receiver has a preclusive effect on this
Motion as the evidence provided by Defendant fails to show the Utah court
decided the issue on the merits. 
 
            C.        Balance of the Harms
 
In
addressing this second prong, the court evaluates the harm the plaintiff is
likely to sustain if the preliminary injunction is denied compared to the harm
the defendant is likely to suffer if the injunction issued. (IT Corp. v.
County of Imperial (1983) 35 Cal.3d 63, 69-70.) The general principle
is that a court may not issue an injunction if it finds the moving party has no
chance of succeeding on the merits, because then an injunction only postpones
an inevitable loss on the merits. (See 14859 Moorpark Homeowner's Ass'n v.
VRT Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1408.) 
 
Here,
the court agrees that Plaintiff would suffer harm if his confidential
information were disclosed. However, because the record before the court
reflects that M&S and Lone Peak are separate entities, the court is not
persuaded that enjoining M&S’s conduct will likely prevent Plaintiff from
suffering harm. “As noted, a principal objective of a preliminary injunction
‘is to minimize the harm which an erroneous interim decision may cause’
[citation], and thus a court faced with the question whether to grant a
preliminary injunction cannot ignore the possibility that its initial
assessment of the merits, prior to a full adjudication, may turn out to be in
error.” (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 561 [italics original].) 
 
Defendant
asserts that it will suffer harm because:
 
If Defendant, through its subsidiary
Rocky Mountain, is not able to participate in the [Utah] Action, it will lose
the fees Curtis earns as a court-appointed Receiver. As no trial date has been
sent, Defendant anticipates that the additional fees from Curtis’ ongoing
receiver work will be significant.
 
(Opposition,
at p. 12:5-8.) 
 
As
Defendant M&S is only the parent company of Rocky Mountain and Lone Peak,
the court is not persuaded an injunction enjoining it from participating in
Utah Action will result in actual harm to M&S as the parent company or that
such harm will be greater than any harm Plaintiff may suffer due to the
discourse of his confidential information. If M&S shares “officers,
directors, agents, employees, representatives, attorneys and successors, and
each and all persons acting in concert or participating with them and each of
them” with its subsidiaries, then Plaintiff’s concern about disclosure is not
speculative, and presents an actual risk of disclosure due to the intermingling
of M&S and Lone Peak staff. Defendant M&S also fails to explain how any
damages it may suffer due to the granting of the injunction are not mediated by
Plaintiff having to provide an undertaking. (CCP, 529(a).)
 
Therefore,
because the likelihood on the merits and the balance of harm are “two
interrelated factors” the court may grant Plaintiff’s injunction on the basis
that Plaintiff will suffer irreparable harm and “‘[t]he ultimate goal of
any test to be used in deciding whether a preliminary injunction should issue is
to minimize the harm which an erroneous interim decision may cause.’ ” (White,
supra, 30 Cal.4th at p. 554 [italics original].) “To obtain a
preliminary injunction, a plaintiff ordinarily is required to present evidence
of the irreparable injury or interim harm that it will suffer if an injunction
is not issued pending an adjudication of the merits.” (Ibid.) 


Therefore,
Plaintiff’s request for a preliminary injunction is granted. Plaintiff is
ordered to provide an undertaking. (CCP § 529(a).)
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s request for a
preliminary injunction is granted. Plaintiff is ordered to provide an
undertaking. 
 


