 Case Number:  23TRCV04321    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT 
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                             Tuesday, July 9, 2024 
Department M                                                                                                 Calendar
No. 9 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Jennifer
Flagler, et al. v. Timothy Racisz, et al.  
23TRCV04321

1.      Timothy Racisz’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint      

TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Timothy Racisz’s Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on December 29, 2023. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. Plaintiffs’ decedent, Jonathan Flagler, a
firefighter, died while fighting a fire at 30751 Tarapaca Road Rancho Palos
Verdes – a residence owned by Defendant Racisz. Plaintiffs allege causes of
action for: 1. Wrongful Death; 2. Survival Action. On April 11, 2024,
Defendant’s demurrer was sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiffs
filed the First Amended Complaint on April 29, 2024.
 
            Meet and Confer
  
            Defendant set forth a
meet and confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41.  (Decl. Alan K. Brubaker.)   
 
            Demurrer

            A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
            Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
            Defendant demurs to the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
and each of the two causes of action for failure to state sufficient facts
pursuant to CCP § 430.10(e). Defendant states the following: “The firefighter’s rule
provides a complete defense to each of Plaintiffs’ causes of action.”  (Demurrer, page 1, lines 25-27.) 
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s causes of action are
barred by the firefighter’s rule and that no exception to the rule applies
under the facts alleged by Plaintiffs. 
 
            “The fireman's rule provides that negligence in causing a
fire furnishes no basis for liability to a professional fireman injured
fighting the fire. Firemen, whose occupation by its very nature exposes them to
particular risks of harm, “‘cannot complain of negligence in the creation of
the very occasion for [their] engagement.’” Walters v. Sloan (1977) 20
Cal.3d 199, 202 (internal citation and quotation omitted).
 
            Civ. Code, § 1714.9 states:
            “(a) Notwithstanding statutory or decisional law to the
contrary, any person is responsible not only for the results of that person's
willful acts causing injury to a peace officer, firefighter, or any emergency
medical personnel employed by a public entity, but also for any injury
occasioned to that person by the want of ordinary care or skill in the
management of the person's property or person, in any of the following
situations:
            (1) Where the conduct causing the injury occurs after the
person knows or should have known of the presence of the peace officer,
firefighter, or emergency medical personnel.
            (2) Where the conduct causing injury violates a statute,
ordinance, or regulation, and the conduct causing injury was itself not the
event that precipitated either the response or presence of the peace officer,
firefighter, or emergency medical personnel.
            (3) Where the conduct causing the injury was intended to
injure the peace officer, firefighter, or emergency medical personnel.
            (4) Where the conduct causing the injury is arson as
defined in Section 451 of the Penal Code.
            (b) This section does not preclude the reduction of an
award of damages because of the comparative fault of the peace officer,
firefighter, or emergency medical personnel in causing the injury.
            (c) The employer of a firefighter, peace officer or
emergency medical personnel may be subrogated to the rights granted by this
section to the extent of the worker's compensation benefits, and other
liabilities of the employer, including all salary, wage, pension, or other
emolument paid to the employee or the employee's dependents.
            (d) The liability imposed by this section shall not apply
to an employer of a peace officer, firefighter, or emergency medical personnel.
            (e) This section is not intended to change or modify the
common law independent cause exception to the firefighter's rule as set forth
in Donohue v. San Francisco Housing Authority (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 658.”
 
            The Court notes that the independent cause exception
resembles the exception noted in Civ. Code § 1714.9(a)(2). In Donohue,
the Court of Appeal held that the action was not barred by the firefighter’s
rule because the alleged misconduct was the defendant’s failure to install
nonslip adhesive treads on stairs as well as hosing down the stairs – neither
of which were the reason for Plaintiff’s presence.  Donohue v. San Francisco Housing Authority
(1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 658
 
            First Cause of Action for Wrongful Death
            Second Cause of Action for Survival Action
 
            Defendant’s demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend. Plaintiffs fail to state sufficient facts to state a cause of action. 
 
            “The elements of a cause of action for wrongful death are
a tort, such as negligence, and resulting death. (Boeken v. Philip Morris
USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 806, 108 Cal.Rptr.3d 806, 230 P.3d 342.)
The elements of a negligence cause of action are duty to use due care and
breach of duty, which proximately causes injury.” Lopez v. City of Los
Angeles (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 675, 685.
 
            “Unlike a cause of action for wrongful death, a survivor
cause of action is not a new cause of action that vests in the heirs on the
death of the decedent. It is instead a separate and distinct cause of action
which belonged to the decedent before death but, by statute, survives that
event. [¶] A cause of action that survives the death of a person passes to the
decedent's successor in interest and is enforceable by the “decedent's personal
representative or, if none, by the decedent's successor in interest.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) In the typical survivor action, the damages recoverable
by a personal representative or successor in interest on a decedent's cause of
action are limited by statute to the loss or damage that the decedent sustained
or incurred before death, including any penalties or punitive or exemplary
damages that the decedent would have been entitled to recover had the decedent
lived, and do not include damages for pain, suffering, or
disfigurement.” Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th
1256, 1264–65 (internal citations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
            Plaintiffs fail to state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action. The allegations reveal a complete defense pursuant to the firefighter’s
rule. “The ‘fireman's rule’ here discussed, however, is that which negates
liability to firemen by one whose negligence causes or contributes to the fire
which in turn causes the death or injury of the fireman.” Giorgi v. Pacific
Gas & Elec. Co. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 355, 357. 
 
            Plaintiffs allege that, prior to the fire, Defendant made
unpermitted additions at the subject residence without fire mitigation
treatments, or fire blocks. (FAC, ¶¶ 9-13.) Plaintiffs allege that this action
caused the fire to reignite, spread rapidly, and remain unnoticed.  (Id. at ¶¶ 9-16.)  Plaintiffs allege that the failure to properly
build and maintain the unpermitted additions was not the act that caused the
actual ignition of the fire but that it reignited the fire and accelerated the
fire’s progression.  (Id. at ¶¶ 18-24.) 
 
            Plaintiffs argue that they have pleaded allegations to
show an exception to the Firefighter’s Rule by alleging that the additions were
not the cause of the fire but instead the cause of spreading the fire rapidly. However, Plaintiffs’ strained attempt to
squeeze an exception from their own factual allegations is unavailing. If Plaintiffs’ theory is accepted, it would
essentially eviscerate the Firefighter’s Rule as any party could allege that an
act of spreading the fire as opposed to igniting the fire would fall under the
exception. 
 
            Because this attempt to squeeze an exception was so
strained, Plaintiffs now appear to seemingly allege that the initial fire and
the fire that ultimately killed decedent was somehow two separate events.  However, here, the cause of decedent’s
presence was the fire that caused his death. 
 
            Plaintiffs clearly state that the reason why Plaintiffs’
decedent was at the scene of the residence was because of the conduct of
Defendant and that the cause of the injury was the act that precipitated the
response. Plaintiffs now attempt to, in a conclusory manner, frame the act of
Defendant which caused the initial response as not negligent.  (Id. at ¶ 18.) However, there is no dispute
that the initial response was caused by Defendant, that the initial response
was due to a fire, which Plaintiffs now state was from a light socket, and that
the smoldering remains of the fire caused a reignition or spread of the fire
which ultimately led to decedent’s demise. (Id. at ¶ 22.)
 
            Plaintiffs’ original theory appeared to be that only the
“igniting” of the fire would fall under the Firefighter’s Rule and the
“spreading” of the fire would fall under the exception of the Firefighter’s
Rule. However, under this theory, it
could be argued that after the ignition perhaps if fire mitigation efforts had
been in place, then the fire department would not have been called to the
scene. However, the fact that the fire department was called to the scene
precisely because of the “spread” of the fire itself would show that the conduct
causing injury was the event that precipitated the fire department’s response, and
thus would not fall under the exception. 
 
            Plaintiffs’ new theory appears to be that there can
somehow be a distinction between the fire that initially caused the response
that Plaintiffs contend was extinguished and a fire that resulted from
smoldering embers or remains from the initial fire. However, Plaintiffs provide
no authority for the proposition that an exception to the firefighter’s rule
exists somehow based on Plaintiffs’ own self-serving attribution of different
causes to different phases of a fire.  This
type of complex analysis of the cause of fires is again another specific reason
why the firefighter’s rule was derived.  The
Court in Giorgi v. Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d
355, 360 stated as follows: “We note, too, the policy of efficient judicial
administration. The great majority of fires doubtless are caused or contributed
to by passive human negligence. Most fires of any consequence result in injury,
happily many of them rather minor, to some firemen. Judicial determination of
the cause of a fire, after its destruction has been wrought, presents difficult
problems requiring lengthy trials.”  Id.
 
            Plaintiffs’ reliance on Vasquez v. N. County Transit
Dist. (9th Cir. 2002) 292 F.3d 1049 is unavailing. In Vasquez, a
police officer was summoned to the scene of a stuck railroad crossing arm. The
arm came loose due to missing bolts and struck the officer in the head. The
missing bolts were unrelated to the electrical mechanism of raising and
lowering the arm which was the reason why the officer was initially summoned to
the scene. The Ninth Circuit stated that the cause of the presence of the
officer was not the same as the cause of his ultimate injuries. In the instant
action, however, the cause of the presence was a fire that spread rapidly due
to numerous causes, some or all of which Plaintiffs attribute to Defendant’s
negligence. In addition, the unique nature of attempting to distinguish the
cause of a fire (or two fires as Plaintiffs now attempt to claim), as noted
above, uniquely involves a distinct policy reason for the implementation of the
firefighter’s rule. 
 
            Plaintiffs also propose in a new and novel theory that
because Defendant is an architect that the firefighter’s rule should not apply.
However, Plaintiffs provide no authority to support this proposition.
 
            Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained with 20 days
leave to amend.
 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.