 Case Number:  23STCV20961    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  73 09/18/24Dept. 73 Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding  GHAZARYAN v. GENERAL MOTORS LLC (23STCV20961) Counsel for
Plaintiff/ moving party:  David Barry
(Barry Law Firm)Counsel for
Defendant/ opposing party:  Mary Arens
McBride (Erskine Law Group APC) PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S FURTHER
RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NOS. 14, 40-45 AND 61 (filed 03/19/2024) TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 14, 40-45 and 61 is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide
code-compliant responses within 30 days. BACKGROUND On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff Hasmik Ghazaryan filed the instant
action against Defendant General Motors, LLC.  Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on September 12,
2023, alleging the following causes of action:1.     
Breach of lmplied Warranty of Merchantability under The
Song-Beverly Act2.     
Breach of Express Warranty under The Song-Beverly Act3.     
Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200 The FAC alleges the following. On November 28, 2020, Plaintiff
leased a 2021 Chevrolet Silverado 1500, VIN 24 3GCPWCEK3MG 131465 (hereinafter
referred to as the "Vehicle"). (FAC, ¶ 5.) Plaintiff has presented the Vehicle to Defendants for
repairs of defects, malfunctions, misadjustments, and/or nonconformities
related to: (a) the "Check Engine" warning light illuminating on six
(6) separate occasions; (b) the illumination of the "Check Gages"
warning light; (c) the EV AP system causing poor acceleration; (d) the Vehicle on two (2) separate occasions producing a
popping/rattling noise; (e) erratic and 2 surging RPMs; and (f) the
transmission slipping. (FAC, ¶ 11.)
However, Defendants or their representatives failed to conform the Vehicle to
the applicable warranties because said defects, malfunctions, misadjustments,
and/or nonconformities continue to exist even after a reasonable number of
attempts to repair was given. (FAC, ¶
13.) On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatory nos. 14, 40-45 and
61, arguing:·        
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to Special Rog
Nos. 14, 40-45 and 61.·        
Defendant’s responses are not code compliant·        
Special Interrogatory No. 14 seeks information regarding
individuals who not only have some knowledge of Plaintiff’s claims, but quite
literally have hands on knowledge of the Subject Vehicle and its
nonconformities. Plaintiff has a right to seek the identity of these
individuals, in order to make a determination regarding whether they should be
deposed or not. While GM refers Plaintiff to documents such as “incidentally
obtained repair·        
Special Interrogatories Nos. 40-45 concern the identity of the
individuals responsible for, and directly involved in, those involved with the
evaluation of Plaintiff’s vehicle for repurchase or replacement eligibility
under Song-Beverly prior to the commencement of litigation, and GM’s failure to
repurchase the Subject Vehicle, as well as the details surrounding any
pre-litigation investigation that occurred. The responses provided are
incomplete, evasive, and non-responsive to the questions posed.·        
Special Interrogatory No. 61 asks how many days the vehicle was
out of service for warranty repairs. The total number
of “down days” is essential to determining if the lemon law presumption
applies. The responses
provided are incomplete, evasive, and non-responsive to the questions posed. Defendant filed an opposition, arguing:·        
Plaintiff did not meet and confer in good faith·        
The Court should sustain Defendant’s objections.·        
Special Interrogatory No. 14, Plaintiff wants GM to identify all
individuals who repaired its Silverado under warranty and opine regarding the warranty
repair history of the Silverado.o  
GM’s responses referred Plaintiff to these documents. To the
extent Plaintiff wants additional information, Plaintiff may seek it directly
from the dealerships, as the individuals who repaired its Silverado are not GM
employees; they are employees of the non-party dealerships.·        
GM’s responses to Special Interrogatories 40-45 are fully
Code-compliant and its objections are proper.·        
Special Interrogatory No. 61, Plaintiff ask GM to state the total
number of days its Silverado was out of service for warranty repairs. This information is evident from the face of documents already
produced, and to condense the information to numbers that Plaintiff already
know even before receiving GM’s documents confirming the information, would
provide Plaintiff with nothing more than what it already has. Plaintiff filed a reply, arguing:·        
Plaintiff met and conferred in good faith·        
Defendant Fails To Substantiate its objections ANALYSIS A.      Legal
Standard  “Any party
may obtain discovery . . . by propounding to any other party to the action
written interrogatories to be answered under oath.”¿ CCP § 2030.010(a).¿
“Within 30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the
interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them
on the propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court
has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding
party the court has extended the time for response.”¿ CCP § 2030.260(a).¿ 
¿ “The party to
whom interrogatories have been propounded shall respond in writing under oath
separately to each interrogatory by any of the following: (1) An answer
containing the information sought to be discovered. (2) An exercise of the
party's option to produce writings. (3) An objection to the particular
interrogatory.”¿ CCP § 2030.210(a).¿ “If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”¿ CCP §
2030.220(c).¿ ¿ “On receipt
of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(a).¿ “A motion under subdivision (a) [of CCP §
2030.300] shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(b).¿ In addition, a separate statement is required.¿
California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1345(a)(2).¿ ¿ “Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed
in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response
to the interrogatories.”¿ CCP § 2030.300(c).¿“[T]he time limitations set forth
in section 2030 and section 2034, subdivision (a) [are] mandatory and [when]
not met, the trial court's order is in excess of its jurisdiction.”¿(Vidal
Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.) B.      Meet and
Confer Plaintiff’s
counsel states he sent a meet and confer letter to Defendant's counsel
regarding deficiencies with the discovery responses at issue. (Kim Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff’s counsel states the
parties met and confirmed telephonically on March 6, 2024 and that he sent a
follow up email on March 8, 2024. (Kim Decl., ¶¶ 10-11.) However, Plaintiffs’ counsel states Defendant has not
responded. (Kim Decl., ¶ 12.) The Court
finds the moving party has met its meet and confer obligation. Accordingly, the
Court will consider the merits of the motion. C.      Discussion Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatory
Nos. 14, 40-45 and 61. a.      Special Interrogatory
No. 14 Interrogatory
14: IDENTIFY
all PERSON(S) who performed warranty repairs upon the SUBJECT VEHICLE. In response,
Defendant referred Plaintiff to the documents it has produced in response to
Plaintiff Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, particularly the
Service Request Activity Report(s) and the Global Warranty History Report for
the SUBJECT VEHICLE, and any repair orders that GM may have obtained from
GM-authorized dealerships who may have serviced, maintained, or repaired the
SUBJECT VEHICLE. These documents identify the individuals and transactions,
including dates and times, of which GM is familiar regarding the SUBJECT
VEHICLE. Plaintiff
contends that he has a right to seek the identity of these individuals, in
order to make a determination regarding whether they should be deposed or not.  The Court does
not find Defendant’s response is code-compliant. As Plaintiff asserts, the
documents that Defendant refers Plaintiff to do not contain the information
sought on their face. For example, repair orders only identify technicians by
their “tech numbers”. Thus, due to the nature of the relationship between GM
and its dealerships as GM’s authorized agents and representatives, and the fact
that GM issues General Motors Identification Numbers, or “GMINs” to dealership
employees, GM remains in the best position to identify the individuals who
performed warranty services on Plaintiff’s Vehicle.  The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further response to Special Interrogatory
No. 14.  b.      Special
Interrogatories Nos. 40-45 Interrogatory
40: Identify
the individual(s) whose responsibility it is to supervise to ensure that YOU
are properly determining whether a vehicle should be repurchased or replaced
pursuant to The Song Beverly Warranty Act. Interrogatory
41: Please
describe with particularity how the individual(s) identified in YOUR response
to Special Interrogatory above perform their duties. Interrogatory
42: Explain
with particularity all aspects of YOUR investigation into whether the SUBJECT
VEHICLE qualified or was eligible for repurchase or replacement pursuant to The
Song-Beverly Warranty Act. Interrogatory
43: IDENTIFY
all PERSON(S) involved in YOUR investigation, by full name, address, and
telephone number, including any individuals with whom YOU communicated
regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE. Interrogatory
44: Identify
all DOCUMENTS consulted, reviewed and/or obtained in YOUR investigation. Interrogatory
45: IDENTIFY
all PERSON(S) responsible for YOUR decision to not repurchase or replace the
SUBJECT VEHICLE by full name, address, and telephone number. Defendant
objects to these interrogatories on grounds it is overbroad, vague, ambiguous,
irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. Defendant also objects to this interrogatory to the extent it seeks
confidential, proprietary and trade secret information as well as information
protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or work-product doctrine. The Court
notes that to the extent Defendant asserts a privacy privilege, it must submit a
privilege log identifying the documents and the grounds for establishing
protection for the determination of the applicability of such privilege. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.240(c)(1) [“If an objection is based on a claim of privilege
or a claim that the information sought is protected work product, the response
shall provide sufficient factual information for other parties to evaluate the
merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege log.”].) The Court
finds supplemental responses are warranted. As Plaintiff contends, the
information sought is relevant to GM’s affirmative defenses, such as GM’s
belief that it at all times acted in good faith and that Plaintiff is the cause
of the vehicle’s issues. The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further response to Special Interrogatory
Nos. 40-45. c.       Special
Interrogatory No. 61 Interrogatory
61: Please
state the total number of days the SUBJECT VEHICLE was out of service for
warranty repairs. In its
opposition, Defendant argues this information is evident from the face of
documents already produced, and to condense the information to numbers that
Plaintiff already knows even before receiving GM’s documents confirming the
information, would provide Plaintiff with nothing more than what he already
has. Defendant also objects to this interrogatory to the extent it seeks
confidential, proprietary and trade secret information. The Court
finds supplemental responses are warranted. As discussed above, the Court notes
that to
the extent Defendant asserts a privacy privilege, it must submit a privilege
log identifying the documents and the grounds for establishing protection for
the determination of the applicability of such privilege. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.240(c)(1). Further, as Plaintiff argues, the dealer repair orders do not provide
the necessary response because the open and close dates on a dealer’s repair
orders are often inaccurate and thus do not accurately reflect out-of-service
time; in fact, repair orders remain open due to circumstances not reflected in
the documents alluded to. As such, the records identified are not fully
responsive.  The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further response to Special Interrogatory
No. 61. DISPOSITION 































































































































































































































Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 14, 40-45 and 61 is GRANTED. Defendant shall provide
code-compliant responses within 30 days. 