  Case Number:  23STCV10614    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  73 09/18/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
WEAVER, et al. v. LANCE JAY ROBBINS
PALOMA PARTNERSHIP, et al. (23STCV10614)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiffs/opposing party:   James Fazio III (Gordon Rees Scully Mansukhani,
LLP)
Counsel
for Defendants/moving party:           Lisa
Salisbury (Salisbury Group, Inc.)
 
MOTION FOR
JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS (filed 04/10/2024)

 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings is DENIED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On September 20, 2023, Plaintiffs H. Duane Weaver (“Weaver”) and
Negative Asset Limited Partnership filed this action against Defendants Lance
Jay Robbins Paloma Partnership, 7th St. Associates, Inc. and Lance
Jay Robbins (“Robbins”). 
 
Plaintiffs’
Complaint alleges the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty;
(2) Breach of Contract; (3) Abuse of Control; (4) Appointment of Receiver; (5)
Declaratory Relief; (6) Accounting; (7) Violation of Inspection Rights; (8) Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, and/or Retention; and (9) Negligence.
 
The
Complaint alleges that Plaintiff Weaver and Defendant Robbins formed a
partnership in the 1980s to acquire, own and operate a 58-unit apartment
building located at 15 Paloma Avenue, Venice, California 90291. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants failed in their duty to properly manage and operate the
subject property pursuant to the partnership agreement. Defendants had hired
Concord Real Estate Service, Inc. (“Concord”) to manage the subject property. 
 
On April 10, 2024, Defendants filed its
instant motion for judgment on the pleadings, arguing:
·       Plaintiffs lack standing to bring any claim for direct injury, and the
claims for direct injury alleged in the first, second, and fourth through
seventh causes of action must be dismissed.
o   The alleged mismanagement of the Property is an injury to the
Partnership, not to individual limited partners.
o   In their complaint, Plaintiffs originally pled alleged nine causes of
action, but the third cause of action for breach of control was dismissed by
this Court on or about September 28, 2023. Of the remaining eight causes of
action, the first cause of action (breach of fiduciary duty), the second cause
of action (breach of contract), and the fourth cause of action (appointment of
receiver) all purport to allege both direct and derivative claims. The fifth,
sixth and seventh causes of action (for declaratory relief, an accounting and
for an inspection of the Partnership’s books and records) are all styled as
direct claims arising from the alleged mismanagement of the Partnership. The
eighth cause of action (negligent hiring, supervision, and/or retention) and
the ninth cause of action (negligence) are styled as derivative claims only and
are not the subject of this motion. Plaintiffs lack standing to bring direct
claims.
 
Plaintiffs filed an opposition, arguing: 
·       The motion is improper as to the first, second and fourth causes of
action because it would only partially resolve those claims
·       A limited partner may maintain direct claims against a managing partner
and/or a general partner
·       Should the Court be inclined to grant the motion, Plaintiffs request
leave to amend
 
Defendants filed a reply maintaining
that Plaintiffs lack standing to bring direct claims for the mismanagement of
the partnership.
 
II. DISCUSSION
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
It is well
established in California that either prior to trial, but after the time to
answer or demur has passed, or at the trial the plaintiff or the defendant may
move for judgment on the pleadings and that the appropriate ground for such a
motion is the same as that arguable by general demurrer, namely, the failure to
state a cause of action or defense.  (Dobbins v. Hardister (1966)
242 Cal.App.2d 787, 791; See also Sofias v. Bank of America (1985) 172
Cal.App.3d 583, 586 [The non statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings can
be made at any time, even during trial, since the grounds for a general
demurrer are never waived.], see also Code of Civ. Proc.
§438(f).)   
 
A motion for
judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and
hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters
that can be judicially noticed. (See, e.g., Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (TRG 1998) §§ 7:275, 7:322; Lance Camper
Manufacturing Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194,
198.) Presentation of extrinsic evidence is therefore not proper on a motion
for judgment on the pleadings. (Id.; Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.)  Both a demurrer and a motion for
judgment on the pleadings accept as true all material factual allegations of
the challenged pleading, unless contrary to law or to facts of which a court
may take judicial notice.  (Mechanical Contractors Assn. v. Greater Bay
Area Assn. (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 672, 677; Edwards v. Centex Real Estate
Corp, (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 15, 27.) 
 
In the case
of either a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the pleadings, leave to amend
should be granted if there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can
state a good cause of action. (Virginia G. v. ABC Unified School Dist.
(1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1852.)  
 
B.      Meet and
Confer
 
Before
addressing the merits, the Court notes that the Motion is accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure Section 439(a).
Defendants’ counsel states he met via videoconference with Plaintiff’s counsel
on April 1, 2024 regarding the issues raised in the instant motion, but the
parties were unable to reach a resolution. (Davisson Decl., ¶ 2.) The Court
finds the moving party has satisfied its meet and confer obligation. 
 
C.      Discussion
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiffs lack standing to bring
any claim for direct injury, and the claims for direct injury alleged in the
first, second, and fourth through seventh causes of action must be dismissed.
 
a.       First, Second
and Fourth causes of action
 
First,
Defendants move for judgment on the pleadings on the first, second and fourth
causes of action only “to the extent that those claims purport to allege direct
claims against the Defendants.” (Motion, p. 8.)
 
Plaintiffs’
first cause of action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty, second cause of action for
Breach of Contract, and fourth cause of action for Appointment of a Receiver
are brought by Plaintiffs directly in their own names and derivatively pursuant
to California Corporations Code § 15702.
 
However, the
Court does not find that Defendants can move for judgment on only the direct
claims and not the derivative claims of these causes of action. Judgment on the
pleadings, like a general demurrer, does not lie as
to a portion of a cause of action and, if any part of a cause of action is
properly pleaded, the motion will be denied. (Fire Ins. Exch. v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.
App. 4th 446, 452.) Therefore, Defendants cannot move for judgment on only a
portion of these causes of action. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, judgment on Plaintiffs’ first, second and fourth causes of action
are DENIED. 
 
b.      Fifth, Sixth
and Seventh causes of action
 
Next,
Defendants move for judgment on the pleadings on the fifth cause of action for
declaratory relief, sixth cause of action for accounting and seventh cause of
action for violation of inspection rights arguing that Plaintiffs lack standing
to bring these direct claims.
 
The
California Supreme Court has clearly laid out the difference between individual
and derivative causes of action.  (Jones v. H.F. Ahmanson & Co.
(1969) 1 Cal.3d 93, 106–107.)  An individual action is “ ‘a suit to
enforce a right against the corporation which the stockholder possesses as an
individual.’ ”  (Id. at 107.)  An action is derivative if “
‘the gravamen of the complaint is injury to the corporation, or to the whole
body of its stock and property without any severance or distribution among
individual holders, or it seeks to recover assets for the corporation or to
prevent the dissipation of its assets.’  ”  (Id. at
106.)   
 
In other
words, whether a direct or derivative action is most appropriate turns on
whether the shareholder is alleging that they have been harmed due to the
corporation being harmed, in which case the corporation is the proper party to
bring the action; or whether they are alleging that they, specifically, have
been harmed.  (See Jones, supra, 1 Cal.3d 93 [upholding right of
minority shareholder to bring action against majority shareholders for specific
diminution of the value of her personal stock, rather than requiring that she
bring suit on behalf of the corporation for the general diminution of the value
of all stock]; Jara, Sr. v. Suprema Meats, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th
1238 [permitting a minority shareholder to bring a breach of fiduciary duty
claim against majority shareholders whose decisions had benefited the
corporation, but harmed the value of her individual shares].) 
 
Defendants
argue that here, Plaintiffs can only bring derivative, and not direct claims,
because Plaintiffs alleged gross mismanagement that impacted all of the
partners and thus caused injury to the entire Partnership. Plaintiffs allege
that Defendants 1) failed to maintain the Property and/or to timely make
repairs to the Property, which led the issuance of fire and safety violations
against the Property, to litigation against the Partnership, and to the
inability of the Partnership to make profit distributions to the limited
partners; 2) improperly attempted to convert the Property into a hotel, which
led to litigation by the City of Los Angeles; 3) failed to refinance the debt
on the Property into an interest only loan and thus reduce the Partnership’s
loan payments; and 3) failed to supervise their professional property manager
(Concord Property Management). Thus, Defendants argue that the gravamen of this
case is injury to the entire partnership. 
 
However, in
opposition Plaintiffs argue that they have been specifically harmed. According
to the Complaint: 
 
“Section 6.7 of the Partnership Agreement governs the ‘Allocations
of Net Profits, Net Gains and Distributions to Weaver and NALP.’ Section 6.7 pertinently
provides as follows: ‘For each calendar month of 2015, commencing January 1,
2015, and thereafter subject to adjustments as set forth below, the Partnership
shall pay to Weaver and amount equal to the fraction of 12.5 divided by 52.5,
multiplied by seventeen thousand
dollars ($17,000) and to NALP an amount equal to the fraction of 40.0 divided
by 52.5, multiplied by seventeen thousand dollars ($17,000) by the tenth (10th)
day of each succeeding calendar month." (Compl., ¶ 28.)
 
“Under Section 6.7 of the Partnership Agreement, after appropriate
adjustments were made in accordance with that section, Plaintiffs were
historically paid $15,694.54 per month. These payments continued until Robbins
stated that there was insufficient cashflow from the Paloma Partnership to make
the required monthly payments.” (Compl. ¶ 29.)
 
“Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and thereon allege, that
there currently is and that there always has been sufficient income generated
by the Paloma Partnership to make the required monthly payments to Plaintiffs
pursuant to Section 6.7 of the Partnership Agreement.” (Compl. ¶ 30.)
 
Therefore, if
Plaintiffs prevail on their claims related to Section 6.7, it is Plaintiffs,
not the Partnership, that would be entitled to relief.  Plaintiffs’ fifth, sixth and seventh causes of
action are all related to Section 6.7. The fifth cause of action seeks
declaratory relief to resolve the controversy between Plaintiffs and
Defendants, including the failure “to make distributions to Plaintiffs in
accordance with Section 6.7 of the Partnership Agreement and applicable rules and
accounting practices” and a determination of the rights between Plaintiffs and
Defendants under the Agreement. (Compl. ¶ 57.) The sixth cause of action for
accounting seeks a “full, complete, and decipherable accounting” which is
“necessary in order to determine the amount(s) that should have been
distributed to Plaintiffs pursuant to Section 6.7 of the Agreement.” (Compl. ¶¶
61-62.) The seventh
cause of action for violation of inspection rights is brought pursuant to
Section 13.4 of the Agreement, which gives Plaintiffs the right to inspect the
PARTNERSHIP’s books and records to certify the accuracy of the amounts
referenced in Section 6.7. (Compl. ¶ 65.)
 
The Court
finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged standing to bring its direct
claims. The Court notes that Defendants argue that the alleged failure to make
distributions to the Plaintiffs’ is still a derivative claim because it involves
injury to the Partnership. Defendants argue the alleged mismanagement led to
the lack of profitability of the Partnership, which in turn led to the
inability of the Partnership to make distributions to Plaintiffs. However,
Plaintiffs allege in the Complaint that the Partnership did have the income to
make the distributions, but refused to do so. As stated in Everest Investors
v. McNeil Partners (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 411, a limited partner can bring
direct claims against managing partners when the limited partners suffer a
specific and distinct injury not suffered by the partnership. Here, Plaintiff
is asserting that the Partnership failed to make required distributions to
Plaintiffs. The Court finds that here, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged
injury separate from the Partnership. 
 
Accordingly,
judgment on Plaintiffs’ fifth, sixth and seventh causes of action are DENIED.
 
III. DISPOSITION 

 
Defendants’
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED. 