  Case Number:  23AHCV02923    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  X DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DEFAULT
 
Defendant
Cheng has filed a motion to set aside and vacate the default entered against
him on July 17, 2024.   
 
This lawsuit arises
from a motor vehicle accident that occurred on December 17, 2021.  Plaintiff filed his Complaint on December 19,
2023. 
 
Tentative Ruling 
 
Defendant’s
motion to set aside the default is GRANTED.   
 
The Order to Show Cause re: Default Judgment set for October
31, 2024 is advanced to this date and discharged as is the December 23, 2024
OSC hearing.
 
Defendant’s November 21, 2024 Demurrer remains on calendar.
 
Moving Party is to give notice.  
 
Legal Standard and
Analysis
 
“Section 473(b)
provides for both discretionary and mandatory relief. [Citation.]”  (Pagnini v. Union Bank, N.A. (2018)
28 Cal.App.5th 298, 302.)  The discretionary relief provisions of
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provide
in relevant part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” 
 
Defendant moves to
set aside and vacate the default entered against him on July 17, 2024.  The motion is grounded on claims of excusable
neglect, including a lack of understanding due to limited English proficiency,
a belief that his insurer, State Farm, would handle the legal proceedings, and
not being served with a Statement of Damages.  Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing that
Defendant was properly served, had ample opportunity to respond, and that the
default was correctly entered. 
 
Defendant was
personally served on February 19, 2024.  (Cheng
Decl., ¶ 2.)  Despite acknowledging the
receipt of the lawsuit documents, Defendant did not file a responsive pleading
by the March 22, 2024 deadline.  Defendant
attributes this failure to a reliance on State Farm to manage his defense.  (Cheng Decl., ¶ 8.)  Gabriella Garcia, a State Farm claims
representative, declares that the State Farm agent who received Defendant’s
paperwork on March 5, 2024 uploaded only the summons, and not the complaint, to
the system, and thus State Farm did not know a complaint was filed.  (Garcia Decl., ¶ 2.)  Thus, the State Farm Claims Department was not
aware of the lawsuit until Defendant’s agent called to follow up on the summons
and complaint on June 4, 2024.  (Garcia
Decl., ¶ 5.)  Default was entered against
Defendant on July 17, 2024.
 
Defendant moves to
set aside the judgment on two grounds.  First,
Defendant asserts he was never served with the Statement of Damages.  (Cheng Decl., ¶ 4.)  Second, Defendant argues the motion should be
set aside based on his and his insurer State Farm’s mistake, inadvertence, and
excusable neglect which led to delays in realizing Defendant was served in this
lawsuit.  (Garcia Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
contends that Defendant’s failure to respond does not constitute excusable
neglect under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b).  Plaintiff argues that Defendant, having been
properly served, had a responsibility to act within the statutory timeframe and
that reliance on State Farm does not absolve him of this responsibility.  Furthermore, Plaintiff asserts that the
absence of a Statement of Damages at this stage is irrelevant and does not void
the default.
 
In reply, Defendant emphasizes the legal requirement for a plaintiff in a personal
injury action to serve a Statement of Damages before a default can be entered.  Defendant argues that the default is void as a
matter of law due to this failure.  Additionally, Defendant asserts that the
motion to set aside was filed within the six-month statutory period.
 
Plaintiff argues
that setting aside the default would cause significant prejudice by prolonging
the litigation and increasing costs.  Defendant counters that Plaintiff will not
suffer prejudice if the default is set aside, as the case is in the early
stages with only a recent default.  Plaintiff
has not sought a default judgment yet.
 
Here, the Court
finds the failure to serve a Statement of Damages is a critical procedural
misstep that voids the default as a matter of law.  The proof of service only shows service
of the Summons, Complaint, ADR package, Civil Case Cover Sheet, and Notice of
Case Management on Defendant, not a Statement of Damages.  Further, Plaintiff’s opposition concedes that
there was no Statement of Damages served.  (Opposition, p. 3:5-6.)  Without service of a statement of damages on
Defendant, it would be improper to enter default against him.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.11, subds. (c) and
(d).)  Moreover,
the circumstances described by Defendant Cheng support his argument that the
failure to respond could be considered excusable neglect.  The law favors resolving cases on their merits
rather than on procedural technicalities, especially when there is no
significant prejudice to the plaintiff.
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to set aside the default is GRANTED.  The court will set aside the default
entered against Defendant Dan Que Q. Cheng on July 17, 2024. 
 
The Order to Show Cause re: Default Judgment set for October
31, 2024 is advanced to this date and discharged as is the December 23, 2024
OSC hearing.
 
Defendant’s November 21, 2024 Demurrer remains on calendar.
 
Moving Party is to give notice.  