 Case Number:  24NNCV00586    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  X PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO PRODUCTION DEMANDS
 
Plaintiff moves for an order to
overrule Defendant objections and compel further objection-free responses and
production to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents (Set One), Nos.
1-3, 7-9, 14-21, 30, and 31.
 
This
is a lemon-law action.  Plaintiff
purchased a 2023 Mercedes-Benz GLE-Class vehicle on January 6, 2023, which is
alleged to have serious defects and nonconformities.  The complaint, filed on March 29, 2024, has
two causes of action for violations of the Song-Beverly Act for breach express
warranty and breach of implied warranty.
 
Tentative Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel is DENIED in part and GRANTED
in part.  The motion is denied as to
Request Nos. 1-3, 9, 15-21, and 31.
 
Defendant is ordered to serve a supplemental Code-compliant
response to Request Nos. 7, 8, 14, and 30 within 30 days of this ruling. 
 
Analysis
 
The motion to compel a further response is denied as to
Request Nos. 1, 9, 15, and 16.  Defendant’s
original responses state “[o]n information and belief . . . no such documents
exist” or that Defendant is unable to locate responsive documents.  Notwithstanding Defendant’s objections,
Defendant indicates that there are no responsive documents.  These responses are sufficiently Code-compliant.
 
As to Request Nos. 2 and 3, Defendant has stated that it
responded to the request “in whole” and by producing all documents.  This is sufficiently Code-compliant.  The motion is also denied as to Request Nos. 17,
18, 19, 20, 21, and 31, where Defendant has stated that it answered in full, as
the original response said “despite a diligent search and reasonable inquiry,
MBUSA has been unable to locate any documents responsive to” that request.  These are sufficiently Code-compliant
responses. 
 
Regarding Request Nos. 7, 8, and 14, Defendant’s responses
include the phrase “and to which it has no objection.”  It is unclear from this response whether documents
were withheld and on what basis.  To the
extent that documents were, in fact, withheld, a further response and privilege
log must be provided.
 
Regarding Request No. 30, the motion is granted.  Defendant is ordered to provide a Code-compliant
response.  The Court limits the request to
customer complaints relating to defects alleged in the plaintiff’s complaint in
vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the
subject vehicle. 