 Case Number:  BC700634    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    April 3, 2024 
¿¿
CASE NUMBER:                   BC700634
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Julie
A. Esphorst, et al. v. Darryl Leander Hicks, et al.  
 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendant, Tung Ming and
(2) Proposed Intervenor, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
Company   
¿¿                                               
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Plaintiff, Jesse Franklin Esphorst
                                                (2)
Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Darryl Leander Hicks
                                                (3) Plaintiff, Julie
A. Esphorst 
¿¿ 
JUDGMENT DATE:                January 26, 2024 the Amended Judgment was
entered.
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Tung Ming’s Motion for Judgment
Notwithstanding the Verdict  
                                                (2) Tung Ming’s
Motion for New Trial
                                                (3) State Farm’s Motion to Vacate Judgment
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) JNOV denied
                                                (2) MNT denied on
condition that Plaintiffs accept a 20% remittitur of non-economic damages
                                                (3) State Farm’s Motion to Vacate Judgment is
DENIED
 
 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Factual¿¿ 
 
On March 1, 2021, Plaintiffs, Jesse
Franklin Esphorst, an individual, and as successor-in-interest to The Estate of
Jesse Eric Esphorst, deceased (Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants, Tung Ming, Kwan Cheung, Teddyland, LLC, and DOES 1 through 50. On
October 16, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging
causes of action for: (1) Wrongful Death – Negligence; (2) Negligence Per Se;
and (3) Dangerous Condition of Public Property (Government Code § 835). 
 
On April 14, 2021, Teddyland, LLC filed a
Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants, Tung Ming, Kwan Cheung, and DOES 1
through 30. The Cross-Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Implied
Indemnity; (2) Contribution; and (3) Equitable Indemnity. 
 
On November 28, 2023, this matter came on
regularly for trial and proceeded to the Jury on December 12, 2023. Moving
parties claim that after making various representations about attending trial remotely,
the case proceeded to trial with Defendant Ming being represented by counsel.  The moving papers claim, with no admissible
evidence, that due to a medical emergency Ming was unavailable to testify. The
Court commenced the trial, and after granting Ming’s request to testify
remotely on certain conditions the Court allowed Ming’s counsel to give a mini
opening statement which included a succinct statement of what Ming might
testify about.  The Court allowed Ming’s
counsel to participate in voir dire, approved of remote testimony from both
defendants Ming (on certain conditions, from Australia) and Hicks (from state
prison), and a jury was impaneled.  Once
the trial began, Ming himself failed to appear. 
According to periodic inquiry from the Court to Ming’s counsel they lost
contact with him other than a brief, unverified email that was not under
penalty of perjury.  Ming was thus AWOL
from the trial and his own counsel did not have a way of reaching him or
obtaining a sworn statement from him as to his status or whereabouts or
timetable for availability.  Moving
parties note that over Defendant Ming’s counsel’s objection, the Court denied
Defendant Ming’s request for a trial continuance after the trial was already
several days underway, and the Court ultimately ordered the matter to proceed to
contested trial as to defendant Hicks and as an uncontested trial as to
Defendant Ming. Opposing parties Plaintiffs argue that the Court engaged Ming’s
counsel in a dialogue as to the Court’s options when an AWOL defendant fails to
appear after being served with a trial subpoena or its equivalent, a notice to appear
at trial.  Moving parties contend that
the basis for the Court’s selection of the option of an uncontested trial pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 594(a) was that Plaintiff Julie Eshorst had
served Defendant Ming with a Notice to Appear at Trial pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 1987.  Moving parties assert
that as a result, Defendant Ming’s counsel, despite being present and ready to
present a defense for Defendant Ming, was prohibited from Defending Ming in any
manner at because of Ming’s violation of the Notice to Appear at trial.  Plaintiffs opposition notes that Ming’s
counsel conceded that an uncontested trial was one of two Section 594(a) options
available to the Court, the other being a continuance of the trial to an
unknown date since the Court had and still has no information as to when Ming
might be available to attend a continued trial. 
The moving papers are devoid of a declaration from Ming, a doctor, or
anyone else to explain why he went AWOL just before jury selection began.
 
The moving parties further note that at
trial, this Court also denied the ex parte application of proposed intervenor,
State Farm, for leave to intervene in the action after nearly all the evidence had
been received and after the Court had pre-instructed the jury -- with Ming’s
consent -- that the jury not consider whether any party had insurance coverage
and that insurance was irrelevant to their consideration of the evidence.  No proposed Complaint in Intervention was
brought to the Court’s attention and neither Ming’s counsel nor the proposed intervenor
proffered a plan on a proper manner of addressing the proposed intervenor’s identify
as Ming’s insurer.
 
The moving parties also note that the
Court severed the cross-complaints filed by Defendant Ming and Defendant Hicks
to be tried on a later date, despite the fact that Hicks never served Defendant
Ming with a Notice to Appear at Trial under Code of Civil Procedure § 1987. The
Court had previously granted Defendant Ming’s Motion to Bifurcate Punitive
Damages pursuant to Civil Code § 3295(d), but moving parties note that after
ordering the trial to proceed uncontested as to Defendant Ming, the Court allowed
punitive damages to be tried with the rest of Plaintiffs’ claims because
defendant Hicks (who did appear and who testified remotely from prison) did not
seek bifurcation. Further, moving parties assert that following the
presentation of evidence and without the participation of Defendant Ming’s
counsel (who opted to absent themselves form the balance of the trial due to
the Court’s orders), the jury awarded a sum of money in the form of
compensatory damages, allocated between the Plaintiffs. Moving parties also
note that the jury also awarded punitive damages against Defendant Ming in a
lump sum jointly to both Plaintiffs. The jury returned a verdict in the amount
of $23.25 Million to Plaintiff Julie A. Esphorst for past and future
non-economic damages. Plaintiff Jesse Esphorst was awarded $20.5 Million in
non-economic damages for the loss of his son, and another $16 Million in
non-economic damages for his own past and future non-economic damages.  The jury also awarded $18,000 in punitive damages
against Hicks and $2 Million in punitive damages against Ming.  The Court entered its amended judgment on the
jury verdict for the total of over $61 Million on January 26, 2024.  
 
Now, Moving parties file a Motion for
Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict because Plaintiffs failed to introduce
evidence of Defendant Ming’s financial condition and an award of punitive
damages must not exceed a defendant’s ability to pay. Further, Moving Parties
also have filed a Motion for New Trial on the grounds that Defendant Ming was allegedly
wrongly barred from participating in trial that he failed to appear for in
violation of the notice to appear at trial, for excessive damages, and other grounds.
 
B.   
Procedural 
 
On February 22, 2024, Defendant,
Tung Ming filed a Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict. On
March 14, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Darryl Leander
Hicks filed an Opposition. On March 25, 2024, Defendant, Tung Ming filed a
reply brief. 
 
On
February 23, 2024, Defendants, Tung Ming and Proposed Intervenor State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company, also filed a Motion for New Trial. On March 14, 2024,
Plaintiff, Jesse Franklin Esphorst filed an opposition brief. On March 14,
2024, Plaintiff, Julie Esphorst also filed an opposition. Additionally, on
March 14, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Darryl Leander
Hicks filed an opposition brief. On March 25, 2024, Defendant, Tung Ming and
Proposed Intervenor’s State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company filed
reply briefs. 
 
On February 23, 2024,
Proposed Intervenor State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company filed a
Motion to Vacate Judgment. On March 14, 2024, Plaintiff, Jesse
Franklin Esphort filed an Opposition. On March 14, 2024,
Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Darryl Leander Hicks also filed an
Opposition. On March 25, 2024, Proposed Intervenor State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company filed a reply brief. 
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
 
Ming’s Objections to
Plaintiff, Julie Esphorst’s Evidence In Support of Opposition to Motion for
Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict
Sustain: 1 & 2
 
Overrule: none.
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
 Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the
Verdict
 
Legal Standard 
 
            The party against whom a verdict has been
rendered may move the court for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, and the
court shall grant the motion “whenever a motion for directed verdict for the
aggrieved party should have been granted had a previous motion been
made.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 629, subd. (a).)  The purpose of such a
motion is to challenge whether the opposing party’s evidence was sufficient to
prove the claims or defenses asserted and now embodied by the jury’s
verdict.  (Hauter v. Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d 104, 110.) 
In ruling on a motion for judgment notwithstanding the
verdict, the court does not weigh the evidence or determine the credibility of
witnesses.  (Hauter, supra, 14 Cal.3d at p. 110.)  The
party in whose favor the verdict was rendered is “entitled to the benefit of
every favorable inference which may reasonably be drawn from the evidence and
to have all conflicts in the evidence resolved in his favor.”  (Castro
v. State of California (1981) 114 Cal.App.3d 503, 507 (Castro).) 
“A motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict may be granted only if it
appears from the evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to the party
securing the verdict, that there is no substantial evidence in support.” (Sweatman
v. Dept. of Veterans Affairs (2001) 25 Cal.4th 62, 68 (Sweatman).) 
The focus in determining whether substantial evidence supports the verdict “is
on the quality, rather than the quantity, of the evidence.  ‘Very little
solid evidence may be “substantial,” while a lot of extremely weak evidence
might be “insubstantial.” ’  [Citation.]  Inferences may constitute
substantial evidence, but they must be the product of logic and reason. 
Speculation or conjecture alone is not substantial evidence.”  (Roddenberry
v. Roddenberry (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 634, 651.) 
A judgment notwithstanding the verdict “may be
granted only if it appears from the evidence, viewed in the light most
favorable to the party securing the verdict, that there is no substantial
evidence in support.” (Sweatman, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 68.) The trial
judge cannot weigh the evidence or determine the credibility of witnesses on a
motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict. (Hauter, supra, 14
Cal.3d at 110.) A court’s denial of a motion for directed verdict does not bar
a later motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict on the same ground. (Rollenhagen
v. City of Orange (1981) 116 Cal.App.3d 414, 417, disapproved on other
grounds in Brown v. Kelly Broadcasting Co. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 711.) Trial
courts may grant judgments notwithstanding the verdict as to less than all
issues. (Beavers v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 310,
323-324.) The trial court may grant a partial judgment notwithstanding the
verdict in the defendant’s favor on the punitive damages portion if there is no substantial
evidence to support the award. (Id. at p. 323.) 
Discussion 
            Here, Tung Ming and State Farm filed a Motion for
Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict as to Plaintiffs’ Punitive Damages claims on
the grounds that Moving Parties argue Plaintiffs failed to introduce evidence
of Defendant Ming’s financial condition. “The purposes of
punitive damages are to punish the defendant and deter the commission of
similar acts.  [Citations.]  Three primary considerations govern the
amount of punitive damages: (1) the reprehensibility of the defendant’s
conduct; (2) the injury suffered by the victims; and (3) the wealth of the
defendant.  [Citation.]  As to the wealth of the defendant, the
function of deterrence ‘will not be served if the wealth of the defendant
allows him to absorb the award with little or no discomfort’; conversely, ‘the
function of punitive damages is not served by an award which, in light of the defendant’s
wealth and the gravity of the particular act, exceeds the level necessary to
properly punish and deter.’ ”  (Rufo v. Simpson  (2001) 86
Cal.App.4th 573, 619-620 (Rufo).)    
“To enable an appellate
court to review whether punitive damages are excessive, the record must contain
‘evidence of the defendant's financial condition.’  [Citation.] 
Because the important question is whether the punitive damages will have the
deterrent effect without being excessive, an award that is reasonable in light
of the first two factors, reprehensibility of the defendant's conduct and
injury to the victims, may nevertheless ‘be so disproportionate to the
defendant's ability to pay that the award is excessive’ for that reason
alone.  ‘[T]he purpose of punitive damages is not served by financially
destroying a defendant. The purpose is to deter, not to destroy.’ ”  (Rufo,
86 Cal.App.4th at p. 620.)    
California Courts have
reversed awards of punitive damages where such damages (in the amount of $5
million) exceeded more than two and one-half months of a defendants’ income in
one year and more than seven months of such income in the next (Egan v. Mut.
of Omaha Ins. Co. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 809, 824 (Egan)), where such
damages (in the amount of half a million dollars) constituted almost one-third
of a defendant’s net worth (Merlo v. Standard Life & Acc. Ins. Co. (1976)
59 Cal.App.3d 5, 18), and where such damages (in the amount of $2.5 million)
were in excess of 15 percent of a defendant’s entire net worth (Little v.
Stuyvesant Life Ins. Co. (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 451, 469-470 (Little)).   
Here, Moving Parties
note that the jury instruction regarding how to factor an individual’s ability
to pay punitive damages was read to the jury as follows: 
(c) In view of a defendant’s
financial condition, what amount is necessary to punish him or them, and
discourage future wrongful conduct? You may not increase the punitive award
above an amount that is otherwise appropriate merely because a defendant has
substantial financial resources. Any award you impose may not exceed the
defendant’s ability to pay. (December 11, 2023; 23:22–28.)
            However,
despite this, Moving Parties contend that at trial, Plaintiffs failed to
establish Defendant Ming’s financial condition, net worth, or his ability to
pay. Further, Moving Parties contend Plaintiff did not request documents from
which to determine Defendant Ming’s financial condition, in conjunction with
her Code of Civil Procedure section 1987 Notice to Appear at Trial, nor did any
party serve a Notice to Produce documents at trial on Defendant Ming. Moving
parties assert that opposing counsel relied heavily on portions of Defendant
Ming’s deposition testimony to argue for a substantial award of punitive
damages against Defendant Ming, including counsel for Plaintiff, Julie Esphorst
arguing in closing, “Mr. Ming didn’t show up, but what do we know from the
evidence? We know he told the police, [he’s] owned many Audis. He said in his
deposition, [his] first car when [he] moved to California and got [his]
driver’s license at 19, it was a brand-new Cadillac CTS. And then apparently, a
year or two after he got a new Mercedes Benz SUV. That’s what we know about his
ability. So you really don’t have any handcuffs on you with regard to Mr. Ming
because he didn’t bother to come tell us about his abilities to pay.” Moving
Parties note that this is not true, noting that Defendant Ming’s deposition
testimony noted he bought the Mercedes Benz used. 
            Further,
Moving Parties contend that counsel for Co-Defendant, Hicks, in closing,
argued: “What we know in evidence about [Mr. Ming] is somewhat telling.
Boarding school in England. Private school in Texas. During the summers,
getting educated at what are Brown, Providence, UCLA, Georgetown. So a life of
luxury? He bought his own vehicle, a Cadillac ATS or CTS right before he bought
his 2016. Gives you a bit of a picture about him and also an evaluation when
you het to the point of assigning punitive damages.” Defendant Ming argues
opposing counsel committed misconduct by relying on facts not in evidence.
Defendant Ming notes that he mentioned in passing to officers in the hours
after the accidence that he “used to own a lot of Audis.” However, Defendant Ming
contends that this statement was used by counsel without any foundation as to
whether it was he or his family who owned these cars in the past. Further,
Defendant Ming argues that there is no evidence the Cadillac he once purchased
was “new”. Moreover, Moving Parties note that there is no evidence of which
schools Defendant Ming attended nor that he lived a “life of luxury.” However,
Defendant Ming notes that because his counsel was prohibited from presenting a
defense, his counsel could not object to these misleading, and unsupported
arguments. 
            To support
his arguments, Moving Parties cite to Kelly v. Haag (2006) 145
Cal.App.4th 910 and Baxter v. Peterson (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 673. In Kelly,
the Court reversed a punitive damages award based on insufficiency of trial
evidence. (Kelly, supra, 145 Cal.App.4th at 916-18.) There, the trial
court awarded $75,000 in punitive damages where the testimony at trial was
that, less than two years before trial, the defendant had purchased a large
home for approximately $800,000, in which he had about $200,000 in equity, and
that the defendant had owned another home for eight to ten years, in which the
defendant had once represented that he had $400,000 to $500,000 in equity. (Id.
1t 917-17.) The Corut of Appeal found that there was no evidence whether – at
the time of trial – he still owned the properties, or whether there was
encumbrances on the properties at the time of trial, or whether the defendant
had other liabilities. (Id. at 917.) Thus, the Court of Appeal reversed
the award for punitive damages. (Id. at 921.) Further, in Baxter,
the record indicated that the defendant owned substantial assets, but was
“silent with respect to her liabilities.” The said assets included real
properties, but there was no evidence whether they were encumbered or whether
they generated a profit. The Baxter Court determined that the record was
“silent” regarding the defendant’s liabilities, and therefore insufficient to
evaluate the defendant’s ability to pay the punitive damages. (Baxter,
supra, 150 Cal.App.4th at 681.)
            Defendant
Ming argues that Plaintiffs in this case, have presented an even sparser
evidentiary record than in both Kelly and in Baxter. Thus,
Defendant Ming argues that because Plaintiffs failed to establish Defendant
Ming’s ability to pay, the evidence cannot support any award of punitive
damages, let alone an award for $2 Million. 
            In Julie
Esphorst’s Opposition, she argues that punitive damages were properly awarded
against Defendant Ming because Mr. Ming’s failure to appear at trial, despite
it being duly served improperly deprived Plaintiffs of the opportunity to
develop more substantive evidence about his financial condition. Julie Esphorst
argues that this case is analogous to that of Mike Davidov Co. v. Issod
(2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 597, where the appellate court found that a defendant who
failed to comply with a trial court’s order to produce records of his or her
financial condition may be estopped from challenging the award on grounds of
absence of evidence of financial condition. (Davidov, supra, 78
Cal.App.4th 605.) In Davidov, the jury rendered a verdict in favor of
the plaintiff’s fraud claim, and the court granted the plaintiff’s request to
conduct discovery of the defendant’s financial condition and ordered him to
produce “all records regarding his net worth” by the following day. (Id.
ay 603.) However, the defendant there had failed to comply and the court
subsequently awarded $96,000 in punitive damages. (Id. at 604.) The Davidov
defendant appealed, contending the plaintiff failed to provide sufficient
evidence of his financial condition. (Id. at 605.) However, the Court of
Appeal rejected this argument and held the defendant waive his right to
complain about the lack of evidence by disobeying the trial court’s order to
produce records reflecting his financial condition. (Id.at 608-09.) The
Court of Appeal explained: “defendant’s records were the only source of
information regarding his financial condition available to plaintiff. By his
disobedience of a proper court order, defendant improperly deprived plaintiff
of the opportunity to meet his burden of proof on the issue. Defendant may not
now be heard to complain about the absence of such evidence. As defendant has
not called our attention to anything in the record which otherwise reflects
that the punitive damage award is excessive, we will affirm the award.” (Id.at
609.) 
            Here, Julie
Esphorst argues that Davidov is analogous as Defendant Ming was served
with a Notice to Appear, which would have allowed Plaintiff to question him
about his financial condition. Julie Esphorst also argues this Court also
ordered Defendant Ming’s remote appearance, and he agreed to the Court’s
conditions, but nonetheless, failed to appear. Further, Julie Esphorst also
contends that it is noteworthy that had Defendant Ming also failed to answer
Plaintiff’s Complaint (rather than waiting until trial not to appear), the
Court would have been authorized to award Plaintiff the $30,000,000 in punitive
damages identified in her Statement of Damages pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 425.115.
            This Court
does not find Davidov to be on all fours to the case at bar as Plaintiffs
did not  place Defendant Ming on notice
via court order, subpoena, nor Notice to Produce at Trial of production of
information or documents relating to Ming’s financial condition. However, the
Court does note that Plaintiff’s failure to appear at trial, despite his filing
of a motion in limine to allow him to appear and testify remotely, which was conditionally
granted, also was the reason Plaintiff was not able to ask him questions about
his financial inability or ability to pay. Because a Motion for Judgment
Notwithstanding the Verdict is to be weighed in favor of the party in whose
favor the verdict was rendered, this Court is to weigh the arguments in favor
of the Plaintiff’s here. The Court also notes that it sustained objection to
the portions of the Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration as they did not relate to
the evidence the jury received in making its determination. As such, the Court
is basing its analysis based on the portions of the evidence presented to the
jury, and reasonable inferences the jury might have drawn from that
evidence.   
            The Court
DENIES the JNOV, finding there was sufficient evidence for the jury to have
drawn the inference that Ming’s financial condition was such that he could afford
a punitive damages verdict of the $2 Million amount awarded, and secondarily because
of the estoppel effect of Ming’s failure to appear at trial in violation of the
notice to appear at trial.
            The Court
will invite oral argument on the issue of whether the Notice to Appear at Trial
was void because of Ming’s residence outside of the State of California at the
time that Notice was served.  This argument,
which was never raised to the Court during the trial despite several discussions
on the record regarding Ming’s failure to appear, was first raised in these
motions.   
B.   
Motion
for New Trial 
¿ 
Legal Standard 
 
            Code of Civil
Procedure section 657 provides the following grounds for granting a new trial
motion, among others: (1) irregularity in the proceedings; (2) misconduct of
the jury; (3) excessive or inadequate damages; (4) insufficiency of the
evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other
decision is against law; and (5) error in law, occurring at the trial and
excepted to by the party making the application.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 657,
subds. (1), (2), (5), (6), (7).)   
In ruling on a new trial motion, the
court sits as an independent trier of fact, and has the power to disbelieve
witnesses, reweigh the evidence, and draw reasonable inferences therefrom
contrary to those of the trier of fact, in an effort to determine whether the
jury clearly should have reached a different conclusion.  (Lane v.
Hughes Aircraft Co. (2000) 22 Cal.4th 405, 412; Barrese v. Murray
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 494, 503).  “Unless such a moving party can show
that by a retrial of the action, and supporting facts therefor are contained in
the affidavit, he could establish an entirely different case favorable to
himself in the event that a new trial be granted, it is a thoroughly settled
rule that a motion for a new trial will not be granted.”  (Moore v.
Franchetti (1937) 22 Cal.App.2d 75, 79 (Moore).)   
Discussion 
 
            The Court is inclined for the reasons
discussed above to deny the motion for new trial as to all but one of the grounds
asserted.  The exception is the assertion
of excessive damages.  In the Court’s
view, the jury’s awards of non-economic damages were the result of passion and
prejudice in the total amount of $59 Million. 
Further, the Court notes the absence of any evidence of economic damages
such as past or expected future medical expenses, which might have provided
some tether for the jury to consider as bearing on the non-economic jury awards.  Numerous jurors indicated during voir dire
that they would be unable to place a dollar figure on the loss of the life of a
child.  Several jurors indicated during
voir dire that they would have difficulty setting a dollar figure that was not
tied to any objective figure or objective evidence.  The law provides no template or measurement
for jurors to make a determination of non-economic damages, so counsel presented
passionate evidence including the plaintiffs’ own testimony of the degree of
love they had for their stellar student and gifted athlete of a son, Jessie Junior.  Photos and videos depicting the “relationship”
that the mother and father had for “Junior” were presented, evidence designed to
arouse the passions and emotions of jurors. 
The jury was properly instructed under the law that “no fixed standard
exists for deciding the amount of these items of noneconomic damages. You must
use your judgment to decide a reasonable amount based on the evidence and your
common sense.”  But that is not the end
of the Court’s analysis
 
            The good judgment of the Court can
be employed to adjust the amount of damages awarded by a jury whose verdict is the
result of passion or prejudice.  It is the
Court’s tentative ruling that the noneconomic damages were excessive, but in lieu
of granting a new trial on damages the Court’s intention is to reduce the
amount of the jury’s verdict as a condition of denying a new trial on the
damages issue. The Court is inclined to reduce the non-economic damages by 20%,
thus lowering the jury’s wrongful death non-economic awards to $18.6 Million to
Plaintiff Julie A. Esphorst for past and future non-economic damages, to $16.4
Million for Plaintiff Jesse Esphorst in wrongful death non-economic damages,
and $12.8 Million in non-economic damages for his own past and future bodily
injury non-economic damages.  These
amounts are still massive but are more consistent with other wrongful death and
bodily injury cases in the Court’s experience. 
The Court requests oral arguments as to whether Plaintiffs need a brief continuance
of the hearing to discuss with their clients the Court’s tentative ruling as to
the conditional reduction of non-economic damages in lieu of granting a new
trial on damages.  The Court’s tentative
ruling is to leave the jury’s determinations of punitive damages
undisturbed.    
 
C.   
State Farm’s
Motion to Vacate Judgment
 
Proposed Intervenor, State Farm, has also filed a Motion to
Vacate Judgment. State Farm argues that the judgment entered in Plaintiffs’
favor should be vacated as State Farm should have been permitted to intervene
on behalf of Defendant Ming. Preliminarily, this Court notes, despite State
Farm’s attempt at arguing otherwise, that State Farm’s Motion to Vacate
Judgment is improper pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 916. State
Farm attempts to argue that Code of Civil Procedure section 916 would not stay
this issue as the appeal does not affect this motion or is embraced by the
judgment. However, despite State Farm’s Motion being labeled as a Motion to
Vacate Judgment, the entirety of the motion is based on this Court’s order
disallowing State Farm to intervene belatedly on behalf of Defendant Ming when State
Farm first requested to do so near the close of the evidence. State Farm
attempts to argue that because it appealed this Court’s Order Denying its
Application for Leave to Intervene, by which it sought to be an action in this
party, there was no judgment for State Farm to seek to vacate at the time State
Farm appealed this Court’s order. The Court’s Amended Judgment was entered on January
26, 2024.
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 916(a), “the
perfecting of an appeal stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment
or order appealed from or upon the matters embraced therein or affected
thereby, including enforcement of the judgment or order, but the trial court
may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action and not affected by
the judgment or order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 916, subd. (a).) “The principle of
‘subject matter jurisdiction’ relates to the inherent authority of the court
involved to deal with the case or matter before it.” (Conservatorship of
O’Connor (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1087.) As such, where there is no
subject matter jurisdiction, a trial court does not have the power “to hear or
determine [the] case.” (Abelleira v. District Court of Appeal (1941) 17
Cal.2d 280, 288.) Code of Civil Procedure section 916 – thus – stands for the
proposition that a trial court is divest of subject matter jurisdiction over
any matter embraced in or affected by the appeal during the pendency of that
appeal. (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180,
196 (“Delfino”).
The purpose of the automatic stay under section 916 is to
preserve “the status quo until the appeal is decided” (Elsea v. Saberi
(1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 625, 629), by maintaining “the rights of the parties in
the same condition they were before the order was made” (Wolcott v. Hudner (1924)
67 Cal.App. 704, 707.) Thus, to preserve the status quo and return the parties
to “the same condition they were before the order was made” (Ibid), Code
of Civil Procedure section 916 necessarily renders any subsequent trial court
proceeding on matters “embraced” in or “affected” by the appeal void – and not
merely voidable. This is because, “[a] contrary conclusion would allow the
trial court to render an appeal futile. (Delfino, supra, 35 Cal.4th at
198.) For example, “if trial court proceedings during the pendency of the
appeal conflict with the reviewing court’s resolution of the appeal, then the
appeal will likely be futile because the prevailing party, in most instances,
will have no adequate remedy left.” (Ibid.) 
This Court notes that whether a matter is “embraced in” or
“affected by” an appeal, and thus outside a trial court’s jurisdiction, turns
on whether it would have any bearing on the effectiveness of that appeal. (Curtin
Maritime Corp. v. Pacific Dredge & Construction, LLC (2022)76
Cal.App.5th 651, 665.) A clear example of this can be found in Delfino,
where the trial court denied defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion, and defendants
subsequently appealed, and filed petition for writ of supersedeas, seeking to
stay further trial court proceedings pending appeal. Delfino, supra, 35
Cal.4th at 180.) The trial court denied the application, and the Court of
Appeal summarily denied the petition. (Id. at 188.) After trial, the
jury found for the plaintiffs and the trial court issued a permanent injunction
against defendants. (Ibid.) Following the entry of judgment, the Court
of Appeal dismissed, as moot, defendants’ appeal from the order denying their
anti-SLAPP motions. (Ibid.) Subsequently, the California Supreme Court
analyzed the issue of whether an appeal from the denial of a special motion to
strike under the anti-SLAPP statute effected an automatic stay of the trial
court proceedings. (Ibid.) The Supreme Court found that it did, noting
that “defendants’ anti-SLAPP motions encompassed all of plaintiffs’ causes of
action. As such, all of the matters on trial were embraced in and affected by
defendants’ appeal from the denial of that motion, and the trial court lacked
subject matter jurisdiction over these matters. (Id. at 200.) 
Here, it is clear that this Court’s ruling on State Farm’s
Motion to Vacate, based on this Court’s ruling that it could not intervene
would bear on the effectiveness of the Appellate Court’s decision on whether
this Court erred in denying State Farm’s motion to intervene. This Court will
not vacate an entire judgment based on an order currently being decided by the
court of appeals. If this Court were to vacate the judgment based on State
Farm’s argument that it had the right to intervene here, then the Court of
Appeal’s potential determination that this Court did not err when it denied
State Farm’s Motion to Intervene would be futile. As such, the Motion to Vacate
Judgment is DENIED. 
 
¿ 