 Case Number:  23CHCV02188    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept. F-49
Date: 10-12-23
Case # 23CHCV02188
Trial Date: Not Set
 
DEMURRER TO THE COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Willie Ellis, pro
per
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Northwestern
Mutual Life Insurance Company
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Complaint for Unlawful
Detainer
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
On
July 24, 2023, plaintiff Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company filed a
complaint for Unlawful Detainer against Willie Ellis. Plaintiff alleges
nonpayment of rent on 9400 Corbin Ave., Unit 302, with an outstanding balance
in excess of $34,000 as of the date of the complaint.
 
RULING: Overruled.
Defendant
Willie Ellis, in pro per, challenges the complaint for unlawful detainer on
grounds that the operative pleading relies on an improper 3-Day Notice to Pay
Rent or Quit in that the notice lacks an option to “cure the breach.” Defendant
relies on the lease agreement itself lacking any language of a basis for
termination of the termination of the lease term due to non-payment of rent.
Defendant contends that “the lack of opportunity to perform” thereby renders
the unlawful detainer invalid. Defendant also references an alleged claim of
nuisance not referenced in the 3-Day Notice. The court electronic filing system
shows no opposition or reply on file prior to the tentative ruling publication
deadline. Because of the shortened deadlines, including the option for oral
opposition, the court reserves the option to consider any filed or oral
opposition and take the matter under submission.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson
Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1946.2 provides in relevant
part: “Before an owner of residential real property issues a notice to
terminate a tenancy for just cause that is a curable lease violation, the owner
shall first give notice of the violation to the tenant with an opportunity to
cure the violation pursuant to paragraph (3) of Section 1161 of the Code of
Civil Procedure. If the violation is not cured within the time period set forth
in the notice, a three-day notice to quit without an opportunity to cure may
thereafter be served to terminate the tenancy.” (Code Civ. Proc., 1946.2, subd.
(c).)
 
“When the proceeding is
for an unlawful detainer after default in the payment of rent, and the lease or
agreement under which the rent is payable has not by its terms expired, and the
notice required by Section 1161 has not stated the election of the landlord to
declare the forfeiture thereof, the court may, and, if the lease or agreement
is in writing, is for a term of more than one year, and does not contain a
forfeiture clause, shall order that a writ shall not be issued to enforce the
judgment until the expiration of five days after the entry of the judgment,
within which time the tenant, or any subtenant, or any mortgagee of the term,
or any other party interested in its continuance, may pay into the court, for
the landlord, the amount found due as rent, with interest thereon, and the
amount of the damages found by the jury or the court for the unlawful detainer,
and the costs of the proceedings, and thereupon the judgment shall be satisfied
and the tenant be restored to the tenant's estate. If payment as provided in
this subdivision is not made within five days, the judgment may be enforced for
its full amount and for the possession of the premises. In all other cases the
judgment may be enforced immediately.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1174, subd. (c).)
 
Neither the complaint nor demurrer incorporate a copy of the
lease. The complaint itself alleges a one-year lease term, which Plaintiff also
references. The 3-Day Notice to Pay Rent or Quit alleges rent owed from July
2022 through June 2023, which encompasses a one year term. Under the language
of Code of Civil Procedure section 1174, subdivision (c), landlord may seek
termination of the lease upon expiration of the term. The 3-Day Notice properly
states the deficiency and basis for termination based on past nonpayment of
rent following expiration of the lease term. Nothing in the demurrer
establishes an improperly pled claim and therefore an invalid claim. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1161(3); Delta Imports, Inc v.
Municipal Court (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 1033, 1036.)
 
The complaint otherwise lacks any
reference to a “nuisance” based unlawful detainer action. The court therefore
declines to consider any arguments regarding the unpled “nuisance.”
 
The court overrules the demurer. Ellis to answer within five
(5) days.
 
Defendant
to give notice. 
 