 Case Number:  19STCV01865    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
10-12-23 c/f 9-26-23
Case
# 19STCV01865
Trial
Date: 10-30-23 (Liability Phase) c/f 1-30-23 c/f 5-23-22
 
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant, City of Santa Clarita 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Manuel Santana, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication on the First Amended Complaint of
Manuel Santana
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
an unspecified date in 1989, Plaintiff Manuel Santana purchased certain
property at 24522 Spruce Street in Santa Clarita. The property is identified as
“The Historical Jailhouse,” a 1906 constructed facility representing the first
jailhouse for the Santa Clarita Valley. Following the purchase, Santana created
The Manuel Santana Family Trust of 1992.
 
According
to Plaintiffs, the City of Santa Clarita recognized the “historical
significance” of the structure by the structure on December 6, 2007, thereby
rendering it immune from demolition or alteration. Prior, concurrent or
following the historical designation, in 2007, the City of Santa Clarita also
unveiled its plan to construct a new library “directly adjacent” to “The
Historical Jailhouse.” The City purchased all surrounding properties, and
offered Plaintiffs $300,000 for the property as well. Plaintiffs rejected the
offer.
 
Project
planning and construction began in 2009. A third party identified as Seward was
designated as the entity responsible “to oversee protection of the site.”
According to Plaintiffs, the parties responsible for the development of the
site failed to adhere to the “Seward Plan,” thereby allowing “hazardous
substances and water moisture to emanate inside the building.”
 
Plaintiffs
allege that the parties agreed to a five-year statute of limitations for the
filing of a claim from March 22, 2013. Notwithstanding the 2013, Plaintiffs
allege the timely filing of their administrative claim on March 19, 2019 [First
Amend. Compl., ¶¶ 33-34]. The claim was rejected by the City of Santa Clarita.
 
On
January 18, 2019 and May 29, 2019, Plaintiffs filed a complaint and first
amended complaint for Negligence, Gross Negligence, Strict Liability, Absolute
Liability, Trespass, Nuisance, Unjust Enrichment, and Battery. On August 29,
2019, the action was transferred to Department 49 from Department 4A. On
September 11, 2019, the court granted the ex parte motion dismissing the claims
for attorney fees and punitive damages against the City of Santa Clarita, and
extended the time for the filing of a responsive pleading.
 
On
October 15, 2019, City of Santa Clarita answered and filed its cross-complaint
for Breach of Contract, Contractual Indemnity, Equitable Indemnity, Breach of
Contract, Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Apportionment of
Fault (Declaratory Relief), Equitable Contribution, and Indemnity Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.6. City of Santa Clarita named R.C. Becker
and Son, Inc. Tobo Construction, Inc., Mt. Hawley Insurance Co., and Landmark
American Ins. Co. The insurance defendants are only named in the third, fourth,
sixth, seventh and eight causes of action for Breach of Contract, Breach of
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Apportionment of Fault (Declaratory
Relief), Equitable Contribution, and Indemnity Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1021.6.
 
City
of Santa Clarita specifically alleges that defendant contractors R.C. Becker
and Son, Inc. and Tobo Construction, Inc. entered into “Redevelopment Agency
Agreement for Capital Improvement Project” agreements. Article V and VIII
requires cross-defendants indemnify the City of Santa Clarita against any all
claims arising from the project, and require the procurement of an insurance
policy designating City of Santa Clarita as an additional insured. On June 1,
2010, Cross-Defendant Ironshore Insurance Co. issued a Certificate of Liability
Insurance for R.C. Becker. On December 24, 2010, Cross-Defendant Mt. Hawley
Ins. Co. issued a Certificate of Liability Insurance for its insured, Tobo
Construction, Inc. On June 17, 2011, Cross-Defendant Landmark Ins. Co. issued a
Certificate of Liability Insurance for Tobo Construction, Inc. Defendant Valley
Forge Insurance Company is an alleged insurer of R.C. Becker.
 
On
March 12, 2019, City of Santa Clarita tendered its indemnity claim and/or
defenses to the cross-defendant contractors. On August 28, 2019, Mt. Hawley
Ins. Co. denied the claim. On December 19, 2019, Valley Forge denied the claim.
R.C. Becker and Son, Inc. provided no response.
 
Landmark
American Ins. Co. answered the cross-complaint on December 3, 2019.
 
On
July 2, 2020, City of Santa Clarita filed its first amended cross-complaint
Breach of Contract, Contractual Indemnity, Breach of Contract, Breach of
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Equitable Indemnity, Apportionment of
Fault (Declaratory Relief), Equitable Contribution, and Indemnity Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.6.
 
On
January 13, 2021, R.C. Becker and Son, Inc. answered the first amended
cross-complaint from City of Santa Clarita, and filed a cross-complaint for
Implied Indemnity, Comparative Indemnity, Contribution, and Declaratory Relief
on January 15, 2021. On February 3, 2021, the court overruled the demurrer of
Landmark American Insurance Company to the Cross-Complaint of City of Santa
Clarita. On March 5, 2021, Tobo Construction, Inc. answered the City of Santa
Clarita cross-complaint, and filed a cross-complaint for Express Indemnity,
Equitable Indemnity, Contribution, and Declaratory Relief.
 
On
October 12, 2022, Department 51 granted the unopposed motion of R.C. Becker and
Son, Inc. on the first amended complaint of Manuel Santana. On September 11 and
18, 2023, the court denied the motions for summary adjudication brought by
Becker and Tobo on the City of Santa Clarita first amended cross-complaint. 
 
RULING: Granted.
Request for Judicial Notice: Granted.
The court takes judicial notice of the
filed pleadings, but cannot take judicial notice of the truth of any matters
asserted within the requested items. The court also takes judicial notice of
the existence of Conformance Review for its existence, but again declines to
consider the truth of any factual conclusions.
 
Evidentiary Objections: Overruled
(including not relied upon under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subd.
(q) on numbers 2-13)
 
Defendant City of Santa Clarita (Santa
Clarita) moves for summary judgment/adjudication on the first amended complaint
of Manuel Santa for Negligence, Gross Negligence, Strict Liability, Absolute
Liability, Trespass, Nuisance, Unjust Enrichment, and Battery. Santa Clarita
presents multiple grounds, including: lack of a statutory basis, lack of a
valid cause of action, lack of facts in support of the pled cause of action,
and statute of limitations. Santana in opposition contends a statutory basis
exists for certain claims, certain claims are properly pled independent causes
of action, and no causes of action are barred by the statute of limitations.
Plaintiff alternatively moves for leave to amend. City of Santa Clarita in
reply opens with Plaintiff’s concession to the lack of any statutorily pled
basis for relief in the operative complaint, and lack of the ability to bring
claims for gross negligence, strict liability, absolute liability, and battery
against the City of Santa Clarita. City of Santa Clarita challenges any request
to treat the motion as one for judgment on the pleadings in that Plaintiff
should be denied leave to add new causes of action one month before trial. The
settlement agreement establishes the parameters of the subject claim. City of
Santa Clarita next emphasizes the statute of limitations bar. City of Santa
Clarita finally characterizes the nuisance claim as one of a permanent nature,
rather than continuous, thereby barring this claim on the statute of
limitations. 
 
R.C. Becker in an amicus reply contends
Plaintiff remains precluded from asserting any personal injury claims as part
of the original settlement agreement. Becker notes the prior grant of the
unopposed motion for summary adjudication on October 12, 2022 (Department 51). 
 
The pleadings frame
the issues for motions, “since it is those allegations to which the
motion must respond. (Citation.)” 
(Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37
Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)  
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An
issue of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation, conjecture,
imagination or guesswork.” (Lyons v.
Security Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation
omitted).)
 
The court addresses the background leading to the subject
complaint. On November 27, 2012, plaintiff Manuel Santana filed a complaint for
inverse condemnation, violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1983, negligence, trespass to
chattels, and civil conspiracy (BC496346). [Req. Jud. Not., Ex. 4.] City of
Santa Clarita, R.C. Becker & Son, Inc., The Redevelopment Agency of the
City of Santa Clarita, City Council of Santa Clarita, and Tobo Construction,
Inc. were the named parties to the complaint. Becker was only a named defendant
in the negligence, trespass to chattels and civil conspiracy causes of action.
The government entities were only named in the inverse condemnation, violation
of 42 U.S.C. § 1983, and civil conspiracy causes of action. The case settled
[Declaration of Gina Giovacchini, Ex. 3], and the court dismissed the action
subject to enforcement of the settlement agreement under Code of Civil
Procedure section 664.6 on November 12, 2014. Plaintiff filed a Request for
Dismissal on the entire complaint with prejudice on March 5, 2015.
 
On January 30, 2014, Plaintiff executed a settlement
agreement with all Defendants. Section 1.1 provides for a complete “release and
forever discharge of Defendants from any and all past, present, or future
claims, demands, obligations, actions, causes of actions …rights, damages,
costs, losses of services, expenses and compensation of every nature whatsoever
based on tort, contract or other theory of recovery, which Plaintiffs now have
or which may hereinafter accrue or otherwise be acquired on account of, or may
in any way grow out of, or which are the subject of the Complaint (and all
related pleadings), including without limitation, any and all known or unknown
claims … that may resulted or may result from the alleged actor omissions of
the Defendant. Notwithstanding the foregoing terms, the releases in this
Agreement are subject to the agreement between plaintiffs and the City of Santa
Clarita referenced in Section 2.0, below.”
 
Section 2.0 provides that “Plaintiffs and the CITY OF SANTA
CLARITA shall continue to negotiate additional matters which, if eventually
agreed to, will be the subject of a separate writing and will be a condition
(sic) Plaintiffs’ release of the City Defendants.” [Giovacchini Decl., Ex. 3:
Deposition Transcript, Ex. 45.]
 
Plaintiffs and the government entity defendants executed a
second agreement on October 14, and November 5, 2014. [Id., Ex. 46.] Section 1b
of the separate agreement provides Plaintiffs a five year window from March 22,
2013, to bring any new claims otherwise barred by the prior settlement
agreement arising from the “performance of all grading and landscaping work in
regard to the Library project based upon proof that (a) the grading and
landscaping work for the Library was not performed in compliance with the
Seward Grading Plan, and (b) the Jailhouse property suffers a loss or damage as
a result.” 
 
The operative complaint arises from the failure to conform
to the Seward engineering plan and subsequent water damage. The claims against
City of Santa Clarita arise from grading and drainage issues allegedly due to the
failure to follow the agreed upon engineering plan.
 
Government Statutory Basis
Again, the operative complaint alleges claims for
Negligence, Gross Negligence, Strict Liability, Absolute Liability, Trespass,
Nuisance, Unjust Enrichment, and Battery. City of Santa Clarita challenges the
lack of a statutory basis for the Negligence, Strict Liability, Trespass,
Nuisance, Unjust Enrichment, and Battery. The allegations consist of a terse
statement identifying the claims as “common law” rather than statutorily
supported. Santana maintains statutory support exists through the tortious acts
of Santa Clarita independent contractors performing work on behalf of the city.

 
“Except
as otherwise provided by statute: (a) A public entity is not liable for an
injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public
entity or a public employee or any other person.” (Gov. Code, § 815, subd.
(a).) “A public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or
omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment
if the act or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a
cause of action against that employee or his personal representative.” (Gov.
Code, § 815.2, subd. (a).) The California Supreme Court allows for a finding of
vicarious liability based on claims arising from negligence. (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union
High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861,
868–869.) A claim against a government entity must rely on a direct, statutory
claim of liability. (de Villers v. County of San Diego (2007) 156
Cal.App.4th 238, 253-256.) 
 
The first
amended complaint in fact lacks a single identifying statute. Santana maintains
City of Santa Clarita remains liable as a party responsible for directing the
construction and failing to adhere to the construction specifications. Santana
relies on a general argument of liability via the work of the contractors Tobo
and Becker. “A public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by a
tortious act or omission of an independent contractor of the public entity to
the same extent that the public entity would be subject to such liability if it
were a private person. Nothing in this section subjects a public entity to
liability for the act or omission of an independent contractor if the public
entity would not have been liable for the injury had the act or omission been
that of an employee of the public entity.” (Gov. Code, § 815.4.) 
 
The argument while providing the basis for liability
insufficiently addresses the underlying lack of statutory foundation for the
causes of action. “We conclude that a direct claim against a governmental
entity asserting negligent hiring and supervision, when not grounded in the
breach of a statutorily imposed duty owed by the entity to the injured party,
may not be maintained.” (de Villers v. County of San Diego, supra, 156
Cal.App.4th at pp. 255-256.) 
 
Notwithstanding, Santana alternatively
seeks to establish a duty of care via a dangerous condition on public property
claim. “Except as provided by statute, a public entity is liable for injury
caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes
that the property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that
the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the
dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury
which was incurred, and that either: (a) A negligent or wrongful act or
omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment
created the dangerous condition; or (b) The public entity had actual or
constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient
time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the
dangerous condition.” (Gov. Code, § 835.) “‘Dangerous condition’ means a
condition of property that creates a substantial (as distinguished from a
minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such property or adjacent
property is used with due care in a manner in which it is reasonably
foreseeable that it will be used.” (Gov. Code, § 830, subd. (a).)
 
Santana
maintains allegations in the operative complaint allege the release of
hazardous and toxic substances thereby causing damage. Santana also adds in an
argument for mandatory duty. “Where a public
entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that is designed to
protect against the risk of a particular kind of injury, the public entity is
liable for an injury of that kind proximately caused by its failure to
discharge the duty unless the public entity establishes that it exercised
reasonable diligence to discharge the duty.” (Gov. Code, § 815.6.)
Santana tethers the claim to the designation of the site as a historical
resource, thereby imposing a duty of care. Plaintiff cites to Public Resources
for definitions, as well as a section identified as Public Resources Code
section 15064.5, but no such section appears to exist in the Public Resources
Code. [Opposition, 7:22-23.] As for the reliance of a definition of a public
resource, the court accepts the definition, but finds no imposition of a mandatory
duty to protect the resource simply based on designation. (Pub. Resources Code,
§ 21084.1.)
 
The lack
of any underlying mandatory duty, withput any specific mandate for a particular
kind of protection, in and of itself undercuts any argument for a statutorily
based claim based on a form of breach of a mandatory duty. (de Villers v. County of San
Diego, supra, 156 Cal.App.4th at pp. 260-263.) The court
therefore finds no alternative basis of recovery without statutory foundation
on this basis as well.
 
On nuisance, Santana acknowledges the lack of
statutory support, but cites to the case law regarding the finding of Civil
Code section 3479 as supporting a claim for public nuisance against a
government entity. (Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 933.) The California Supreme Court
indisputably allows a claim of nuisance notwithstanding the lack of a statutory
designation. Santana also offers argument under contract liability, but it’s
not clear which, if any, causes of action arise from contract liability. (Gov.
Code, § 814.) While the court finds no statutory basis of liability for all
pled causes of action against City of Santa Clarita, the court finds the
singular exception for nuisance harmonizes with the authority cited against the
other non-statutorily supported claims. 
 
The court
therefore finds a valid basis for a grant of summary adjudication on all other
non-statutorily pled causes of action, including Negligence, Gross Negligence,
Strict Liability, Absolute Liability, Trespass, Unjust Enrichment, and Battery,
due to the lack of a statutory basis for relief. Plaintiff perhaps foresaw this
ruling, and anticipatorily requested leave to amend. The court considers the
standard for conversion of the motion for summary judgment into one for
judgment on the pleadings. 
 
“‘[I]if summary judgment is
granted on the ground that the complaint is legally insufficient, but it
appears from the materials submitted in opposition to the motion that the
plaintiff could state a cause of action, the trial court should give the
plaintiff an opportunity to amend the complaint before entry of judgment.’ ... Denial
of leave to amend a complaint is an abuse of discretion unless the complaint
shows on its face that it is incapable of amendment to state a viable cause of
action.” (Prue v. Brady Co./San Diego,
Inc. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1384.) 
 
The
cannot reject denial on the basis of prejudice, even with the first phase of
the trial set for October 30, 2023. (Ibid.) The court therefore
considers the individual arguments as to the causes of action for purposes of
determining legal viability, if leave to amend were granted.
 
Gross
Negligence
Santa
Clarita challenges the existence of an independent cause of action for gross
negligence. The opposition lacks any apparent argument against this portion of
the motion. The court finds no statutorily independent basis for the claim, as
well. (Grappo v. McMills (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 996, 1014-1015.) The court therefore
finds additional support for the motion for summary adjudication, and no
support for the alternative motion for judgment on the pleadings with leave to
amend.
 
Strict
Liability and Absolute Liability
Santa
Clarita challenges “absolute liability” as a non-existent cause of action, and
lack of facts supporting a claim for strict liability. Santana seeks to allege
a claim for strict liability based on alleged ultrahazardous activity thereby
causing property damage. Neither party addresses the standard of ultrahazardous
activity. The court therefore cannot make any determination of whether the
construction activities constituted an ultrahazardous activity as a matter of
law. (Edwards v. Post Transportation Co. (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 980, 983.) Santana otherwise again
offers no opposition to this subject portion of the motion. Given the lack of
any allegations of the actual undertaking of ultrahazardous activities by Santa
Clarita, and no articulated statutory basis for the subject cause of action, the
motion for summary adjudication again finds support, and no basis for relief
under the alternative motion for judgment on the pleadings without
prejudice/with leave to amend.
 
Unjust
Enrichment
Santa
Clarita challenges the existence of an independent cause of action for unjust
enrichment. The opposition lacks any apparent argument against this portion of
the motion. “Unjust enrichment is not a cause of action, just a restitution
claim.” (Hill v. Roll Internat. Corp. (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1295, 1307.) The motion for summary
adjudication remains supported. The alternative motion for judgment on the
pleadings will be denied with prejudice/without leave to amend.
 
Battery
Santa
Clarita maintains the cause of action “has already been dismissed” in that the
prior settlement agreement barred any further personal injury causes of action.
Santa Clarita also specifically relies on the lack of any evidence of an actual
battery. (Carlsen v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 890.) The unopposed motion for
summary adjudication remains granted, with no alternative relief under the motion
for judgment on the pleadings.
 
Negligence, Trespass
City of
Santa Clarita provides no substantive argument on the merits of the negligence
and trespass causes of action for purposes of determining whether Plaintiff can
articulate a claim if a statutory duty exists. Nevertheless, in considering the
arguments regarding the lack of any ability to allege a claim not arising from
direct liability or supervision imposed by an existing duty of care, the court affirms
its findings for summary adjudication with no alternative basis of relief in
the form of the motion for judgment on the pleading with leave to amend.
 
Statute
of Limitations—Nuisance
Given
the lack of challenge to the Gross Negligence, Strict Liability, Absolute
Liability, Unjust Enrichment, and Battery, the court assumes based on the
substance of the opposition that Santana only challenges the motion as to the
Negligence, Trespass, and Nuisance causes of action. With the finding of no
statutory basis for the negligence and trespass causes of action, and no basis
for conversion of the motion into a motion for judgment on the pleadings with
leave to amend, the court only considers the summary adjudication as to the
nuisance claim notwithstanding the acknowledgment on the trespass claim in the
reply. The court also considers the merits of the nuisance claim due to the established
exception to the statutory pleading requirement. 
 
Santa
Clarita contends the complaint is barred by the three year statute of
limitations in that any and all claims accrue no later than three years from
the date of dismissal. Nothing in the five year window of the settlement
agreement in any way extended the statute of limitations. Santana in opposition
challenge the lack of any showing of a statute of limitations bar. Santana
further supports the opposition with a claim of continuing accrual caused by
the recurrent harm of the nuisance and trespass, due to regular water
incursion.
 
Santa Clarita depends on deposition testimony whereby
Santana testified to not seeing new or additional damage from water intrusion
following the settlement. Santa Clarita further offers an argument that Santana
cannot present valid evidence of damage. A defendant may satisfy its burden on
summary adjudication by pointing to an absence of evidence supporting
plaintiff’s claims. (Union Bank
(1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 590; see Ganoe
v. Metalclad Insulation Corp. (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 1577, 1584; Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Const.
Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 81-83.) A
defendant must do this by providing evidence that a plaintiff does not possess
and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence, rather than simply by arguing
that a plaintiff has no evidence. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 854-855.) The
court finds the deposition testimony of Santana fails to definitively establish
a lack of facts establishing a basis for continuing nuisance. (Giovacchini
Dec., Ex. 3: Deposition of Santana; Declaration of Brandon Gilligan, Ex. 1:
Deposition of Santana; Ex. 2: Declaration of Santana.) 
 
Nevertheless, Santa Clarita in reply characterizes
the nuisance claim as permanent rather than continuing, due to the reliance on
the now completed construction work. “Where a nuisance is of such a character
that it will presumably continue indefinitely, it is considered permanent and
the limitations period runs from the time the nuisance is created. (Citation.) Where, however, a
nuisance may be discontinued at any time, it is considered continuing in
character. (Citation.)” (Bookout v. State of California ex
rel. Dept. of Transportation (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 1478, 1489; Baker v.
Burbank-Glendale-Pasadena Airport Authority
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 862, 869 [“[I]f a nuisance is a use which may be discontinued
at any time, it is considered continuing in character and persons harmed by it
may bring successive actions for damages until the nuisance is abated”].) The
testimony establishes that all improvements installed for the drainage system
constitutes a part of the structure itself rather than something readily modified
or abatable by operative decision. [Declaration of Brandon Gilligan, Ex. 1:
Deposition of Santana; Ex. 3: Declaration of Steven Viani.] (Bookout v. State of California ex rel. Dept. of Transportation, supra, 186 Cal.App.4th at p. 1489.) 
 
The court
finds the actual improvements constituting the drainage system created the
means for water intrusion, thereby forming the basis for a permanent nuisance,
rather than a continuous nuisance. (Ibid.) Recurrent weather patterns bringing
rain in no way constitutes operationally ordered continuous conduct, such as
scheduling flights or spraying pesticides. The nuisance exists as a result of
the allegedly flawed construction execution of the grading plan. The nuisance
cause of action is therefore barred under the three year statute of limitations
with no extension as a result of the five year window for leave to bring new
claims as to the grading plan. (Landale-Cameron
Court, Inc. v. Ahonen (2007) 155
Cal.App.4th 1401, 1408.) 
 
The court
also finds that even if the trespass and negligence causes of action were not
barred by the lack of a statutory basis, the negligence and trespass causes of
action are also barred by the three year statute of limitations. Consistent
with the authority regarding leave to amend on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings, the court finds the statute of limitations bar also precludes leave
to amend for any and all of the causes of action.
 
In summary, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. The
motions for summary adjudication on the lack of statutory liability claims and
statute of limitations are MOOT. The motion for judgment on the pleadings with
leave to amend is DENIED.
 
Jury trial on “liability” remains set for
October 30, 2023, with the remaining defendants.
 
Santa Clarita to give notice to all parties.
 