 Case Number:  22STCV39957    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of
  Los Angeles




 
Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas, and Alma Delia Llamas


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV39957




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Architectural
  Surfaces, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: July 18, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion to Strike Portions of
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
Moving Party: Defendant Caesarstone Ltd. 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas and
Alma Delia Llamas
 
T/R:    DEFENDANT’S
motion to strike is granted in part, denied in part
 
            DEFENDANT
TO NOTICE.
 
If
the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented
party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
            The
Court considers the moving papers, opposition and reply. Plaintiff also filed a
Supplemental Opposition on July 5, 2024. 
 
BACKGROUND
On
March 13, 2023, Plaintiffs Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas and Alma Delia Llamas filed the
operative first amended complaint against Defendants Architectural Surfaces,
Inc., et al., asserting causes of action for (1) negligence; (2) strict
liability – warning defect; (3) strict liability – design defect; (4)
fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties; and (6) loss of
consortium. Plaintiff Garcia-Rosas alleges he developed silicosis and
consequential injuries through his employment working with stone products
manufactured, distributed, and/or supplied by Defendants. 
ANALYSIS
Any party, within the time allowed to response to a
pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any
part" of that pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion
made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted
in any pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the Court." (CCP § 436.)
A.
FAC: Page 7, Line 3
 
 Defendant
Ceasarstone requests that the Court strike “and other stone products to be
identified during the course of discovery” because Defendant argues that it is
a “catchall” product identification that violates Bockrath v. Aldrich
Chemical Company, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal. 4th 71. Defendant argues that this
catchall provision is not specific enough to meet Bockrath’s standard
for toxic tort pleading because Bockrath requires that a plaintiff plead
each product that allegedly caused the injury. (Id. at pg. 80.) 
Defendant
is correct. Plaintiffs must specify the products; this clause does not comply
with the standard. The Court grants the motion to strike page seven (7), line
3.  
B.
FAC ¶ 362, ¶ 378, and ¶ 455; Punitive Damages
 
Defendant
moves to strike paragraphs 362, 378, 455, and prayer for relief number 4, all
of which pertain to punitive damages, claiming that the Complaint does not
allege an adequate basis for punitive damages. 
Civil Code section 3294 subdivision (a)
provides:
 
In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.”
(Civ.
Code § 3294(b).) Defendant contends that the Complaint does not adequately
allege a basis for punitive damages because it does not allege malice,
oppression, or fraud in sufficient detail as to this Defendant, nor does it
allege ratification. 
“The elements of
a cause of action for fraud based on concealment are: ‘(1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.’” 
(Jones v.
ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1198.) Here, Plaintiffs
allege that:
Plaintiffs’
allegations are sufficient to allege a fraudulent concealment claim. (Jones,
supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at 1195 [plaintiff’s complaint is not “unacceptably
speculative if a plaintiff has not specifically identified which toxin
contained in a particular product caused the alleged injury or has sued the
manufacturers of multiple products, alleging all of them contained toxins that
were substantial factors in causing his injury.”) As the California Supreme
Court stated in Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th
71, the remedy for an improperly speculative pleading is provided by Code of
Civil Procedure § 128.7(b), which permits the imposition of sanctions on an
attorney who is found to have deliberately filed a products liability suit
without a well-founded belief in the truth of a particular allegation. (Bockrath,
supra, 21 Cal. 4th at p. 82; see also Jones, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th
at 1196.) 
 
As Plaintiffs
have adequately alleged a claim for fraud, they are entitled to seek punitive
damages. The Court denies this portion of the motion.


 



Superior
  Court of California
County of
  Los Angeles




 
Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas, and Alma Delia
  Llamas.


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV39957




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Architectural
  Surfaces, Inc., et al.


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: July 18, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Quash Service of Summons
Moving Party: Specially Appearing Defendant Cosentino
Group, S.A.
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Rodolfo Garcia Rosas and
Alma Delia Llamas
 
T/R:    SPECIALLY-APPEARING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO QUASH
SERVICE OF SUMMONS IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the
parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party)
before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply, as well as the
supplemental briefing. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On March 13, 2023, Plaintiffs
Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas and Alma Delia Llamas (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed
the first amended complaint against Defendants Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et
al., asserting causes of action for (1) negligence; (2) strict liability—warning
defect; (3) strict liability—design defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; (5)
breach of implied warranties; and (6) loss of consortium. Plaintiff Garcia-Rosas
alleges he developed silicosis and consequential injuries through his
employment working with stone products manufactured, distributed, and/or
supplied by Defendants. 
 
Specially
Appearing Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A. moves to quash service of the summons
and complaint for defective service or lack of personal jurisdiction. 
 
EVIDENTIARY MATTERS
 
Specially
Appearing Defendant Cosentino’s Evidentiary Objections
 
Specially Appearing (“SA”) Defendant objects to Plaintiffs’ exhibits
attached to the Declaration of Raphael Metzger in opposition to this motion. Objections
1-26 are sustained due to lack of authentication. 
 
Plaintiffs’
Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiffs
object to the statements in the Declaration of Jorge Cuervo Velo filed in
support of Cosentino’s Motion to Quash. Objections 1-4 are overruled. 
 
Plaintiffs’
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs request that the Court take judicial notice of (A)
the Hague Service Convention; (B) Canada’s central authority for service under
the Hague Convention; (C) the United States’ Central Authority under the Hague
Convention; (D) Pages 7 and 8 of the Practical Handbook on the Operation of the
Service Convention; and Exhibit (A) Rule 4.3 of the Supreme Court Civil Rules of British
Columbia Reg. 168/2009. Plaintiffs’ Requests are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence
Code § 452(f) (law of organization of nations and foreign nations). 
 
ANALYSIS
“A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes: (1) To quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her.” (CCP § 418.10(a)(1).) “When a motion to quash is properly brought, the
burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish the facts of
jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.) 
A. Service of Summons
 
SA Defendant Cosentino seeks to quash service
of the summons and complaint on the grounds that it was not served in
compliance with the Hague Service Convention. Plaintiffs retained the services
of Aaron Lukken of Viking Advocates LLC to arrange for service of process on
one of SA Cosentino’s executives, Eduardo Cosentino, in Vancouver, B.C. (Dowse
Decl., Ex. 3, ¶¶ 2-3.) Lukken then retained the services of Axis Vero Inc., a
private investigation firm based in Canada, to effect service in Canada. (Id.
at ¶¶ 1-2.) Axis’s process server, Vladimir Raiman, presented the documents to
Eduardo Cosentino at an opening event in Vancouver, Canada on September 13,
2023. (Id. at ¶¶ 3, 7-9.) Plaintiffs filed an affidavit on behalf of
Raiman on September 25, 2023, attesting to service on SA Defendant Cosentino. 
 
SA Defendant argues that service was improper
because SA Cosentino is a Spanish corporation and Eduardo Cosentino is a
Spanish national. SA Defendant argues that service would have been proper in
Spain pursuant to the Hague Convention but was improper in Canada. 
 
Service of process here is governed by the
Hague Convention. Article 10 states:
Provided the State of destination does
not object, the present Convention shall not interfere with
–
a) the freedom to send judicial
documents, by postal channels, directly to persons abroad,
b) the freedom of judicial officers,
officials or other competent persons of the State of origin to effect service
of judicial documents directly through the judicial officers, officials or
other competent persons of the State of destination,
c) the freedom of any person interested
in a judicial proceeding to effect service of judicial documents
directly through the judicial officers, officials or other competent persons of
the State of destination.
 
(Hague Service Convention, art. 10.)
 
The text of the Hague Convention does not define “State of destination.”
The Hague Conference on
Private International Law Permanent Bureau has published a Practical Handbook
on the convention, which defines “State of destination” as “the State where
service is, or will be, effected.” (RJN Exh. D.) Article 10 does not concern
who may be served, but who may effectuate service. It provides that if service
complies with the law of the state from which the documents originate
(California), and the law of the jurisdiction where service is attempted
(Canada), and neither state has objected to Article 10, service is proper. 
 
There is no evidence that either
California or Canada has objected to Article 10. Plaintiffs may serve documents
pursuant to CCP § 414.10, and Raiman is authorized to effect service in Canada.
(See Dowse Decl., Ex. 3, ¶1.) California law authorizes a corporation to be
served by delivering a copy of the summons and complaint to the president, CEO,
or other head of corporation or person authorized to receive service.  (CCP § 416.10(b).) Rule 4.3 of the Supreme
Court Civil Rules of British Columbia Regulations authorizes personal service
to be effectuated on a corporation by leaving a copy with a chief officer or
other agent of the corporation. (Supreme Ct. Civ. R. B.C. Reg 168/2009 Rule
4.3(2)(b)(i)-(iii).) When a corporation’s principal place of business is outside
of Canada, any person who carries out business for the corporation is
considered an agent. (Id. subd. (2)(b)(iv).) Eduardo Cosentino was
properly served because (1) he is SA Cosentino’s Vice President who (2) was
present in Canada for business on behalf of SA Cosentino, and (3) was served in
compliance with the laws of both California and British Columbia. 
 
Service of the summons and complaint cannot
be quashed on this basis.
B. Personal Jurisdiction
A
non-resident defendant may be subject to either general or specific
jurisdiction. (See Elkman v. National States Insurance Co. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 1305, 1314.) General jurisdiction exists when a defendant is
domiciled in the forum state or his activities there are substantial,
continuous, and systematic. (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2005)
130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796.) 
Specific
jurisdiction involves a three-part test in California. California courts adopt
the test in Boschetto v. Hansing (9th Cir. Cal. 2008) 539 F.3d
1011,1016: “ ‘(1) The nonresident defendant must do some act or consummate some
transaction with the forum or perform some act by which he purposefully avails
himself of the privilege of conducting activities in the forum, thereby
invoking the benefits and protections of its laws; (2) the claim must be one
which arises out of or results from the defendant's forum-related activities;
and (3) exercise of jurisdiction must be reasonable.’ Panavision International,
L.P. v. Toeppen (9th Cir. 1998) 141 F.3d 1316, 1320 [applying California
law].).” (Jewish Defense Organization, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. of Los Angeles
County (Rambam) (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054.) 
The
parties agree that the Court does not have general jurisdiction over SA
Cosentino. Plaintiffs must demonstrate this Court has specific personal
jurisdiction over SA Defendant. 
SA
Defendant argues that it did not purposefully avail itself of conducting
activities in California. They argue that purposeful availment in tort cases requires
(1) intentional actions, (2) expressly aimed at the forum state, (3) causing
harm, the brunt of which is suffered—and which the defendant knows is likely to
be suffered—in the forum state.” (Jewish Defense Organization, Inc.,
supra, 72 Cal.App.4th at 1057-59.)
Vice
President for Legal and Compliance, Jorge Vela, states that SA Defendant is
headquartered in Spain, organized under Spanish law, and operates exclusively
in Spain. (Declaration of Jorge Cuervo Vela ¶4.) Vela states that SA Defendant
has never conducted any business in California and, as a holding company, does
not develop, design, manufacture, distribute, sell, advertise, or market any
products. (Id. ¶¶ 5-6.) According to Vela, the company responsible for
marketing and selling the products at issue in this case is C & C North
America, Inc., an indirect subsidiary of SA Defendant that keeps its own
accounts and records, and pays and manages its own employees. (Id. ¶¶
7-8.) 
            In
response, Plaintiffs sought to introduce exhibits of materials evidencing SA Defendant’s
activities in California, such as website pages and an address in Los Angeles. But
Plaintiffs have not established the authenticity of these exhibits. They are not
sufficient to establish that SA Defendant is an alter ego corporation such that
it should be subject to the specific jurisdiction of this Court. 
At the original
argument on this motion, on June 3, 2024, the Court gave Plaintiffs the
opportunity to file a supplemental opposition and allowed SA Defendant to file
a supplemental reply. On June 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Further
Supplemental Opposition, containing a short memorandum, another Declaration of
Raphael Metzger (“Supp. Metzger Decl.”), and Exhibits A-C which respectively
are (A) the deposition transcription of Jose Cuervo Vela regarding lack of
personal jurisdiction, (B) a true and correct copy of the trademark
registration for SA Defendant’s Silestone product that Plaintiffs allege caused
his silicosis; and (C) a true and correct copy of a photo from the Cosentino
website of the building in Los Angeles that is called “Cosentino City of Los
Angeles” which bears both the Cosentino wordmark and the Silestone wordmark. But
Vela’s testimony is that the trademark registrations have never been held by SA
Cosentino. And the case Plaintiffs cite to contend that trademark registration
is sufficient to establish personal jurisdiction in any state does not itself
discuss personal jurisdiction. (See generally, Kasel v. Remington Arms Co.
(1972) 24 Cal.App.3d 711, 721.) 
Plaintiffs have
not met their evidentiary burden to demonstrate that SA Defendant purposefully
availed itself of the benefits of doing business in California. Service of the
Summons and Complaint must be quashed. 


 