  Case Number:  19STCV30353    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of
  Los Angeles




 
Ziad Alhassen


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV30353




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Tarek Alhassen, et
  al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: July 18, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
 
T/R:    DEFENDANTS’
motion FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS IS DENIED.
 
            DEFENDANTS
TO NOTICE.
 
If
the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented
party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
            The
Court considers the moving papers, opposition, reply, and supplemental opposition.

 
            On May 13, 2024 the
Court issued its final Statement of Decision after the Phase 1 trial. Defendants
now move for judgment on the pleadings on the remaining causes of action,
contending that the Court’s factual findings in Phase 1 are predicates for
Plaintiff’s remaining claims, and those claims now fail as a matter of law.
 
The court may
grant a motion for judgment on the pleading on grounds the complaint fails to
state a cause of action. Code Civ. Proc., § 438(b)(2). A non-statutory motion
for judgment on the pleading can be made at any time either prior to the trial
or at the trial itself. (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002) 100 Cal. App. 4th 644,
650.) A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a
general demurrer and attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the
pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. (Burnett v. Chimney
Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1064.)
 
            The same general rules that apply to demurrers apply to
motions for judgment on the pleadings. All facts alleged in the complaint are
deemed admitted, the complaint is given a reasonable interpretation, and is
read as a whole. (Ludgate v. Lockheed (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 592, 602.)
The court is “not concerned with a plaintiff's possible inability to prove the
claims made in the complaint, the allegations of which are accepted as true and
liberally construed with a view toward attaining substantial justice.
[Citations.]” (Ludgate at 602.)
 
            The fifth and sixth causes of action allege that Tarek,
Tarif and the Sheikh falsely misrepresented to Ziad that Ziad would have an
ownership interest in various entities but concealed that they intended to
remove Ziad from any interest he had in those entities. The eighth cause of
action alleges, in a similar vein, that Defendants diverted money owing to Ziad,
after obtaining money by theft. The third cause of action alleges that Tarek
and Tarif converted checks to which Ziad claims a right. The Court did not
decide these causes of action in its May 13 Statement of Decision.[1]
 
            Nor do the Court’s factual findings in Phase 1 preclude
these causes of action. The parties agree that the Court’s findings of fact
from Phase 1 are binding and will not be relitigated in Phase 2. (See, e.g.,
Pl’s Opp., p.4.) But those findings do not dispose of the causes of action to
be tried in Phase 2. For example, Ziad may seek to establish that Defendants
transferred assets and money from entities in which he did have an interest to
entities in which he did not have an interest, to place those assets and money
out of his reach. Ziad may seek to show that Defendants made misrepresentations,
including misrepresentations that Ziad would have an interest in various
entities, as part of these efforts. The Court’s finding that Ziad does not have
an interest in all the entities by way of an oral agreement or a common
enterprise theory does not end these claims.              
 
As to the
eighth cause of action, Defendants point to PacLink Communications Intern.,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 958, where the
Court of Appeal held that plaintiffs in a class lacked standing to assert their
claims because the claims were derivative in nature. In that case, the court
found that members of an LLC who did not have direct ownership interest in the
company’s assets could not be directly injured when the company was improperly
deprived of those assets. (Id., at 964.) Any injury to plaintiffs was
merely the diminution in value of their membership interest in Paclink-1 due to
the loss of the entity’s assets.  
 
Ziad alleges
that Defendants fraudulently diverted monies rightfully belonging to Ziad,
including his right to partnership distributions. The theft claim is not
limited to interests that would be barred as a derivative-only claim. 
 


