  Case Number:  24VECV02916    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  W LIDA
SARKISIAN, et al. vs LEISURE HEALTHCARE, LLC DBA LEISURE GLEN POST ACUTE CARE
CENTER, et al.
 
defendant’s
petition to compel binding arbitration and to stay the superior court matter
pending the hearing on the petition 
 
Date of Hearing:        October
21, 2024                              Trial
Date:       None
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV02916
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Leisure Healthcare, LLC dba Leisure Glen Post Acute Care Center 
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs
Lida Sarkisian (individually and as successor in interest to Susan Khodagulyan),
Andranik Sarkisian, Gilbert Sarkisian, and Henrick Sarkisian
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 20, 2024, Plaintiffs Lida
Sarkisian, individually and as successor in interest to Susan Khodagulyan,
Andranik Sarkisyan, Gilbert Sarkisyan and Henrik Sarkisyan against Leisure
Healthcare LLC dba Leisure Glen Post Acute Care Center and B.V. General, Inc.
dba Leisure Glen Post Acute Care Center for survivor action – elder abuse
(Welfare & Institutions Code §15600, et seq.), survivor action –
negligence, and wrongful death. Decedent Susan Khodagulyan was admitted to
Leisure Glen Post Acute Care Center shortly after suffering a fall and being
injured. Plaintiffs allege Defendants were aware of Decedent presented a fall
risk. However, Defendants failed to staff the facility properly and as a
result, the Decedent suffered a fall a few days later. By May 2023, Plaintiffs
allege Decedent has suffered three or more falls in a three month period.
During her residency, the Decedent continued to fall and as a result of the
injuries sustained, Decedent passed away on January 27, 2024. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Leisure Healthcare, LLC dba
Leisure Glen Post Acute Care Center’s Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration and
to Stay the Superior Court Matter Pending the Hearing on the Petition is DENIED. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendant Leisure Healthcare, LLC dba
Leisure Glen Post Acute Care Center petitions the court for an order compelling
Plaintiffs to arbitrate the controversy alleged in the complaint in binding
arbitration and to stay the instant matter. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy . . . the court
shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if
it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists,” unless
the court finds that the right to compel arbitration has been “waived by the
petitioner,” or that “grounds exist for recission” of the arbitration
agreement. (CCP § 1281.2(a), (b).) 
 
A written arbitration agreement is
“valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the
revocation of any contract.” (CCP § 1281.) “The petitioner bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by
a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) “The
general rule is that only a party to an arbitration agreement may enforce it.”
(Ronay Family Limited Partnership v. Tweed (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 830,
837.) 
 
Defendants seek to compel Plaintiffs to
arbitrate the claims alleged in their complaint against Defendants pursuant to
the Arbitration Agreement entered into by Plaintiff Lida Sarkisian, in her
individual capacity and in her representative capacity for the Decedent. Defendants
argue the Arbitration Agreement was executed by the Decedent’s self-appointed
agent, Lida Sarkisian, which provides that any dispute between the Resident
(Decedent) and Defendants, including any action for injury or death arising
from negligence, intentional tort and/or statutory causes of action will be
determined by submission to binding arbitration. (Exh. A, Article 2.) The
Arbitration Agreement further provides such agreement will be binding on all
parties including the Resident’s heirs who bring any claims individually or in
a representative capacity and the Resident’s representatives, agents, and heirs
who execute this Agreement are doing so not only in their representative
capacity for the Resident, but also in their individual capacity. (Exh. A,
Article 4.) Defendants provide evidence Lida Sarkisian executed the Arbitration
Agreement and signed the Agreement under penalty of perjury. (Exh. A.)
Defendants also provide evidence that Lida Sarkisian executed a Declaration of Healthcare
Agent form that attests, under the penalty of perjury, that she was Decedent’s
appointed healthcare agent and thus, was authorized to execute the Admission
Agreement and the Arbitration Agreement on the decedent’s behalf. (Exh. C.) 
 
Plaintiffs do not dispute the existence
of the Arbitration Agreement or that it was entered into by Plaintiff Lida
Sarkisian. However, Plaintiffs oppose the motion on several grounds. 
 
Agency
 
First, Plaintiffs oppose the motion on
the grounds there is no evidence that any conduct on the part of the Decedent
created an actual or ostensible agency in Lida Sarkisian. Plaintiffs cite Kinder
v. Capistrano Beach Care Center, LLC (2023) 91 Cal. App. 5th 804 to support
this contention. In Kinder, the arbitration agreement entered into on
behalf of the resident and the residential skilled nursing facility was entered
into on behalf of the resident’s adult children. The court found, however, the
facility presented no evidence that the mother did anything to lead her
children to believe they had the actual or ostensible authority to enter into
arbitration agreements on her behalf. The court further found that a “defendant
cannot prove a plaintiff consented to arbitration merely by showing the plaintiff
stood idly by while the purported agent signed on his or her behalf.” (Kinder
v. Capistrano Beach Care Center, LLC (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 804, 816.) 
 
However, unlike Kinder,
Defendants here have presented a declaration, under the penalty of perjury,
attesting that an agency relationship had been created between the principal
and the purported agent. As such, this goes beyond the representations of the
purported agent alone and the burden now shifts to Plaintiffs. Plaintiff have
not sufficiently demonstrated that this Appointment of Authorized
Representative did not create actual agency. Nonetheless, for the reasons
stated below, the court denies the motion to compel arbitration. 
 
Healthcare Decision
 
Next, Plaintiffs oppose the motion on
the grounds the execution of an arbitration agreement is not a “Healthcare
Decision” within the authority of a “Healthcare Agent”. Plaintiffs contend even
if Lida Sarkissian was her mother’s “healthcare agent” that would not render
the Arbitration Agreement valid. Plaintiffs cite Harrod v. Country Oaks
Partners LLC (2024) 15 Cal.5th 939 to support this contention. In Harrod,
the Supreme Court stated “interpreting the term ‘health care decision’ to
exclude optional and separate agreements to arbitrate fits best with the
Legislature's decision to use that term in the Health Care Decisions Law to
describe the scope of authority not only for those … who act pursuant to powers
of attorney for health care, but also for surrogates, including next of kin or
close friends.” (Harrod v. Country Oaks Partners, LLC (2024) 15 Cal.5th
939, 958.) However, the Supreme Court in Harrod did not only base its
decision in Health Care Decisions Law but also the power of attorney that was
executed in that case. There, the power of attorney defined health care
decisions (§4617) and decisions after death (§4683) and authorized the power of
attorney to (1) “consent, refuse consent, or withdraw consent to any medical
care,” including care to artificially sustain life; (2) “choose or reject [the
principal's] physician, other health care professionals or health care
facilities;” (3) “receive and consent to the release of medical information;”
and (4) authorize organ donation, an autopsy, and disposal of remains.” (Id.
at p. 947-48.) The Supreme Court acknowledged that Civil Code section 2319 [necessary
authority] “embodies the notion of implied authority—that an agent expressly
granted a specific power should have sufficient authority to effectuate it.” (Id.
at p. 960.) However, that power is limited. For a power of attorney is to be
viewed as binding on the principal “’it must appear that the act done by the
agent was in the exercise of the power delegated, and within its limits.’
[Citation.] “Put another way, an implied power ‘ “must be within the ultimate
objective of the principal ....” ’ ” (Id. at p. 961.) The Supreme Court
ultimately decided a power of attorney does not include the delegated authority
to sign a optional, separate arbitration agreement. 
 
Here, the facts differ. There is no
power of attorney. Plaintiffs did sign a separate arbitration agreement, but
also an agency declaration that gave Lida power to not only make healthcare
decisions but to also the power of “signing documents on behalf of the Resident
[Lida].” This Agency Declaration, unlike the Power of Attorney in Harrod,
explicitly authorized healthcare decisions to be made by Lida and
signing documents on the Decedent’s behalf, which included the Admission
Agreement and Arbitration Agreement. 
 
Parties to the Arbitration Agreement
 
Plaintiffs next oppose the motion on
the grounds Andranik Sarkisian, Gilbert Sarkisian and Henrick Sarkisian are not
parties to the arbitration agreement and therefore, not bound by its terms.
Plaintiffs contend other than by general reference to unidentified “family
members” or “heirs,” Plaintiffs Andranik Sarkisian, Gilbert Sarkisian and
Henrick Sarkisian are not parties to the arbitration agreement, and there is no
evidence that any of these Plaintiffs ever authorized anyone to execute or
enter this arbitration agreement on their behalf.  There is also no evidence that the Decedent
ever authorized Lida Sarkisian to bind either the Decedent or any of her
children to the arbitration agreement. Plaintiffs cite Flores v. Evergreen
at San Diego LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 581 to support their contention. In
Flores, a husband signed various documents for his wife who was admitted
to the skilled nursing facility, which included two arbitration agreements.
When the facility brought a compel arbitration, the trial court denied the
petition finding there was no evidence that the wife did anything which caused
the facility to believe that her husband was her agent and therefore could not
be compelled to arbitration. The Court of Appeal agreed, finding there was no
evidence that the wife gave authority for the husband to enter the arbitration
agreements on her behalf and although she later signed a general power of
attorney, that was created after the husband signed the admission documents. 
 
Defendants rely on Ruiz v. Podolsky (2010)
50 Cal.4th 838 to bind the other parties to arbitration. Ruiz carved out
an exception to the general rule that only parties to arbitration agreements
are bound. In Ruiz, the California Supreme Court held that Code of Civil
Procedure section 1295 permits patients who consent to arbitration to bind
their heirs in actions for wrongful death where the language of the agreement
manifests an intent to do so. The court notes another case, Avila v.
Southern California Specialty Care, Inc. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 835,
which has stated that while an action that’s primary basis for the wrongful
death claim sounds in professional negligence as defined by MICRA, then the
exception in Ruiz applies. However, if the primary basis is under the
Elder Abuse Act, then section 1295 does not apply and neither does Ruiz’s
exception. (Avila v. Southern California Specialty Care, Inc. (2018) 20
Cal.App.5th 835, 842.) Here, Plaintiffs have brought three causes of action –
Elder Abuse, Negligence, and Negligence. Like Avila, it appears that the
primary basis for Plaintiffs’ claims is rooted in violation of elder
abuse.  The complaint alleges Defendants
were negligent when they knew of the Decedent’s condition and failed to provide
Decedent with the safety and protection she needed, was a substantial factor in
causing multiple harms to Decedent. 
 
As such, the court cannot find that
Andranik Sarkisian, Gilbert Sarkisian and Henrick Sarkisian are bound by the
arbitration agreement. 
 
Conflicting Rulings
 
Lastly, Plaintiffs oppose the motion on
the grounds that for the reasons discussed above, there may be conflicting
outcomes between the survival causes of action and the wrongful death.
 
Section 1281.2(c), provides an
exception to mandatory arbitration where “[a] party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact.” All three requirements must be satisfied before section
1281.2, subdivision (c), may be invoked to deny a motion to compel arbitration.
(Avila, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th at p. 845.) “For purposes of the statute, a third
party is one who is neither bound by nor entitled to enforce the arbitration
agreement.” (Daniels v. Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (2013) 212
Cal.App.4th 674, 679.) 
 
As discussed above, Andranik Sarkisian,
Gilbert Sarkisian and Henrick Sarkisian are not bound by the arbitration agreement.
As the wrongful death claim is based on the same facts as the survivorship
claims, there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on common issues of law
and fact as between the claims. Given the possibility of conflicting rulings,
the court finds that no claims should be sent to arbitration pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.2(c).
 
Accordingly, Defendant Leisure
Healthcare, LLC dba Leisure Glen Post Acute Care Center’s Motion to Compel
Binding Arbitration and to Stay the Superior Court Matter Pending the Hearing
on the Petition is DENIED. 
 