  Case Number:  23TRCV00947    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  P Motion: Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike Plaintiffs’ ComplaintRULINGThe Court considered the moving papers. Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike Plaintiffs’ Complaint is SUSTAINED in its entirety. The Motion to Strike is GRANTED as the underlying demurrer has been sustained.BACKGROUNDFactual and Procedural BackgroundOn March 29, 2023, Lauren Hogan and Armando Hogan (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against several defendants, including Amir Nayebdadash and Danielle Nayebdadash (MovingDefendants) for the death of their pet dog, Skye, while at a dog daycare facility. Plaintiffs allege that on August 9, 2022, Plaintiffs left Skye, a 13-year-old female Yorkshire Terrier, in the custody of defendants including Moving Defendants. At approximately 10:45 a.m. on the same day two Basenjis located on the same premises attacked and killed Skye. Plaintiffs filed suit.The motions now before the Court are Moving Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike Plaintiffs’ Complaint. Moving Defendants filed notices of non-opposition for both the demurrer and motion to strike, therefore the motions are unopposed.Meet and Confer“Before filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a); see also Code Civ. Proc. §435.5 (imposing similar requirements for a motion to strike).) Defendants provide the Declaration of Kelly Haas (Hass Decl.) which states that the parties only spoke once on May 30, 2024, where Plaintiff’s counsel informed Defense counsel that he needed more time to review the meet and confer letter sent on May 17, 2024. (Hass Decl., ¶¶6 and 11.) Therefore, the requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a) remain unsatisfied. However, per Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a)(4), “A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (See also §430.41(a)(4) imposing similar restrictions for a motion to strike). Therefore, the Court turns its attention to the demurrer and motion to strike.DISCUSSIONLegal Standard“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Analysis(1) First Cause of Action: Strict Liability – Dangerous Animal (Civ. Code §3342)Under common law, the elements of strict liability as applicable to a domestic animal with dangerous propensities require the plaintiff to establish the following: (a) the defendant owned, kept, or controlled the dog; (b) the dog had an unusually dangerous nature; (c) before plaintiff was injured, defendant knew of should have known that the dog had this dangerous nature; (d) plaintiff was harmed; and (e) the dog’s unusually dangerous nature was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (See CACI No. 462 “Strict Liability for Injury Caused by Domestic Animal with Dangerous Propensities”.) The state of California has enacted a “dog bite” statute which supersedes the common law rule by dispensing with the necessity of proving the scienter requirement. (Drake v. Dean (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 915, fn. 2. “Drake”.) California’s “dog bite” statue – Civ. Code §3342 – reads as follows:The owner of any dog is liable for the damages suffered by any person who is bitten by the dog while in a public place or lawfully in a private place, including the property of the owner of the dog, regardless of the former viciousness of the dog or the owner's knowledge of such viciousness. (Civ. Code §3342(a).)Moving Defendants demur to the first cause of action on two grounds: (1) that Civ. Code §3342 does not apply and (2) the cause of action fails to plead sufficient facts. The Court agrees on both counts. First, Civ. Code §3342 only applies when a dog bites and injures another person, not another animal. There is no allegation in the Complaint that any dog bit any person. Therefore, Civ. Code §3342 is inapplicable.Second, the Complaint recites that Moving Defendants were aware the two Basenjis were “vicious, unruly, and unpredictable” who “possessed vicious and dangerous propensities” (Complaint, ¶¶10 and 11.) However, the Complaint fails to provide facts that substantiate such a conclusory statement. A dog's bad character or evil disposition is not presumed; rather, a dog is presumed to be tame, docile and harmless until the contrary appears. (Drake, supra, at 922.) However, those facts are relevant only for a negligence standard and are not applicable to an action in strict liability.Therefore, the demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED.(2) Second Cause of Action: NegligenceIn order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)Moving Defendants demur to the second cause of action on the grounds that it too fails to state sufficient facts to support a cause of action. The Complaint alleges Moving Defendants knew the two Basenjis possessed vicious and dangerous propensities, but placed Skye in the same area anyway. First, as aforementioned, it is unclear how the two Basenjis were dangerous. Second, without that knowledge, it is unclear how the Moving Defendants breached. It is common knowledge that a pet brought to a daycare would find itself surrounded by other pets. With no facts as to how placing one dog around two others was a breach, the cause of action fails.“It has been consistently held that ‘a plaintiff is required only to set forth the essential facts of his case with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficient to acquaint a defendant with the nature, source and extent of his cause of action’” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550. Internal quotations omitted.) However, the Complaint fails to do so here, therefore, the demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED.(3) Third Cause of Action: Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress“The law of negligent infliction of emotional distress in California is typically analyzed by reference to two theories of recovery: the ‘bystander’ theory and the ‘direct victim’ theory. The negligent causing of emotional distress is not an independent tort, but the tort of negligence. The traditional elements of duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages apply. Whether a defendant owes a duty of care is a question of law.” (Spates v. Dameron Hosp. Ass’n (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 213, ellipses, quotation marks, brackets, and paragraph breaks omitted.)As the second cause of action for negligence fails, so necessarily does the third. The demurrer is SUSTAINED as to this cause of action.Leave to AmendThe burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318 (“The burden of proving [that amendment is a] reasonable possibility is squarely on the plaintiff.”).) Plaintiff has not filed anopposition and has failed to show how the pleading can be successfully amended. Therefore, the court will not allow leave to amend.CONCLUSIONDefendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike Plaintiffs’ Complaint is SUSTAINED in its entirety. The Motion to Strike is GRANTED.