  Case Number:  19STCV02070    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
17, 2024                   TRIAL DATE: 
November 8, 2023
 
CASE:                         Latasha
Bracks v. The City of Los Angeles, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV02070 





















 
MOTION
FOR A NEW TRIAL



 
MOVING
PARTY:               Plaintiff
Latasha Bracks 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District
 
 
I.          PROCEDURAL
BACKGROUND
 
            On January
23, 2019, Plaintiff, Latasha Bracks, initiated this action against Defendant,
Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) for injuries arising from a slip
and fall while walking through the main hallway on Defendant’s premises.  Plaintiff alleges the floor of the hallway was
in a dangerous condition, and Defendant had actual or constructive notice of
the dangerous condition.
 
            On August 30,
2022, LAUSD filed this motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication.  Oral argument was
heard on September 25, 2023.  Thereafter,
the Court continued the hearing to October 16, 2023 to consider the arguments
made.  On October 16, 2023, the Court
granted LAUSD’s summary judgment motion.
 
            On November
9, 2023, judgment was entered in favor of LAUSD.  Plaintiff was served with Notice of the Entry
of Judgment on November 15, 2023. 
Plaintiff filed a Notice of Intention to Move for New Trial on November
27, 2023.
 
            On December
7, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for a new trial.  LAUSD filed an opposition.  Plaintiff replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD FOR NEW TRIAL
 
A motion for new trial asks the
trial court to reexamine one or more issues of fact or law after a trial and
decision by judge or jury.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 656, 657.)¿ A new trial motion
is also available to challenge judgments disposing of an action without trial
where an issue of fact or law has been decided, such as in the case of summary
judgment.¿ (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
858.)  “The right to a new trial is purely statutory, and a motion for a
new trial can be granted only on one of the grounds enumerated in the
statute.”  (Fomco, Inc. v. Joe Maggio, Inc. (1961) 55 Cal. 2d 162,
166.)  “As the motion for a new trial finds both its source and its
limitations in the statutes, the procedural steps prescribed by law for making
and determining such a motion are mandatory and must be strictly followed.” 
(Mercer v. Perez (1968) 68 Cal.2d 104, 118 [cleaned up]; Pacific
Trends Lamp & Lighting Products, Inc. v. J. White Inc. (1998) 65
Cal.App.4th 1131, 1135.) 
 
As set forth in Code of Civil
Procedure section 657, the grounds upon which a new trial may be ordered
include: 
 

Irregularity
     in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party, or any order of
     the court or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from
     having a fair trial. 


Misconduct
     of the jury; and whenever any one or more of the jurors have been induced
     to assent to any general or special verdict, or to a finding on any
     question submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the determination
     of chance, such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any one of
     the jurors. 


Accident
     or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against. 


Newly
     discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which
     he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at
     the trial. 


Excessive
     or inadequate damages. 


Insufficiency
     of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict
     or other decision is against law. 


Error
     in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party making the
     application. 

 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff moves for a new trial, arguing that granting LAUSD’s motion for
summary judgment was error in law because the evidence was insufficient to support
the ruling.[1]  The Court concludes a new trial is not
warranted.
 
In granting LAUSD’s motion for summary judgment, the Court found that
LAUSD did not have constructive notice of the dangerous condition.[2]
 Specifically, the Court found that LAUSD
presented the declarations of two employees to show the condition was not
obvious.  Fifteen minutes prior to
Plaintiff’s fall, an employee walked over the very same area and did not see a
spill.  Plaintiff also testified that she
did not see the spill.  Plaintiff failed
to rebut LAUSD’s evidence.
 
Plaintiff argues that the foregoing evidence was insufficient to grant
the summary judgment motion because the Court did not consider whether LAUSD
used due care in discovering the condition. 
This argument fails.[3]
 As stated in the Court’s October 16,
2023 ruling:  
 
“[T]he adequacy of LAUSD’s inspection is a “secondary” consideration in determining whether the entity had constructive notice
of a dangerous condition.  (State of
California v. Superior Court (1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 396, 400; see also Strongman
v. County of Kern (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 308, 313.)  As the court explained in State of
California: “In the instant case, it can be validly argued that there was a
triable issue on the question of inspection, but in determining whether there
is constructive notice, the method of inspection has been held to be secondary.
The primary and indispensable element of constructive notice is a showing that
the obvious condition existed a sufficient period of time before the
accident.” (263 Cal.App.2d at p. 400, original italics.).” (Emphasis
added.) 
 
Based on the
uncontroverted evidence, the dangerous condition was not obvious.  Neither party noticed the condition.  No evidence was presented to establish the threshold
elements of constructive notice.  (See Heskel
v. City of San Diego (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 313, 317 [“Whether the
dangerous condition was obvious and whether it existed for a sufficient period
of time are threshold elements to establish a claim of constructive notice.”].)
 Whether LAUSD used due care was
secondary.  Plaintiff does not establish
the evidence was insufficient. 
 
Plaintiff goes on to argue that the Court did not consider her expert’s
evidence on the dangerousness of the flooring itself.  This argument is unavailing.  First, the gravamen of Plaintiff’s case was
that she slipped on the wet substance on the floor, not because of the slippery
flooring underneath the puddle.  There
was no evidence provided to show that Plaintiff was unstable walking on any
other portion of the floor.  Second, as
discussed above, the threshold elements of constructive notice were not
established.  Plaintiff does not carry
her burden to show a new trial is warranted.
 
VI.       CONCLUSION
 
            The motion
for a new trial is DENIED.  
 
LAUSD to give notice.   
 
 
Dated:   January 17,
2024                        




¿ 


¿¿¿ 




¿ 


¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ 
¿ Judge of the Superior Court¿ 




 
 


