 Case Number:  23GDCV00858    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  D Tentative Ruling Calendar: 7Date: 1/10/2025Case No: 23 GDCV00858  Trial Date:   August 18, 2025Case Name: Khatagov v. Valet Service Unit, LLC, et al.   MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENEMoving Party:   Third Party Farmers Insurance ExchangeResponding Party: Plaintiff Kazbek Khatagov  (No Opposition)  RELIEF REQUESTED: Order allowing third party Farmer’s Insurance Exchange to intervene in this action, allowing it to file its proposed Complaint in Intervention and proposed Answer to Complaint. SUMMARY OF FACTS:Plaintiff Kazbek Khatogov alleges that in February 2022, while plaintiff was a patron of defendants G Lounge and Graff Restaurant and Banquet, Inc., the vehicle plaintiff had arrived in was provided to a valet service attended for parking the vehicle, which service was owned and operated by defendant Valet Service Unit, LLC.  Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff went to the valet service to request the vehicle owned by a friend of plaintiff, but defendant refused to provide the vehicle to plaintiff, and defendant Doe 1 began to verbally assault and threaten plaintiff, ultimately resulting in defendant Doe 1 physically attacking plaintiff and stabbing plaintiff’s abdomen in such fashion that plaintiff required surgery to save his life. Plaintiff alleges that defendants hired, managed, supervised and retained control over Doe 1 as an employee or agent, and knew or should have known of defendant’s propensity for violence, that defendant brought a weapon with him to work, and that defendant was going to cause injury to plaintiff, as the security guard that was in the vicinity of the stabbing saw the altercation preceding the stabbing and failed to prevent the incident and keep plaintiff safe from defendant Doe 1.  The complaint alleges causes of action for assault, battery, and negligence.The file shows that on October 30, 2024, plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint, substituting for the fictitious name Doe 1, the true name Gennaro’s Inc. On December 17, 2024, the parties submitted a Joint Stipulation, agreeing to amend the complaint to allege that defendant Gennaro’s, Inc. is Doe 4, rather than Doe 1, the first cause of action for assault and second cause of action for battery are dismissed with prejudice as against defendant Gennaro’s, Inc. and plaintiff’s request for punitive damages is stricken as against that defendant.   The stipulation was signed and filed as an order of the court on December 20, 2024. ANALYSIS: Moving party Farmers Insurance Exchange brings this motion for leave to intervene, arguing that it is an insurer which issued an insurance policy to Déjà Vu Restaurant and Banquet, Inc.  Farmers indicates that plaintiff alleges that Déjà vu Restaurant and Banquet, Inc. was somehow responsible for the incident, that the policy includes conditions that the insured defend the claims and cooperate in the defense of the claims, but that on April 2, 2024, Déjà Vu Restaurant and Banquet, Inc. became a suspended corporation in California so can no longer defend itself in this action, and Farmers accordingly seeks leave to intervene to prevent an default from being taken against the insured.  [Proa Decl., paras. 2-5].  CCP § 387, governing the procedure for intervention, provides, in pertinent part: “(a) For purposes of this section:(1) “Defendant” includes a cross-defendant.(2) “Plaintiff” includes a cross-complainant.(b) An intervention takes place when a nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a party to an action or proceeding between other persons by doing any of the following:(1) Joining a plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint.(2) Uniting with a defendant in resisting the claims of a plaintiff.(3) Demanding anything adverse to both a plaintiff and a defendant.(c) A nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or ex parte application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests.(d)(1) The court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied:(A) A provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene.(B) The person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person's ability to protect that interest, unless that person's interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing parties.(2) The court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.”The moving papers quotes from a statute, purporting to be CCP section 387(a), which language is not included in that subdivision as quoted. In any case, the insurer argues that it has a direct and immediate interest in the litigation for purposes of permissive intervention, because it stands to gain or lose by direct operation of the judgment against the insured, and that a defendant who has appeared but is no longer defending itself is analogous to a defendant who has not appeared.  There are serious problems with this application.  First, although the notice of motion seeks leave to file a complaint in intervention and an answer to the complaint, there is no copy of the proposed answer submitted with the moving papers, as required under CCP § 387 (c).  In addition, it is not clear why Farmers is seeking to intervene to defend on behalf of Déjà Vu Restaurant and Banquet, Inc., when this entity is not named as a defendant in this action.  The moving papers fail to submit a copy of any insurance policy, so that the court cannot confirm that the named insured is also a named party in this action.  Farmers seems to be arguing that the named insured is actually defendant Graff Restaurant and Banquet, Inc. or defendant G Lounge, but there is no argument or evidence offered for this position, and the file, while including several Doe Amendments, does not show that an entity of the name Déjà Vu Restaurant and Banquet, Inc. has been named as a defendant in this lawsuit.  The Answer to Complaint filed by G Lounge does not indicate that such an entity was wrongly sued by an incorrect name.  Ordinarily, such an application would be supported by documentary evidence establishing both that the insurer is responsible for the insured and that the insured faces potential liability in this action.  The court is aware that traditionally, insurers, although they have an interest in a case, were treated like simple creditors, which had no right to intervene in actions concerning debtors absent some indication that the case was not being adequately pursued.  See Fireman’s Fund v. Gerlach (1976) 56 Cal.App.3d 299.   However, in 2000, in response to Insurance Code § 11580, which provides that a judgment creditor may proceed directly against any liability insurance covering the defendant, insurers were permitted to intervene to prevent a default.   Reliance Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383.  Farmers here relies on Reliance in which the court of appeal set out the right to intervene rather broadly, based on the practical consequences of application of Insurance Code § 11580:“An insurer's right to intervene in an action against the insured, for personal injury or property damage, arises as a result of Insurance Code section 11580. Section 11580 provides that a judgment creditor may proceed directly against any liability insurance covering the defendant, and obtain satisfaction of the judgment up to the amount of the policy limits. (See Croskey et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Insurance Litigation (The RutterGroup) P 15:1028 et seq. (rev. # 1, 1999).) Thus, where the insurer may be subject to a direct action under Insurance Code section 11580 by a judgment creditor who has or will obtain a default judgment in a third party action against the insured, intervention is appropriate. ( Clemmer v. Hartford Insurance Co. (1978) 22 Cal. 3d 865, 884-885 [151 Cal. Rptr. 285, 587 P.2d 1098].) The insurer may either intervene in that action prior to judgment or move under Code of Civil Procedure section 473 to set aside the default judgment. (22 Cal. 3d at pp. 884-885.) Where an insurer has failed to intervene in the underlying action or to move to set aside the default judgment, the insurer is bound by the default judgment. ( Id. at p. 886.)”Reliance, at 386-387. It is not explained here how the insured, Déjà Vu Restaurant and Banquet, Inc., is facing a potential default situation.  The court also notes that in connection with a previous discovery motion, there were representations at the hearing that defendant G Lounge was a suspended corporation, but pursuing reinstatement, so that the court ordered that discovery responses were due “30 days from reinstatement of G Lounge, but no later than 120 days from today.”  [Minute Order 12/06/2024, p. 1].  There does not appear to be any imminent default or equivalent with respect to this party at this time.  The motion will accordingly be denied for failure to establish by any type of evidence that the moving party has any interest whatsoever in this lawsuit, or that the insurer is facing a potential default situation.   RULING:   [No Opposition]UNOPPOSED Motion for Leave to Intervene is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.   The notice of motion seeks leave to file a proposed Answer to Complaint, but the proposed answer has not been submitted to the Court, as required under CCP § 387 (c).  The motion also fails to establish that the proposed intervenor claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of this action and that the intervenor is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede its ability to protect that interest, or that its interest is not adequately represented by the existing parties.  The motion argues that the proposed intervenor insures an entity, Déjà Vu Restaurant and Banquet, Inc., without submitting any argument or evidence connecting that entity to a named defendant in this action, and without sufficiently explaining how the intervenor’s interest or ability to protect its interest in the disposition of this action is being impeded.    DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 