 Case Number:  21STCV36132    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     5 Date:               1/10/2024   Case No:         21 STCV36132  Trial Date:  February 18, 2025  Case Name: Wood v. Greystar Real Estate Partners, LLC, et al.   MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT(Or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication)   Moving Party:             Defendants Greystar Real Estate Partners, LLC and CP IVGlendale, LLC       Responding Party: Plaintiff Sashile Wood RELIEF REQUESTED:   Entry of summary judgment in favor of defendants Greystar Real Estate Partners, LLC and CP IV Glendale, LLC as to, and dismissing the complaint of plaintiff Sashile Wood. In the alternative, summary adjudication as to each of plaintiff’s causes of action  CAUSES OF ACTION:  from Complaint   1) Negligence 2) Negligence Per Se 3) Strict Products Liability 4) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability5) Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 6) Nuisance 7) NIED 8) Statutory Breach of Warranty of Habitability 9) Breach of Contract SUMMARY OF FACTS:Plaintiff Sashile Wood alleges that defendant CP IV Glendale, LLC  (CP IV) is the owner of an apartment building located on Central Avenue in Glendale (premises), and that defendant Greystar Real Estate Partners, LLC (Greystar) is a real estate management company which operated as the building manager of the premises (collectively, the premises defendants). Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff entered into a lease agreement with the premises defendants to reside at the premises, a luxury apartment building.  Plaintiff alleges that in accordance with the Washer Dryer Addendum to the lease, plaintiff’s unit would come with a clothes washer and dryer supplied by defendants, and that the washer dryer supplied by the premises defendants was manufactured by defendant Electrolux Home Products, Inc. (Electrolux).  The complaint alleges that in October of 2019 plaintiff began to suffer from unexplained illnesses and rashes and abrasions all over her body, and discovered that an environmental hazard had formed in her washer, including mold and other bacteria.   Plaintiff sought the care and treatment of medical professionals who diagnosed plaintiff with a number of medical issues caused by the environmental hazard in the washer at the premises supplied and manufactured by defendants.  Defendant Electrolux has filed a cross-complaint against Greystar and CP IV as cross-defendants for indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief.  On January 2, 2025, plaintiff filed a Request for Dismissal of this action without prejudice as to defendant Electrolux only. The file shows that on June 7, 2024, the court heard four motions to compel responses to discovery from plaintiff, brought by defendants CP IV and Greystar.  Defendant CP IV made motions to compel plaintiff’s responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and to deem admitted its Requests for Admissions, Set One.  Defendant Greystar made a motion to compel plaintiff’s responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two, and to deem admitted its Requests for Admissions, Set Two.   The motions were filed and served on March 29, 2024, concerning discovery which had been served in February of 2024.  There was no timely opposition to the motions filed by plaintiff prior to the hearing on June 7, 2024. The unopposed motions were granted, and plaintiff was ordered to serve responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One from defendant CP IV and to serve responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two from defendant Greystar within ten days.  The subject sets of Requests for Admissions were deemed admitted.  Monetary sanctions were also awarded against plaintiff and plaintiff’s attorney of record, payable within thirty days.  Plaintiff then filed a motion for reconsideration of the sanctions ordered against plaintiff and plaintiff’s attorney of record, and in favor of defendants CP IV and Greystar, which was heard on August 23, 2024.  The motion was not considered by the court for failure to file a declaration or affidavit in support of the motion.  The minute order noted that even if the motion had been considered, it would have been denied:“Even if the Court were to consider the motion, it would be denied. There are no new or different facts, circumstances or law presented with the motion having any bearing on the court’s determination of the previous orders. Even if the court were to consider the motion and reconsider its previous rulings, the rulings would not change. There is no dispute here that plaintiff had failed to timely respond to discovery, entitling moving defendants to the discovery orders issued. The sanctions awarded against plaintiff were properly ordered based on the discovery statutes. The sanctions awarded against plaintiff’s attorney of record are not challenged in the notice of motion, which seeks only reconsideration of ‘the issuance of sanctions made on Plaintiff.’” [Minute Order 08/23/2025].  Defendants CP IV and Greystar now move for summary judgment/adjudication, arguing that plaintiff has conclusively admitted that she suffered no harm or damages attributable to defendants, that defendants did not breach any duty owed to plaintiff, that none of defendants’ conduct was a substantial factor in causing any injury or damages, that the Unit was habitable, and that defendants did not breach any contract.   ANALYSIS: In response to the current motion, plaintiff has filed an untimely document entitled “Plaintiff’s Request to Withdraw Admissions Pursuant to CCP section 2033.300 & Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment by Defendant Greystar Real Estate Partners, LLC,” arguing that the court should allow plaintiff to withdraw her admissions pursuant to CCP section 2033.300, and if the court does so,  such an order would then render the motion for summary judgment/adjudication without the support of plaintiff’s admissions, and without factual support for the requested relief, warranting denial of the motion.  As noted, the request/opposition is untimely.  Specifically, with respect to a motion for summary judgment, CCP section 437c(b)(2) provides:“Any opposition to the motion shall be served and filed not less than 14 days preceding the noticed or continued date of hearing, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise.” Here, the request/opposition was filed and served by electronic service on December 31, 2024, for a January 10, 2025 hearing date.   Fourteen days before the hearing fell on December 27, 2024.  The request/opposition was accordingly filed and served four days late, only ten days prior to the hearing.   This situation has been inconvenient for the court and the courtroom staff, as well as unfair to the moving parties, depriving them of several days within which to file and serve timely reply papers.  Defendants have filed a timely reply pointing out the untimeliness of plaintiff’s response.   Moreover, the request for affirmative relief, an order permitting withdrawal of the admissions, expressly requires a noticed motion, which must be made as a stand-alone motion, not as a request in opposition to a motion.  See CCP section 2033.300 (a) (“A party may withdraw or amend an admission made in response to a request for admission only on leave of court granted after notice to all parties.”).  The statute expressly requires that such relief may be granted only after the required “notice” for a motion for affirmative relief, that is, such a motion must be filed and served sixteen court days prior to the hearing, which procedures were not followed here.  See CCP section 1005(b). It is not clear why plaintiff did not timely seek a continuance of the hearing, or ex parte relief to file a proper motion under CCP section 2033.300 prior to the hearing.  The court is nevertheless inclined to continue the hearing on the motion, so that a noticed motion for the relief sought in the opposition can be heard prior to the court considering the potentially dispositive motion for summary judgment/adjudication.  The court will order the trial date of February 18, 2025 continued for at a minimum of 120 days.  The hearing on the motion for summary judgment/adjudication will be continued for a period of ninety days.  Plaintiff will be ordered to file a noticed motion under CCP section 2033.300, with full statutory notice, within seven days of this hearing on January 10, 2025, by no later than January 17, 2025, which motion must be served according to notice requirements of the Code (i.e., additional days for service by electronic service, mail).  The motion shall be scheduled to be heard within 60 days of filing.  If a hearing reservation is not available within that time, plaintiff must promptly apply ex parte for a hearing date which complies with this minute order or for an order shorting time to have the motion heard.  The court does not consider the merits of the argument under CCP section 2033.300, but at this point anticipates that if relief were to be ultimately granted under that section, such relief  would likely be conditioned on the payment by plaintiff to the moving defendants of the expense incurred to bring the motion for summary judgment/adjudication based on the requests for admissions which were permitted by plaintiff to be deemed admitted, but then sought to be withdrawn.   See CCP § 2033.300(c).RECOMMENDED RULING:Defendants Greystar Real Estate Partners, LLC and CP IV Glendale, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment Against Plaintiff Sashile Wood, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication, is CONTINUED to April 18, 2025  (90 Days).  Good cause appearing, the trial date of February 18, 2025 is continued to May 19 2025 at 9:00am (120 days). The FSC is set for May 15, 2025 at 9:00am. An OSC Re: ADR Compliance is set for May 8,2025 at 8:30amPlaintiff Sashile Wood is ordered to file with the Court within seven days, on or before January 17, 2025, and serve on all interested parties on sufficient statutory notice, a stand-alone motion for relief pursuant to CCP section 2033.300, with all supporting documentation and evidence.The hearing on the motion pursuant to CCP section 2033.300 is to be scheduled no later than 60 days after the filing and service of the motion.   If the hearing cannot be reserved within that timeframe on the Court Reservation System, plaintiff must promptly file an appropriate ex part application seeking a hearing date pursuant to this order or an order shortening time.  If the motion pursuant to CCP section 2033.300 is ultimately granted, the Court anticipates that such relief would likely be conditioned on the payment by plaintiff to the moving defendants of the expense incurred to bring the current motion for summary judgment/adjudication.  See CCP section 2033.300(c).DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 