 Case Number:  24NNCV03828    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     2 Date:            1/10/2025   Case No:      24 NNCV03828  Trial Date: None Set Case Name:  Harris v. Platinum Loan Servicing, Inc., et al. DEMURRERMOTION TO STRIKE  Moving Party:             Defendant Platinum Loan Servicing, Inc.        Responding Party: Plaintiff Cole Harris as Successor Trustee of the Harris Family Irrevocable Trust Dated 11/8/11     (No Opposition) RELIEF REQUESTED:   Strike Complaint   Sustain demurrer to Complaint CAUSES OF ACTION:  from Complaint 1) Quiet Title, Code of Civ. Proc. Section 761.0202) Wrongful Foreclosure Code of Civ. Proc. Sections 2923.5 and 2924.9 SUMMARY OF FACTS: Plaintiff Cole Harris as Successor Trustee of the Harris Family Irrevocable Trust dated 11/8/11 alleges that plaintiff is the rightful and lawful owner of real property in San Marino, which is plaintiff’s personal and principal residence.  The complaint alleges that defendant Platinum Loan Servicing is the purported current loan servicer of the mortgage loan and defendant Oakhurst Opportunity Lending Fund I, LP and defendant De Montfort Group are  purported current beneficiaries of the mortgage loan.  Plaintiff alleges that in October of 2021 plaintiff obtained a collateral loan on the subject property from defendant Oakhurst, memorialized by a Deed of Trust, which was recorded, and in February of 2023 plaintiff obtained a collateral loan on the subject property from defendant De Montfort Group, which was also memorialized by a Deed of Trust, which was recorded.  The complaint alleges that on December 12, 2023, a Notice of Default and Election to Sell was recorded, that on January 31, 2024 a Notice of Trustee Sale was recorded, that on March 19, 2024 a Notice of Trustee Sale was recorded, with a sale date set for March 22, 2024, that on March 22, 2024, a Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale was recorded, and that on May 7, 2024 a Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale was recorded.  The complaint alleges that the subject property is in plaintiff’s trust and is currently bank owned.   Plaintiff alleges that during the period from November of 2023 to April of 2024, defendant Oakhurst engaged in dual tracking and violated the Homeowner’s Bill of Rights.  The complaint indicates that plaintiff wants all of the mortgage loans removed, and in their place a mortgage collateral loan.  The file shows that on December 20, 2024, the court heard a demurrer and motion to strike filed by defendant Oakhurst Opportunity Lending Fund I, LP, which argued, among other matters, that the complaint was filed in violation of California law, as the law prohibits trustees such as plaintiff here from pursuing civil litigation matters in pro per.  The court granted the motion to strike the pleading on this ground, and plaintiff was permitted thirty days leave to amend to correct the error, if possible.  An amended pleading has not yet been filed.  The file shows that on February, 19, 2024, plaintiff filed a Substitution of Attorney substituting for former legal representative, plaintiff representing himself, new legal representative Felahy Trial Lawyers.  The current demurrer and motion to strike are brought by a separate defendant, defendant  Platinum Loan Servicing, Inc.   ANALYSIS:Motion to Strike  Defendant Platinum Loan Servicing, Inc. brings this joint motion to strike and, in the alternative, demurrer. With respect to the motion to strike, under CCP§ 436:“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to CCP § 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” Defendant argues that the pleading is not filed in conformity with the laws of the State of California, as brought by Cole Harris as Trustee of a trust, with Harris engaging in the unauthorized practice of law by filing and prosecuting the complaint in pro per. It is recognized that:“A trustee or executor who is not a lawyer cannot appear in pro per in legal proceedings to protect assets of the estate or trust ‘because in this capacity such trustee would be representing interests of others and would therefore be engaging in the unauthorized practice of law.’  Ziegler v. Nickel (1998) 64 CA4th 545, 548…(emphasis added); Hansen v. Jacobsen (2003) 114 CA4th 618, 621,…(citing text); see Bus. & Prof. C. § 6125 (unauthorized practice of law)]…”California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group, 2024 rev) section 2:13.5, italics in the original. Under Business & Professions Code section 6125: “No person shall practice law in California unless the person is an active licensee of the State Bar.” In the recent case Estate of Sanchez (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 331, the court of appeal held that a probate court had properly granted a motion to strike a complaint filed in a probate proceeding by the personal representative of an estate who pursued a partition action with respect to real property to which she was a tenant in common and estate beneficiary.  The probate court found that the complaint, although brought in a probate matter, “primarily consists of civil claims typically raised in a civil action.”  Sanchez, at 338.  The court concluded that the representative, “a non-attorney, cannot properly prosecute those claims in propria persona in any venue.”  Sanchez, at 338.  Here, the matter is being pursued by Cole Harris as Trustee, “in Pro Se” in this civil matter.  [Complaint, Caption—Address box].   This method is improper, as the trust must be represented by an attorney.  This situation appears particularly improper for only one of the successor trustees to be bringing this action, when the complaint itself alleges that there is another beneficiary and named “Successor Co-Trustee” of the trust, Ying Chen, and that the Deeds of Trust for both loans used Chen as a “Co-Trustee,” but that Chen “refused to act and be a Co-Trustee.”  [Complaint, paras. 11, 12, 25].  This posture suggests that this is a situation which requires protection for all interested parties with respect to the trust, particularly if the interests of the parties diverge.   The motion to strike accordingly is granted on this ground. The plaintiff is permitted one opportunity to amend to file this action through an attorney licensed to practice law, which the court anticipates plaintiff will be able to accomplish now that plaintiff is being represented in this matter by a representative with a State Bar Number. Demurrer Defendant brings a demurrer to the complaint on the same grounds discussed above. Since the motion to strike is granted as requested, the demurrer is deemed moot. RULING:[No Opposition]UNOPPOSED Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Complaint is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND on the ground the Complaint was filed by Plaintiff Cole Harris as Successor Trustee of the Harris Family Irrevocable Trust Dated 11/8/11, in Pro Se, when the interests of the Trust must be represented in this matter by an attorney. Thirty days leave to amend.   The parties are ordered to meet and confer in full compliance with CCP §§ 430.41 and 435.5 before any further demurrer or motion to strike may be filed.  Any future demurrer or motion to strike must be brought as separate motions, with separate court hearing date reservations and the payment of separate filing fees.  Filing such motions jointly is improper, and it also unfairly manipulates the court reservation system, and it deprives the Court of filing fees to which it is entitled.   DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 