 Case Number:  22NWCV01129    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  C Maria Rosario Rodriguez vs Sam's West, Inc.
Case No.: 22NWCV01129
Hearing Date: February 13, 2024 @ 10:30 AM
 
#10 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Sam’s West’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED. 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background
This is a slip and fall incident. Plaintiff Maria Rosario
Rodriguez (“Plaintiff”) alleges general negligence and premises liability
against Defendant Sam’s West (“Defendant”). 
Sam’s West operates a whole-sale department store located
at 5871 Firestone Blvd, South Gate, California 90280, known as Sam’s Club. (SSUMF,
¶ 1.) On August 10, 2021, Plaintiff alleges she slipped and fell near pallets
of packaged bottled water while shopping at the store. (SSUMF, ¶ 2.) Four
minutes before the incident, a customer tossed and kicked a package of water
bottles into a shopping cart. (SSUMF, ¶ 8.) The customer walked around the
pallets and noticed the package was leaking. (SSUMF, ¶ 9.) The customer
subsequently placed the damaged merchandise back on the pallet. (SSUMF, ¶ 10.) The
customer left a trail of water beginning where he initially loaded the
merchandise into his cart and ending where he placed the damaged merchandise
back on the pallet. (SSUMF, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff slipped where the damaged
merchandise was placed back on the pallets. (SSUMF, ¶ 12.) 
Before the pallets were placed onto the floor, the floor is
cleaned with a floor scrubber. (SSUMF, ¶ 30.) As the
pallets of water are placed on the floor, an employee removes the shrink wrap
around the water bottle packages by cutting open the shrink wrap. (SSUMF, ¶ 31.)
Usually a box cutter is used to cut the shrink-wrap off the pallets of water
bottle packages. (SSUMF, ¶ 32.) At approximately 11:28 a.m., the forklift
driver backs into the L-1 pallet of water bottles and pushes it up against
other merchandise. (SSUMF,
¶ 33.) It takes the
forklift driver several attempts to jostle the L-1 pallet of water bottles into
position. (SSUMF, ¶ 34.)

Legal Standard 
Summary
judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a Defendants
seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one or more
elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of
action.”  (Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A Defendants may satisfy this burden
by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of
evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v.
Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the Defendants
meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or
defense thereto.”  (Id.)   
 
The
moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A Defendants
moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of
the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete
defense to that cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p).)  A
Defendants may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence
of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff
lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a
Defendants chooses the latter option, he or she must present evidence “and not
simply point out that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain
needed evidence….” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66.)
 
[A]
Defendants may simply show the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element
of the cause of action “by showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus, rather
than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation), a
Defendants moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
Defendants may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The Defendants may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential
element of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
Defendants’ initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other words, a Defendants may
show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support an element of the cause
of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery
responses from which an absence of evidence may be reasonably inferred.
(Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.) 
 
Thus,
a moving Defendants has two means by which to shift the burden of proof under
the summary judgment statute: “The Defendants may rely upon factually
insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff
cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued upon.
[Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the Defendants may utilize the tried and true
technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential element of the plaintiff's
cause of action.”
(Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.) 
 
Until
the moving Defendants has discharged its burden of proof, the opposing
plaintiff has no burden to come forward with any evidence. Once the moving
Defendants has discharged its burden as to a particular cause of action,
however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action.  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary
judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and
those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of
summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico
v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
Discussion 
In this Motion for Summary Judgment, Defendant argues Plaintiff
cannot establish the elements for Breach of Duty and Legal Causation, and
Plaintiff is unable to establish Sam’s West had actual or constructive notice
of the alleged dangerous or defective condition. 
In order to establish actual notice, Plaintiff must prove
Sam’s West created the dangerous condition, was informed of the dangerous
condition, or discovered the dangerous condition. (Ortega v. Kmart Corp.
(2001) 26 Cal. 4th 1200.)  Defendant
contends there is no evidence that the dangerous condition was brought to its
attention before the incident. 
Defendant argues the condition at issue was created by a
customer approximately four (4) minutes before the incident. (SSUMF, ¶ 7.) The
customer tossed and kicked a package of water bottles into a shopping cart.
(SSUMF, ¶ 8.) The customer walked around the pallets and noticed the package
was leaking. (SSUMF, ¶9.) The customer subsequently placed the damaged
merchandise back on the pallet. (SSUMF, ¶ 10.) The customer left a trail of
water beginning where he initially loaded the merchandise into his cart and
ending where he placed the damaged merchandise back on the pallet. (SSUMF, ¶ 11.)
Plaintiff slipped where the damaged merchandise was placed back on the pallets.
(SSUMF, ¶12.) The area was inspected and cleaned by uniformed employees
multiple times. Employees used a dry mop around the area approximately
twenty-nine (29) minutes before the incident. (SSUMF, ¶ 13.) Employees
inspected and cleaned the area again eleven (11) minutes before the incident.
(SSUMF, ¶ 14.) Also, an employee pulling a pallet jack walked over the area
approximately two (2) minutes before the condition was created, or six (6)
minutes before the incident. (SSUMF, ¶ 15.) The inspections of the area, the
creation of the condition, and Plaintiff’s alleged incident are all captured by
surveillance video. (SSUMF, ¶ 16.)
Procedures emanating from an experienced and successful
enterprise have been found to provide evidence of what a prudent entrepreneur
in the same business would consider “reasonable standards of inspection and
maintenance.” (Hasson v. Ford Motor Company (1977) 19 Cal.3d 530, 547,
overruled on other grounds in Soule v. General Motors Corporation (1994)
8 Cal.4th 548.) Defendant argues that its policy requires its employees to be
constantly mindful of the condition of the store and to immediately address any
potentially dangerous condition found during operating hours. It is also Defendant’s
policy to conduct safety sweeps of each department twice every hour.
Based thereon, the Court determines Defendant has made a
prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.  The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of
fact.  
Where a dangerous condition of property which causes injury
has been created by the negligence of the owner or his employee, the owner
cannot be permitted to assert that he had no knowledge of the dangerous
condition as such knowledge is imputed to him. (Hatfield v. Levy Bros.
(1941) 18 Cal.2d 798, 806.) Plaintiff argues there is evidence that Defendant
was negligent in either puncturing the water bottle package or in placing a
punctured water bottle onto its sales floor. 
Plaintiff points to the fact that when an employee picked up the pallet after
the incident, there was evidence of a puddle of water under the pallet. (SSUMF,
¶¶ 45-50.)  According to Plaintiff, this
is evidence that the water leak was not caused by a customer; rather, the water
leak was caused by Defendant puncturing the water package, or by Defendant placing
an already leaking package onto its sales floor.  Plaintiff also points to the employee who removed
the shrink wrap around the water bottle packages by cutting open the shrink
wrap (SSUMF, ¶ 31) and the forklift driver who backed into the pallet of water
bottles and pushed it up against other merchandise (SSUMF, ¶ 33).  Based thereon, the Court determines that
Plaintiff has produced evidence showing a triable issue of material fact.  There is a conflict in the evidence which is
more appropriately resolved by a jury.    
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
DENIED. 