 Case Number:  22NWCV00889    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  C Patricia Garcia vs Us Motor Works, LLC, et al.
Case No.: 22NWCV00889
Hearing Date: February 13, 2024 @ 9:30 AM
 
#4
Tentative Ruling 
I.               
Plaintiff Patricia Garcia’s Motion to
Compel Further Response to Request for Production is GRANTED in part.
II.             
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Response to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED in part. 
III.           
Sanctions are DENIED.
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background
On or about September 26, 2022, Plaintiff Patricia Garcia
(“Plaintiff”) filed the underlying action alleging workplace discrimination and
harassment against her employer, Defendant US Motor Works, LLC (“Defendant
MotorWorks”).  
On May 22, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant MotorWorks with
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories (Set One) and Request for Production of
Documents (Set One), as well as four other sets of discovery. (Ritivoiu Decl.
for RFP, ¶ 2, Exhibit A; Ritivoiu Decl. for Special Interrogatories, ¶ 2,
Exhibit A.) 
On July 6, 2023, Plaintiff was served with Defendant
MotorWorks’s verified responses.  Defendant
MotorWork agreed to extend the 45-day deadline to file the instant motion to
compel to 9/22/2023. (Ritivoiu Decl. for RFP, ¶ 3, Exhibit C; Ritivoiu Decl.
for Special Interrogatories, ¶ 3, Exhibit C.)
On July 13, 2023, Plaintiff sent a meet and confer letter
addressing defects in the responses. Thereafter, the parties communicated in
writing about the issues raised in Plaintiff’s July 13 meet and confer letter.
Meet and Confer Requirement 
A
motion¿to compel further responses to requests for production “shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(b)(2).)¿ The declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the
motion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)¿  
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has fulfilled the meet and
confer requirement.
Separate Statement 
A motion to compel further
responses requires a separate statement.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(a).) Plaintiff properly filed a separate statement.
Legal Standard 
A
party may make a demand for production of documents
and propound interrogatories without leave of court at any time 10 days after
the service of the summons on, or appearance by, the party to whom the demand
is directed, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.020, subd. (b);
Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.020, subd. (b).) The demand for production of documents
is not limited by number, but the request must comply with the formatting
requirements in Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.030.
 
The party whom the request is propounded upon is required to
respond within 30 days after service of a demand, but the parties are allowed
to informally agree to an extension and confirm any such agreement in writing.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.060, subd.
(a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.070, subd. (a) - (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.070,
subd. (a) - (b).) 
 
If a party fails to timely respond to a request for production or
interrogatories, the party to whom the request is directed waives any right to
exercise the option to produce writings under Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230, and
waives any objection, including one based on privilege or on the protection for
work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (a).)  
 
Discussion 
I.               
Production of
Documents 
Request 45: All
DOCUMENTS that support, refer to, relate to, the names, phone numbers and
addresses of all of YOUR employees from August 2021 to November 2021, including
forms EDD form DE 9C, payroll registers, lists of employees.
Plaintiff argues this demand is material and relevant to
establish the facts and evidence of the hostile workplace condition in the
course of Plaintiff’s employment.  Defendant argues that the information requested
is irrelevant and that wage information in particular raises privacy
concerns.  The Court determines that Plaintiff’s
request is within the proper scope of discovery, except for wage information which
shall be redacted from the response.  
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel Further Response to Request for Production is GRANTED in part.  
II.             
Special
Interrogatories 
Special Interrogatory No. 3: IDENTIFY
each PERSON who worked at the WORKPLACE during the same hours and dates which
PLAINTIFF had worked for YOU for the past four years of PLAINTIFF’S
employment with YOU. As to this set of interrogatories, the term IDENTIFY when
in CAPITAL LETTERS and used in connection with PERSON(s) shall mean a request
to provide the name and contact information including address, phone number,
e-mail address, as well as their job title. The term PERSON shall mean any
natural person, corporation, partnership, or other entity including any entity
that has a separate identity, recognized by law or in fact to have legal rights
and obligations. As to this set of interrogatories, the term WORKPLACE shall
mean YOUR business location at 14722 ANSON AVE SANTA FE SPRINGS, CA 90670 and
all locations identified in response to special interrogatory 2.
Plaintiff argues this demand is material and relevant to
establish the facts and evidence of the hostile workplace condition in the
course of Plaintiff’s employment. 
In opposition, Defendant
MotorWorks argues that the discovery requested imposes a “massive imposition”
upon it and infringes on the privacy rights of its personnel. Moreover, it
contends that little can be gleaned from witnesses who have never worked
alongside Plaintiff or have little to no recollection of the time their
employment with Plaintiff overlapped.
The Court determines that Plaintiff’s request for four
years of employment information is overbroad. 
The request will be limited to the four-month period from August 2021 to
November 2021.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel Further Response to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED in part. 
Sanctions

The
court shall impose a monetary sanction against the party who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories or
demand for production of documents unless the party subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust.
(Code of Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (d), 2031.310, subd. (h), 2033.290,
subd. (d).) 
Given the overbreadth of Plaintiff’s
Special Interrogatory No. 3, the Court finds that Defendant acted with
substantial justification in opposing the motion.  No sanctions are imposed.  
 