  Case Number:  19NWCV00633    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  C Myung Sik Kim vs S&H Business Management,
Inc., et al.
Case No.: 19NWCV00633
Hearing Date: February 13, 2024 @ 9:30 AM
 
#1 
Tentative Ruling 
I.               
On its own motion, and without opposition,
the Court appoints a Discovery Referee for all discovery purposes in this
action.  All costs shall be borne by
Defendant S&H Business Management, Inc.
II.             
The parties shall submit up to three nominees
for appointment as a referee within 10 days of this order.  Any objections shall be submitted within 15
days of this order.

III.           
Plaintiff Myung Sik Kim’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set Two) is CONTINUED to April
30, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C.
IV.          
The parties are not foreclosed from
seeking a trial continuance in Dept. SE-F.
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background
This is a shareholder derivative action filed on August 8,
2019. On May 16, 2022, Plaintiff Myung Sik Kim (“Plaintiff”) filed a second
amended complaint against Defendant S&H Business Management, Inc.
(“Defendant”) alleging: (1) Involuntary Dissolution of a Corporation; (2)
Accounting; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4) Aiding and Abetting Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; (5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty- Duty of Care, Loyalty, and Good
Faith; (6) Constructive Trust; and (7) Declaratory Relief.
On May 11, 2023, Plaintiff propounded Special
Interrogatories, Set Two (“SROG 2”) on Defendant S&H Business Management,
Inc. (“S&H”) (Ex A, Declaration of Angie Kim (“AKIM Decl.”). Plaintiff also
propounded Requests for Production Set 2 (“RFP 2”). SROG 2 contained 149
contention interrogatories to S&H (Nos. 175 to 323) consisting of 51
interrogatories requesting specific facts (“Fact Interrogatories), 49
interrogatories requesting witnesses to the responses to Fact Interrogatories
(“Witness Interrogatories”), and 49 interrogatories requesting specific
documents in support of the responses to Fact Interrogatories (“Document
Interrogatories.”) (Ex 2, AKIM Decl.)
On July 11, 2023, Plaintiff received S&H’s Responses to
Special Interrogatories (Set Two). 
On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff moved to compel further
responses on 38 of the 49 Witness Interrogatories, 4 of the 49 Document
Interrogatories, and 4 of the 51 Fact Interrogatories that Defendant has failed
to supplement. 
In its order dated January 23,
2024, the Court noted Plaintiff has propounded 323 Special
Interrogatories upon Defendant S&H. (Choi Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff has filed
two separate motions to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories
(Set Two), both scheduled for January 23, 2024. Plaintiff argues that as a 50%
owner of S&H, she has a right to review S&H’s records, but Defendants
are denying her all access to them. Defendants argue that Plaintiff is abusing
the discovery process by propounding a “massive” amount of discovery.
Defendants contend Plaintiff has twice been given access to tens of thousands
of documents under the authority of Corporations Code Section 1600. Plaintiff
seeks $17,600.00 in monetary sanctions against Defendants and Defendants seek
$4,200.00 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff for misuse of the discovery
process. Six additional motions to compel further responses are reserved for
March 30, 2024, three additional motions to compel further responses are
reserved for July 16, 2024, a Motion to Compel In Person Deposition of Person
Most Qualified is reserved for August 15, 2024, and three additional Motions to
Compel Further Discovery Responses are reserved for September 5, 2024. The
court has already addressed two prior motions for further responses and a
motion to vacate the order to compel further responses. Prior meet and confer
efforts have failed.  Based thereon, the Court scheduled today’s
hearing for the parties to show cause why a Discovery Referee should not be
appointed.  
Plaintiff Myung
Sik Kim agrees that the appointment of a Discovery
Referee would be appropriate and the most efficient way to address discovery
issues in the case.  However, Plaintiff Kim argues that Defendant S&H should bear
the costs of the Discovery Referee.  
No opposition has been filed by Defendants as
of February 9, 2024.  
 
Discussion 
 
Absent agreement of all parties, courts
may not make blanket referrals, except “in the unusual case where a majority of
factors” favor reference, including: “(1)
there are multiple issues to be resolved; (2) there are multiple motions to be
heard simultaneously; (3) the present motion is only one in a continuum of
many; (4) the number of documents to be reviewed (especially in issues based on
assertions of privilege) make the inquiry inordinately time-consuming.” (Taggares v. Superior Court (1998) 62
Cal.App.4th 94, 105.) “Where one or more of the above factors unduly impact the
court’s time and/or limited resources, the court is clearly within its
discretion to make an appropriate reference.” (Id. at p. 106.) “When the court in any pending action
determines that it is necessary for the court to appoint a referee to hear and
determine any and all discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery in
the action and to report findings and make a recommendation thereon.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 639, subd. (a)(5).) Appointment requires a court finding of “exceptional
circumstances.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 639,
subd. (d)(2).) 
 
A.  
Grounds for Appointment of
Discovery Referee
 
Having received no
opposition from the parties, and for the reasons stated in the Court’s January
23, 2024 order, supra, the Court finds exceptional circumstances exist
for the appointment of a Discovery Referee pursuant to Code Civ. Pro. § 639,
subd. (a)(5).  The Discovery Referee is
appointed for all discovery purposes in the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 639, subd. (c).)  The parties shall submit up to
three nominees for appointment as a referee within 10 days of this order.  Any objections to the other party’s nominees shall
be submitted within 15 days of this order. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 640.) 

B.  
Costs
 
Plaintiff Kim argues that
Defendant S&H should bear the costs of the Discovery Referee.  Plaintiff Kim contends she is a 50%
shareholder of S&H and ordering S&H to pay for costs would be the
equivalent of apportioning costs equally between Plaintiff Kim and Defendant
Byung Ha Chang, the other 50% shareholder of S&H.  
“When a referee is appointed pursuant to Section
639, at any time after a determination of ability to pay is made as specified
in paragraph (6) of subdivision (d) of Section 639, the court may order the parties to pay the fees of referees
… in any manner determined by the court to be fair and reasonable, including an
apportionment of the fees among the parties. For purposes of this section, the
term “parties” does not include parties’ counsel.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 645.1.) 

“Either a finding that no
party has established an economic inability to pay a pro rata share of the
referee’s fee or a finding that one or more parties has established an economic
inability to pay a pro rata share of the referee’s fees and that another party
has agreed voluntarily to pay that additional share of the referee’s fee. A
court shall not appoint a referee at a cost to the parties if neither of these
findings is made.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 639, subd. (d)(6)(A).) 
Here, Plaintiff Kim has
provided evidence that she is unable to pay a pro rata share of the referee’s
fee. (Myung Sik Kim Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, 23-24.) Defendants have not opposed the
appointment of a referee or Plaintiff Kim’s request that S&H bear all costs
associated with the Discovery Referee.  The
Court determines that requiring Defendant S&H to bear costs is fair and
reasonable because Plaintiff Kim and Defendant Chang are equal owners of S&H.
Accordingly, Defendant S&H
is ordered to bear all costs associated with the Discovery Referee.
 
 
 