 Case Number:  24CHCV00170    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  F51 MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION
SUBPOENA

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 24CHCV00170

 
Motion
Filed: 4/30/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Alice Matsui, by and through her successor-in-interest, Warren Matsui
(“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants
Nandini Assisted Living, Inc.; and Narinder Kumar (collectively, “Defendants”)
NOTICE:
OK
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An order quashing Defendants’
4/18/24 deposition subpoena for production of business records, propounded and
served on non-party deponent Physicians Preferred Hospice, Inc; or,
alternatively, a protective order limiting the documents that the
deponent is required to produce to non-privileged documents.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The unopposed motion is granted.
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an elder abuse action in which Plaintiff alleges
that on 1/24/23, while she was a resident at and under the care of Defendants’ Residential
Care Facility for the Elderly, Defendants failed to properly provide care for
Plaintiff when her oxygen levels were depleted, thereby causing her significant
injury. (Compl. ¶¶ 15, 24–28.)
 
On 1/17/24, Plaintiff filed her complaint, alleging the
following causes of action against Defendants: (1) Elder Abuse; and (2)
Negligence. On 3/1/24, Defendants filed their answer.
 
On 4/18/24, Defendants served a deposition subpoena for
business records on non-party
deponent Physicians Preferred Hospice, Inc., seeking the production of Plaintiff’s
complete medical and billing records from 8/1/22 to 2/28/23. (Ex. 1 to Decl. of
Cara M. Conover.)
 
On 4/30/24, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to quash the
subject deposition subpoena. No opposition has been filed to date.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A party may move to
quash a deposition subpoena to strike, modify, or impose conditions on a deposition
subpoena that makes “unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1, subd. (a).)
Here, Plaintiff moves to quash Defendants’ 4/18/24 deposition subpoenas to non-party deponent Physicians Preferred
Hospice, Inc. on the bases that the
requests are irrelevant, overbroad, and seek Plaintiff’s private medical
information.
 
Specifically, the
document requests seek the following information:
“Complete medical records from 08/01/2022 to 02/28/2023, including
but not limited to any records/documents that may be stored digitally and/or
electronically: TeleHealth Records and any recordings, documents,
correspondence, correspondence from the patient or patient’s attorney, patient
intake forms, copies of health insurance cards and photo ID’s, medical reports,
doctor’s entries, nurse’s notes, medication administration records, office
notes, progress reports, cardiology reports, radiology reports, x-ray reports,
MRI reports, CT reports, myelogram reports, lab reports, pathology reports,
monitor strips, physical therapy records, occupational therapy records, case
history, emergency records, outpatient records, diagnosis and prognosis
documentation, admit and discharge records, notation(s) on any file folder, All
emails between physicians and the patient regarding physical complaints,
symptoms, and treatment, including secure messages. 
Complete billing records from 08/01/2022 to 02/28/2023, including
but not limited to any records/documents that may be stored digitally and/or
electronically: charges, statements, explanation of benefits, payments,
adjustments, write-offs, lien agreements, Letters of Protection between the
facility and patient's attorney, balances paid, balances due, CPT/diagnostic
codes, and itemized billing charges pertaining to any and all care, treatment,
and/or examinations. All billing emails between physicians and the patient,
including secure messages.” (Ex. 1 to Conover Decl.)
 
A.   
Scope/Relevance
 
A court may quash a
deposition subpoena for being overly broad to the extent that it amounts to
“nothing more than a fishing expedition” and therefore seeks the production of
irrelevant evidence. (People v. Serrata (1976) 62 Cal.App.3d 9, 15.)
Discovery is relevant if it is admissible as evidence, or “appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2017.010.) “Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking
discovery or of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiff argues
that “despite the very limited and specific injuries and time periods alleged,
Defendant makes omnibus requests for the
overbroad production Alice Matsui’s medical, billing and therapy records and
other privileged information as to issues that have clearly not been tendered
in controversy this litigation.” (Pl.’s Mot. 4:27–5:3.) “Defendant has failed
to show even a causal relationship between the documents sought and the subject
litigation.” (Id. at 5:17–18.)
 
The Court agrees with
Plaintiff, finding that the document subpoena seeks information outside the
scope of the instant action, which stems solely from the injuries sustained by
Plaintiff due to Defendants’ alleged failure to provide Plaintiff with adequate
oxygen on 1/24/23. The Court further notes that Defendants have failed to file
any opposition to the instant motion. Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s
motion to quash the document subpoena on this basis.
 
B.    
Privacy
 
Patients have a right to privacy in their medical
information under the California Constitution, although this right is not
absolute. Invasion of a privacy interest is not a violation of the California
constitutional right to privacy when the invasion is justified by a competing
interest. (Fett v Medical Bd. of Cal. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 211, 221.) Matters
that would otherwise be protected by the constitutional right to privacy are
discoverable only if they are directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and
essential to a fair resolution of the action. (Vinson v. Superior Court
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842.)
 
A party seeking access to constitutionally protected
information has the burden of proving direct relevance. (Davis v. Superior
Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017.) “Even when discovery of private
information is found directly relevant to the issues of ongoing litigation, it
will not be automatically allowed; there must then be a careful balancing of
the compelling public need for discovery against the fundamental right of
privacy.” (Id. at 1014.) “The scope of any disclosure must be narrowly
circumscribed, drawn with narrow specificity, and must proceed by the least
intrusive manner.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that “Defendant’s subpoena seeks documents that are not rationally
related to the issues tendered in the lawsuit. … mere speculation that past
treatment might be a component of the party’s present condition is insufficient
to bring the matter within the exception.” (Pl.’s
Mot. 6:10–12.) Plaintiff further notes that “Defendant has offered no
proof why Plaintiff’s entire medical history, and other privileged information
for the requested time period, with no limitation as to the injuries tendered
in controversy, is necessary to this case.” (Id. at 7:3–5.) Moreover, Plaintiff argues that to the extent that
Defendants seek to discover the identities of Plaintiff’s physicians, “there
are obviously less intrusive means to attempt to obtain names of Plaintiff’s
treating physicians, such as written discovery sent to the Plaintiff, which
Defendant has deigned not to do as of yet.” (Id.
at 2:23–25.) 
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff, and again notes that
Defendants have failed to oppose the instant motion. Based on the foregoing,
the Court finds that Defendants have failed to meet their burden to show that
the requested documents are directly relevant to the claims in the instant
action, overcoming Plaintiff’s privacy rights. Accordingly, the Court grants
the instant motion on this basis.
 
CONCLUSION
 The unopposed motion is granted.