  Case Number:  22STCV29276    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  C ANI KHACHIKYAN, ET AL. v. PLATINUM
TRANSPORTATION GROUP, INC., ET AL. 
CASE NO.: 22STCV29276 
HEARING:¿ 5/3/24
@ 9:30 A.M. 
 
#1
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
     I.       
Plaintiff-in-Intervention’s
motion for leave to file cross-complaint is GRANTED.  Plaintiff-in-Intervention
is ordered to separately file the proposed cross-complaint within 10 days.   
 
    II.       
Plaintiffs’ motion to
strike Defendant Miguel Pacheco’s February 7, 2024 answer and cross-complaint
is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiffs to give
notice. 
 
 
Plaintiffs allege
that defendants were hired to drive them, and defendants negligently caused an
accident while Plaintiffs were passengers in defendants’ vehicle. Plaintiffs
further allege that defendant Miguel A. Pacheco drove under the influence of
marijuana at the time of the accident, and that defendant Platinum
Transportation Group, Inc. knew about Pacheco’s history of marijuana use and
still allowed him to operate the common carrier vehicle. The complaint alleges
claims for the following: (1) motor vehicle negligence, (2) general negligence,
and (3) negligent hiring/training/supervision/retention. Plaintiffs filed
a first amended complaint on February 14, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff-in-Intervention’s
motion for leave to file cross-complaint
 
On June 28, 2023,
the parties stipulated that Plaintiff-In-Intervention Philadelphia Indemnity
Insurance Company (“Philadelphia”) could file an answer to the complaint. 
 
Philadelphia now moves
for leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff Ani Khachikyan for
indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief.  
 
A party against whom a cause of action has been
asserted in a complaint can file a cross-complaint against a codefendant or
third person not yet a party to the action only if the cause of action asserted
“(1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences [set forth in the complaint] … or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of
the cause [of action] brought against him.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subd. (b).)
Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the action.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.) 
 
In
the proposed cross-complaint against Plaintiff Ani Khachikyan, Philadelphia asserts
indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief arising out of
the underlying action. (Decl. Russell, ¶ 7, Ex. A.) Philadelphia contends that it
is acting in good faith because on February 5, 2024, during the deposition of
Leah Kesablyan, Philadelphia discovered that Ani Khachikyan used a single seat
belt to buckle both Minor Plaintiffs. 
Moreover, Ani Khachikyan will suffer not prejudice because she is
already a party to the lawsuit.  Plaintiff
argues that 1) the cross-complaint is duplicative of Philadelphia’s affirmative
defenses and 2) Philadelphia waived any right to sue Ani Khachikyan as a party
in the Minor Plaintiff’s lawsuit when it obtained a severance of Ani
Khachikyan’s claims from Minor Plaintiffs’ claims.  
 
Because
the causes of action asserted arise out of the same occurrence as the original
action, the Court grants leave to file the cross-complaint.  This is a compulsory cross-complaint and
there is a strong public policy to hear claims on their merits.  The claims belonging to Minor Plaintiffs were
severed from those belonging to Plaintiff Ani Kachikyan because the Court
understood that Minor Plaintiffs suffered less damages and their trial could
proceed sooner.  Philadelphia’s proposed
cross-complaint involves issues of causation, which must be addressed in the
Minor Plaintiffs’ trial as well.    
 
The
motion is GRANTED. Philadelphia is ordered to separately file the proposed cross-complaint
within 10 days.     
 
Plaintiffs’
Motions to Strike Defendant Pacheco’s Answer and Cross-Complaint
 
Plaintiffs
move for an order striking the answer and cross-complaint filed by Defendant
Miguel Pacheco on February 7, 2024.  
 
The
court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, upon terms it deems
proper, strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)
 
On
February 14, 2023, the operative First Amended Complaint was filed.  
 
On
June 22, 2023, Defendants Platinum Transportation Group, Inc. and Worldwide
Transportation Group, Inc. filed their Answer. 

 
On
June 28, 2023, the parties stipulated that Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance
Company could file an answer to the complaint. The Court granted the
stipulation the same day. 
 
On
February 7, 2024, Defendant Miguel A. Pacheco answered and cross-complained. 
 
Motion to Strike Answer
 
Plaintiffs
argue that the answer-in-intervention (mistakenly titled
complaint-in-intervention) filed by Philadelphia on June 28, 2023 functions as
an answer on behalf of Defendant Miguel Angel Pacheco.  According to Plaintiffs, Defendant Pacheco’s
February 7, 2024 answer was duplicative and should be stricken.  
 
Plaintiffs
point to a minute order which states, “An answer was filed by the intervenor on
behalf of defendant Miguel Pacheco on the first amended complaint of 2/14/23 …”
(Minute Order, February 8, 2024.) However, the Court is aware of no authority
for the proposition that one party’s answer-in-intervention can also serve as
an answer for another party.  Thus, the
answer is not stricken on this basis.
 
Plaintiffs
also argue that Defendant Pacheco’s February 7, 2024 answer is untimely.  Philadelphia and Defendant Pacheco argue that
the answer and cross-complaint were filed on February 7, 2024 in response to
the Court’s January 18, 2024 “Order to Show Cause Re: regarding verification
all the operative pleadings are at issue.” (Minute Order, January 18, 2024.)
However, there is no indication that the Court’s January 18, 2024 order
extended the time for Defendant Pacheco to answer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 412.20,
subd. (a)(3).) Therefore, Defendant Pacheco’s February 7, 2024 answer is
untimely.  
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ motion to strike the answer is GRANTED.  
 
Motion to Strike Cross-Complaint
 
If
the cross-complaint is filed before or at the same time as the answer, it may
be filed as a matter of right, i.e. without leave of court. (Code Civ. Proc., §
428.50, subd. (a).) Otherwise, a party must obtain leave of court. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 428.50, subd. (c).) 
 
Because
the Court has stricken Defendant Pacheco’s answer and Defendant Pacheco has not
sought leave to file a cross-complaint, the cross-complaint should also be
stricken.  
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion to strike the cross-complaint is GRANTED.