  Case Number:  23TRCV01260    Hearing Date:   July 29, 2024    Dept:  P Motion: Demurrer to First Amended ComplaintRULINGThe Court considered the moving and opposition papers. Defendant Rexford Industrial Realty, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED. Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to amend.BACKGROUNDFactual and Procedural BackgroundThis suit stems from a slip and fall sustained by Alexandria Covarrubias (Plaintiff) on or about July 5, 2022. Plaintiff commenced this action on April 21, 2023 by filing a Complaint. On December 13, 2023, Plaintiff amended the initial Complaint to substitute Doe 4 with defendant Rexford Industrial Realty, Inc. (Rexford). The operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) was filed on April 25, 2024. The FAC alleges that, while walking down a hallway of Spartan College of Aeronautics & Technology located at 8911 Aviation Blvd., Inglewood, CA 90301 (the Premises), Plaintiff slipped on a puddle of water created by Defendant Island Pro Painting and/or Defendant Tofiga Pro Painting. (FAC, ¶¶8 & 12.) Plaintiff alleges four causes of action: (1) dangerous condition of public property, (2) negligence, (3) premises liability, and (4) negligent hiring, retention, or supervision of employee.Rexford now files the motion before the Court, Defendant Rexford Industrial Realty, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. Rexford demurs to the third and fourth causes of action. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer. No reply was filed.Meet and Confer“Before filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a).) The Declaration of Lusine Adzhemyan (Adzhemyan Decl.) attached to the demurrer states that Defense counsel sent meet and confer correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel but received no response. (Adzhemyan Decl., ¶4.) Therefore, the requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a) remain unsatisfied. However, per Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a)(4), “A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” Therefore, the Court turns its attention to the demurrer.DISCUSSIONLegal Standard“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)AnalysisRexford’s primary arguments are (1) the third cause of action is duplicative of the second and fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and (2) the fourth cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain. As to the second and third cause of action, different theories may be alleged in the pleadings, however, facts supporting each theory must also be stated. As explained below, the Court agrees that both the third and fourth causes of action as alleged against Rexford fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, therefore, the demurrer is sustained, and Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to amend.a) Premises Liability“The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) “Premises liability is grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control and manage the premises.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158, quotation marks omitted.)In the FAC it is unclear how Rexford possessed, managed, or controlled the Premises. There are no direct allegations of Rexford being the landlord of the Premises nor that Rexford provided any management services to the Premises. Moreover, the FAC alleges that the puddle of water was created by Defendant Island Pro Painting and/or Defendant Tofiga Pro Painting, which demonstrates that the alleged breach may have been committed by another defendant. (FAC, ¶12.) The opposition papers provide little clarity on the issue, Plaintiff simply reiterates the elements of the cause of action but proffers no supporting facts. Although negligence may be alleged in general terms, a bare allegation that “defendant’s negligence caused plaintiff injury” is not sufficient. Plaintiff must allege the acts or omissions that are claimed to have constituted the negligence. (Guilliams v. Hollywood Hospital (1941) 18 Cal.3d 97, 101.) As the FAC fails to do that here, the demurrer is sustained as to the third cause of action.b) Negligent Hiring, Retention, or SupervisionThe elements of a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision are: (1) the employer’s hiring, retaining, or supervising an employee; (2) the employee was incompetent or unfit; (3) the employer had reason to believe undue risk of harm would exist because of the employment; and (4) harm occurs. (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836-837.)Similarly, the fourth cause of action lacks any facts suggesting that Rexford failed to exercise due diligence in its hiring, retaining, or supervising practices. To establish negligent supervision, a plaintiff must show that a person in a supervisorial position over the actor had prior knowledge of the actor’s propensity to do the bad act. (Alexander v. Community Hospital of Long Beach (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 238, 264.) It is clear in the FAC that Plaintiff slipped on a puddle of water and fell sustaining injury. However, there are no facts that indicate Rexford knew of the propensity for an employee’s bad act or omission, nor are there facts suggesting it was even one of Rexford’s employees that breached. Therefore, it is unclear as to how Rexford could be held liable. Accordingly, the demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained.Leave to AmendLeave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”].) As there is reasonable possibility of successful amendment, Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to amend.CONCLUSIONDefendant Rexford Industrial Realty, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED. Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to amend.