  Case Number:  21STCV34326A    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  39 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


June
  17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV34326




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant,
  Cross-Plaintiff, and Cross-Defendant Purchasing 411, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendants
  and Cross-Defendants Gredale LLC and Stop C-19 LLC



 
 
BACKGROUND
Defendant,
Cross-Plaintiff, and Cross-Defendant Purchasing 411, Inc., which the parties
refer to as Royalty Distribution, negotiated a purchase of gloves from Defendant,
Cross-Plaintiff, and Cross-Defendant Stop C-19 LLC (“Stop C-19”).  Royalty Distribution sent a deposit to Stop
C-19, which transferred the deposit to Defendant and Cross-Defendant Gredale
LLC (“Gredale”).  Royalty Distribution
contends Gredale and Stop C-19 failed to deliver the gloves and wrongfully
retained Royal Distribution’s deposit. 
Royalty Distribution moves for summary adjudication of its claims for
money had and received and conversion against Gredale and Stop C-19.  Royalty Distribution also moves for summary
judgment on Gredale and Stop C-19’s cross-complaint against Royalty
Distribution, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of the causes of
action therein.  Gredale and Stop C-19
oppose the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. . . . There is a triable issue
of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier
of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion
in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
“A party may move
for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action,
one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or
more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no
merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there
is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is
no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil
Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the
plaintiff or plaintiffs.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  
DISCUSSION
Royalty Distribution’s second
cause of action for money had and received
To state a claim
for money had and received against Gredale and Stop C-19, Royalty Distribution
must show that they owe it a certain sum that they obtained for Royalty Distribution’s
benefit.  (Farmers Ins. Exchange v.
Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460.)
Royalty
Distribution presents evidence it paid Stop C-19 $3,952,000 when it placed two
orders with Stop C-19 for nitrile exam gloves. 
(Declaration of Jonathan Noori, ¶¶ 5-6, Exhibits F-G.)  Royalty Distribution also asserts, in
response to a request from Gredale, Royalty Distribution made a deposit for its
purchases.  (Declaration of Jonathan
Noori, ¶ 9, Exhibit A.)  Gredale and Stop
C-19 partially refunded Royalty Distribution but retained the unused deposit in
the amount of $1,173, 250, despite their inability to provide the gloves
Royalty Distribution ordered. 
(Declaration of Jonathan Noori, ¶¶ 11, 13, Exhibits E, J; Declaration of
Arman Shatrang, ¶¶ 4-6.)  
This evidence
meets Royalty Distribution’s burden of showing Gredale and Stop C-19 are in
possession of the unused deposit, which belongs to Royalty Distribution, and have
no defense to Royalty Distribution’s claim for money had and received.  Thus, Royalty Distribution has shifted the
burden to Gredale and Stop C-19 to raise triable issues of material fact as to
whether they have affirmative defenses to Royalty Distribution’s claim. 
In opposition, Gredale
and Stop C-19 argue Stop C-19’s performance was impossible.  But, as pointed out by Royalty Distribution, Gredale
and Stop C-19 did not plead this defense in their answer to Royalty
Distribution’s cross-complaint.  In
failing to do so, Gredale and Stop C-19 waived he impossibility and
impracticability defenses.  (See California
Academy of Sciences v. County of Fresno (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1436, 1442
[“A party who fails to plead affirmative defenses waives them”].)  Also, it is established the impossibility and
impracticability defenses does not apply to noncontract causes of action.  (See West Pueblo Partners, LLC v. Stone
Brewing Co., LLC (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1179, 1188 [“the doctrines of impossibility
and impracticability . . . are common law defenses to contract performance”].)
Thus, those defenses would not apply to Royalty Distribution’s action for money
had and received.  
The circumstances
in this case do not permit Gredale and Stop C-19 to retain Royalty
Distribution’s unused deposit regardless of it being impossible or impractical for
those parties to perform under the agreement. 

Gredale and Stop
C-19 contends Royalty Distribution cancelled the contract with Stop C-19 due to
delays that resulted from pandemic closures in China and port congestion.  In this regard, they rely on Commercial Code
section 2615, which concerns impracticality. 
Even if the court assumes Gredale’s and Stop C-19’s contention in this
regard were correct, the delays entitled Royalty Distribution to cancel the
contract, and it was not foreclosed from demanding Gredale and Stop C-19 return
its deposit.  (See Cal. Com. Code, §
2616, subd. (1) [“Where the buyer receives notification of a material or
indefinite delay  . . . he may by written
notification to the seller as to any delivery concerned . . . (a) Terminate and
thereby discharge any unexecuted portion of the contract”]), and it was not
prevented from seeking reimbursement.    
Gredale and Stop
C-19, therefore, fail to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether
they have affirmative defenses to Royalty Distribution’s claim for money had
and received.
Royalty Distribution’s seventh
cause of action for conversion
To state a cause
of action for conversion, Royalty Distribution must allege it has a right of
ownership of an identifiable sum of money in Gredale’s and Stop C-19’s possession.  (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General
Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; 
PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil &
Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 395, 397.)  
As set forth
above, Royalty Distribution has presented evidence Gredale and Stop C-19 are in
possession of the unused deposit, which belongs to Royalty Distribution.  Royalty Distribution has met its burden by showing
Gredale and Stop C-19 have no defense to Royalty Distribution’s claim for
conversion.  Royalty Distribution then
has shifted the burden to Gredale and Stop C-19 to raise triable issues of
material fact as to whether they have affirmative defenses to Royalty
Distribution’s claim for conversion.
            In
opposition, Gredale and Stop C-19 rely on the doctrines of impossibility and
impracticality.  Again, these are
defenses to breach of contract claims, not a conversion cause of action.  However, even if these doctrines applied,
they do not excuse Gredale and Stop C-19  retaining Royalty Distribution’s deposit.  Thus, Gredale and Stop C-19 fail to raise
triable issues of material fact as to whether they have affirmative defenses to
Royalty Distribution’s claim for conversion.
Gredale’s and Stop C-19’s first
cause of action for breach of contract in its cross-complaint
To state a cause
of action for breach of contract against Royalty Distribution, Gredale and Stop C-19 must
allege the existence of a contract between the parties, Gredale's and Stop C-19’s performance under the contract or an excuse for its nonperformance,
Royalty Distribution’s breach of the contract, and resulting damages.  (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. N. Y. Times
Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)As set forth
above, Royalty Distribution has presented evidence Gredale and Stop C-19 failed to perform
under the contract, as they did not provide the gloves Royalty Distribution
ordered.  It was that inability on Gredale's and Stop
C-19’s part that compelled Royalty Distribution to seek to be reimbursed the
deposit it had provided them.  This
evidence meets Royalty Distribution’s burden to show Gredale and Stop C-19 cannot prevail
on their claim for breach of contract when they failed to perform themselves.  Royalty Distribution, therefore, had
effectively shifted the burden to Gredale and Stop C-19 to raise triable issues of material
fact as to whether they could prevail on the breach of contract cause of
action.  Further, Royalty
Distribution’s evidence that Gredalet and Stop C-19 gave it a partial refund and committed
to providing a full refund establishes Gredale and Stop C-19 waived Royalty Distribution’s
performance under the contract. Gredale and Stop C-19 have not
refuted this.  The fact Gredale and Stop C-19 did not
intend to hold Royalty Distribution to performing under the contract undermines any contention they were willing and able to fulfill their  commitments, and this
further satisfies Royalty Distribution’s burden of showing Gredale and Stop C-19 cannot
prevail on their claim for breach of contract. 
Given these
circumstances, Gredale and Stop C-19’s reliance on the doctrines of impossibility and impracticality
in their opposition to Royalty Distribution’s motion is unavailing.  For the reasons set forth above, Royalty
Distribution was not precluded from canceling the agreement and demanding a return of the unused deposit.  Gredale's and Stop
C-!9’s contentions regarding the impossibility of performing the agreement would serve to possibly excuse their own failures to perform
under the agreement, but it would not impact any claim Royalty Distribution itself
breached the agreement.  Moreover, even
if impossibility or impracticality excused Gredale and Stop C-19 from performing under the
agreement, that would not lead to Royalty Distribution having to pay them under the terms of the parties’ contact, especially when there is no contention
or proof the parties expressly agreed to
terms that called for such payment under those circumstances.
Therefore, Gredale
and Stop C-19 fail to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether they
can prevail on their claim for breach of contract against Royalty Distribution.
Gredale’s and Stop C-19’s second cause of action for
intentional interference with contractual relations
Royalty
Distribution purports to move for summary adjudication of Gredale’s and  Stop C-19’s second cause of action for
intentional interference with contractual relations.  However, Gredale and Stop C-19 assert that
cause of action against Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant JG Medical, LLC, not
Royalty Distribution.  Therefore, we do
not consider its applicability to Royalty Distribution.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Gredale and Stop C-19 fail to raise triable
issues of material fact as to whether Royalty Distribution can prevail against
them on its causes of action for money had and received and conversion and as
to whether Gredale and Stop C-19 can prevail on its cause of action for breach
of contract against Royalty Distribution. 
Therefore, the Court grants Royalty Distribution’s motion for summary
adjudication of its causes of action for money had and received and conversion
and its motion for summary judgment on Stop C-19’s cross-complaint alleging
breach of contract against Royalty Distribution.  
Royalty Distribution is ordered to give
notice of the court’s order and to file a proof of service of same.