 Case Number:  24NNCV00022    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  X DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT This negligence and premises liability action arises from Plaintiff’s visit to a CVS store in Glendale, California where she alleges she tripped and fell, causing bodily injury.  Defendant Garfield Beach CVS, L.L.C. seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against Defendant Gallo Sales Company, Inc. dba Gallo Wine Company.  Tentative RulingDefendant Garfield Beach CVS, L.L.C.’s unopposed motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is GRANTED.  Defendant Garfield is to file the Cross-Complaint within 20 days of the Court’s Order.AnalysisA cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 412.20(a)(3), 428.50(a), 432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a trial date.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(b).)  If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time limits described above, they must obtain permission from the court to file the cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  Leave to file a mandatory cross-complaint must be granted absent bad faith.  (Silver Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  Leave to file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of justice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(c).)         Defendant seeks to file a cross-complaint against Gallo Sales Company, Inc. dba Gallo Wine Company, which installed/maintained the wine display that Plaintiff alleges she tripped on at the subject property before the incident.  Defendant alleges causes of action for express indemnity, equitable indemnity, comparative partial/implied indemnity, breach of contract, and declaratory relief. Upon review of the proposed Cross-Complaint (Schwarz Decl., Exh. C), the complaint and cross-complaint arise from the same incident and should be litigated together.  There does not appear to be prejudice to any party by the filing of the cross-complaint.  Accordingly, the Court finds it to be in the interests of justice to grant leave to file a cross-complaint.Moving Party is to give notice.