  Case Number:  23BBCV01317    Hearing Date:   August 20, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
AUGUST 20,
2024

DEMURRER


Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01317

 
MP:    Pirooz Zarrabian (Defendant)  
RP:     Noah,
LLC (Plaintiff)  

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Noah, LLC (Plaintiff) brings this
action against the Zarrabian Family
Limited Partnership (ZFLP), Pirooz Zarrabian, (Pirooz), Simin Zarrabian (Simin),
individually and in her capacity as trustee of the Zarrabian Family 2015
Revocable Living Trust, Behrooz Zarrabian (Behrooz), individually and in his
capacity as trustee of the Zarrabian Family 2015 Revocable Living Trust
(Zarrabian Trust), Shahin Zarrabian, Mahin Zarrabian, and Parvin Zarrabian. Plaintiff
alleges that it was defrauded of a portion of its property interest by virtue
of an unauthorized transfer of property to Pirooz. 
 
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (FAC) states five causes of action
for (1) Declaratory Relief (as against all Defendants), (2) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty (as against ZFLP and Zarrabian Trust), (3) Conspiracy to Defraud and
Fraudulent Concealment (as against all Defendants), (4) Constructive Trust (as
against all Defendants), and (5) Promissory Estoppel (as against all
Defendants). 
 
Before the Court is a demurrer brought by Pirooz as to the first, third,
fourth, and fifth causes of action. Plaintiff opposes and Pirooz replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Demurrer
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the
grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, or that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible.
It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.             
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§
430.41(a) requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer. Upon review the Court finds
the meet and confer requirements were met. (Campain Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
Judicial Notice 
 
Pirooz requests judicial notice of
the following: 
 
1.    
Verified Complaint in the matter captioned Simin
Zarrabian, Trustee of the Zarrabian Family 2015 Revocable Living Trust, et al
v. Pirooz Zarrabian, et al. Case No. 20STCV30310. 
2.    
December 2, 2022 final ruling of Judge Upinder Kalra in
the above matter. 
3.    
February 8, 2023 judgment in the above matter. 
 
The Court finds the above as capable
of judicial notice under Cal. Evid. Code § 452(d) as records of a Court of the
State of California. Further, Plaintiff does not object to judicial notice.
Accordingly, Pirooz’s request is GRANTED.  
 
Facts 
 
Plaintiff is a California limited
liability company. In June 2006, Plaintiff entered into an agreement with Ahmad
Zarrabian (Ahmad) to form Nozar, LLC (Nozar). (FAC ¶ 14, Exh. H.) Ahmad
entered into the agreement on behalf of the Ahmad Zarrabian Living Trust (the
Ahmad Trust). (Id.) Pursuant to the Operating Agreement for Nozar, Plaintiff
and the Ahmad Trust each owned 50% of Nozar. (FAC ¶ 16.) Neither side was
permitted to sell any asset of Nozar without the other’s approval. (FAC ¶¶
21-24.) 
 
This action centers around a
piece of real property, the Embassy Plaza Shopping Center, held in fee simple
by Nozar (hereinafter the Property). (FAC ¶ 12.) 
 
It is alleged that on May 15,
2012, Ahmad conveyed a 10% interest in the Property to his son Pirooz Zarrabian
(Pirooz). (FAC ¶ 27.) This transfer was purportedly on behalf of the Ahmad
Trust and on behalf of Nozar. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges that it was
entirely unaware of this transfer at the time it occurred. 
 
At some point in 2015, Ahmad
created the Zarrabian Trust. (FAC ¶ 5.) The Zarrabian Trust was then named
successor to the Ahmad Trust. (Id.) Ahmad’s children Behrooz Zarrabian
(Behrooz) and Simin Zarrabian (Simin) are the current trustees of the Zarrabian
Trust. 
 
On July 31, 2016, the Ahmad Trust
transferred its 50% ownership in Nozar to ZFLP. (FAC ¶ 17.) Plaintiff was
aware of and consented to this transfer. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges that
Nozar is presently owned 50% by ZFLP and 50% by Plaintiff, Noah, LLC. (FAC
¶ 18.)
 
In May 2020, Ahmad died. (FAC
¶ 3.) Plaintiff alleges it was only then that Pirooz revealed the 10%
transfer of the Property and recorded the deed. (FAC ¶ 30.) Plaintiff
alleges this caused significant conflict between Pirooz and his siblings
Behrooz and Simin. (FAC ¶ 31.) Plaintiff alleges they communicated with
Pirooz, Behrooz, and Simin and they assured Plaintiff that Plaintiff’s interest
in the Property was secure. (FAC ¶¶ 31-32.) 
 
On August 10, 2020, the Zarrabian
Trust brought an action for quiet title to the Property against Pirooz. (RJN
Exh. 1.) This action was identified as LASC Case No. 20STCV30310. (Id.) On
February 8, 2023, judgment was entered in this matter in favor of Pirooz. (FAC
¶ 33.) The basis of Pirooz’s demurrer is that Plaintiff’s claims against
him are precluded by the aforementioned judgment. 
 
Estoppel 
 
Though he does not mention it by
name or analyze any of its elements, the majority of Pirooz’s demurrer is
grounded in the principle of collateral estoppel (also known as issue
preclusion). Pirooz argues that the judgment in the prior Superior Court case
precludes any claim by Plaintiff that the transfer to Pirooz affects
Plaintiff’s property rights. 
 
The rule of collateral estoppel
requires that when an issue of ultimate fact has once been determined by a
valid and final judgment, that issue cannot again be litigated between the same
parties in any future lawsuit. (People v. Zavala, (2008) 168 Cal.App4th
772, 776-777.) "A party who asserts claim or issue preclusion as a bar to
further litigation bears the burden of proving that the requirements of the
doctrine are satisfied." (Hong Sang Market, Inc. v. Peng (2018) 20
Cal.App.5th 474, 489 [citing to Vella v. Hudgins (1977) 20 Cal.3d 251,
257].)
 
Collateral estoppel requires
three elements: (1) A claim or issue raised in the present action is identical
to a claim or issue litigated in a prior proceeding; (2) the prior proceeding
resulted in a final judgment on the merits; and (3) the party against whom the
doctrine is being asserted was a party or in privity with a party to the prior
proceeding." (Zevnik v. Superior Court, (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 76,
82-83.) 
 
In order for Pirooz to prevail on
his demurrer, he must demonstrate that the issue of Plaintiff’s ownership was
definitively litigated and settled by the judicially noticed prior judgment.
Pirooz cites to the following section of the judgment: 
 
Judgment is entered
in favor of Defendant Pirooz Zarrabian, and against Plaintiff Simin Zarrabian,
Trustee of The Zarrabian Family 2015 Revocable Living Trust and Behrooz
Zarrabian, Trustee of The Zarrabian Family 2015 Revocable Living Trust on the
first case of action for quiet title of the Complaint. 
 
Pirooz argues that this
determination serves to invalidate Plaintiff’s claim that their property
interest has been diminished by five percent. Pirooz reasons that this is
because the effect of the judgment is to validate a 10 percent interest
transfer from the Zarrabian Trust. Pirooz goes on to state that because his
interest came from the Zarrabian Trust and not Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s claims
are without merit. 
 
Pirooz’s argument is flawed in
several respects. First, Plaintiff was not a party to or in privity with any
party to the prior litigation. 
 
“Privity refers to a mutual or
successive relationship to the same rights of property, or to such an
identification in interest of one person with another as to represent the same
legal rights and, more recently, to a relationship between the party to be
estopped and the unsuccessful party in the prior litigation which is
“sufficiently close” so as to justify application of the doctrine of [res
judicata]. This requirement of identity of parties or privity is a requirement
of due process of law. Whether someone is in privity with the actual parties
requires close examination of the circumstances of each case. The circumstances
must also have been such that the nonparty should reasonably have expected to
be bound by the prior adjudication.” (Villarroel v. Recology, Inc. (2023)
97 Cal.App.5th 762, 782 [internal quotation marks and citations omitted].) 
 
Here, the circumstances do not
indicate that Plaintiff was in privity with either party in the prior
litigation. It is abundantly clear that Plaintiff was not made aware of the
prior litigation such that they could reasonably have expected to be bound by
it. 
 
Second, this argument completely
sidesteps Plaintiff’s allegation that Ahmad improperly deeded the property to
Pirooz in violation of the Operating Agreement for Nozar. Pirooz is completely
silent as to the allegation that Ahmad did not obtain the prior consent of
Plaintiff before deeding part of the jointly held property to Pirooz. This is
an issue central to Plaintiff’s claims and one which was completely absent from
the previous litigation. 
 
In short, Pirooz has not
fulfilled his burden to show that the issue was previously litigated or that
the parties were in privity such that collateral estoppel applies. This being
established the Court will briefly analyze the demurrer to each cause of action.

 
First COA – Declaratory Relief
– Overruled 
 
“To qualify for declaratory
relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential
elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual
controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or
obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home
Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, [quotation marks and brackets
omitted].)
 
Pirooz’s only argument as to this
cause of action is that there can be no actual controversy because the previous
judgment settled the issues of ownership. As established above, the Court does
not find the previous judgment to have any preclusive effect. Accordingly, the
demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED. 

 
Third COA – Fraudulent
Concealment – Overruled 
 
The basis of this claim is
Plaintiff’s allegation that Ahmad and Pirooz intentionally concealed the deed
to Pirooz from Plaintiff with the intent to defraud them of its five-percent
interest in the Property. (FAC ¶ 63.) Pirooz argues that this cause of
action cannot be sustained because the issue as to whether Ahmad’s transfer
deprived Plaintiff of its property interest is precluded. Having found issue
preclusion does not apply here, Pirooz’s argument is without merit.
Accordingly, the demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fourth COA – Constructive
Trust – Sustained with Leave to Amend
 
In addition to collateral
estoppel, Pirooz argues that this cause of action is improper because
constructive trust is an equitable remedy and not its own cause of action. The
Court agrees. 
 
A
constructive trust is not a cause of action; it is a remedy. (Kim v.
Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 277, fn. 4; American
Master Lease LLC v. Idanta Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1485
[constructive trust is not a substantive claim for relief].) The issue of
whether to impose a constructive trust is an equitable issue for the court.
(See Fowler v. Fowler (1964) 227 Cal.App.2d 741, 747 [“it is for the
trial court to decide whether” the plaintiff has proven entitlement to a
constructive trust].) The trial court erred by submitting the issue of whether
to impose a constructive trust to the jury.” (American Master Lease supra,
225 Cal.App.4th at 1485.) 
 
While a Constructive trust is
indeed a form of remedy which the Court decides to apply or not apply under
principles of equity, it requires the showing of factual elements, a
complainant is required to “adequately plead facts in the underlying complaint
that would entitle the plaintiff to such a remedy.” (Campbell v. Superior
Court (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 904, 921-922.)
 
Here,
Pirooz argues that the underlying factual elements have not been pled by virtue
of collateral estoppel, which the Court has denied. Given there is no dispute
as to the underlying factual pleadings regarding a constructive trust, all that
appears to be accomplished by this demurrer is to remove the heading of the
fourth cause of action. Nothing precludes Plaintiff from including allegations
of constructive trust as part of another cause of action or in their prayer for
relief. Accordingly, the demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20
days’ leave to amend. 
 
Fifth
COA - Promissory Estoppel – Overruled 
 
Plaintiff’s cause of action is
predicated on their allegation that Pirooz, Simin, and Behrooz all promised
Noah that its one-half interest in the Property would remain protected in the
midst of the Zarrabian family dispute. 23 (FAC ¶ 75) Pirooz argues that this
issue too fails because of collateral estoppel. Pirooz argues that because the
prior judgment determined that his interest in the Property stems from the
Zarrabian Trust, the promise to protect Plaintiff’s interest has not been
compromised. Given the Court has found collateral estoppel as to Plaintiff’s
interest does not apply, Pirooz’s argument on demurrer is without merit.
Accordingly, the demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED. 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the Court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the Court’s
records. 
 
ORDER
 
Pirooz Zarrabian’s Demurrer
came on regularly for hearing on August 20, 2024 having been continued
on the Court’s own motion from August 16, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:
 
THE
DEMURRER IS OVERRULED AS TO THE FIRST, THIRD, AND FIFTH CAUSES OF ACTION. 
 
THE DEMURRER
IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION. 
 
CASE
MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE SCHEDULE IS CONTINUED TO DECEMBER 19, 2024 AT 9:00 AM.
 
OSC RE
PROOF OF SERVICE ON BEHROOZ ZARRABIAN IS CONTINUED TO DECEMBER 19, 2024 AT 9:00
AM.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PIROOZ TO GIVE
NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  August
20, 2024                                _______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles