  Case Number:  23PSCV00092    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiffs House of God’s Reward and Charlie Yang’s Motion
for Relief Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 473
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiffs House of God’s Reward and Charlie Yang’s
Motion for Relief Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 473 is GRANTED.The
court intends to set new Trial and Final Status Conference dates at the hearing
on September 11, 2024.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action for fraud, conversion, and libel. In July 2021, Defendants Li Xia
Hao and Haikun Sun met with Plaintiff Charlie Yang and others for the purposes
of helping Sun obtain an R-1 visa. Yang then formed House of God’s Reward
(HOGR) while Hao allegedly promised to use Hao’s inactive church, The United
Chinese Christian Church in Los Angeles (UCCCLA), to help Sun. Hao also
allegedly allowed HOGR to utilize UCCCLA’s Chase Bank account. After Sun
obtained the R-1 visa, Hao told Yang and HOGR to leave UCCCLA and allegedly
converted $45,424.23 in funds that had been donated to UCCCLA for HOGR’s
benefit. Sun also made comments accusing Yang of taking advantage of Hao by
using UCCCLA’s license and questioning Yang’s capabilities as a pastor.
On
January 11, 2023, HOGR and Yang filed a complaint against UCCCLA, Hao, Sun, and
Does 1-50, alleging the following causes of action: (1) conversion, (2) fraud
and deceit, (3) unjust enrichment, and (4) libel per se.
On
June 6, 2023, HOGR and Yang’s counsel failed to appear for a case management
conference and the court set an OSC Re: Sanctions for Plaintiff’s Failure to
Appear/OSC Re: Dismissal for Failure to Prosecute. On June 27, 2023, the court
discharged the OSC after HOGR and Yang’s counsel appeared.
On
July 24, 2024, HOGR and Yang’s counsel failed to appear for a final status
conference and the court granted an oral motion by UCCCLA, Hao, and Sun to
dismiss this action with prejudice.
On
August 19, 2024, HOGR and Yang filed the present motion. A hearing on the
present motion is set for September 11, 2024.
ANALYSIS
HOGR
and Yang seek to vacate the court’s dismissal of the present action on the
grounds of counsel’s inadvertence. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS
their motion.
Legal
Standard
Whenever
an application for relief from dismissal is made no more than six months after
entry of the judgment of dismissal, is in proper form, and is accompanied by
the moving party’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, the court may vacate any
dismissal entered against the moving party unless the court finds that the dismissal
was not in fact caused by the moving party’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., §473, subd. (b).) The court shall grant
relief if the moving party’s counsel provides a “sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) “The
court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of
fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs
to opposing counsel or parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) “The six-month time limit for granting statutory relief is
jurisdictional and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after
that period has elapsed.” (Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176
Cal.App.4th 36, 42.)
Discussion
In this case,
HOGR and
Yang’s counsel states counsel failed to appear for the final status conference
on July 24, 2024, due to counsel experiencing an acute infection and severe
cold on July 21, 2024, that left counsel bedridden. (Minna Decl., ¶ 3.) Counsel
also states counsel inadvertently calendared the final status conference for
July 26, 2024. (Minna Decl., ¶ 4.) Based on the declaration of counsel, the court finds
the dismissal of the present action was the result of counsel’s excusable neglect
and inadvertence.
Accordingly, HOGR and Yang’s motion is GRANTED.
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, the court GRANTS HOGR and Yang’s motion to vacate the
dismissal of HOGR and Yang’s action.
The
court intends to set new Trial and Final Status Conference dates at the hearing
on September 11, 2024.