 Case Number:  23SMCV00093    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  I After a jury verdict was rendered favor of the defense,
defendant sought to recover costs. 
Plaintiff moved to tax the costs. 
The motion to tax is GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART. 
 
Plaintiff seeks to tax the following items: (1) filing and
motion fees of $1325; (2) deposition costs of $17,025.80; (3) process servers
in the amount of $4,563.50; (4) witness fees 
of $33,157.50; (5) court reporters fees of $26,095.85; (6) exhibit fees
of $16,929.29; (7) electronic filing fees of $1125.95; and (8) transcript and
surveillance fees of $5607.70.  The right
to recover costs is statutory in nature and is governed by CCP sections 1032
and 1033.5.  Some costs must be awarded,
and some costs may be awarded in the court’s discretion.  However, all costs must be reasonable and
necessary.  A verified cost memorandum,
as was filed here, is prima facie evidence of the propriety of the cost,
meaning that the burden is on the moving party.
 
The court GRANTS the motion as to item 1 in the amount of
$1305.  The problem is that, while
defendant is entitled to recover the first appearance fee, the fee sought here
applies to multiple defendants.  Only the
prevailing party is entitled to this recovery, and the excess is taxed.  The other defendants were dismissed long ago
and the time for them to seek to recover costs has come and gone.  As to the $20 IDC fee, the court believes the
cost is appropriate.
 
The motion is DENIED as to the deposition costs, service of
process costs, exhibit costs, court reporter fees, and fees for electronic
filing.  Plaintiff’s major argument as to
the depositions is that they were not reasonable or necessary because the
parties stipulated to limit damages, so these witnesses were not needed.  Defendant claims that the stipulation came
too late to avoid the costs.  The court
is generally not going to second-guess a party’s litigation strategy.  The court sees no evidence that the
depositions were taken only to run up the bill—after all, only the reporter’s
fees are recoverable, not the attorney time to take the depositions.  The court will not assume bad faith here.  It often occurs that a deposition is taken of
a witness who winds up not being called and where the deposition winds up not
being used.  That does not make the cost
improper.  Plaintiff seeks to tax the
reporter’s fee on the theory that plaintiff suggested a less expensive reporter
and offered to split the cost of that reporter. 
That might well be, but there is no evidence before the court that the
reporter chosen charged an unreasonable fee. 
There could be many reasons for a somewhat more expensive reporter—there
might have been features that one reporter offered and another did not, or it
could be that the reputation of one was better than the other.  Again, the court will not second-guess the
defense’s litigation strategy here.  And
recovery of court reporter fees is something recoverable as of right.    As to the other costs just listed, the
court sees no compelling argument in the motion that suggests that the costs
were unreasonable or unnecessary.  
 
The motion is GRANTED as to the witness fees, transcript
fees, and surveillance fees.  As to
transcripts, they are recoverable only when ordered by the court.  The court did not order any transcripts.  While they may well have been helpful to the
defense, they are not recoverable.  The
same is true of the surveillance fees. 
It might well be that the surveillance would have aided the defense at
trial to impeach plaintiff had plaintiff testified in a way contrary to what
was discovered.  (It turns out that he
didn’t so testify.)  But that does not
make the fees recoverable.  
 
That brings the court to the witness fees.  Those fees relate to experts.  Normally, a party’s expert fees are not
recoverable.  Here, defendant claims that
they are recoverable because plaintiff rejected a 998 offer and did not receive
a verdict more favorable than the offer. 
Where a 998 offer is made and rejected, and the verdict is less
favorable than the 998 offer, expert fees may be recovered by the offeror in
the court’s discretion.  Here, though,
the 998 offer was a walkaway, meaning that there would be a judgment for the
defense, but the defense would waive costs and the right to sue for malicious
prosecution.  The court does not view a
walkaway to be a good faith offer of settlement, at least absent circumstances
that make it clear that the underlying suit is a farce.  The court here is not sure whether the
offer—made in February 2024—was made at a time plaintiff could have fully
evaluated the case.  But even assuming it
was, the court does not believe it was reasonable under the circumstances.  While the court agrees that plaintiff knew
that he might lost the case, that does not mean that it was reasonable to
demand that plaintiff just give up.  The
court recognizes that the offer was accompanied by a detailed letter explaining
why the defendant thought he would win, but that is not enough.  And in fact, defendant’s summary judgment
motion was denied—meaning that the question was at least strong enough to get
to a jury.  Defendant knew that plaintiff
would not accept a walkaway offer, and the court cannot fault plaintiff for
failing to do so.  Indeed, allowing a
walkaway offer to qualify would generally turn 998 on its head because it would
allow any defendant the unilateral ability to recover expert fees at no real
risk.  The court does not believe that
the Legislature intended the statute to be used in such a one-sided way.  Moreover, even were the offer fair and
reasonable, the court would exercise its discretion to deny a recovery
here.  The court certainly appreciates
that the system breaks down if cases do not settle.  But a settlement suggests a compromise, not a
capitulation.  This is the latter, not
the former.  While it turns out that
defendant was right—the jury agreed with him—the court will not penalize
plaintiff for not giving up. 
 