 Case Number:  23STCP02375    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Crane Boulevard Safety Coalition,


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCP02375




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
City of Los Angeles,


 
 
 
Respondent.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: April 18, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Discovery for
Inclusion in the Administrative Record
Moving Party: Petitioner Crane Boulevard Safety
Coalition
Responding Party: Respondent City of Los Angeles
 
T/R:      PETITIONER’S
MOTION TO COMPEL DISCOVERY FOR INCLUSION IN THE ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD IS
GRANTED IN PART.
PETITIONER TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action … without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  (CCP § 2025.450(a).)
 
The “pre-PLUM process”
is the genesis of many of the parties’ discovery disputes. “PLUM” refers to the
City Council’s Planning and Land Use Management Committee, which holds hearings
on planning matters. The “pre-PLUM process” is the process by which staff of
the Chair of PLUM sets the agenda for the PLUM meetings. Petitioner contends
that Council deputies, not just PLUM Chair deputies, use pre-PLUM related
administrative activities as a conduit to unlawfully record and transmit
comments and positions in violation of the Brown Act’s prohibition against
serial meetings.
 
Petitioner moves to compel the
deposition of Respondent’s person most knowledgeable. The Court will allow that
deposition for: the adequacy of the search for records for
inclusion in the administrative record; the alleged pattern and practice of the
City in drafting ordinances that provide no notice of City actions and/or a
right to appeal; and the alleged pattern and practice of a pre-PLUM process that
appears to enable a hub-and-spoke communication process that simultaneously
enables City Councilmembers to learn of the “comments and positions” of other
Councilmembers on quasi-judicial land use/CEQA appeals pending.  
 
Petitioner also requests that the Court compel the production and
inclusion in the administrative record of up to 153 email documents/attachments
that Respondent City of Los Angeles has withheld based on the attorney-client
or deliberative process privileges. Respondent must produce documents withheld
under the deliberative process privilege. Any confidentiality interests are
outweighed by Petitioner’s need for discovery. 
 
The privilege log is insufficient as to the documents for which the
attorney-client privilege is asserted. Respondent is ORDERED to serve a
compliant privilege log for those documents within 10 days. If the parties are
unable to resolve any disagreements concerning those documents, Petitioner may
renew this motion with respect to specific documents.
 
Petitioner’s motion is GRANTED in part.


 