  Case Number:  20STCV45196    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Quincy Smith,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV45196




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Imani Halley, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: April 18, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Enforce Settlement
Moving Party: Plaintiff Quincy Smith
Responding Party: Defendants Imani Halley and True to
the Game Productions, Inc.
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT IS GRANTED.
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
“If parties to pending litigation
stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court
or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the
court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the
settlement.”  (CCP § 664.6.) 
 
Plaintiff moves to enforce the
settlement executed by Plaintiff and Defendants on August 22, 2022 and enter
judgment according to its terms. The settlement provides that Defendants will
pay Plaintiff $250,000 in installments. The settlement also provides, 
 
If any settlement payment due
under Section 1(a) is not timely made, the Defendants will be in default with
regard to their payment obligations under the terms of this Agreement. If the
default has not been cured within three (3) business days after being provided
with notice of the default by Plaintiff, then the full remaining amount of the
Settlement Amount shall be immediately due and owing and Plaintiff will be
entitled to immediately
seek entry of judgment for all amounts outstanding and unpaid, and interest at
the maximum legal rate of ten percent (10%) per annum shall accrue. Strict
compliance with this notice shall be required and any non-complying notice
shall be insufficient to trigger the default provision. 
 
(Ivie Decl. Exh. A.)
 
The Court retained jurisdiction to
enforce the settlement. Plaintiff represents that Defendants have not complied
with agreement, with a remaining balance due of $35,000.00. 
 
In opposition, Defendants assert the
balance will be paid before the date of the hearing. In reply, Plaintiff states
Defendants have not yet paid the balance and maintains that Plaintiff is
entitled to interest and attorney’s fees for bringing the motion. The
settlement agreement allows Plaintiff to enter judgment upon Defendants’ default.
That is what has occurred here.
 
The motion is GRANTED.


 