 Case Number:  23BBCV01325    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
heriberto
  aguilar,
  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ford motor
  company,
  et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
Case
  No.: 23BBCV01325
 
  Hearing Date:  July 19, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel further responses
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Heribierto Aguilar (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on April 14, 2022, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contact with
Defendant Ford Motor Company (“FMC”) regarding a 2022 Ford F150 vehicle.  Plaintiff alleges that the warranty contract contained various warranties, including but not limited to the bumper-to-bumper
warranty, powertrain warranty, emission warranty, etc.  Plaintiff alleges that the defects and
nonconformities to the warranty manifested themselves during the applicable
warranty period, including but not limited to, transmission defects, infotainment
defects, and climate control defects. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to promptly replace the vehicle
or make restitution.  
Plaintiff
alleges that he delivered the subject vehicle to Defendant Galpin Ford
(“Galpin”) for substantial repairs on at least one occasions.  Plaintiff alleges that Galpin had a duty to
use ordinary skill in storage, preparation, and repair of the subject vehicle,
but Galpin breached its duty.  
The complaint, filed February 5, 2024,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of Civil Code, § 1793.2(D); (2)
violation of Civil Code, § 1793.2(B); (3) violation of Civil Code, §
1793.2(A)(3); (4) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability (Civil
Code, §§ 1791.1, 1794, and 1795.5); (5) fraudulent inducement – concealment;
and (6) negligent repair against Galpin.   
B.    
Motions on Calendar 
On April 22,
2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel FMC’s further responses to Requests
for Production of Documents, set one (“RPD”). 

On July 8, 2024,
FMC filed an opposition brief.
On July 10,
2024, Plaintiff filed reply papers. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
            With the
reply brief, Plaintiff submitted evidentiary objections to FMC’s opposition
evidence.  The Court rules as follows:
·        
Declaration of Erich
Kmenitz: The objection to the entirety of the declaration is overruled.  For the purposes of the motion to compel
further responses, the objection nos. 1-19 are overruled. 
·        
Declaration of
Jodi Schebel: The objection to the entirety of the declaration is
overruled.  For the purposes of the
motion to compel further responses, the objection nos. 1-23 are overruled.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff moves to compel
Defendant’s further responses to RPD Nos. 1, 3, 12, 15, 17, 19, 30, 35, 38, 41,
43, 44, 54-56, 66, 67, 71, 74-78, 80, and 81. 
Plaintiff argues that the RPDs seek different categories of documents
regarding: (1) the subject vehicle (Nos. 1, 3, 12, and 15); (2) internal
knowledge and investigation discovery (Nos. 17, 19, 30, 35, and 38); (3)
summary documents and information (e.g., Power Point presentations,
summaries, evaluations, reports, memoranda, meeting minutes, etc.) and deposition
documents regarding these documents (Nos. 41, 43 and 44); (4) Policies and
Procedures discovery (Nos. 54, 55, 56, 66, 67 and 71); and (5) communications
with governmental agencies & suppliers (Nos. 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 80 and
81).
            RPD
No. 1 seeks all documents regarding the subject vehicle in FMC’s
database.  RPD No. 3 seeks all
investigation, reports, and/or studies conducted by FMC regarding the root
cause or failure analysis of any parts that were repaired or replaced on the
subject vehicle and returned by any of its authorized repair facilities to FMC.  RPD No. 12 seeks all pre-sale or
pre-purchase documents that FMC made available to purchasers or lessees
concerning the disclosure of the transmission defect in Ford vehicles equipped
with the 10R80 transmission like the subject vehicle.  RPD No. 15 seeks all documents
including live telephone, audio, tape, voice message, caller message, and
digital voice recordings; and messaging files, transcripts, emails, etc. regarding
any repairs, complaints, problems, and surveys regarding the subject
vehicle.  FMC raised various objections
on the grounds that the RPDs were overbroad, sought irrelevant documents, were
privileged by the attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine, and that
Plaintiff already resolved his claims through a February 2023 settlement.  FMC responded that it would produce documents
regarding the subject vehicle including, the factory invoice; the Owner’s
Guide, Scheduled Maintenance Guide, and Warranty Guide; vehicle information
report; OASIS information; communications between Ford and Ford’s Global
Contact Center Technology and Global Common Quality Indicator System; Technical
Service Bulletins, Special Service Messages, and General Service Bulletins;
Filed Service Action history; warranty claim history information; additional
warranty and non-warranty claim records; and service or repair records.  Plaintiff
identifies these RPDs as requests seeking information about the subject vehicle. 
            Plaintiff
generally addresses the deficiencies of FMC’s RPD responses by addressing all
of FMC’s objections in a preliminary statement and then generally arguing that
FMC’s responses do not comply with the code. 
The documents sought in RPD Nos. 1, 3, 12, and 15 are relevant to this
action as they seek documents related to the subject vehicle at issue in this
action.  However, it is unclear what specific
documents Plaintiff claims is missing from FMC’s responses.  The Court will provide limited relief such
that if there are any additional documents to be produced or documents that are
being withheld on the basis of privilege and/or confidentiality that concern
this specific vehicle, FMC should produce a privilege log.  The motion is granted to this limited extent
only as to RPD Nos. 1, 3, 12, and 15.  
            RPD
No. 17 seeks all documents concerning any internal analysis or
investigations by FMC regarding transmission defects in Ford vehicles equipped
with the 10R80 transmission like the subject vehicle.  RPD No. 19 seeks all documents,
including ESI and emails, which contain a root cause, root cause analysis,
and/or identify a probable root cause of the transmission defect in Ford
vehicles (defined to mean any Ford vehicle with the 10R80 transmission).  RPD No. 30 seeks all Failure Mode and
Effects Analysis reports regarding the transmission defect in Ford vehicles
equipped with the 10R80 transmission like the subject vehicle.  RPD No. 35 seeks all documents,
including ESI and emails, concerning any decision
to issue any notices, letters, campaigns, warranty extensions, service
messages, technical service bulletins, and recalls, concerning the transmission
defects in Ford vehicles equipped with the 10R80 transmission like the subject
vehicle.  RPD No. 38 seeks all
documents, including ESI and emails, concerning or relating in any way to any
decision to modify the 10R80 transmission, and/or any of its component parts,
in response to transmission defects in Ford vehicles from 1 year prior to
Plaintiff’s purchase of the subject vehicle until the present.  Plaintiff identifies these RPDs as requests seeking
internal
knowledge and investigation discovery.  
FMC
responded that it would comply with the RPDs in part as the RPDs are too broad
in scope and as it denies that any transmission defect existed.  FMC agreed to produce the TSBs, SSMs, and
GSMs applicable to the 2022 Ford F-150 pickup trucks, FSA history for the
subject pickup truck, exemplar customer letters and Dealer Bulletins for FSA
22C22 and FSA 22S71, and recall information that is available on the NHTSA
website.  In opposition, FMC provides the
declaration of Erich Kemnitz, an Engineer in the Design Analysis Engineering
Department for FMC.  He states that RPD
Nos. 17, 19, 30, 35, 38, 41, 43, 44, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 80, and 81 seek
internal engineering-related information regarding the transmission in the 2022
Ford F-150 pickup trucks and that the RPDs are overbroad in their definition of
“transmission defect” as there is no simple way for FMC to search for and
potentially produce responsive information, and the definition lacks
identification of a specific component part of the transmission.  (Kemnitz Decl., ¶¶16-18.)  He also states that Plaintiff requests all
documents, ESI, and emails without limitation or specificity to the system,
component, or part at issue and the burden to search for these documents would
require hundreds of hours to locate and produce, and would result in the
production of documents that are not related to Plaintiff’s concerns.  (Id., ¶¶10-23.) 
The Court sustains
the overbreadth objection. Neither the Plaintiff’s complaint, nor its
definitions in its discovery responses, sufficiently define the type of
transmission defect it is claiming. Plaintiff defined the “transmission defect”
to mean the 10R80 transmission of Ford F150 vehicles equipped with 10R80
transmission that can result in (1) hesitation or delayed acceleration, (2)
harsh or hard shifting, (3) jerking, (4) shuddering, or juddering, (5) symptoms
requiring reprogramming of the transmission control module and/or powertrain
control module (“PCM”) and (6) failure or replacement of the transmission; as
well as, any other similar concerns identified in the repair history for the
subject vehicle.  FMC argues that the
definition lacks specificity as to which component parts are at issue in the
transmission.  The Court sustains this
objection. If Plaintiff is able to more specifically define the defect he is
claiming, he can propound further, more specific discovery. The motion is
denied as to RPD Nos. 17, 19, 30, 35, and 38. 
Plaintiff should define the “transmission defect” with more specificity if
he wishes to re-propound the discovery.  
RPD No. 41 seeks all documents that were prepared by any of FMC’s engineers or
suppliers concerning the transmission defects in Ford vehicles equipped with
the 10R80 transmission like the subject vehicle.  RPD No. 43 seeks all executive
summaries, summaries, reports, analyses, evaluations, or memoranda, regarding
the problem with the 10R80 transmission in Ford vehicles.  RPD No. 44 seeks all documents, including
organizational charts of individuals, employees, officers, directors, and/or
agents within FMC’s recall, quality, warranty, engineering, and/or research
development department, team, committee, group, etc., from 1 year prior to
Plaintiff’s purchase of the subject vehicle until the present.  Plaintiff refers to these RPDs as summary
documents and information (e.g., Power Point presentations, summaries,
evaluations, reports, memoranda, meeting minutes, etc.) and deposition
documents regarding these documents.  
FMC argues that these RPDs are improper
because Plaintiff’s claims were fully resolved in settlement in February 2023,
the RPDs are overly broad and unduly burdensome, the RPDs seek irrelevant
information, the “transmission defect” definition is overly broad, and the
documents sought are privileged.  By
their terms, these RPDs seek documents and other materials regarding vehicles
other than the subject vehicle in this case, and therefore the Court sustains
the overbreadth objections. Absent some proof of a settlement of this case, the
Court must overrule the objection based upon a settlement. The motion is denied
as to RPD Nos. 41, 43, and 44.  
RPD No. 54 seeks all
documents that FMC uses or has used since 2022 to evaluate consumer requests
for repurchases or replacements pursuant to the Act.  RPD No. 55 seeks all documents
regarding FMC’s rules, policies, or procedures since 2022 concerning the
issuance of refunds to buyers or providing replacement vehicles to buyers in
California under the Act.  RPD No. 56
seeks all training manuals and/or other documents relating to the training
given to FMC’s employees, agents, or representatives since 2022, in connection
with handling consumer lemon law repurchase requests.  RPD No. 66 seeks all lemon law
documents published by FMC and provided to FMC’s employees, agents, and
representatives.  RPD No. 67 seeks
all documents, including ESI, setting forth FMC’s document retention policies
from 2022 to the present.  RPD No. 71
seeks FMC’s recall policies and procedures. 
Plaintiff refers to these RPDs as discovery into FMC’s policies and
procedures.  
FMC responded that it would comply to the
requests in part but objected that the RPDs were overbroad.  FMC referred Plaintiff to the Owner’s Guide,
Scheduled Maintenance Guide, and Warranty Guide for the subject vehicle and a
website on California lemon law.  FMC
objected to the RPDs on similar grounds as above (overbroad, irrelevance,
privilege, etc.).  
The RPDs seeking policies and procedures
are not limited to the subject vehicle or to any geographical location. They
seek any and all documents FMC has used to evaluate any consumer request for
repurchase or replacement, all document regarding issues of refunds, all
training manuals for handling consumer lemon law repurchase requests, all lemon
law documents published by FMC, etc.  The
documents sought are overbroad and are not limited to the subject vehicle, to
any time frame, or geographical location. 
Thus, the Court will only grant these requests to the limited extent
that any document referred to in the course of responding to the lemon law
repurchase case in this case should be produced—unless there is a claim of
privilege. In that case, the document(s) should be listed on a privilege log.
The files of outside counsel are excluded from this requirement. To this
limited extent, the motion is granted as to RPD Nos. 54, 55, 56, 66, 67, and 71
to this limited extent. 
RPD No. 74 seeks all
documents regarding any communications between FMC and any government agency or
entity regarding transmission defects in Ford vehicles.  RPD No. 75 seeks all communications
with and documents provided to or received from the supplier of the 10R80
transmissions in Ford vehicles regarding an actual or suspected transmission
condition, issue, problem, or defect.  RPD
No. 76 seeks all Early Warning Reports FMC submitted to NHTSA concerning
Ford vehicles.  RPD No. 77 seeks
all Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation
(TREAD) reports FMC submitted concerning Ford vehicles.  RPD No. 78 seeks all NHTSA complaints
in FMC’s possession, custody, or control that relate to transmission defects in
Ford vehicles.  RPD No. 80 seeks
all documents that FMC provided to or received from part suppliers concerning
the transmission defects in Ford vehicles equipped with the 10R80 transmission
like the subject vehicle.   Plaintiff
refers to these RPDs as discovery involving communications with governmental
agencies and suppliers.  
FMC responded that it would comply with
the RPDs in part but objected that the RPDs were too broad.  FMC denied any transmission defect and
referred Plaintiff to the FSA history for the subject pickup truck, including exemplar
customer letters and Dealer Bulletins for FSA 22C22 and FSA 22S71, which were
performed on the subject pickup truck, and any recall information on the NHTSA
website. 
FMC
objected to the RPDs on similar grounds as summarized above.  
The same issues are present in these RPDs
as discussed above.  The documents sought
are not limited in scope and potentially seek documents regarding any Ford
vehicle that has the 10R80 transmission, regardless of whether the defect/issue
complained of is the same as the issue in Plaintiff’s subject vehicle.  Thus, the overbreadth objections are
sustained, except that any documents that refer specifically to this vehicle
should be produced. The motion is granted as to RPD Nos. 74, 75, 76, 77, 78,
and 80 to this limited extent. 
            No sanctions were requested. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff
Heribierto Aguilar’s motion to compel Defendant Ford Motor Company’s further
response to RPDs is granted as to RPD Nos. 1, 3, 12, 15, 54-56, 66, 67, 71,
74-78, 80, and 81 subject to the limitations as stated more fully in the Court’s
written order, and denied as to RPD Nos. 17, 19,
30, 35, 38, 41, 43, and 44.  Defendant is
ordered to provide further response within 30 days of notice of this
order.  
Plaintiff
shall
provide notice of this order.
 
DATED:
July 19, 2024                                               ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court