 Case Number:  23BBCV02636    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
angela mehtemetian and
  sarkis mehtemetian as co-trustees of the mehtemetian revocable trust dated
  november 18, 2014, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
claudia kelley, 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV02636
 
  Hearing Date:  July 19, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE: 
demurrer; motion
  to strike



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Angela Mehtemetian and Sarkis
Mehtemetian as co-trustees of The Mehtemetian Revocable Trust dated November
18, 2014 (“Trust”), Angela Mehtemetian, and Sarkis Mehtemetian (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) allege that Plaintiffs own property located at 10405 Ditson St.
in Sunland.  They allege that Defendant
Claudia Kelley (“Defendant”) owns property at 10417 Ditson St.  Plaintiffs allege that in June 2022, while
they were still in escrow for their property, Defendant approached the wall
dividing the backyard between the two properties and pointed out that
Plaintiffs’ chain link fence encroached onto Defendant’s side at one
section.  Plaintiffs allege they offered
to allow Defendant to move the fence back. 
They allege that in October 2022, Defendant laid rocks along the side of
Plaintiffs’ driveway in a dirt area separating the two properties and that
Defendant entered their property to put up plastic rods with strings.  They allege that Defendant also told
Plaintiffs not to cut the hedges, though Plaintiffs claim the shrubbery was on
their side of the property.  Plaintiffs
allege that they retained a surveyor, who confirmed that the shrubs were on
their side of the property.  Plaintiffs
allege that they began efforts to install a chain link fence and that Defendant
has begun a campaign of harassment against them as a result. 
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed April
2, 2024, alleges causes of action for: (1) trespass to land; (2) private
nuisance; (3) IIED; (4) negligence; (5) injunction; (6) quiet title; (7)
declaratory relief; and (8) invasion of privacy. 
B.    
Motions
on Calendar 
On June 10, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer and motion to strike
portions of the FAC. 
On June 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed opposition briefs.
On July 12, 2024, Defendant filed a reply brief. 
DISCUSSION RE
DEMURRER
            Defendant demurs to the 3rd cause of action for IIED,
arguing that it fails to allege sufficient facts and is uncertain.  
The elements of intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant;
(2) the defendant’s intention of causing or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff suffered severe or
extreme emotional distress; and (4) the plaintiff’s injuries were actually and
proximately caused by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.  (Vasquez
v. Franklin Mgmt. Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819,
832.)  In order to avoid a demurrer, the
plaintiff must allege with great specificity, the acts which she believes are
so extreme as to exceed all bounds of behavior usually tolerated in a civilized
community.  (Id.) 
            In the 3rd cause of
action for IIED, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant’s conduct towards Plaintiffs
has been extreme and outrageous, and that Defendant intentionally engaged in a
course of conduct designed to inflict emotional distress upon Plaintiffs.  (FAC, ¶¶44-45.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant’s conduct
include: (a) “Making claims to the Los Angeles Department of Building and
Safety (LADBS), falsely accusing Plaintiffs of violations and causing
unnecessary investigations, inspections, and stress”; (b) “Interfering with
Plaintiffs' lawful construction of a fence on their own Property, trespassing
without authority and hindering their enjoyment of their property rights”; (c)
“Repeatedly interfering with Plaintiffs' quiet use and enjoyment of their
Property, including by physically trespassing on the Property and making
unwarranted complaints and allegations to LADBS, thereby causing emotional
turmoil”; (d) “Installing several security cameras intentionally pointed at
Plaintiffs' home, invading their privacy and causing Plaintiffs severe distress”;
and (e) “Using her three Rhodesian Ridgeback dogs to intimidate and worry
Plaintiffs and their grandchildren, creating a hostile environment and causing
anxiety and fear.”  (Id.,
¶46.)  Plaintiffs allege that as a result
of Defendant’s conduct, they have suffered severe emotional distress, including
but not limited to Plaintiffs each visiting Kaiser Permanente to address
complication of severe anxiety on January 17, 2024; and Sarkis Mehtemetian was
taken to the emergency room at Bear Valley Community Hospital for complications
with high blood pressure resulting from anxiety and distress.  (Id., ¶47.)   
            Conduct to be outrageous must
be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of behavior usually tolerated in a
civilized community.  (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.)  At the pleading stage,
the Court will accept the allegations as true. 
Defendant argues that the IIED
cause of action fails to adequately allege extreme and outrageous conduct
because making claims to the LADBS, interfering with the construction of a
fence, installing cameras, and having 3 pets do not constitute IIED.  (Dem. at p.11.)  Defendant also argues that Plaintiffs have
not alleged sufficient facts regarding Defendant’s intent.  However, Plaintiffs do not merely
allege that Defendant reported Plaintiffs to the LADBS, but include facts that
Defendant made false reports; Plaintiffs not only allege that Defendant
interfered with Plaintiffs’ construction of a fence, but did so with the intent
to hinder their enjoyment of their property; Plaintiffs not only allege that
Defendant installed cameras, but that Defendant intentionally pointed the
cameras at Plaintiffs’ home to invade their privacy; and Plaintiffs not only
allege that Defendant had 3 dogs, but that she used them to intimidate Plaintiffs
and their family members.  Taking the
truth of these allegations together, the FAC sufficiently alleges extreme and
outrageous conduct and Defendant’s intent to cause emotional distress.  The demurrer on the basis that the 3rd
cause of action lacks sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against
Defendant is overruled.  
            Next,
Defendant argues that the litigation privilege under Civil Code, § 47(b) bars
the 3rd cause of action with respect to Defendant’s complaints made
to the LADBS.  However, if the litigation
privilege applied, it would not bar the entirety of the 3rd cause of
action, as Plaintiffs have alleged various other grounds for Defendant’s
purported extreme and outrageous conduct. 
A demurrer cannot rightfully be
sustained to part of a cause of action or to a particular type of damage or
remedy.  (Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108
Cal. App. 4th 1028, 1047.)  Thus, this will
not be a ground to sustain the demurrer. 
            Finally, Defendant argues that the 3rd
cause of action is uncertain because the allegations are vague and the cause of
action fails to state which party is asserting the cause of action against
Defendant.  (See Dem. at p.17.)  The demurrer on this basis is also
overruled.  The 3rd cause of
action adequately alleges the elements of an IIED claim and puts Defendant on
notice of the facts alleged against her. 
Further, the FAC alleges that the cause of action is being asserted
against all Defendants and includes allegations from both Plaintiffs against
Defendant.  This argument is better
discussed in a motion to strike as opposed to a demurrer (see discussion
below).  The allegations are not
uncertain.  
            The demurrer to the 3rd
cause of action is overruled.  
DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO STRIKE 
            Defendant moves to
strike the allegations for punitive damages, attorney’s fees, and other
allegations regarding Defendant’s conduct in paragraphs 36 (1st
cause of action), 41 (2nd cause of action), 46 and 49 (3rd
cause of action), 53 (negligence), 57 (5th cause of action), and 74
(8th cause of action); the prayer for relief at items 2 and 4; and
the general allegations at paragraphs 16, 21, 22, 23, and 28.  
A.    Punitive Damages 
A complaint including a request for
punitive damages must include allegations showing that the plaintiff is
entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.)  A claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and
allegations that a defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and
malice" toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show that
the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual allegations are required to
support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.)
Civil Code §
3294 authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there
is clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice,
oppression, or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the
following manner:
(1)  
"Malice"
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2)  
"Oppression"
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.
(3)  
"Fraud"
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury. 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ allegations fail to reach the level
of despicability required under the code. 
(Mot. at p.11.)  Defendant argues
that Plaintiffs’ allegations are conclusory that Defendant engaged in
fraudulent, malicious, or oppressive conduct. 
(Id. at p.12.)  She also
argues that punitive damages cannot be awarded on purely negligent
conduct.  (Id. at 17.)  Defendant essentially provides a recitation
of the law on punitive damages from pages 10 to 17, and then makes conclusory,
generalized arguments that Plaintiffs’ allegations fail to reach the level of
particularity for a punitive damages claim. 

            The motion to strike the allegations
for punitive damages is granted with leave to amend.  The allegations at most allege that
Defendant’s acts were willful, fraudulent, and oppressive for which Plaintiffs
are entitled to punitive damages.  (See
e.g., FAC, ¶¶36, 41, 49, 74.)  Additional
facts should be alleged to support the allegations for malice, oppression,
and/or fraud.  The Court notes that the 4th
cause of action for negligence does not seek punitive damages.  
B.     Attorney’s Fees 
The prayer for damages at item 2 seeks attorney’s fees and costs if
allowable by statute, contract, or other law. 

CCP § 1021 states that attorney’s
fees are recoverable if allowed under statute and/or by agreement.   
In the opposition brief, Plaintiffs acknowledge that they cannot
identify a basis for attorney’s fees, but state that they reserve the right to
amend their complaint if a basis for fees is determined.  (Opp. at p.6.)  
The motion to strike the allegations for attorney’s fees is granted
without leave to amend.  If Plaintiffs
ascertain a basis for attorney’s fees, they may file a motion for leave to
amend at that time.  
C.      CRC
Rule 2.112
CRC Rule 2.112 states that each separately stated cause of action must
specifically state the party asserting it if more than one party is represented
on the pleading.  
Defendant argues that the complaint fails to comply with Rule
2.112.  The causes of action in the FAC
allege who the cause of action is being asserted against (all Defendants), but
fails to state who is asserting the cause of action as there are multiple
Plaintiffs.  As discussed above regarding
the demurrer, it appears that all Plaintiffs are alleging each of the causes of
action against all Defendants.  However,
for clarification purposes, the motion to strike with respect to the headings
of the causes of action is granted with leave to amend.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
            Defendant Claudia Kelley’s demurrer to the 3rd
cause of action alleged in the first amended complaint is overruled.  
            Defendant’s motion to
strike the allegations for punitive damages and the headings of the causes of
action is granted with 20 days leave to amend. 
The motion to strike the allegations for attorney’s fees is granted
without leave to amend; however, if Plaintiffs later ascertain a basis for
attorney’s fees, they may file a motion for leave to amend at that time.  
            Defendant shall provide notice of this order.

 
 
DATED: 
July 19, 2024                                              ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court