 Case Number:  23GDCV02277    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Jie
  Jiang,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
tesla,
  inc. d/b/a tesla motors, inc., 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 
  23GDCV02277
 
  Hearing Date:  July 19, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel binding arbitration
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Jie Jiang (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that he purchased a 2023 Tesla Model Y on April 13, 2023, for which manufacturer/distributor
Defendant Tesla, Inc. d/b/a Tesla Motors, Inc. (“Defendant”) issued a written
warranty.  Plaintiff alleges the warranty
was not issued by the selling dealership. 
Plaintiff alleges the subject vehicle was delivered with serious defects
and nonconformities to the warranty and that it developed other serious defects
and nonconformities to the warranty including, but not limited to, structural
and electrical system defects.  (Compl.,
¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges that he first
presented the subject vehicle for repairs on May 10, 2023 and reported that the
front passenger seat was unable to adjust backward.  (Id., ¶11.) 
Plaintiff presented the vehicle again on May 31, 2023 and
reported that the back seat squeaked when driving over bumps, the vehicle made a
wind-like noise while driving, there was a vibration from the back seat and
headliner, and there was a large gap in between the driver side door and the
body upon closing.  (Id., ¶12.)  Plaintiff presented the vehicle in June 2023
and again reported back seat squeaking. 
(Id., ¶13.)  
The complaint, filed October 26, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of
express warranty; (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of implied
warranty; and (3) violation of Song-Beverly Act § 1793.2.  
B.    
Motion
on Calendar 
On November 28, 2023, Defendant filed a
motion to compel arbitration. 
On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
On July 5, 2024, Defendant filed a reply
brief. 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            With the moving papers, Defendant
submitted a request for judicial notice of the complaint.  The request is granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).)  
DISCUSSION

            Defendant moves to
compel arbitration against Plaintiff and an order to stay the action pending
the outcome of the arbitration. 
A.   
Terms
of the Arbitration Agreement
In support of the
motion, Defendant provides the declaration of Raymond Kim, Manager, Business
Resolution at Defendant.  He states that
when Plaintiff ordered the subject vehicle from Defendant on January 23, 2023,
Plaintiff agreed to the terms of the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (“Order
Agreement”), which included the arbitration agreement.  (Kim Decl., ¶¶3, 6.)  Mr. Kim states that Plaintiff placed the
order by clicking a “Place Order” button on Defendant’s website and that Plaintiff
could not have placed an order without clicking the button or authorizing
someone to do so on his behalf.  (Id.,
¶¶4-5.)  Mr. Kim states that customers
may opt out of the arbitration agreement within 30 days of execution of the
Order Agreement, but Plaintiff did not do so. 
(Id., ¶¶6-7.)  On April 13,
2023, Plaintiff took delivery of the subject vehicle and executed the Retail
Installment Sales Contract (“Sales Contract”), which also includes an arbitration
provision.  (Id., ¶¶3, 8, 13.)  Mr. Kim states that vehicle buyers like
Plaintiff have the opportunity and are expected by Defendant to read the entire
Sales Contract.  (Id., ¶9.)  He states that the Sales Contract was made at
or near the time of the sale of the subject vehicle.  (Id., ¶11.)  Mr. Kim states that both the Order Agreement
and the Sales Contract are available for Plaintiff to view on their mytesla.com
account as long as the customer own the vehicle.  (Id., ¶14.)  
The
Order Agreement was entered between Plaintiff and Tesla, Inc. and includes an
agreement to arbitrate.  (Kim Decl., Ex.
1 [Order Agreement at pp. 2, 3].)  The
Order Agreement is only 4 pages in length. Page 3 of the Order Agreement includes
a box with the bolded term: “Agreement to Arbitrate.”  It states: 
Agreement to Arbitrate.  Please carefully read this
provision, which applies to any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its
affiliates, (together “Tesla”).
If you have a concern or dispute, please send a written notice
describing it and your desired resolution to resolutions@tesla.com. 
If not resolved within 60 days, you agree that any dispute arising
out of or relating to any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will
not be decided by a judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an
arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under
its Consumer Arbitration Rules. This includes claims arising before this
Agreement, such as claims related to statements about our products. You further
agree that any disputes related to the arbitrability of your claims will be
decided by the court rather than an arbitrator, notwithstanding AAA rules to
the contrary.
To initiate the arbitration, you will pay the filing fee directly
to AAA and we will pay all subsequent AAA fees for the arbitration, except you
are responsible for your own attorney, expert, and other witness fees and costs
unless otherwise provided by law. If you prevail on any claim, we will
reimburse you your filing fee. The arbitration will be held in the city or
county of your residence. To learn more about the Rules and how to begin an
arbitration, you may call any AAA office or go to www.adr.org.
The arbitrator may only resolve disputes between you and Tesla,
and may not consolidate claims without the consent of all parties. The
arbitrator cannot hear class or representative claims or requests for relief on
behalf of others purchasing or leasing Tesla vehicles. In other words, you and
Tesla may bring claims against the other only in your or its individual
capacity and not as a plaintiff or class member in any class or representative
action. If a court or arbitrator decides that any part of this agreement to
arbitrate cannot be enforced as to a particular claim for relief or remedy,
then that claim or remedy (and only that claim or remedy) must be brought in
court and any other claims must be arbitrated.
If you prefer, you may instead take an individual dispute to small
claims court.
You may opt out of arbitration within 30 days after signing this
Agreement by sending a letter to: Tesla, Inc.; P.O. Box 15430; Fremont, CA
94539-7970, stating your name, Order Number or Vehicle Identification Number,
and intent to opt out of the arbitration provision. If you do not opt out, this
agreement to arbitrate overrides any different arbitration agreement between
us, including any arbitration agreement in a lease or finance contract.
(Order Agreement at p.3.)  
            The Sales Contract includes an
“ARBITRATION PROVISION” on page 5.  It
states: 
ARBITRATION
PROVISION
PLEASE
REVIEW - IMPORTANT - AFFECTS YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS
1. EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO
HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN YOU AND US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR
BY JURY TRIAL.
2. IF A DISPUTE IS ARBITRATED, YOU
WILL GIVE UP YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AS A CLASS REPRESENTATIVE OR CLASS MEMBER
ON ANY CLASS CLAIM YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST US INCLUDING ANY RIGHT TO CLASS ARBITRATION
OR ANY CONSOLIDATION OF INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATIONS.
3. DISCOVERY AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL
IN ARBITRATION ARE GENERALLY MORE LIMITED THAN IN A LAWSUIT, AND OTHER RIGHTS
THAT YOU AND WE WOULD HAVE IN COURT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE IN ARBITRATION.
Any claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of
this Arbitration Provision, any allegation of waiver of rights under this
Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between
you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of
or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of this Vehicle,
this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such
relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your
or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action. If federal law provides that a claim or dispute is not subject to
binding arbitration, this Arbitration Provision shall not apply to such claim
or dispute. Any claim or dispute is to be arbitrated by a single arbitrator
only on an individual basis and not as a plaintiff in a collective or
representative action, or a class representative or member of a class on any
class claim. The arbitrator may not preside over a consolidated,
representative, class, collective, injunctive, or private attorney general
action. You expressly waive any right you may have to arbitrate a consolidated,
representative, class, collective, injunctive, or private attorney general
action. 
You or we may choose the American
Arbitration Association (www.adr.org) or National Arbitration and Mediation
(www.namadr.com) as the arbitration organization to conduct the arbitration. If
you and we agree, you or we may choose a different arbitration organization.
You may get a copy of the rules of an arbitration organization by contacting
the organization or visiting its website.
Arbitrators shall be attorneys or
retired judges and shall be selected pursuant to the applicable rules. The
arbitrator shall apply governing substantive law and the applicable statute of
limitations. The arbitration hearing shall be conducted in the federal district
in which you reside unless the Seller-Creditor is a party to the claim or
dispute, in which case the hearing will be held in the federal district where
this transaction was originated. We will pay the filing, administration,
service, or case management fee and the arbitrator or hearing fee up to a
maximum of $5,000, unless the law or the rules of the chosen arbitration
organization require us to pay more. You and we will pay the filing,
administration, service, or case management fee and the arbitrator or hearing
fee over $5,000 in accordance with the rules and procedures of the chosen arbitration
organization. The amount we pay may be reimbursed in whole or in part by
decision of the arbitrator if the arbitrator finds that any of your claims is frivolous
under applicable law. Each party shall be responsible for its own attorney,
expert and other fees, unless awarded by the arbitrator under applicable law.
If the chosen arbitration organization's rules conflict with this Arbitration
Provision, then the provisions of this Arbitration Provision shall control. Any
arbitration under this Arbitration Provision shall be governed by the Federal
Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq.) and not by any state law concerning
arbitration. Any award by the arbitrator shall be in writing and will be final
and binding on all parties, subject to any limited right to appeal under the
Federal Arbitration Act.
…
This Arbitration Provision shall
survive any termination, payoff or transfer of this contract. If any part of
this Arbitration Provision, other than waivers of class rights, is deemed or
found to be unenforceable for any reason, the remainder shall remain
enforceable. You agree that you expressly waive any right you may have for a
claim or dispute to be resolved on a class basis in court or in arbitration. If
a court or arbitrator finds that this class arbitration waiver is unenforceable
for any reason with respect to a claim or dispute in which class allegations
have been made, the rest of this Arbitration Provision shall also be
unenforceable.
(Sales Contract at p.5.)  
Accordingly, the
Court finds there is an enforceable agreement to arbitrate the claims asserted
in the complaint and the scope of the arbitration provisions are sufficiently
broad to cover the claims in this action between Plaintiff and Defendant.  Thus, the motion to compel arbitration is
granted.
            In
the opposition brief, Plaintiff does not raise any arguments regarding the
existence of the arbitration agreement, whether he signed the agreement, or the
scope of the arbitration agreement. 
Rather, he argues that the arbitration provision is unconscionable.  
            As
the parties do not dispute the existence or scope of the arbitration agreement,
the Court will discuss whether the terms of the arbitration agreement are
unconscionable.  
B.    
Unconscionability
            Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the Order
Agreement was a pre-printed consumer sales contract that was presented to
Plaintiff on a “take it or leave it” basis (contract of adhesion), such that
Plaintiff had no meaningful opportunity to negotiate with Defendant about the
terms.  However, the Order Agreement’s arbitration
agreement expressly allowed Plaintiff 30 days after signing the arbitration
agreement to opt out of the arbitration provision by sending a written letter
to Defendant.  As such, this particular
term was not a contract of adhesion. 
Further, there is no evidence that the arbitration clauses in the Order Agreement
or the Sales Contract were non-negotiable or that Plaintiff made any attempt to
negotiate such terms and was
denied.  (See Bolanos v. Khalatian (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1586 [holding that
arbitration agreement was enforceable because the plaintiff’s declaration did
not say that she could not read or understand the agreement and because she did
not offer any evidence that she was forced or tricked into signing the
agreement].) Plaintiff has not provided a declaration stating that he attempted
to ask questions about or negotiate the terms of the arbitration agreement in
the Order Agreement or the Sales Contract and that he was denied such requests.

            Plaintiff also argues that the
arbitration agreement did not include a copy of the relevant arbitration
rules.  However, the Order Agreement’s arbitration
agreement stated that the American Arbitration Association would be the chosen arbitrator
and that rules may be found by calling the AAA office or going on the
www.adr.org website.  Similarly, the
Sales Contract’s arbitration provision directs Plaintiff to contact AAA or
National Arbitration and Mediation or visit their websites for the arbitration
rules.  The failure to attach or provide the
AAA and/or NAM rules to the arbitration agreement is not, in itself, a
sufficient ground to support a finding of procedural unconscionability.  For example, in Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676,
690, the Court of Appeal concluded: “[T]he failure to attach a copy of the AAA
rules did not render the agreement procedurally unconscionable. There could be
no surprise, as the arbitration rules referenced in the agreement were easily
accessible to the parties—the AAA rules are available on the Internet.”
            Thus, there are no indications of
procedural unconscionability.  
            Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable because the clause allows
for a choice of the arbitration forum only for the party “electing” to
arbitrate.  Plaintiff argues that
Defendant has elected the forum and rules for the arbitration, citing to Chavarria
v. Ralphs (9th Cir. 2013) 733 F.3d 916 (“Even if it
were the case that Ralphs' policy does not guarantee that Ralphs will always be
the party with the final selection, the selection process is not one designed
to produce a true neutral in any individual case.”).  (Opp. at p.6.)  Part of the issue in Chavarria was
that the arbitration selection provision would always produce an arbitrator
proposed by Ralphs and that the provision precluded institutional arbitration
administrators like AAA or JAMS which had established rules and procedures to
select a neutral arbitrator.  Here,
Defendant’s arbitration agreement does not preclude the selection of neutral
arbitrators at qualified institutions like AAA or JAMS.  
            Plaintiff
also argues that the arbitration cost provision is substantively unconscionable
and would impose prohibitive costs on Plaintiff.  However, the arbitration agreement in the
Order Agreement states: “To initiate
the arbitration, you will pay the filing fee directly to AAA and we will pay
all subsequent AAA fees for the arbitration, except you are responsible for
your own attorney, expert, and other witness fees and costs unless otherwise
provided by law. If you prevail on any claim, we will reimburse you your filing
fee. The arbitration will be held in the city or county of your residence.”  (Order Agreement at p.3.)  As such, it is unclear how the arbitration
cost provision in the Order Agreement is unconscionable.  
            The Sales
Contract states in relevant part: 
We will pay
the filing, administration, service, or case management fee and the arbitrator
or hearing fee up to a maximum of $5,000, unless the law or the rules of the
chosen arbitration organization require us to pay more. You and we will pay the
filing, administration, service, or case management fee and the arbitrator or
hearing fee over $5,000 in accordance with the rules and procedures of the
chosen arbitration organization. The amount we pay may be reimbursed in whole
or in part by decision of the arbitrator if the arbitrator finds that any of your
claims is frivolous under applicable law. Each party shall be responsible for
its own attorney, expert and other fees, unless awarded by the arbitrator under
applicable law.
(Sales Contract at p.5.)  The Sales Contract contemplates Defendant
paying fees up to $5,000 and then the parties splitting any arbitration fees
over $5,000 in accordance with the rules and procedures of the chosen
arbitration organization.  The provision
does not require Plaintiff to “pay all costs above $5,000” as argued by
Plaintiff in the opposition brief.  (Opp.
at p.7.)  The Court does not find this
provision to be substantively unconscionable. 

            As there are no indications of
procedural or substantive unconscionability, the motion to compel arbitration
is granted.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Defendant Tesla, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration is granted.  The action shall be stayed pending the
outcome of the arbitration. 
The Case Management Conference set for August 7, 2024 is vacated.  The Court sets a Status Conference re: Status
of Arbitration for January 15, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. 
Defendant
shall
give notice of this order.  
 
 
DATED:  July 19, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 