  Case Number:  22AHCV01229    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
jane
  roe,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
pasadena
  unified school district, et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  22AHCV01229
 
  Hearing Date:  July 19, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
MOtion for stay of proceedings 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Jane Roe (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that she is a victim of childhood sexual assault committed against her while
she was a pupil at Defendant Pasadena Unified School District’s (“PUSD”) Oak
Knoll Elementary or Oak Knoll Montessori School and Focus Point Elementary or
Focus Point Academy.  Plaintiff alleges
that in approximately 2004, when shew as about 8 years old, she was sexually
assaulted and abused by her teacher Defendant Victor Martinez (“Martinez”)
while she was in the 3rd grade at Oak Knoll Elementary or Oak Knoll
Montessori School.  She alleges that from
2005 to 2007, at about ages 10 and 11, she was sexually assaulted and abused by
Martinez while she was in the 4th, 5th, and 6th
grade at Focus Point Elementary or Focus Point Academy.   Plaintiff alleges that upon information and
belief, she reported her abuse to Defendant Kelly Montgomery (“Montgomery”),
the schools’ employee, counselor, and staff therapist, but Montgomery and the
schools did not report the abuse to authorities.  
The second amended complaint (“SAC”),
filed July 26, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence; (2)
negligent supervision; (3) negligent hiring and/or retention; (4) negligent
failure to warn, train, or education; (5) IIED; (6) sexual battery (Civil Code,
§ 1708.5); (7) sexual assault; (8) gender violence (Civil Code, § 52.4); (9)
violation of Penal Code, § 288; (10) violation of Penal Code, § 647.6; and (11)
violation of Civil Rights (Civil Code, §§ 51.7, 52, and 52.1).  
B.    
Motion
on Calendar
On June 11, 2024, PUSD filed a motion for
stay of the proceedings. 
On June 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief.
On July 2, 2024, PUSD filed a reply brief.

REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
PUSD request judicial notice of Items 1 to
10, which include court documents from West Contra Costa USD v. Superior
Court (First District Case No. A16934); and Items 11 to 15, which include
court documents in Roe #2 v. Superior Court (Second Appellate District,
Div. 6, Case No. B334707).  Both the West
Contra Costa USD and Roe #2 case involve petitions for writ of
mandate regarding a demurrer and motion for judgment on the pleadings, which
dealt with the issue of whether AB 218 amounts to an unlawful gift of public
funds as applied to claims against public entities for childhood sexual abuse
that allegedly occurred before January 1, 2009. 

Plaintiff requests judicial notice of 34
court orders in various cases.  With the
reply brief, PUSD objected to Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice, arguing
that the superior court cases are not certified for publication and cannot be
noticed for the truth of the contentions. 

The requests are granted to the extent
that the Court will take judicial notice that the court documents and orders exist
but will not take judicial notice of the truth of the matters asserted or the
legal reasoning therein.  (Evid. Code, §
452(d)). Under CRC Rule 8.1115(a), the Court can give
no consideration to these rulings as precedent, which is the apparent reason
they were the provided. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“Trial courts generally have the inherent
power to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial
efficiency.”  (Freiberg v. City of
Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.)  
There are four factors for the Court to
consider when exercising its discretion to impose a stay:  “(1) whether the
stay applicant has made a strong showing that he is likely to succeed on the
merits; (2) whether the applicant will be irreparably injured absent a stay;
(3) whether issuance of the stay will substantially injure the other parties
interested in the proceeding; and (4) where the public interest lies.”  (Nken v. Holder
(2009) 556 U.S. 418, 434.)  
DISCUSSION 
            PUSD
moves for a stay of the proceedings, arguing that the Appellate Court decisions
have the potential to render this matter unactionable.  PUSD argues that if the Appellate Courts
determine that, to the extent AB 218, which was enacted in 2019, purports to
retroactively strip statutory government immunity from public entities, it
violates the California Constitution, Article XVI, section 6, which prohibits
gifts of public funds, such that Plaintiff will not have a viable claim.   
            PUSD argues that there are 2
separate writs pending in the First and Second Appellate Districts regarding AB
218’s constitutionality.  PUSD believes
that decisions are imminent because: (1) the First Appellate District (in the West
Contra County case, A169314) recently issued an OSC why the Court should
not grant the relief requested by petitioner and responses were filed on June
3, 2024, such that the matter is fully briefed; and (2) the Second Appellate
District (in the Roe #2 case, B334707) ordered the plaintiffs to submit
briefing as to why the Court should not grant the relief requested by petitioner
and briefing was completed on May 17, 2024. 
In the reply brief, PUSD states that the First Appellate District in the
West Contra County case has scheduled a hearing on the writ for July 18,
2024 at 9;300 a.m.  (Preciado Suppl.
Decl., ¶3, Ex. J.)  PUSD argues that this
action should be stayed pending the resolution of one or both writs to promote
judicial economy and protect the boards, as the appellate decisions will be
binding on this Court. 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
staying the case will delay her case and that Judge Margaret L. Oldendorf of
the Pasadena Courthouse, Department P, already denied PUSD’s motion for
judgment on the pleadings on the constitutionality issue on January 31, 2024.[1]  (The matter was thereafter reassigned to
Judge Jared D. Moses in the Pasadena Courthouse, Department P, and then
reassigned to this Department B in the Burbank Courthouse.)  Plaintiff also argues that the underlying
orders in both appellate cases were also ruled in favor of the plaintiffs and
against the public entities regarding AB 218. 
Thus, Plaintiff argues that PUSD has not and cannot make a showing that
it will likely succeed on the merits in the unrelated appeals and that it will
be irreparably harmed absent a stay. 
            Here, the Court declines to exercise
its discretion to impose a stay in the action. 
The school districts regularly make such arguments regarding the pending
writs before this Court at demurrer and motion for judgment on the pleadings
hearings, and the Court has declined to delay those cases and declines to do so
in this case as well.  Although PUSD
argues that decisions from the Appellate Courts are potentially imminent,
particularly in the West Contra County case as the writ was set for
hearing on July 18, 2024, the timeframe for when the Appellate Court will issue
a decision on the writ or whether review will be sought of the Appellate
Court’s order are still speculative.  This
action does not only involve PUSD and Plaintiff, but also includes other
Defendants Victor
Martinez and Kelly Montgomery.  Staying
the action would further delay the parties’ ability to conduct discovery and
depositions.  As such, the Court finds
that staying the case and delaying discovery further in this case where the
events occurred nearly 17 to 20 years ago would prejudice the rights of
Plaintiff and the other Defendants.  Thus, the Court will allow this case to
proceed and the parties may continue with discovery and motion practice.  
The motion for a stay is denied.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant Pasadena
Unified School District’s motion for stay of the proceedings is denied. 
            Defendant
shall provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED:  July 19, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


