 Case Number:  23BBCV01846    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
emerson
  mikasa,
  a minor individual, by and through his Guardian ad Litem, MEREDITH CHERRY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
los
  angeles unified school district, et
  al.,
  
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV01846
 
  Hearing Date:  July 19, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion for an order compelling mental
  examination of Plaintiff   



            
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff minor Emerson Mikasa
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that he sustained physical, emotional, and psychological
injuries on August 18, 2022[1]
when he was brutally attacked, assaulted, and bullied by another student H.A.D1
(“Assailant”) at Dixie Canyon Community Charter, an elementary school under the
control, operation, management, and supervision of Defendant Los Angeles
Unified School District (“LAUSD”).  Plaintiff
alleges that during school hours, he entered the restroom at or near the
school’s lunch area and was approached by Assailant, who suddenly and without
provocation attacked Plaintiff from behind. 
Plaintiff alleges that Assailant grabbed him by the collar, threw him to
the floor, and struck his head repeatedly. 
Plaintiff alleges 4 other students witnessed the event and ran to get
help.  
Plaintiff alleges that the event was
promptly reported to LAUSD and Defendant Silvia Lopez (LAUSD employee, “Lopez”)
that same day.  Plaintiff alleges that on
August 19, 2022, he reported the assault to the Los Angeles Police
Department.  On August 21, 2022, Plaintiff’s
mother, Meredith Cherry, emailed Defendants Lopez, Pamela Damonte (“Damonte”),
and Margery Weller (“Weller”), as well as several other LAUSD
employees/representatives regarding the incident.  
The complaint, filed August 10, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence; and (2) negligent hiring,
retention, supervision, and training. 
On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff amended
the name for “Pamela Demonte” to “Pamela Damonte.”  
B.    
Motion on Calendar   
            On May 17, 2024, Defendants LAUSD,
Lopez, Damonte, and Weller filed a motion to compel Plaintiff Emerson Mikasa to
attend a mental examination conducted by Dr. April Thames on July 22, 2024 at
10:00 a.m. or on a mutually agreeable date and time.  
            On July 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief.
            On July 12, 2024, Defendants filed
reply papers. 
DISCUSSION 
Defendants move to compel Plaintiff to
attend a mental examination conducted by Defendants’ retained psychological
expert, Dr. April Thames, Ph.D.
On February 23, 2024, defense counsel sent
a letter to Plaintiff’s counsel requesting that Plaintiff stipulate to an
independent medical examination (mental) of Plaintiff, and Plaintiff’s counsel
responded by asking defense counsel to clarify the scope of the test and
requested that Defendants agree to produce the raw data to Plaintiff’s
counsel.  On March 1, 2024, defense
counsel sent a draft stipulation for an order on Plaintiff’s mental
examination, but declined to provide the raw data to Plaintiff’s counsel.  The parties thereafter met and conferred
about the mental examination, whereby the parties agreed that Plaintiff would
submit to a physical and mental IME, but the parties still disputed whether the
raw data from the IME would be provided to Plaintiff’s counsel.  Defendants argue that their counsel followed
up with Plaintiff’s counsel numerous times regarding the draft stipulation, but
did not hear back from Plaintiff’s counsel until May 13, 2024 when Plaintiff’s
counsel again requested that raw data be shared.  Despite meet and confer efforts, the parties
were unable to agree upon a stipulation, such that Defendants filed this
motion.  
The parties do not dispute that Plaintiff
will submit to a mental IME.  The only
issue between the parties regarding the mental IME is whether Plaintiff’s
counsel is entitled to the raw data from the examination.  In opposition, Plaintiff relies on Randy’s
Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern County (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818,
arguing that the disclosure of raw test data falls within the broad discretion
of the superior court.  The Court will
consider several relevant cases.  
            In Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, Carpenter
argued that he should be provided a copy of test questions and answers after
his mental examination.  (Carpenter,
supra, 141 Cal.App.4th at 271.)  The
Court stated that “[w]hile there is no express statutory authority for Carpenter's position,
neither is there statutory authority precluding a trial court, in its
discretion, from ordering the disclosure of the written test questions and
answers.”  (Id.)  The Court discussed whether copyright protections
and ethical issues barred production of the test questions and answers.  With regard to copyright protection, the
Court acknowledged that components of the MMPI test have been held protected by
copyright law.  (Id. at 272.)  Based on the evidence provided, the Court
found the evidence was insufficient to support a finding that providing a copy
of the test would be a copyright infringement. 
(Id. at 273.)  The
publisher of the MMPI tests is Pearson, Inc. and the publisher of the WAIS
tests, CVLT-II, and the Raven’s Standard Progressive Matrices is Harcourt
Assessment, Inc.  (Id.)  The Court found that Pearson and Harcourt both
suggested satisfactory means by which the test can be provided after a mental
examination, whereby the “test questions and answers may be given to
plaintiff's counsel or a designated psychologist, subject to a protective order
strictly limiting the use and further disclosure of the material, and providing
for other safeguards against access that would compromise the integrity and
validity of the tests.”  (Id. at 274.)   Next, the Court discussed the examiner’s
ethical and professional duties.  (Id.
at 275.)  Under the Standards for
Educational and Psychological Testing, examiners are responsible for protecting
the security of test materials and psychologists have an obligation not to
reproduce copyrighted materials (i.e., test items, ancillary forms, scoring
templates, conversion tables of raw scores, and tables of norms) for routine
test use without consent of the copyright holder.  (Id.) 
The Court of Appeal remanded this latter issue to the trial court. 
             In Roe v. Superior Court (2015) 243
Cal.App.4th 138, the plaintiff sought copies of the written questions
and her responses from her mental examination. 
In the trial court proceedings, the defendant argued that the examiner
objected to the production of testing materials because they were subject to
copyright law and defendant sought a protective order in the event the trial
court ordered disclosure of the materials. 
(Roe, supra, 243 Cal.App.4th at 146.)  The trial court ordered the doctor to comply
with the statutory language of CCP § 2032.610, stated that the parties should
wait and see how the examiner would comply, and told the parties to bring a
subsequent motion if they believed she failed to comply with section 2032.610;
the order did not mention copyright law. 
(Id. at 147.)  Plaintiff
argued that section 2032.610 implied the production of written testing
materials and her answers by analogizing the section to Penal Code, §
1054.3(a)(1), which provides for the results of physical or mental examinations,
which defendant intends to offer in evidence at trial. (Id.)  However, the Court held that there was no
legislative history supporting any finding that this would include “raw
data.”  (Id.)  The Court of Appeal found that plaintiff’s
undeveloped analyses that “results of all tests made” as stated in CCP §
2032.610 required defendants to deliver the written testing materials and
plaintiff’s raw answers.  (Id. at
149.)  
            In Randy’s Trucking, the
trial court had granted the defendants’ motion to compel the mental examination
of plaintiff and ordered defendants’ neuropsychologist to transfer raw data and
an audio recording of the examination to plaintiff’s counsel subject to a
protective order.  (Randy’s Trucking,
supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at 824.)  The Court
of Appeal acknowledged that while there was no statutory authority precluding a
trial court from ordering the disclosure of test materials or data when
ordering a mental IME, there was also not authority precluding a trial court
from exercising its discretion to bar the disclosure of the written test
questions and answers.  (Id. at
834 [citing Carpenter].)  “While Carpenter
did not decide whether the examiner's ethical and professional obligations
precluded disclosing the test questions and the examinee's answers to the
examinee, the appellate court recognized the trial court has discretion to
order the disclosure of such materials even if no statute authorizes it”—and
this discretion was based on the trial court’s broad discretion in discovery
matters.  (Id. at 835.)  The Court of Appeal discussed both Carpenter
and Roe and found: 
At best, Roe
stands for the proposition that a trial court is not required to order
the production of test materials or test data under section 2032.610. Under Carpenter,
however, given the trial court's broad discretion in discovery matters, it
retains the discretion to order the production of such materials. Moreover, although not developed by either
party, since section 2032.530, subdivision (a) grants the examinee the right to
record a mental examination by audio technology, it implies the examinee may
retain a copy of the audio recording. Where, as
here, the trial court ordered the examiner to record the examination, the trial
court had discretion to order the examiner to provide a copy to the examinee.
Therefore, we conclude the trial court here had the discretion to order the
production of the raw data and audio recording, as stated in its order.
(Id. at 837.) 
The Court of Appeal considered the doctor’s concerns about producing raw
data, but noted that the doctor had not explained why a protective order would
not ameliorate those dangers.  (Id.)
 The Court weighed this against
plaintiff’s right to take discovery and cross-examine defendants’ expert
witnesses and determined that “[w]ithout the raw data and audio recording,
plaintiffs cannot effectively scrutinize the way the data was collected,
determine if there are discrepancies, and cross-examine the neuropsychologist
on the basis and reasons for the neuropsychologist's
opinion.”  (Id. at 838.)  
            Standards 9.04 and 9.11 of
the APA Ethical Standards state: 
            9.04
RELEASE OF TEST DATA
(a) The term test data refers to
raw and scaled scores, client/patient responses to test questions or stimuli,
and psychologists' notes and recordings concerning client/patient statements
and behavior during an examination. Those portions of test materials that
include client/patient responses are included in the definition of test data. Pursuant to a client/patient release,
psychologists provide test data to the client/patient or other persons
identified in the release. Psychologists may refrain from releasing test data
to protect a client/patient or others from substantial harm or misuse or
misrepresentation of the data or the test, recognizing that in many instances
release of confidential information under these circumstances is regulated by
law. (See also Standard 9.11, "Maintaining Test Security.")
(b) In the absence of a client/patient release, psychologists
provide test data only as required by law or court order.
9.11 MAINTAINING TEST SECURITY
The term test materials refers
to manuals, instruments, protocols, and test questions or stimuli and does not
include test data as defined in Standard 9.04, Release of
Test Data. Psychologists make reasonable efforts to maintain the integrity and
security of test materials and other assessment techniques consistent with law
and contractual obligations, and in a manner that permits adherence to this
Ethics Code.
(APA
Ethical Standards, Standards 9.04 and 9.11.) 
As summarized by the Court in Randy’s Trucking: “Standard 9.04 of the APA Ethical Standards provides
that a patient may authorize the release of raw test data to the patient or
other persons identified in the release, and Standard 9.11 of the APA Ethical
Standards ‘only requires that psychologists make “reasonable efforts to
maintain the integrity and security of test materials and other assessment
techniques consistent with law and contractual obligations.” ’ ”  (Randy’s Trucking,
supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at 827.)  
             Based on Carpenter,
Roe, and Randy’s Trucking, the Court declines to grant the motion outright, and thus it will not
order the production of the “raw data” to Plaintiff’s counsel without a
protective order.  The motion will be
granted subject to the parties entering into a protective order.  
            As
indicated by Carpenter, the parties to this litigation are not
the copyright holders of the administered tests.  Rather, the copyright holders are the
publishers of the tests themselves. 
According to Carpenter, every effort should be made to restrict
access to the materials and testimony regarding the materials to the most
limited audience possible, and preferably only to those individuals who are
professionally qualified to use and interpret the tests; restrict copying of
the test materials; restrict use of the test materials to only to that required
for the resolution of the lawsuit; require prompt return and destruction of any
copies made of the material at the conclusion of the proceedings, and sealing
the record to the extent any portion of the materials are disclosed in pleadings,
testimony, exhibit, or any other documents available for public
inspection.  (See Carpenter, supra, 141
Cal.App.4th at 274.)  Here, entering into
a protective order to protect against the public dissemination of the
information should sufficiently guard against any copyright concerns. 
            In
her declaration, Dr. Thames states that psychologists do not release raw test
data forms, audio recordings of testing, or narrative reports and score
summaries to non-psychologists and that she would be willing to exchange raw
data to Plaintiff’s psychological expert only, who is bound by the same ethical
and legal duties as her.  (Thames Decl.,
¶7.)  Dr. Thames expresses her concerns
that the maintenance of “test security” will be compromised and would
negatively affect the scientific value of psychological evaluations if they are
disseminated.  (Id., ¶¶9-10.)  She also opines that
Plaintiff’s counsel do not need raw data to cross-examine a psychological
expert and that a protective order would not afford sufficient protection as
counsel could later use the information learned in this case to coach current
and future clients.  (Id., ¶¶13-14.)  Dr. Thames states
that attorneys lack the professional training and experience to evaluate raw
testing and audio recording data and thus she will not agree to releasing raw
test data or audio recording of Plaintiff. 
(Id., ¶¶18-19.)  Dr.
Thames states that if the Court is inclined to order that raw testing and audio
recording be transmitted to Plaintiff’s counsel, she will recuse herself from
the case.  (Id., ¶20.)  Defendants argue that
they will be prejudiced if Dr. Thames is forced to recuse herself, as they
would not have an expert prior to the preferentially set September 16, 2024
trial date.  (Reply at p.2.) 
            As
discussed above, trial courts have discretion to allow the production of raw
test data and audio recordings of mental IMEs. 
While Dr. Thames has particular concerns about test security, the Court
finds that a protective order will adequately protect against such concerns.  Further, the Randy Trucking court recognized Dr. Thames’ similar concerns that counsel cannot evaluate
test materials: “While defendants assert plaintiffs' attorneys could not
interpret the test materials, they would not necessarily be required to do so to
use the materials for purposes of cross-examination, since disclosure of these
materials may help to protect against abuse and disputes over what transpired
during the examination.”  (Id. at
838.)  
            Thus, the Court will grant the motion such that the
data should be produced subject to a protective order.  The protective order shall include the
following terms:  
(1)  
Confidential test
materials shall be released only to professionally qualified individuals who
are able to obtain, use, and interpret them, as well as counsel in this matter for the purposes of cross-examination of Defendants’
retained experts. 
(2)  
The parties and
counsel are prohibited from making copies of proprietary test materials in
order to protect the copyright holders’ rights in the material. 
(3)  
Copyrighted test
materials shall not be made public or distributed to any other persons, other
than qualified experts.  
(4)  
The record shall
be sealed to the extent any portion of the test materials are disclosed in
pleadings, testimony, exhibit, or any other documents available for public
inspection.
(5)   Any copy of the material shall be promptly returned to
Defendants and destroyed at the conclusion of the proceedings. 
            The Court
finds that entering into a protective order and sealing documents will prevent
the unlawful disclosure of test materials and protect Dr. Thames (or any other
retained defense examiner) from engaging in any unethical practice.  
Defendants request sanctions in the amount
of $2,700 against Plaintiff and his counsel of record.  In light of the ruling on the motion, the
Court declines to award sanctions on this motion.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Defendants’ motion
to compel Plaintiff Emerson Mikasa to attend a mental examination conducted by
Dr. April Thames on July 22, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. or on a mutually agreeable date
and time is granted, subject to the parties entering a protective order.  Defendants’ mental examiner shall be ordered
to produce all test materials, the raw
data of Plaintiff’s administered tests, and documents, medical records, and
audio recordings relied upon by the mental examiner in reaching his conclusions
in the report subject to a protective order.  The protective
order shall be entered as follows: 
(1)  
Confidential
test materials shall be released only to professionally qualified individuals
who are able to obtain, use, and interpret them, as well as counsel in this
matter for the purposes of cross-examination of Defendants’ retained experts.  
(2)  
The
parties and counsel are prohibited from making copies of proprietary test
materials in order to protect the copyright holders’ rights in the material. 
(3)  
Copyrighted
test materials shall not be made public or distributed to any other persons,
other than qualified experts.  
(4)  
The
record shall be sealed to the extent any portion of the test materials are
disclosed in pleadings, testimony, exhibit, or any other documents
available for public inspection.
(5)   Any copy of the material shall be promptly
returned to Defendant and destroyed at the conclusion of the proceedings. 
            No
sanctions will be awarded. 
Defendant shall give
notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  July 19, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 


