  Case Number:  21STCV33097    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   May
14, 2024                                      
 
CASE NAME:           Sarena
Serrano v. Core Community Organized, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                21STCV33097
 
PETITION
TO VACATE ARBITRATION AWARD
 
MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff,
Sarena Serrano
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant, Core Community
Organized Relief Effort 
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
order vacating the arbitration award dismissing the complaint.
2.      Select
a new arbitrator. 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      The
Petition to Vacate the Contractual Arbitration Award is DENIED;
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On September 8, 2021, Plaintiff Serena Serrano (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendants Core Community Organized Relief Effort,
Ann Young, City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles Fire Department, and Jamie Lesinki (Defendants)
with nine causes of action for (1) Hostile Work Environment Sexual Harassment (2)
Gender Violence, (3) Sexual Battery under CCP 1708.5, (4) Aiding and Abetting
Sexual Harassment in violation of Gov. Code § 12940(i), (5) Sexual Harassment, (6)
Retaliation in Violation of Government Code § 12940(h), (7) Failure to Prevent
Harassment in violation of Gov. Code § 12940(k), (8) Failure to Prevent
Retaliation, and (9) Wrongful Termination. 
 
On June 29, 2022, the Court ordered the parties to arbitrate
Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
On March 26, 2024, Plaintiff brought the instant motion to vacate
contractual arbitration award. On April 3, 2024, Defendant Core Community
Organized Relied Effort and Young filed in opposition. On April 25, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
“Any party to an
arbitration award in which an award has been made may petition the court to
confirm, correct, or vacate the award.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.) “Regardless of the particular relief
granted, any arbitrator’s award is enforceable only when confirmed as a
judgment of the superior court.” (O’Hare v. Municipal Resource Consultants (2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 267, 278.) “Once a petition to
confirm an award is filed, the superior
court must select one of only four courses of action: it may confirm the award,
correct and confirm it, vacate it, or dismiss the petition.” (EHM Productions, Inc. v. Starline Tours of
Hollywood, Inc. (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 1058, 1063.) “It is well
settled that the scope of judicial review of arbitration awards is extremely
narrow.” (California Faculty Assn.
v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 935, 943.) “Neither the trial court, nor the appellate court, may
‘review the merits of the dispute, the sufficiency of the evidence, or the
arbitrator’s reasoning, nor may we correct or review an award because of an
arbitrator’s legal or factual error, even if it appears on the award’s face.”
(EHM Productions, supra, at p.
1063-64.) The Code
of Civil Procedure § 1285.8 further provides that a response requesting such
relief “shall set forth the grounds on which the request for such relief is
based. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.8.)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Petitioner contends that the Arbitration Award entered by Arbitrator
Richard R. Mainland on the grounds that the Arbitrator exceeded his authority
and the award cannot be fairly corrected. Plaintiff argues that the Arbitrator
exceeded his authority by applying the AAA Employment Arbitration Rules (EAR),
which Plaintiff claims were not agreed to by the parties, to dismiss
Plaintiff’s complaint. Defendants Core Community and Young contend that the Arbitrator
acted within his authority to dismiss the Complaint for timeliness. 
 
In determining whether an arbitrator exceeded his or her
powers, we look to the parties’ arbitration agreement to see if and how it
limited the arbitrator's authority because arbitrators have no powers beyond
those conferred upon them by the arbitration agreement; their powers “ ‘
“derive from, and are limited by, the agreement to arbitrate.” ’ ” (California Union Square L.P. v. Saks &
Company LLC (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 340, 349 citing Greenspan v. LADT LLC (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1413, 1437.)
 
The Arbitration Agreement states that: 
 
Subject to each Party's right to
obtain provisional equitable relief in a court of applicable jurisdiction
pending a final award by the arbitrator, any controversy or claim between the Employer and the Employee related
to this Agreement shall be settled by expedited arbitration in accordance with
the expedited labor arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association (“AAA”), except that if the employer adopts an employment ADR plan, within the meaning of the National Rules
for the Resolution of Employment Disputes of the AAA (the “Employment Rules”), then such employment ADR plan and the Employment
Rules shall apply, in either case, notwithstanding the amount and
controversy…
 
(Pet. p.7; Attach. 4(b).) The Arbitration Award indicates
that the Arbitrator was not persuaded by Plaintiff’s contention that the AAA’s
Labor arbitration rule should apply, finding that CORE did adopt an ADR plan
and that under the Employment Rules, it was likely that the AAA would not have
accepted the case unless a plan had been adopted. (Id. p. 14; Attach. 8(c).) Here, the Arbitrator was not acting in
excess of his authority because he was following the arbitration agreement's
clear expression that an employment ADR plan controls when the employer chooses
to do so. The Arbitrator found CORE had done so. Moreover, the Arbitrator
further noted that despite the limitation language appearing in the Employment
Rules and not the Employment Agreement itself did not prevent its application
as the was incorporated by reference. 
 
Plaintiff’s reliance on California
Union Square L.P. v. Saks & Company LLC is misguided as the California Union court held that the
arbitrator exceeded his authority while he acted outside the powers authorized to
him by the parties’ agreement. (California
Union Square supra 50 CA5th at 348.) The case is distinguishable here
because the Arbitrator was acting within his authority to hold that the CORE
ADR plan was controlled. Indeed, the California
Union court noted that “Even if we may have reached a different conclusion
if we were determining the arbitrator's powers in the first instance, “the
deference due an [arbitrator] ... requires a court to refrain from substituting
its judgment for the arbitrator's in determining the contractual scope of [the
arbitrator's] powers. [Citations.]” (Id.
at 351.) Moreover, Plaintiff’s contention that it did not agree to the
employment ADR in lieu of the other alternative rules falls flat as the acceptance
of the employment ADR was specified in the parties’ Arbitration Agreement and “is
what the parties bargained for in the arbitration agreement.” ’. (Gueyffier v. Ann Summers, Ltd. (2008) 43
Cal.4th 1179, 1184; accord, Moncharsh v.
Heily & Blasé (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 12.) 
 
Therefore, since the Arbitrator did not exceed his authority
under the Arbitration Agreement, the Motion is DENIED.[1]
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Petition to Vacate the Contractual Arbitration Award
is DENIED. Instead, the Court confirms the Award. Responding party to prepare a
judgment.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              May 14, 2024                          __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


