 Case Number:  BC609690    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California¿ County of Los Angeles¿ Department 78¿ ¿ JASON SYDNEY, Plaintiff(s), vs. JACK JOSEPH PUIG, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.:¿ BC609690 Hearing Date:¿ August 2, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ACCOUNTING  I.  BACKGROUND Plaintiff Jason Sydney (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Jack Joseph Puig (“Defendant”) for breach of contract and fraud, wherein the parties formed an agreement of providing a business plan for a company and to serve as its Chief Operating Officer in exchange for an equity interest in the company and a three-year employment agreement. (Compl. ¶¶7-8.) After providing the services, Defendant did not honor the agreements. (Id. ¶ 9.) On July 26, 2016, default was entered against Defendant.  On November 22, 2016, default judgment was entered against Defendant in the amount of $319,373.90. On June 13, 2019, the Hon. Robert S. Draper (“Judge Draper”) granted Plaintiff’s motion for turnover or assignment, in which Defendant was ordered to assign all rights and title held in Rose 99 Entertainment, Inc. (“Rose 99”) and Matador Rose, Inc. (“Matador”) to Plaintiff. Defendant earns annual royalties from Waves Audio, which Defendant deposits into Rose 99 and Matador. Judge Draper found that Defendant never made or offered to make any truly substantial payment to satisfy the judgment out of the presumably substantial royalty funds received, necessitating a turnover order. As such, it was found appropriate to assign all rights and title that Defendant held in Rose 99 and Matador to Plaintiff in order to satisfy the judgment. (Final Ruling, June 13, 2019.) On June 3, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion requesting an order for (1) accounting, (2) turnover of Matador and Rose 99, (3) payment of all funds necessary to bring Matador and Rose 99 into compliance, and (4) indemnification of Defendant by Plaintiff against any and all tax liabilities. Defendant argues that after the court ordered the entities and accounts to be turned over to Plaintiff, instead of assigning only Defendant’s interest in the royalty payments, Defendant is now in the dark as to whether Plaintiff’s judgment has been fully satisfied, at which point the entities would need to be turned back over to Defendant. Defendant also argues that the entities are now in a suspended status, that there has been no accounting as to the amount of money Plaintiff has collected from Matador and Rose 99, and that Plaintiff failed to use a sheriff collections account. On July 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition, arguing that Defendant is attempting to appeal the turnover order, that there are no grounds for a turnover, and that there is no basis for an accounting. On July 29, 2024, Defendant filed a reply reasserting the same arguments.  II.  DISCUSSION The Court has reviewed the briefs. The Court disagrees with Plaintiff’s contention that this is an improper attempt to appeal an order. Further, there is no basis for Defendant’s demand that Plaintiff bring Rose 99 and Matador into tax compliance, when the evidence demonstrates that these entities were already suspended years prior to the action. The only relevant issue is the request for accounting, and whether there has been a material change to merit a modification or setting aside the assignment. CCP § 708.560 states, “Either the judgment creditor or the judgment debtor may apply to the court on noticed motion for an order to modify or set aside the assignment order.” (CCP § 708.560(a).) Additionally, “The court shall make an order modifying or setting aside the assignment order upon a showing that there has been a material change in circumstances since the time of the previous hearing on the assignment order. The court may order a reassignment of the right to payments as necessary. The order shall state whether and to what extent it applies to payments already made.” (CCP § 708.560(b).) As provided by the Law Revision Commission, section 708.560 gives the court broad discretion to modify or set aside an assignment order depending upon the circumstances of the case. The statute and the commentary provide that this section is broadly encompassing, and there is no apparent restriction on its applicability as argued by Plaintiff. The purpose of any lawsuit or judgment, generally, is to make the plaintiff whole. This Court did not preside over the matter at the time the assignment order was given. However, upon review of the order, the purpose of the turnover was to assist Plaintiff in satisfying the judgment with Defendant’s royalties. Once Plaintiff’s judgment has been satisfied in full, this would effectively be a material change in circumstances to order a reassignment. There is no equitable basis for Plaintiff to continue to hold onto Rose 99 and Matador to collect funds in perpetuity, above and beyond its judgment against Defendant. However, it is impossible to know whether there has been a material change for a reassignment under CCP § 708.560, unless there is an accounting demonstrating the amounts collected, and the outstanding balance on the judgment. Plaintiff’s counsel declares that the current outstanding balance against Defendant is $173,880.50. However, Plaintiff’s counsel has not established any foundation or a basis for this attestation with any evidence or other information.   III. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court sets an OSC: Re Accounting To Determine Reassignment Pursuant to CCP § 708.560 for ________________________. Plaintiff is ordered to file a declaration, with supporting evidence, concerning the transactions and the judgment calculation to be filed no later than 5 court days prior to the hearing.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: August 1, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 