 Case Number:  23STCV23671    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California¿ County of Los Angeles¿ Department 78¿ ¿ BLAIR COBB, et al., Plaintiff(s), vs. ELSIE I. WYNN, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.:¿ 23STCV23671 Hearing Date:¿ August 2, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER  I.  BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Blair Cobb and Adam Eatroff (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a First Amended Complaint against defendants Elsie I. Wynn (“Wynn”), 3557 Stoner, LLC, Thomas James Capital, Inc., Thomas Beadel, and Does 1 to 25 for damages arising from construction and destruction of a stone retaining wall, resulting in loss of use and loss of value of property. The complaint sets forth two causes of action for negligence and nuisance. On April 12, 2024, defendants Wynn, Thomas James Capital, Inc. and Thomas Beadel (collectively, “Defendants”) filed a motion for a protective order that Wynn’s deposition not be taken at all on the grounds that she is bedridden and suffers from dementia. On July 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition to the motion. On July 26, 2024, Defendants filed their reply.  II.  LEGAL STANDARD Any party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)¿ A properly served deposition notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and copying.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)¿ The party served with a deposition notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)¿ In addition to serving this written objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c).)¿ “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party . . . without having served a valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production . . . of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)¿ As for protective orders, the court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may direct that the deposition not be taken at all.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420 (b)(1).)¿  III.  DISCUSSION Defendants argue that Wynn is a 97-year-old woman in poor health, and that she lacks the mental and physical capacity to attend an oral deposition. Wynn’s son, Ron Wynn, attests that Wynn is bedridden, has dementia, cannot walk or speak, and has two 24-hour nurses providing her care. (Mot. Ron Wynn Decl. ¶¶2-4.) In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Defendants (1) did not object to the deposition notice, (2) Defendants failed to provide competent medical evidence that Wynn is too infirm to be deposed, and (3) Wynn is the only person who can testify as to who built the wall at issue. Plaintiffs assert that they are aware of Wynn’s age, and that they will take care in seeking her testimony and have offered to take her deposition at her home. In reply, Defendants reasserts the same contentions, and provides a letter by Barry D. Mann, M.D. (“Dr. Mann”), dated July 6, 2024. This informal letter declares that Dr. Mann is a retired general surgeon and acquaintance of the Wynn family. (Reply. Exh. H.) Dr. Mann states he visited Defendant in May 2024, and observed the following: Defendant is unable to leave her bed, and “While I find her to be coherent, she has great difficulty focusing on a single subject for more than a few minutes. Her memory for recent and distant events is quite cloudy.” (Ibid.)  Here, Defendants objected to Wynn’s deposition on the grounds that Wynn could not appear due to her age, health, and lack of mental and physical capacity. (Mot. Exh. B.) The parties agree that, at the previous IDC on this issue presided over by the Hon. Judge Jill Feeney, the issue of Wynn’s incompetency would need to be established with medical evidence. Here, the Court finds that the letter from Dr. Mann does not affirmatively establish the impossibility of Wynn’s deposition. Aside from this Court’s skepticism as to whether Dr. Mann has sufficient foundation to render an opinion, Dr. Mann’s informal letter suggests Wynn has limited capabilities, but that she is otherwise competent and coherent. In terms of her inability to leave bed, Plaintiffs have already provided they are willing to depose Wynn at her home due to her physical restriction. Although the amount of discovery to be obtained from Wynn may be limited due to her alleged “cloudy” memory and difficulty in focusing, Defendants have not established that Wynn’s testimony would be an exercise in futility, nor have Defendants established with any medical evidence that Wynn has been formally diagnosed with dementia or is otherwise deemed incompetent as a matter of law, such that any testimony obtained would be inadmissible. Further, the Court notes that Dr. Mann’s letter notably contradicts Wynn’s son’s attestation that Wynn could not speak. There is simply no evidence that Wynn is incompetent for this Court to find good cause to grant a protective order.  IV. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the motion for protective order is DENIED.   Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: August 1, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 