  Case Number:  22STCV39133    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California¿ County of Los Angeles¿ Department 78¿ ¿ LL JOHN DOE MB, Plaintiff(s), vs. DEFENDANT DOE SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.:¿ 22STCV39133 Hearing Date:¿ August 2, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO STAY PROCEEDINGS  I.  BACKGROUND On December 16, 2022, plaintiff LL John Doe MB (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Doe School District, et. al. for allegations arising from childhood sexual abuse occurring in or around 1995-1996. The complaint sets forth seven causes of action for 1) Claim for Childhood Sexual Assault in Violation of Cal. Code of Civil Procedure 340.1; (2) Negligence; (3) Negligent Supervision/Failure To Warn; (4) Negligent Retention/Hiring; (5) Negligent Failure To Warn, Train Or Educate; (6) Intentional Infliction Of Emotional Distress; and (7) Sexual Harassment. On July 9, 2024, defendant Doe School District (“the District”) filed the instant motion to stay proceedings, in reliance upon California Rules of Court Rule 3.515 and Caiafa Prof. Law Corp. v. State Farm Fire and Casualty Co. (1993) 15 Cal. App. 4th 800, 803-04, inter alia. Plaintiff opposes the motion, and District filed a reply.  II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE The District’s request for judicial notice is granted. (Cal. Evid. Code § 452(d).) Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice is granted. (Cal. Evid. Code § 452(b).)  III.  LEGAL STANDARD CCP Section 128(a)(8) provides that courts have the inherent power to conform their processes and order to conform to justice. (CCP § 128(a)(8).) CCP Section 597 provides that “where the defense of another action pending … is sustained (and no other special defense is sustained) an interlocutory judgment shall be entered in favor of the defendant pleading the same to the effect that no trial of other issues shall be had until the final determination of that other action.” (CCP § 597.)  Whether or not to grant a stay “where the issues in [the] actions are substantially identical is a matter addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Thompson v. Continental Ins. Co. (1967) 66 Cal.2d 738, 746, citations omitted.) Duplicative lawsuits are disfavored. (Bistawros v. Greenberg (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 189, 191.) The definition of a related case includes cases that: “[i]nvolve the same parties and are based on the same or similar claims.” (CRC 3.300(a)(1).) Per relevant case law, in a PAGA suit, “The government entity on whose behalf the plaintiff files suit is always the real party in interest.” (Tanguilig v. Bloomingdale’s, Inc. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 665, 671.)  Additionally, the doctrine of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction provides that when two California superior courts have simultaneous jurisdiction over the subject matter and parties in a case, “the first to assume jurisdiction has exclusive and continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter and all parties involved until such time as all necessarily related matters have been resolved.” (People ex rel. Garamendi (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 760, 769-70, citations omitted.)  IV.  DISCUSSION In sum, the District moves to stay the trial because (1) there are two pending writs before two different appellate courts to decide the constitutionality of California Assembly Bill 218 (“AB 218”) and (2) the District avers Plaintiff has a likelihood of prevailing on the merits, and the District fears any settlement that its relevant Board will make will violate the law to authorize payments for any settlement agreement. AB 218 authorized a three-year window beginning in January 1, 2020 that allowed claims of childhood sexual assault to be brought regardless of how long the abuse allegedly occurred.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 340.1, subd. (q).) AB 218 amended Government Code § 905 to retroactively strip statutory governmental immunities for public entities which violates Article XVI section 6 of the Constitution and its prohibition of gifts of public funds. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that AB 218 has been subject to constitutional challenges in trial courts, and that oral argument on the West Contra Costa case took place on July 18, 2024, and that the July 3, 2024 tentative opinion was in favor of affirming the lower court’s opinion that AB 218 does not violate the gifts clause. Plaintiff argues the relevant factors favor not staying the proceedings, because the decisions made at the appellate level will be appealed, and the ultimate decision may potentially take years. Plaintiff argues a stay would be prejudicial to Plaintiff due to the possible death of witnesses due to age, and protracted litigation for a “wait and see” approach on decisions that may ultimately have no bearing on this case matter.  In reply, the District reasserts the same arguments.  Here, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that staying the matter would be prejudicial. “In exercising its discretion [regarding stay] . . . the court should consider the importance of discouraging multiple litigation designed solely to harass an adverse party, and of avoiding unseemly conflicts with the courts of other jurisdictions . . . [and] whether the rights of the parties can best be determined by the court of the other jurisdiction because of the nature of the subject matter, the availability of witnesses, or the stage to which the proceedings in the other court have already advanced.” (Farmland Irr. Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208, 215.) The District concedes that there is no multiple litigation by the same parties, and that Plaintiff has not brought this lawsuit with the intent to harass. The Court finds that there is no guarantee that the decisions made by the Court of Appeals in the pending writs would create a definitive ruling on the issue, as it could always be further appealed to the Supreme Court. Considering the amount of contention surrounding AB 218’s constitutionality, the Court finds it more than likely the appellate decisions will be appealed. The Court is unwilling to indefinitely suspend proceedings in this action.  V. CONCLUSION The District’s motion to stay proceedings is DENIED.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: August 1 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 