 Case Number:  23TRCV03283    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                  
     Wednesday, September 4, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 10
 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Michael
Sargent v. City of Gardena, et al.   
23TRCV03283
1.      City of Gardena, et al.’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
    
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            City of Gardena, et al.’s Demurrer
to Second Amended Complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on October
5, 2023. The Second Amended Complaint was filed on June 4, 2024. Plaintiff, a
former City Lieutenant, decided to take industrial disability retirement prior
to Plaintiff becoming eligible for full retirement benefits. However, the
benefits available, pursuant to City of Gardena Resolution 6627, were not as beneficial
to Plaintiff since he was under the age of 50. Thus, Plaintiff was
discriminated against due to Plaintiff’s age and disability. The City Manager,
Clint Osorio, asked Plaintiff for favors including running VIN numbers and
streamlining the concealed weapons process. Plaintiff alleges the following
causes of action: 1. Disparate Impact Discrimination; 2. Disparate Treatment Discrimination;
3. Hostile Work Environment Disability Harassment; 4. Unlawful Retaliation; 5. Failure
to Prevent; 6. Civil Action for Deprivation of Rights (42 U.S.C. § 1983).
 
            Plaintiff later dismissed the sixth
cause of action and dismissed Defendant Clint Osorio from the fourth cause of
action.
 
             Meet and Confer
             
            Defendants set forth a meet and
confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41.  (Decl. Danny Y. Yoo.) 
 
            Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants’ request for judicial
notice is granted.
 
            Demurrer

            A demurrer tests the sufficiency of
a complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v.
Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7
Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a
complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient
to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
            Sufficient facts are the essential
facts of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity
sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and
extent of his cause of action.”  (Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
            Defendants demur to the Second
Amended Complaint and each cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff fails
to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action. CCP § 430.10(e). 
 
            First
Cause of Action for Disparate Impact Discrimination in Violation of FEHA
(California Government Code § 12940(a))
            Second
Cause of Action for Disparate Treatment Discrimination in Violation of FEHA
(California Government Code § 12940(a))

            Defendants’
demurrer to the first and second causes of action is sustained with 20 days
leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of
action.

            “To
establish a prima facie case under the FEHA on grounds of physical disability, [Plaintiff]
had to present evidence showing he suffered a physical disability within the
meaning of the FEHA, he was otherwise qualified for his job, and he suffered an
adverse employment action because of the physical disability.” Scotch v. Art
Institute of California (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1006.
 
            [I]n
disability discrimination cases, the threshold issue is whether there is direct
evidence that the motive for the employer's conduct was related to the
employee's physical or mental condition. [A] plaintiff alleging disability
discrimination can establish the requisite employer intent to discriminate by
proving (1) the employer knew that plaintiff had a physical condition that
limited a major life activity, or perceived him to have such a condition, and
(2) the plaintiff's actual or perceived physical condition was a substantial
motivating reason for the defendant's decision to subject the plaintiff to an
adverse employment action.” Glynn v. Superior Court (2019) 42
Cal.App.5th 47, 53.
 
“[A] prima facie case, of age discrimination arises
when the employee shows (1) at the time of the adverse action he or she was 40
years of age or older, (2) an adverse employment action was
taken against the employee, (3) at the time of the adverse action the employee
was satisfactorily performing his or her job and (4) the employee was replaced
in his position by a significantly younger person.” Hersant v. Department of
Social Services (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 997, 1003.
 
Disparate treatment is intentional
discrimination against one or more persons on prohibited grounds. Guz v.
Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317. Prohibited employment
discrimination may also be alleged on a disparate impact theory. Under this
theory, regardless of motive, a facially neutral employer practice or policy is
alleged to have a disproportionately adverse effect on members of the protected
class. Id. 
 
Plaintiff is attempting to
allege two theories of discrimination – disability and age. As to the causes of
action based on age discrimination under both disparate treatment and disparate
impact theories, Plaintiff fails to state facts to state a cause of action. 
 
In General Dynamics Land
Systems v. Cline (2004) 540 U.S. 581 (“Cline”), the U.S. Supreme
Court analyzed a claim brought under the federal Age Discrimination in
Employment Act (ADEA) (29 U.S.C., § 621 et seq.) which is patterned after Title
VII. The ADEA makes it unlawful to discharge, refuse to hire, or otherwise
discriminate against a person who is at least 40 years of age, because of the
person's age. (29 U.S.C., §§ 623, 631(a)). In Cline, a claim was brought
by workers aged 40 to 49 alleging
that the collective bargaining agreement’s elimination of retiree health
insurance benefits for workers under 50 discriminated against the younger
employees. The U.S. Supreme Court held that discrimination against the
relatively young is outside ADEA's protection, and that the employer did not
violate the ADEA’s prohibition against discrimination based on age. 
 
Similarly, in the instant
action, Plaintiff alleges that he is between the ages of 40 to 49 which would,
on its face according to Plaintiff, qualify as a member of the protected class
for age discrimination under FEHA. However, under the reasoning provided by the
U.S. Supreme Court, when analyzing a very similar factual scenario (albeit a
different statute – federal rather than state), the Supreme Court held that the
age discrimination prohibition only applied when dealing with circumstances of
discrimination against an older employee in favor of a younger one despite the
statute’s specific reference to ages 40 and older. “While state and federal
legislation concerning age discrimination differs in some respects, their
objectives are identical, and courts of this state have looked to federal law
to aid in the interpretation of analogous provisions of California statutes.” Hersant
v. Department of Social Services (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 997, 1002, fn. 1.
Both parties acknowledge that no California state authority has specifically
analyzed this issue and applied the authority of Cline. However, the
reasoning of Cline is sound, and is in line with the FEHA’s policy of protecting
older workers. “Indeed, age discrimination (or “ageism,” as it is sometimes
called) has been defined as “‘[a] systematic stereotyping of and discrimination
against people because they are old, just as racism and sexism accomplish this
with skin color and gender. Old people are categorized as senile, rigid in
thought and manner, old-fashioned in morality and skills.'” Stevenson v.
Superior Court (1997) 16 Cal.4th 880, 896. Here, as even readily
acknowledged by Plaintiff, the Resolution actually favors older individuals
rather than younger individuals. The instant Court applies the reasoning of Cline
to the facts of the instant action. Plaintiff’s attempt to argue the statements
made in the dissent in Cline as well as other out of state cases is
unavailing.
 
As to the attempt to allege
discrimination based on disability, the plain language of the Resolution does
not exclude individuals with disabilities from Tier 1 benefits. 
 
As stated by Plaintiff in
the opposition, the pertinent provision reads as follows: “TIER 1: Employees
hired before September 2019 and meet the minimum requirements listed below
shall receive, and continue to receive after the termination of this Agreement,
paid health insurance benefits based on the formula set forth below: i. Any
affected employee who is at least fifty (50) years of age, and elects a service
retirement from the City shall receive paid health insurance coverage for the
retired employee and his or her dependent up to the City’s self-funded health
insurance plan rate for two-party premium if the employee completed twenty-five
(25) years of service with the Gardena Police Department and was continuously
enrolled in any of the City’s health insurance plans during the twenty-five
(25) years of service; or ii. Any affected employee who is at least fifty (50)
year of age, and elects a service retirement from the City, shall receive paid
health insurance coverage for the retired employee up to the City’s self-funded
health insurance plan rate for single party premium if the employee completed
fifteen (15) years of service with the Gardena Police Department and was
continuously enrolled in any of the City’s health insurance plans during the
fifteen (15) years of service.” (Opposition, page 11, lines 3-14).
 
Nothing in the resolution
discriminates or provides exclusions based on disability.
 
To the extent that Plaintiff
is attempting to allege a theory of discrimination not based on the Resolution itself
but based on the actions of Osorio, Plaintiff has failed to allege facts to
meet the requisite elements listed above. While Plaintiff has alleged that
Osorio attempted to curry favor from Plaintiff that he felt was inappropriate,
none of those actions can be considered to be based on age or disability. To
the extent that Plaintiff believes that Osorio somehow reneged on a promise to
change the Resolution to favor Plaintiff, there are no facts or legal authority
to indicate that Osorio had any authority to unilaterally implement changes to
the Resolution. Instead, it appears that the Resolution was enacted by the City
Council. 
 
The demurrer to the first
and second causes of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Third
Cause of Action for Hostile Work Environment Harassment in Violation of FEHA
(Cal. Gov. Code 12940(j))
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the third
cause of action are sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to
state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
Gov. Code § 12940(j) states
that it is unlawful for an employer to harass an employee based on age or
disability.  “The elements of the cause
of action are: “(1) [p]laintiff belongs to a protected group; (2) plaintiff was
subject to unwelcome [. . . ] harassment; (3) the harassment complained of was
based on [ . . . ];  (4) the harassment
complained of was sufficiently pervasive so as to alter the conditions of
employment and create an abusive working environment; and (5) respondeat
superior.  To be sufficiently pervasive
harassment, the acts complained of cannot be isolated or trivial.  Rather, there must be a pattern of harassment
of a routine or generalized nature.”  Guthrey
v. State of California (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1122–1123
(internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
Plaintiff alleges that he
was harassed based on age and disability. Plaintiff fails to allege facts to
show that the comments and conduct of Osorio were severe or pervasive. “[A]n
employee claiming harassment based upon a hostile work environment must
demonstrate that the conduct complaint of was severe enough or sufficiently
pervasive to alter the conditions of employment and create a work environment
that qualifies as hostile or abusive to employees [. . . ] [A] workplace may
give rise to liability when it “is permeated with ‘discriminatory [ . . .] intimidation,
ridicule, and insult,’ [citation], that is ‘sufficiently severe or pervasive to
alter the conditions of the victim's employment and create an abusive working
environment.” Lyle v. Warner Brothers
Television Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 278-79.    
 
In fact, there are
insufficient facts to show that the conduct or statements which Plaintiff
contends constituted harassment were based on Plaintiff’s age or disability. As
noted above, none of the comments or actions allegedly undertaken by Osorio, as
currently pled, can be considered as harassment based on age or disability. The
accusations Plaintiff levies upon Osorio as to the alleged harassment do not
provide a factual nexus that the alleged harassing conduct – including attempting
to obtain favors and agreeing to change the resolution and then not changing
the resolution - were based on Plaintiff’s age or disability. 
 
Thus, the demurrer to the third
cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Fourth
Cause of Action for Unlawful Retaliation in Violation of FEHA (Cal. Gov. Code
12940(h) 
 
            Defendants’
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend. Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
“[I]n order to establish a
prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or
she engaged in a “protected activity,” (2) the employer subjected the employee
to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer's action.” Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042. “The
statutory language of section 12940(h) indicates that protected conduct can
take many forms. Specifically, section 12940(h) makes it an unlawful employment
practice “[f]or any employer ... to discharge, expel, or otherwise discriminate
against any person because the person has opposed any practices forbidden under
this part or because the person has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted
in any proceeding under this part.” Id.
 
            Plaintiff
alleges no facts that he engaged in a protected activity. Thus, of course,
Plaintiff has not alleged any facts that there was a causal link between the
protected activity and the employer’s action. 
 
            The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend.
 
            Fifth
Cause of Action for Failure to Prevent (Gov. Code 12940(k)
 
            Defendants’
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action. There is
no cause of action for failure to prevent harassment or discrimination unless
actionable harassment or discrimination has been properly pled. Dickson v.
Burke Williams, Inc. (2016) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1315-1317.
 
            Defendants’
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Thus,
Defendants’ demurrer to the SAC is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Defendants are ordered to
give notice of this ruling.