 Case Number:  23TRCV01863    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                       Wednesday, September 4, 2024
Department M                                                                                               
        Calendar No. 9
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Alan Bailey, et al. v. Redstone Development Company,
LLC, et al.
            23TRCV01863
1.      Richard
D. Buckley, Jr. of Safarian Choi & Bolstad LLP’s, Counsel for Defendant Wilson
Ebiye, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Richard
D. Buckley, Jr. of Safarian Choi & Bolstad LLP’s, Counsel for Defendant Wilson
Ebiye, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is granted. 
 
            Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on June 9, 2023. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. Plaintiffs entered into a written contract on July
2, 2022 with Redstone Development and Wilson Ebiye for a home improvement
project. Defendants never completed the project.  
 
Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel
 
Counsel
states, in the declaration, valid reasons for withdrawal. Counsel states that
Defendant failed to honor obligations and undertook other actions that make
representation of Defendant impossible. The Court finds that the attorney has
filed the required declaration.  The
Court also finds that the attorney has shown sufficient reasons why the motion
to be relieved as counsel should be granted and why the attorney brought a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure § 284(2) instead of filing a consent under
section 284(1). The Court finds that the attorney filed and served the proposed
order. 
 
Therefore, the motion to be relieved as counsel is granted.
 
The attorney is relieved as counsel of record for the client effective
upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed order upon the client. 
 
Richard D. Buckley, Jr. is ordered to give notice of
the Court’s ruling.