 Case Number:  23STCV00821    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed:        3/24/22 
 
Hon. Lee S. Arian 
Department 27 
Tentative Ruling¿
 
Hearing Date:                             3/1/2024 at 1:30 p.m. 
Case No./Name:                      23STCV00821 JANESE JOHNSON vs MV
TRANSPORTATION, INC., et al.
Motion:                                   DEFENDANT
CITY OF LA’S MOTION TO COMPEL FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE; MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS
FOR ADMISSION, SET ONE, ADMITTED; DEFENDANT
MV TRANSPORTATION, INC.’S MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION,
SET ONE, ADMITTED; DEFENDANTS’ REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
Moving Party:                        Defendants CITY OF LA
and MV TRANSPORTATION, INC.
Responding Party:                 Plaintiff JANESE
JOHNSON
Notice:                                    Sufficient 
 
Ruling:                                    DEFENDANT CITY OF LA’S MOTION TO COMPEL FORM INTERROGATORIES,
SET ONE, IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT
CITY OF LA’S MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION,
SET ONE, ADMITTED IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT CITY OF LA’S REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT MV
TRANSPORTATION, INC.’S MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION,
SET ONE, ADMITTED IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT MV TRANSPORTATION, INC.’S REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED.
 
 
 
BACKGROUND 
This slip and fall case was
initiated on March 24, 2022. On March 23, 2023, Defendant MV Public
Transportation served Request for Admission (RFA) Set One to Plaintiff, and on
the same day, Defendant City of Los Angeles served RFA Set One and Form Interrogatories
Set One on Plaintiff. (Krueger Decl. ¶ 2) The deadline for the responses was
April 25, 2023; however, no responses were provided by that date. (Krueger
Decl. ¶ 4) Consequently, on June 27, 2023. Defendants brought the present three
motions to compel and to deem RFAs admitted. 
On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff
served discovery responses to Defendant MV Public Transportation’s Form
Interrogatories Set One, Special Interrogatories Set One, Request for
Production Set One, and RFA Set One. (Reyes Decl. ISO Non-Opposition to
MV’s Motions ¶ 3)
 
On February 21, 2024,
Plaintiff served discovery responses to Defendant City of Los Angeles’ Form
Interrogatories Set One, Special Interrogatories Set One, Request for
Production Set One, and RFA Set One. (Reyes Decl. ISO Non-Opposition to City of
Los Angeles’ Motions ¶ 3) 
 
Defendant does not oppose the present
motions.
 
ANALYSIS 
 
I.          Request for Admissions 
 
“Any party may obtain
discovery . . . by a written request that any other party to the action admit
the genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of
fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission
may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”  CCP §
2033.010.  “Within 30 days after service of requests for admission, the
party to whom the requests are directed shall serve the original of the
response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the response on all
other parties who have appeared . . . .”  CCP § 2033.250(a). 
 
If a party to whom
request for admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party
to whom the request was directed waives any objections, including based on
privilege or the work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party
can move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of
any matters specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for
monetary sanctions. CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless
the party to whom the request was made serves a response in substantial
compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). 
 
It is undisputed that Plaintiff’s initial responses were not served
within the timeframe required by CCP § 2033.250(a), thus failing to meet the
deadline for a timely response.  
 
Given this failure to
provide timely responses, the Movant is entitled to file a motion for an order
deeming the RFAs admitted and to request monetary sanctions in accordance with
CCP § 2033.280(b). Such an order is mandated unless the party to whom the request
was directed serves a response in substantial compliance with CCP § 2033.220
prior to the motion's hearing. CCP § 2033.280(c).  
 
On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff
served responses in substantial compliance with California Code of Civil
Procedure § 2033.220 to MV Public Transportation’s Requests for Admission
(RFA), Set One. (Ex. 1 to Reyes Decl. ISO Non-Opposition to
MV’s Motions). On
February 21, 2024, Plaintiff served responses in substantial compliance with
CCP § 2033.220 prior to the motion's hearing for the City of Los Angeles’s RFA,
Set One. (Ex. 1 to Reyes Decl. ISO Non-Opposition to City of Los Angeles’
Motions.) Consequently,
Defendants’ motions to deem RFA admitted are DENIED.
 
2.          Form Interrogatories
 
“Within 30 days after
service of interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories are
propounded shall serve the original of the response to them on the propounding
party, unless, on motion by the propounding party, the court extends or
shortens the time to respond.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If the
party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
“[t]he party to whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to
exercise the option to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any
objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the
protection for work product ... The court, on motion, may relieve that party
from this waiver on its determination that both of the following conditions are
satisfied: (1) The party has subsequently served a response that is in
substantial compliance ... (2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)   
¿ 
“The party propounding
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)   
¿ 
“Unlike a motion to
compel further responses, a motion to compel responses is not subject to a
45-day time limit, and the propounding party does not have to demonstrate
either good cause or that it satisfied a “meet and confer” requirement. (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 404 (Sinaiko).)   
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in
pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction on a party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process to pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. A
misuse of the discovery process includes failing to respond or submit to an
authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd.
(d).)   A court has discretion to fix the amount
of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v.
Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.)  
 
It is undisputed that
Plaintiff did not serve timely initial responses to the City of Los Angeles’s
Form Interrogatory Set One. However, Plaintiff served verified responses to the
discovery in question on February 21, 2024, before the hearing date. Consequently,
the present motion to compel Form Interrogatories Set One has become moot and
is therefore DENIED.
 
3.         Sanctions
 
Plaintiff's failure to
provide timely responses necessitated Defendant's filing of the motion, leading
to the incurrence of attorney's fees. Defendant has requested $1,793.00 in attorneys' fees for each
motion based on two (2) hours researching, drafting, and preparing the instant
motion. If plaintiff files an opposition, Defendant is expected to spend
approximately two (2) hours reviewing that opposition and preparing a Reply
Brief. One (1) hour in connection with attendance at the hearing of the instant
motion; however, since this is one of three (3) motions set for hearing for Defendants,
Counsel reduced the hearing time allocated to this motion to approximately
one-third of one hour. The hourly rate is $400 per hour. In addition, the
filing of this motion is subject to a $60.00 filing fee. (Krueger
Decl. ¶ 5)
 
Considering the duplicative nature of the
motion, complexity of the issues involved, and Plaintiff’s declaration of
non-opposition, the Court hereby reduces the sanctions awarded from what was
requested.  The court finds it reasonable
to allocate two hours for the preparation of each motion, but reduced time for
the hearing for each motion to fifteen minutes (¼ of an hour). Consequently,
the court hereby ORDERS Plaintiff and her counsel, jointly and severally to pay
sanctions in the amount of $1000 to Defendant City of Los Angeles and $500 to
Defendant MV Transportation, each payable within 30 days of today.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:  
·        
If a party intends to submit
on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must
include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the
identity of the party submitting.¿¿  
·        
Unless¿all¿parties submit by
email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely
(encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may
appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿  
·        
If the parties neither submit
nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.¿  
 
 
 
 