 Case Number:  22STCV28122    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  27 Trial date: 2/26/24¿ Complaint filed: 08/9/2022 ¿ Hon. Lee S. Arian¿ Department 27¿ Tentative Ruling¿ ¿ Hearing Date:  ¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿   3/1/2024 at 1:30 p.m.¿ Case No./Name: 22STCV28122 MICHAEL WILLIAM WILSON vs CLAYTON DAMIAN  Motion: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL; PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE Moving Party: Defendants as to Motion to Continue Trial; Plaintiff as to Motion for Trial Preference Responding Party: Plaintiff as to Motion to Continue Trial; Defendants as to Motion for Trial Preference Notice: Sufficient¿  Ruling: New Trial Date Is Set to 120 Days from The Date of The Hearing.¿  Background  This is an auto accident case. Plaintiff was allegedly injured by Defendant, who was operating a company vehicle while under the influence. Plaintiff claims that Defendant Southwark Metal Manufacturing, Defendant Clayton Damian's employer, knew of Damian's habitual DUI yet permitted him to drive the company vehicle.   The original complaint was filed on August 29, 2022, with a trial date set for February 26, 2024.  On November 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint seeking punitive damages against Defendant Southwark.   On November 7, 2023, Defendant Fischer filed a motion for summary adjudication but withdrew it soon after. Defendant Southwark and Defendant Damian have now reserved motion for summary judgment dates of February 21, 2025 and March 10, 2025.    On November 28, 2023, Defendants’ filed their motion to continue trial, and Plaintiff filed his motion for trial preference on December 13, 2023. This tentative ruling addresses both of those motions, as well as the trial setting conference scheduled for March 1, 2024.  Legal standards  1.  Trial Preference  Code of Civil Procedure § 37 provides for trial preference as follows: “(a) A civil action shall be entitled to preference, if the action is one in which the plaintiff is seeking damages which were alleged to have been caused by the defendant during the commission of felony offense for which the defendant has been criminally convicted. (b) The court shall endeavor to try the action within 120 days of the grant of preference.”  2.  Trial Continuance  Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)¿ The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.¿ (See generally, CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)¿ Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)¿¿  Although the original trial date of February 26, 2024, has passed and a trial setting conference is scheduled for March 1, 2024, the date for the new trial can nevertheless still be determined by assessing the factors outlined in California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c), (d).  Analysis   Defendants’ Proposal  Defendants propose continuing the trial to one year from now, arguing that the recent amendment of the complaint on November 17, 2023, necessitates additional time for discovery. (Motion to Continue at p. 7.)  They also argue that they must be provided time to have their summary judgment motions heard, the latest of which is now scheduled for March 10, 2025.    The court finds the argument regarding discovery unpersuasive. The amendment to the original complaint involved adding punitive damages, which relates to Defendant Southwark’s knowledge of CLAYTON DAMIAN's habitual substance use. Defendants readily have access to witnesses, including Damian's colleagues who are company employees, and documents in the company’s possession. Gathering the necessary information to defend against the punitive damages claim should not take an inordinate amount of time. This argument would be more compelling if it came from Plaintiff, given the need to schedule depositions and request documents from Defendant.  Moreover, Parties had more than a year and a half to conduct discovery. Defendants have already conducted two independent medical examinations (IMEs). The third and final independent medical examination (IME) sought by Defendant was incomplete at the time the present motion was filed but has since been completed. (Supplemental Soofer Decl. ¶ 2.) Defendants do not demonstrate how the addition of punitive damages would necessitate substantially more discovery from Plaintiff, as it primarily concerns Defendant Southwark’s awareness of Damian’s conducts. Defendants have not made a strong showing of how it is unable to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence to warrant a lengthy continuance of one year from the date of the hearing.  Defendants’ argument regarding summary judgment is somewhat more persuasive.  They are correct that a trial court may not refuse to hear a timely filed summary judgment motion. (Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior Ct., 207 Cal. App. 3d 526, 529 (1989).) However, Defendants have not filed any motions for summary judgment. Defendant Fischer filed a motion for summary adjudication but withdrew it.  Now, both parties have reserved dates in 2025 for summary judgment. But the failure of the parties to file any summary judgment motion prior to the initial statutory deadline of January 26, 2024, causes the Court skepticism.  Defendants’ conduct in this regard does not align with the purported importance Defendants now place on a motion for summary judgment (MSJ). That is particularly so given that they have failed to provide the Court with any information about what they anticipate those motions to involve.  Nonetheless, as discussed below, the Court will accommodate potential summary judgment motions by Defendants.   Plaintiff’s Proposal.  Plaintiff proposes a 60-120 days continuance. (Soofer decl. ¶ 3; Mtn for Trial Preference at p.2.) Plaintiff does not dispute that Defendant Clayton Fischer committed a felony (DUI) that caused Plaintiff’s damages. (Opposition to Mtn for Trial Preference at p. 2.) Defendant Southwark argues that preference should not be given because the other two named defendants did not commit any felony; however, Defendant did not present any legal authority to support this position.   Taking into account all pertinent factors, the Court finds that a 120-day continuance from the date of the hearing is reasonable. This timeframe allows the parties to complete any outstanding discovery, whether related to Plaintiff’s damages or the punitive damage claim, while also preserving Plaintiff’s right to trial preference.  Further, to provide Defendants with an opportunity to bring any motion for summary judgment that they may have, the Court will specially set their summary judgment motions for May 28, 2024, at 1:30 p.m.  Therefore, the new trial date is set to 120 days from the date of the hearing.  Specifically, trial is set for July 1, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., and the Final Status Conference is set for June 18, 2024, at 10:00 a.m.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿ If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿¿¿ ¿ ¿  