  Case Number:  21STCV19923    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


December 9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV19923




MOTION


Motion to Quash Subpoena




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiffs Jacob Eghbalieh and Ivet Eliasi




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendant Ramin Delavari



 
MOTION
            Plaintiffs
Jacob Eghbalieh and Ivet Eliasi (“Eliasi,” collectively, “Plaintiffs”) sued Defendant
Ramin Delavari (“Defendant”) for habitability violations.  Plaintiffs move to quash a subpoena Defendant
served on Deponent Kohan International Foundation (“Deponent”).  In the subpoena, Defendant seeks Eliasi’s
medical and psychotherapy records from January 1, 2014 to the present. 
ANALYSIS
If a subpoena requires the production of
documents, the Court may quash the subpoena entirely or modify it.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)  In ruling on a motion to quash, “the Court
may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,
subd. (a).) 
Plaintiffs argue Defendant’s subpoena does
not reasonably particularize the categories of documents Defendant seeks.  Plaintiffs are incorrect.  A subpoena must reasonably particularize the
categories of documents it seeks from the standpoint of the deponent.  (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 222.)  In the
instant case, Deponent can ascertain the documents that satisfy the categories
of documents Defendant seeks in the subpoena. 
As such, the subpoena is proper. 
But, to be clear, Defendant is only entitled to records pertaining to the
physical, mental, and emotional injuries Eliasi contends she sustained, such as emotional stress, anxiety, and
rashes, resulting from her tenancy. 
Plaintiffs argue the spousal privilege bars
Deponent from producing the documents Defendant seeks, as Plaintiffs are
spouses.  The spousal communication
privilege provides a spouse has a privilege to refuse to disclose, and to
prevent others from disclosing, a confidential communication made between one
spouse and the other spouse.  (Evid. Code,
§ 980.)  Plaintiffs fail to explain how
Eliasi’s medical records related to injuries she sustained resulting from her
tenancy constitute spousal communications. 
Thus, Plaintiffs’ argument is unfounded.
Plaintiffs further argue the subpoena
violates the privacy rights of third parties. 
This argument is speculative. 
Plaintiffs fail to show the records include any sensitive information
about third parties to the litigation. 
Accordingly, the motion to quash is denied.
Plaintiffs are to give notice of this
order and to file proof of service of same.
 