 Case Number:  BC715284    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


December
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


BC715284




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Prats, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Alejandro Astudillo



  
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff
Alejandro Astudillo (“Plaintiff”) filed this wrongful termination action
against Prats, Inc. (“Defendant”).  Plaintiff
was an electrician who worked intermittently for Defendant and was authorized
to purchase supplies on Defendant’s open book accounts, as long as he
reimbursed Defendant for purchases related to Plaintiff’s side projects.  In November 2016, Plaintiff informed
Defendant’s owner, Leonel Prats (“Prats”), that he was hospitalized for
surgery.  In response, Prats’s secretary sent
an email to a supplier stating Plaintiff “is currently not working as
[Defendant’s] employee,” and the supplier should bill Plaintiff directly for
one project. The supplier forwarded the email to Plaintiff, based upon which
Plaintiff believed Defendant had terminated Plaintiff’s employment.  Neither party communicated with each other
directly, and Plaintiff eventually filed this lawsuit. 
The case proceeded
to trial, and the jury found in favor of Plaintiff, awarding $93,000 in
compensatory damages and $250,000 in punitive damages.  In its order of September 1, 2023, the Court
ordered a new trial.  (See September 1,
2023 Minute Order.)  Defendant now moves
for summary adjudication of causes of action in Plaintiff’s complaint.  
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
            “A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 

DISCUSSION
Causes of Action Nos. 1, 2, 3,
and 7: Adverse Employment Action
            To
prevail on his claims under the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA), Plaintiff
must show Defendant subjected Plaintiff to an adverse employment action.  (Horsford v. Board of Trustees of Calif.
State Univ. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 359, 373.)  To be actionable under FEHA, the adverse
employment action must be “reasonably likely to impair a reasonable employee's
job performance or prospects for advancement . . . .”  (Ibid.) 

At deposition,
Prats testified he never informed Plaintiff that Plaintiff’s employment was
terminated, and he (Prats) assumed Plaintiff left his job.  (Declaration of Jeff Katofsky, Exhibit 3, p.
145.)  Prats further testified Defendant
had to notify its vendors Plaintiff was not working for Defendant while
Plaintiff was hospitalized to ensure no one charged unauthorized purchases to
Defendant’s accounts with its vendors.  (Id.,
Exhibit 3, p. 148.)  
Plaintiff
testified, after he learned of Defendant’s communications with Defendant’s
vendors, Plaintiff still thought he was an employee of Defendant.  (Declaration of Jeff Katofsky, Exhibit 2, p.
112.)  However, Plaintiff also testified when
he was unable to reach Prats or anyone associated with Defendant after the
email noted above had been sent, he assumed Defendant had terminated his
employment.  (Id., Exhibit 6, pp.
85-89.)
This evidence does
not meet Defendant’s burden of demonstrating Defendant did not take an adverse
employment action against Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff testified, after he learned Defendant notified its vendors Plaintiff
was not working for Defendant, Plaintiff sought clarification from Defendant,
but he was unable to get any clarification. 
Under the circumstances, the trier or fact could conclude Defendant’s
apparent unwillingness to communicate with Plaintiff effectively terminated
Plaintiff’s employment.  Thus, Defendant
fails to meet its burden of showing Defendant did not take any adverse
employment action against Plaintiff.
Cause of Action No. 4: Essential
Duties
Employers must
make reasonable accommodation for the known disabilities of employees to enable
them to perform a position's essential functions, unless doing so would produce
undue hardship to the employer's operations.  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (m); 2 Cal. Code Regs,
tit. 2, § 11068, subd. (a).)  Where an
employer seeks summary adjudication on
the ground the employee is unable to perform essential job functions, the
employer must show the employee is unable to perform the essential functions of
the employee’s former job and any available vacant position to which the
employee might be reassigned as a reasonable accommodation.  (Nadaf-Rahrov v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc.
(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 952, 965-966.)
At deposition, Plaintiff testified he “could
not do the same job that [he] did before.” 
(Declaration of Jeff Katofsky, Exhibit 2, p. 225.)  Plaintiff also testified he could not work
for two months after his surgery.  (Id.,
Exhibit 7, p. 15.)  However, Defendant
advances no evidence to suggest Plaintiff could not perform the duties of his
job with reasonable accommodations.  As
such, Defendant fails to meet his burden to show Plaintiff could not perform
the essential functions of his job.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication is denied.
            Defendant
is to serve notice of this ruling and to file proof of service of same.
 