  Case Number:  22TRCV00499    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ASPIRE
  GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00499




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
RONALD
  MCEWAN,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May
9, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Ronald McEwan
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Aspire General Insurance Company
Motion
to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The default entered on September 1, 2022 and
the default judgment entered on February 23, 2023 are set aside and
vacated.  Defendant is ordered to file a
responsive pleading forthwith.
BACKGROUND
            On June 22, 2022, plaintiff Aspire
General Insurance Company filed a automobile subrogation complaint against
Ronald McEwan for $29,418.
            On September 1, 2022, a default was
entered against defendant.
            On February 23, 2023, a default
judgment was entered against defendant for $31,231.58.
            On July 26, 2023, a Certificate of
Facts re Unsatisfied Judgment was filed on July 26, 2023.
            On October 30, 2023, plaintiff filed
a stipulation to pay off judgment in installments, signed by defendant and
plaintiff’s counsel, and it was so ordered on November 15, 2023.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
“[U]nder
subdivision (d) of Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the court may set aside
orders and judgments that are ‘void,’ including orders and judgments void for
want of fundamental jurisdiction or personal jurisdiction.”  Bae v. T.D. Service Co. of Arizona
(2016) 245 Cal. App. 4th 89, 97 (citations omitted). 
            “Where
a party moves under section 473(d) to set aside ‘a judgment that, though valid
on its face, is void for lack of proper service, the courts have adopted by
analogy the statutory period for relief from a default judgment’ provided by
section 473.5, that is, the two-year outer limit.”  Trackman v. Kenney (2010) 187 Cal.
App. 4th 175, 180 (citations omitted).   

            “[T]he
policy of the law is to have every litigated case tried upon its merits, and it
looks with disfavor upon a party, who, regardless of the merits of the case,
attempts to take advantage of the mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect
of his adversary.”  Fasuyi v.
Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167 Cal. App. 4th 681, 697 (citations and internal
quotations omitted).
CCP §
473.5(a) states, in relevant part:  “When
service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to
defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against
him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to
set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.
The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in
no event exceeding the earlier of:  (i)
two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180
days after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or
default judgment has been entered.”
CCP
§473.5(b) requires that “a notice of motion to set aside a default or default
judgment and for leave to defend the action shall designate as the time for
making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it
shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party’s lack
of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her
avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. 
The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer,
motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.”
CCP
§473.5(c) allows “upon a finding by the court that the motion was made within
the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of actual
notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of
service or inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default or default
judgment on whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to defend the
action.”
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Ronald McEwan requests that the Court set aside the default entered on
September 1, 2022 and the default judgment entered on September 23, 20023,
pursuant to CCP §§473.5 and 473(d).
            The
proof of service filed on July 18, 2022 indicates that defendant was substitute
served at 10231 Pinewood Ave., #24, Tujunga, on July 13, 2022, at 7:00 a.m. on
“John Doe” (Declined Name), Co-Occupant. 
Description:  Caucasian, male, 40+
yrs old, 5’7” tall, 170 lbs, brown hair, by a registered process server.
            Defendant
argues that he was not properly served and did not result in actual notice to
defendant.  Defendant contends that
defendant is homeless and used his brother’s address as his mailing
address.  He states that he and his
brother are Black, over 6’ tall.  He
weighs 295 lbs. and his brother weighs 250 lbs. 
He contends that was no person matching the John Doe who was purportedly
served with the documents as a co-occupant of the household.  Defendant contends that he was not aware of
the action against him until approximately October 13, 2023, when he was
notified by UberEATS, which checks the validity of his driver’s license.  He called the DMV, and the DMV representative
gave him the court information.  He
obtained the court file and notified GEICO. 
He states that he was not evading service.  See also declaration of Laurence McEwan.
In
opposition, plaintiff argues that defendant was properly substitute served,
including that the summons and complaint were mailed to defendant at his
mailing address.  Plaintiff also argues
that defendant had actual notice.  Plaintiff
mailed to him the request for default and default judgment package and the
abstract of judgment on March 24, 2023 as well as the DMV suspension
order.  Plaintiff asserts that GEICO was
aware of the incident, because on May 18, 2022, the GEICO adjuster, which
insured defendant’s vehicle, made pro-rata policy limit offers to the affected
parties, which plaintiff declined because plaintiff’s damages exceeded the
amount offered.  Plaintiff also explains
that defendant contacted plaintiff’s counsel’s office and set up a monthly
installment plan for the reinstatement of defendant’s driver’s license, and
that since that date he has been making monthly payments regularly to date.  Plaintiff further argues that defendant’s
motion is untimely because he was served with the abstract of judgment on March
23, 2023, and the motion was not filed until more than 180 days after he was
notified of the default judgment. 
Plaintiff points out that it is not required to serve a statement of
damages in an action to recover property damage.
In reply,
defendant reiterates that he was not properly substitute served and that the
physical characteristics of John Doe do not match the description of a
co-occupant.
            The
Court rules as follows:  The Court finds
that the motion is timely as it was filed within two years from the date of
default.  The Court also finds that
defendant has shown that service did not result in actual notice in time to
defend the action and that his lack of notice was not caused by his avoidance
or inexcusable neglect.  Defendant
indicates that he and his brother are Black, over 6’ tall, and weigh over 250
lbs.  Defendant’s brother states that he
lives in a gated property, in a studio apartment, and that no person matching
the description of “John Doe” was present at his address on the date of
service.
            The
motion is thus GRANTED. 
            
ORDER
            The
motion is GRANTED.  The Court sets aside
and vacates the default entered on September 1, 2022 and the default judgment
on February 23, 2023.  Defendant is
ordered to file a responsive pleading forthwith.
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of ruling.