  Case Number:  20STCV14744    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
On January 20, 2023,
Plaintiffs Polly Gastrom, individually and as representative of the estate of
Robert Hayden Baer and Suzanne Nesbit, filed this action alleging Robert Hayden
Baer developed mesothelioma asbestos in Defendant Warren Pumps, LLC’s
products.  Defendant filed a motion for
summary judgment adjudication of the fraud and conspiracy causes of action and
request for punitive damages.
A.        Fraudulent Concealment
The First Amended
Complaint alleges all defendants “intentional failed to disclose certain facts
. . . regarding the existence of hazardous asbestos that became airborne.”  (FAC, ¶ 16.) 
This allegation is too vague.  For
example, it does not specify the facts Defendant failed to disclose.
“ ‘[T]he elements of a
cause of action for fraud based on concealment are “ ‘(1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.’ ” 
[Citation.]’ ”  (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311.)  When a fiduciary duty does not exist, a duty
to disclose arises only “when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material
facts not known to the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact from the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (Id. at p. 311.)  This type of relationship “ ‘can only come
into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the parties’ ” and
“must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the
defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large.”  (Ibid.)  Evidence that the defendant was involved in
retail sales of the disputed product to consumers and profited from them can
satisfy the Bigler-Engler requirement. 
(Bader v. Johnson & Johnson (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1094, 1132.)  
Defendant contends there
is no evidence Defendant concealed any facts or had any duty to disclose facts
to Plaintiffs.  (Motion at p. 6.)  Defendant cites Plaintiffs’ responses to an
interrogatory asking for information supporting the cause of action, where
Plaintiffs did not identify any specific information that Defendant concealed
from Plaintiffs.  Instead, Plaintiffs
responded with a long answer that does not contain case-specific information
about the alleged concealment.  (Rejch
Decl., Ex. B at p. 5, Ex. D at pp. 1-22.)  The response also does not provide evidence of
a transaction or relationship between Defendant and Baer giving rise to a duty
to disclose.  Defendant shifted the
burden with the factually-deficient response.
In their opposition, Plaintiffs
argue Defendant knew about the hazards of asbestos as early as 1946 but never
tested its products or warned customers about the hazard.  (Opposition at pp. 3-4. )  Plaintiffs cite deposition testimony that
Defendant did not include warnings about asbestos on products.  (Plaintiffs’ Index, Ex. F at pp. 7-8.)  Plaintiffs’ opposition does not specifically
identify the material facts Defendant concealed from Plaintiffs or provide
evidence of the required relationship between the parties.  Therefore, Plaintiffs have not shown a
disputed issue.  The motion for summary
adjudication is granted as to the fraudulent concealment claim.
B.        Fraudulent Misrepresentation
The First Amended
Complaint alleges all defendants represented to Baer that “the air was safe to
breath because it did not contain asbestos, and any asbestos was not
hazardous.”  (FAC, § 19.)  This cause of action is too vague.  It does not specify when Defendant made that
statement to Baer or who at Defendant made the statement to Baer.  
Defendant argues Plaintiffs
have no evidence it made any affirmative representation to Baer.  (Motion at p. 6.)  Defendant cites Plaintiffs’ responses to an
interrogatory asking for information supporting the cause of action, where
Plaintiffs did not identify any specific misrepresentation Defendant made to
Baer.  Instead, Plaintiffs responded with
a long answer that does not contain case-specific information about the alleged
misrepresentation to Baer.  (Rejch Decl.,
Ex. B at p. 5, Ex. D at pp. 1-22.)  Defendant shifted the burden with the
factually-deficient response.
In their opposition,
Plaintiffs do not present evidence that Defendant made any statement to
Baer.  Instead Plaintiffs cite Section
402B of the Restatement Second of Torts. 
The First Amended Complaint does not mention Restatement of Torts
Section 402-B.  However, the court will
assume the first amended complaint adequately alleged a claim under section
402-B.
Section 402-B establishes
“liability for injuries caused by justifiable reliance on false
advertising.”  (Westlye v. Look
Sports, Inc. (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 1715, 1750.)  Under this section “ ‘[o]ne engaged in the
business of selling chattels who, by advertising, labels, or otherwise, makes
to the public a misrepresentation of a material fact concerning the character
or quality of a chattel sold by him is subject to liability for physical harm
to a consumer of the chattel caused by justifiable reliance upon the
misrepresentation, even though [¶] (a) it is not made fraudulently or
negligently, and [¶] (b) the consumer has not bought the chattel from or
entered into any contractual relation with the seller.’  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at pp. 1750-1751.) 
“The rule ‘is one of strict liability for physical harm to the consumer,
resulting from a misrepresentation of the character or quality of the chattel
sold, even though the misrepresentation is an innocent one, and not made
fraudulently or negligently.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Hauter v.
Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d 104, 114.)  
            Section
402-B requires that the defendant “makes to the public a misrepresentation of a
material fact.”  (Westlye, supra,
17 Cal.App.4th at p. 1750.)  Nothing in the
First Amended Complaint, Plaintiffs’ discovery responses, or Plaintiffs’
opposition provides evidence of a misrepresentation of a material fact by
Defendant to the public.  Nor did
Plaintiffs provide evidence that a consumer who purchased Defendant’s product
justifiably relied on a misrepresentation. 
(Ibid.)  Thus, Plaintiffs
failed to show disputed issue concerning the fraudulent misrepresentation
claim, whether or not it is construed as a section 402-B claim.  The motion is granted as to this claim.
C.        Conspiracy
            The
fourth cause of action alleges all 35 defendants spanning many industries,
along with 200 Doe defendants, conspired to defraud Baer.  The first amended complaint contains zero
information about the conspiracy.
“Conspiracy is not a cause of
action, but a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although
not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors
a common plan or design in its perpetration.” 
(Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 503, 510-511.)  “Standing alone,
a conspiracy does no harm and engenders no tort liability.  It must be activated by the commission of an
actual tort.”  (Id. at p.
511.)  
Because Plaintiffs failed
to show disputed issues of material fact regarding the underlying fraud claims,
the conspiracy cause of action fails. 
Further, neither Plaintiffs’ interrogatory responses nor opposition
provide any evidence that all 35 defendants had a common plan to defraud
Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs failed to show
any disputed issue of material fact, the motion for summary adjudication is
granted as to the fourth cause of action. 
D.        Punitive Damages
Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs do not have any clear or convincing evidence of malice, oppression,
or fraud by an officer, director, or managing agent.  (Motion at p. 11.)
When the motion targets a
request for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play. “Although
the clear and convincing evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not
impose on a plaintiff the obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at
summary judgment [or summary adjudication.’ 
[Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the
plaintiff’s ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence,
the higher standard of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to
prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence
presented meet the higher evidentiary standard.’  [Citation.]” 
(Butte Fire Cases (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.)  “Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “
‘on the issue of punitive damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury
could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice,
fraud or oppression.’ ” ’. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
1159.) 
For a corporate
defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  That requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the
evidence permits a clear and convincing inference that within the corporate
hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in “willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” ’ 
[Citation.]”  (Morgan v. J-M
Manufacturing Company, Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.)  A plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing
agent’ requirement ‘through evidence showing the information in the possession
of the corporation and the structure of management decision making that permits
an inference that the information in fact moved upward to a point where
corporate policy was formulated.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
1091.) 
“ ‘[I]ntentionally
marketing a defective product knowing that it might cause injury and death is
‘highly reprehensible.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Bankhead v.
ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68, 85.)  Punitive damages may be available when a
defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees from the hazard, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger
to users, and did not warn them.  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.Ap.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp. 1300-1301.)
In response to an
interrogatory asking for the evidence supporting the request for punitive
damages, Plaintiffs gave a 27-page laundry list of documents.  (Rejch Decl., Ex. B at p. 4, Ex. D at pp. 25-51.)
 Again, the response does not identify
specific evidence revealing Defendant’s fraud, malice, or oppression during the
pertinent time period.  The
factually-devoid responses shifted the burden.
            In their
opposition, Plaintiffs quote a lot of generic law but are light on the facts
concerning Defendant’s conduct during the years that Defendant’s products
allegedly exposed Baier to asbestos – 1964 to 1967.  (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 1, 2.)  Plaintiffs submitted evidence that Defendant
sold pumps containing asbestos parts, including to the Navy, it did not provide
warnings about asbestos, and it did not do any testing about the dangers of
asbestos in its products.  (Plaintiffs’
Disputed Facts (“PDF”) 3, 5, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30.)  However, Plaintiffs do not cite evidence that
in 1964 to 1967, Defendant knew the asbestos parts in its pumps were a health
hazard to users and yet made a decision not to warn users.  
In sum, Plaintiffs failed
to show the existence of a triable disputed issue of material fact. Therefore,
summary adjudication is granted on the request for punitive damages. 
The motion for summary adjudication
on the third and fourth causes of action and for punitive damages is GRANTED.
The moving party is to
give notice. 