 Case Number:  23SMCV04773    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Nassara LLC v. Stoll, et al. 
CASE NO.:                   23SMCV04773
MOTION:                     Demurrer to the
Complaint by the
Wales Firm
HEARING DATE:   7/302024
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28
Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the
construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore
Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations
omitted.) 
 
A special demurrer for uncertainty is
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that
defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)  
 
“Liberality in permitting amendment is
the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to show¿in
what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint, and¿how¿that
amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.) 
  
ANALYSIS 
 
            Defendant The Wales Law Firm, P.C. demurs
to the fourth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty set forth in
Plaintiff Nassara LLC’s complaint.  To
maintain an action for breach of fiduciary duty, a plaintiff must allege: 1)
the existence of a fiduciary duty between plaintiff and defendant; 2)
defendant’s breach of that duty; and 3) damage caused by the breach. (Gutierrez
v. Girardi (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 925, 932.) A fiduciary duty is founded
upon a special relationship imposed by law or under circumstances in which
“confidence is reposed by persons in the integrity of others” who voluntarily
accept the confidence. (Tri-Growth Centre City, Ltd. v. Silldorf, Burdman,
Duignan & Eisenberg (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 1139, 1150.) “‘[B]efore a
person can be charged with a fiduciary obligation, he must either knowingly
undertake to act on behalf and for the benefit of another, or must enter into a
relationship which imposes that undertaking as a matter of law.’” (City of
Hope Nat'l Med. Ctr. v. Genentech (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375, 386.) 
 
A
fiduciary duty “ordinarily arises where a con¿dence is reposed by one person in
the integrity of another, and in such a relation the party in whom the
con¿dence is reposed, if he voluntarily accepts or assumes to accept the
con¿dence, can take no advantage from his acts relating to the interest of the
other party without the latter’s knowledge or consent…” (Wolf v. Superior
Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 25, 29, internal citations and quotations
omitted.)) Before a person can be charged with a ¿duciary obligation, they “must
either knowingly undertake to act on behalf and for the bene¿t of another, or
must enter into a relationship which imposes that undertaking as a matter of
law.” (Cleveland v. Johnson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1338.)
“[E]xamples of relationships that impose a ¿duciary obligation to act on behalf
of and for the bene¿t of another are ‘a joint venture, a partnership, or an
agency.’ But, ‘[t]hose categories are merely illustrative of ¿duciary
relationships in which ¿duciary duties are imposed by law.’ ” (Id.
at 1339 [internal citation omitted].) 
 
“Whether
a ¿duciary duty exists is generally a question of law. Whether the defendant
breached that duty towards the plaintiff is a question of fact.” (Marzec v.
Public Employees’ Retirement System (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 889, 915
[internal citation omitted].) Facts giving rise to a confidential, fiduciary or
trustee relationship must be pled, and a “bare allegation that defendants
assumed a fiduciary relationship” is a conclusion. (Zumbrun v. Univ. of So.
Cal. (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 1, 13.)
 
The
complaint alleges that Wales voluntarily undertook the duty of an escrow holder.
An escrow holder is a fiduciary of all parties to an escrow. (Siegel v.
Fidelity Nat. Title Ins. Co. (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1193-94.) “[T]he
agency which exists (and the obligations pursuant thereto) is a limited
one.”  (Id., citation and quotation omitted.) “If the
several escrow instructions create in the escrow holder an agency, it must be
one limiting the obligations of the escrow holder to each party to the escrow
in accordance with the instructions given by such party…”  (Id.) “[I]t
is generally held that no liability attaches to the escrow holder for his
failure to do something not required by the terms of the escrow or for a loss
incurred while obediently following his escrow instructions.”  (Id.)
In other words, “[a]bsent clear evidence of fraud, an escrow holder’s
obligations are limited to compliance with the parties’ instructions.”  (Summit
Financial Holdings, Ltd. v. Continental Lawyers Title Co. (2002) 27 Cal.4th
705, 711.) “It is also the duty of an escrow holder to exercise
reasonable skill and ordinary diligence in its employment, and if the escrow
holder acts negligently, it is ordinarily liable for any loss occasioned by its
breach of duty.” (Axley v. Transamerica Title Ins. Co. (1978) 88
Cal.App.3d 1, 9.)
 
The
complaint alleges that Plaintiff owns a 2020 Azimut 50 Fly Yacht (the “Yacht”).
(Compl., ¶ 12.) In early 2023, Plaintiff decided to sell the Yacht. (Compl., ¶
18.) Defendant Rico Stoll insisted that he could find a buyer and directed
Plaintiff to the brokerage firm with which he was affiliated, Defendant Engel &
Volkers Yachting. (Id.) Based on Stoll’s representations, Plaintiff executed
the listing agreement with Engel. (Id.) Engel’s services to Plaintiff under the
Listing Agreement ran through its broker, Stoll, and president, Defendant
Walter Johnson. (Id.) 
 
Defendant
The Kim Family Trust was interested in purchasing the Yacht. (Compl. ¶ 19.) Plaintiff
and the Kim Trust parties executed a Sales Agreement for the Yacht, with a purchase
price of $1.23 million. (Id.)  During the
escrow period, the Trust discovered an invalid/void mechanics lien on the Yacht
(placed by Stoll on behalf of Defendant RJ Nautical) and did not complete the
deal. (Compl. ¶ 20.) As Plaintiff did not have notice of the lien, Plaintiff endeavored
to assuage the Kims’ concerns by agreeing to clear the title to the Yacht with
the proceeds from the sale while reserving its rights to recover the disputed
sums from RJ in subsequent proceedings. (Id.) Despite this offer, the Kim Trust
pulled out of the deal, citing concerns over the lien dispute and the “spirit” of
the Yacht. (Compl. ¶ 22.) 
 
“In
any normal scenario,” the Trust’s failure to perform “would have” forfeited the
$123,000.00 earnest deposit it had tendered. (Compl. ¶ 23.) By then, the Trust indicated
its final approval of the Yacht and the satisfaction or waiver of all
contingencies and authorized the disbursement of “ ‘all funds necessary to
complete [the] transaction.’ ” (Id.)  Indeed, in the event of the Trust’s breach, the
Sales Agreement called for the earnest deposit to be distributed to Plaintiff.
(Id.) However, there was a Cooperative Brokerage Agreement (“Coop Agreement”) between
Engel and the Trust’s brokerage firm, which was entered into without informing
or obtaining the consent of Plaintiff, the Kim Trust’s brokerage firm assumed
responsibility for the escrow services. In turn, the Trust’s brokerage firm
appointed the Trust’s lawyer, Wales, to serve as the escrow agent for the
transaction. (Id.) Wales had an “obvious conflict of interest” which prevented
it from impartially performing its escrow function, such that “when the sale
fell through and Plaintiff demanded that the deposit either be withheld or
released to Plaintiff, Wales ignored the demands and instead released the
entire deposit back to its own client, the Trust. (Id.) Thus, Wales allegedly
breached their fiduciary duty as escrow holders for the Yacht transaction when,
in contravention to the principal parties’ Sales Agreement, Wales disbursed the
earnest deposit back to its preferred client, the Kim Trust. (Id., ¶¶ 23, 49.) 
 
Wales argues that the above factual allegations
are simply legal conclusions or are false as a matter of fact. Wales contends
that it was not the escrow agent for the sale of an LLC. Wales suggests that
there was never any agreement “to buy the LLC because of the encumbrances on
the LLC and its asset and there certainly was no written agreement executed by
the parties for The Wales Law Firm to act as an ‘escrow agent’.” Wales believes
that it only represented the potential buyers of the LLC (the Kim Trust). These
arguments rely on extrinsic evidence that the Court cannot consider at the
pleading stage. The Court must presume as true that, as alleged in the
complaint, Wales voluntarily undertook a fiduciary duty to Plaintiff when it
was appointed by the Kim Trust’s brokerage firm to act as an escrow holder for
the sale of the Yacht. (Compl., ¶¶ 23, 48.) Whether or not Wales undertook such
a duty as alleged is a dispute of fact beyond the four corners of the
complaint.  
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer
is OVERRULED.
 
            Defendant to file an answer within
20 days.