 Case Number:  24SMCV03301    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Beverly Hills Property v. Sanai,
Case no. 24SMCV03301
Hearing date October 24, 2024
Defendant
Sanai’s Motion for Reconsideration of Motion for Judgment on Pleadings 
Plaintiff
property management company filed this unlawful detainer for failure to pay
rent. Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings, arguing the property
management company is not a proper plaintiff, was denied 10/10/2024. Defendant
moves for reconsideration. His ex parte papers were considered as the moving
papers.
A
party may seek reconsideration of a court order based on new or different
facts, circumstances, or law. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1008(a). A motion for
judgment on the pleadings tests whether, as a matter of law, pleadings state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Ponderosa Hornes, Inc. v.
City of San Ramon (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1761, 1767-1768.
Defendant
argues the court misinterpreted Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §369(a). Motions for
reconsideration must be based on new or different facts, not disagreement with
the court’s interpretation of the law. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §369(a)(2) provides
that a trustee of an express trust may sue without joining as parties the
persons for whose benefit the action is prosecuted and (a)(4) allows an action
to be brought by "any other person expressly authorized by statute." 
Plaintiff
alleged it is authorized to bring suit by the trustee of the trust that holds
the property. Defendant argues no allegations in the complaint state the owner
receives the benefit of defendant’s rent. This is unavailing. Defendant offers
no facts to demonstrate the owner is not or reasonably may not be the
beneficiary of defendant’s rent. Further, the complaint may be modified to so
allege, conforming to proof up to an including the time of trial.
Defendant
argues the rental agreement is not a contract for the benefit of another
because the owner of the property is incorporated as a party. He argues the
owner of the property must be the plaintiff, not the property management
company. Plaintiff alleges it has an interest in the property and is authorized
to bring suit in its own name. These allegations are sufficient to establish
standing for purposes of judgment on the pleadings.
Defendant
argues Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §369(a) does not override or modify the limitation
of Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1161(2). Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1161(2) refers to the
landlord as the party that must bring an action for unlawful retainer, which
plaintiff is alleged to be.
Defendant
argues a third-party agent cannot sue on behalf of a trustee unless explicitly
authorized in the trust instrument. Plaintiff alleged it is a party authorized
by the owner to bring suit in its own name. Complaint para. 4. This is
sufficient to withstand a judgment on the pleadings, and further, does not
constitute new facts or law for purposes of reconsideration under 1008.
Defendant
offers numerous assertions regarding elder abuse, the court’s misinterpretation
of legal statutes, and whether the rental agreement is a third-party
beneficiary contract. None of these assertions constitutes new facts or law not
before the court previously. Reconsideration is not warranted absent new facts,
circumstances or law. DENIED.