  Case Number:  23SMCV04139    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Slalom, Inc. v. Aspiration
Partners, Inc., Case no. 23SMCV04139
Hearing date October 24, 2024
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration
Plaintiff’s Motion for Undertaking
Defendant’s
Objections to Plaintiff’s Supplemental RJN and Declaration
Plaintiff
Slalom sues defendant Aspiration dba Catona for breach of written contract, work,
labor, services and materials and account stated alleging failure to pay for consulting
services, totaling $2,617,224.85 plus interest. Defendant moved to compel
arbitration based on the master services agreement (MSA). Plaintiff stipulated
to arbitration but sought a writ of attachment. The tentative ruling of 9/24/2024
was to grant a writ of attachment contingent on plaintiff posting a $10,000
undertaking and grant defendant’s motion to compel arbitration, referring the
matter to arbitration after the writ of attachment issued. Id.
After
oral argument, the court ordered limited supplemental briefs regarding defendant’s
decreasing solvency. Id. Defendant’s briefing filed 10/7/2024 included a
supplemental declaration of Staton Hammock. Plaintiff’s supplemental briefing of
10/9/2024 requested judicial notice and attached a supplemental declaration of
Marshall August. Defendant objects to plaintiff’s RJN and supplemental
declaration. 
Defendant
objects, arguing it did not have an opportunity to respond to the new evidence.
Hammock’s declaration contained exhibits and testimony not previously before
the court, purporting to demonstrate defendant was solvent, and plaintiff should
be allowed to submit contrary evidence.
Hammock’s
declaration states defendant is solvent and not in financial distress. Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of Hammock and Glassmoyer’s previous statements
regarding defendant’s finances, and of a civil minute order addressing a writ
of attachment against defendant in a separate action. August’s declaration states,
to the contrary, defendant is in financial distress.
The
parties offer divergent evidence regarding of defendant’s solvency. Cal. Evid.
Code §780(f) and (h) allows the court to evaluate the credibility of a witness
based on bias and prior statements, and plaintiff’s evidence goes to those
elements. However, defendant has a right to address new evidence submitted. The
court OVERRULES defendant’s objections and continues the matter to allow
defendant to briefly address the new evidence, limited to five pages. 