  Case Number:  21STCV35634    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  39 Fredy
Wembe v. Target Stores, Inc., et al.
Case
No. 21STCV35634
Plaintiff’s
Ex Parte Application
 
            Plaintiff
Fredy Wembe (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action against Defendants
Target Corporation and Manuel Quijada (collectively, “Defendants”).  The parties stipulated to a discovery cutoff
of January 30, 2024, and the Court granted that stipulation.  (See Stipulation and Order, dated October 30,
2023.)  Now, Plaintiff seeks to continue
the discovery cut-off and to obtain contact information for the following
witnesses: (1) Hillary Olsen, who played a role in the decision to terminate
Plaintiff; (2) Fidel Vivas, who “is a percipient witness to communications
regarding Plaintiff’s termination in documents produced by Defendant;” (3) Guillermo
Escareno, Plaintiff’s former manager; and (4) Joshua Portillo, a former
employee who was present at Plaintiff’s meeting with Carina Mercedes Sanz.  
 
            After
Plaintiff’s counsel filed this ex parte application, the Court issued an order
granting her motion to compel further responses in part.  The Court ordered as follows, among other
things:  
 
            1.         SROG #50 seeks contact information for
Guillermo Escareno.  Since Escareno may
be a percipient witness, Plaintiff is entitled to take his deposition.  Therefore, Defendant shall produce his
contact information unless Defendant’s counsel agrees to accept service of any
subpoenas on his behalf.  Defendant’s
counsel shall inform Plaintiff’s counsel whether she will accept service or shall
produce his last known contact information within twenty (20) days.  
 
2.         Plaintiff seeks the name and contact
information of every individual who worked at Plaintiff’s worksite from the
time period of January 1, 2021, to March 1, 2024.  That is approximately 452 employees.  As such, the request is overbroad and unduly
burdensome.  The Court’s ruling on the
motion as it relates to SROG #59 provides the information to which Plaintiff is
entitled.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion
is denied.   
 
3.         Plaintiff seeks the names and contact information
of every individual who worked on the same shift as Plaintiff from January 1,
2021, to March 4, 2021.  This request is
overbroad, as the relevant issue is whether any employees observed Plaintiff’s
alleged outburst on February 15/16, 2021. 
Therefore, the motion is denied except with respect to the following:
(1) Target shall produce the names of the team members who worked under Carina
Sanz on the same shift as Plaintiff on February 15/16, 2021; and (2) Target
shall produce the team members’ last known contact information unless
Defendant’s counsel agrees to accept service on their behalf.  This information shall be provided within
twenty (20) days.    
 
There is good cause
to take two additional depositions after the discovery cutoff.  The Court finds as follows:
 
1.         Deposition of Hillary Olsen 
 
There is good cause
to take Hillary Olsen’s deposition after the discovery cutoff.  In response to the complaint about Plaintiff,
Sheena Foster stated: “I’m issuing a final for disorderly conduct for this
one.”  (Ibid.)  Hillary Olsen then replied and stated: 
 
            “Yeah agreed…  If he is not willing to apologize for his
behavior, admit he was wrong and agree to act according to policy going
forward, sounds like Target isn’t the place for him to work.  Hopefully you can get him to do the above and
then issue the FW.  Otherwise if he won’t
agree to it, sounds like we should separate employment.” 
 
(Ibid.)  This is sufficient to authorize a deposition
of Hillary Olsen.  Plaintiff’s counsel is
entitled to “test” Target’s amended response stating that Ms. Olsen was not
involved in the termination decision (after serving an initial response stating
that Ms. Olsen was involved in the termination decision).  The Court notes that Plaintiff’s counsel
contacted Target’s counsel on January 5, 2024, to schedule a deposition.  (See Declaration of Whitney Nonnette Perry, ¶
25.)  Target’s counsel then learned that
Ms. Olsen was no longer employed at Target and informed Plaintiff’s counsel on
January 18, 2024.  (Ibid.)  The Court finds no bad faith on the part of
Target, but this delay prejudiced Plaintiff’s counsel.  Therefore, there is good cause to take Ms.
Olsen’s deposition after the discovery cutoff, given Plaintiff’s counsel’s
reliance on Target’s counsel accepting service and the delay in determining
that Plaintiff’s counsel would have to serve Ms. Olsen directly.  
 
            2.         Fidel Vivas 
 
There is no
good cause to take Fidel Vivas’s deposition after the discovery cutoff.  As an initial matter, the Court questions
whether this deposition would be reasonably calculated to lead to admissible
evidence, as there is nothing in the record suggesting that Vivas was a
decision-maker.  Rather, the emails
provided by Plaintiff’s counsel suggest that he merely processed the termination
paperwork.  Regardless, Plaintiff’s counsel
has known of Mr. Vivas’s existence and role since September 2022, and has had
sufficient time to depose him.  (See
Declaration of Whitney Nonnette Perry, ¶ 5.) 
Therefore, there is no good cause to take this deposition after the discovery
cutoff.  
 
            3.         Guillermo Escareno 
 
The Court has
already ruled on this issue.  In so doing,
the Court implicitly found that there was good cause to take this deposition after
the discovery cutoff.  
 
            4.         Joshua Portillo 
 
There is no
good cause to take this deposition after the discovery cutoff.  Portillo’s significance to this case was clear
based upon Carina Sanz’s email, which was produced in September 2022.  (Ibid.) 
It is undisputed that Plaintiff’s counsel took Sanz’s deposition—at which
the email was an exhibit—on October 26, 2023. 
Plaintiff’s counsel served Defendant’s counsel with a copy of the
deposition subpoena for Portillo on January 18, 2024, a mere 12 days before discovery
closed.  (Id., ¶ 26.)  This is too close to the discovery cutoff for
a third party witness.  Defendant’s
counsel confirmed that Plaintiff’s counsel had Portillo’s last known contact
information.  (Ibid.)  Therefore, there is no good cause to take
this deposition after the discovery cutoff. 

 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court grants Plaintiff’s ex parte
application in part and denies the ex parte application in part.
 
            2.         The Court authorizes Plaintiff’s
counsel to take two additional depositions after the discovery cutoff.  Plaintiff’s counsel may select two of the following
four witnesses: (1) Hillary Olsen, (2) Fidel Vivas, (3) Guillermo Escareno, and
(4) Joshua Portillo.
 
            3.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall file a notice
with the Court on or before February 27, 2024, at 12 Noon, stating which two
depositions she intends to take.  If
Plaintiff’s counsel does not file a notice with the Court on or before February
27, 2024, at 12 Noon, she shall waive the right to take any depositions after
the discovery cutoff.  The notice shall
be served via email within one hour of filing.
 
            4.         On or before March 1, 2024, at 9:00
a.m., Defendants’ counsel shall provide the last known contact information for
any of the two witnesses who is not a current employee unless Defendants’
counsel has done so already (i.e., Defendants’ counsel need not disclose Portillo’s
contact information unless Target learns of a new address).  If Plaintiff’s counsel elects not to take Giullermo
Escareno’s deposition, Defendants’ counsel is not required to disclose his
contact information as required by the Court’s order of February 20, 2024.  
 
            5.         Plaintiff’s counsel represented at the
hearing on February 20, 2024, that she could complete the additional
depositions in March.  Therefore, the
deadline for these additional depositions shall be March 29, 2024.  The discovery cutoff shall be automatically
extended one calendar day for each calendar day of delay in providing the
deponents’ last known contact information. 
  
 
            6.         Discovery is closed in all other
respects (except as otherwise ordered by the Court, e.g., in its orders of
February 20, 2024). 
 
            7.         The Court advances and vacates the
final status conference and trial dates. 

 
            8.         The Court advances and continues the
hearing on Defendants’ motion for summary judgment from April 15, 2024, to June
17, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. 
 
            9.         The Court shall hold a trial setting
conference on June 17, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
            10.       The Court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
            
 