 Case Number:  21STCV16157    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                       
             Tuesday,
October 24, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 8
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Rancho
Palos Verdes Estates LLC v. Robert R. Maxwell, et al.   
21STCV16157
1.      Robert R. Maxwell, et al.’s Demurrer to Second Amended
Complaint         
2.      Robert R. Maxwell, et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions
of Second Amended Complaint 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Robert R. Maxwell, et al.’s Demurrer
to Second Amended Complaint is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
            Robert R. Maxwell, et al.’s Motion
to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint is moot. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on April 29, 2021, and
the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) on May 30, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the
following facts. Plaintiff and Defendants own adjacent real property in Rancho
Palos Verdes Estates. Defendants’ real property is encroaching into the
property line of Plaintiff’s property. Plaintiff’s Complaint alleged the following
causes of action: 1. Trespass; 2. Nuisance; 3. Negligence; 4. Indemnification;
5. Apportionment of Rental Income. Plaintiff’s FAC alleges the following causes
of action: 1. Trespass; 2. Nuisance; 3. Negligence; 4. Tort of Another; 5.
Apportionment of Rental Income. Plaintiff’s SAC alleges the following causes of
action: 1. Trespass; 2. Nuisance; 3. Negligence.
 
Demurrer and Motion to Strike  
 
Meet and
Confer
 
Defendants set forth meet and confer declarations in
sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP § 435.5.  (Decls., Dustin Rabi.)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendants’ and Plaintiff’s requests for judicial
notice are granted pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) and (h).
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law.
(Schmidt v. Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
Sufficient facts are
the essential facts of the case "with reasonable precision and with
particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature,
source, and extent of his cause of action.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) "Whether
the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling
upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v.
Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a
demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.” Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s factual
allegations are so confusing, they do not sufficiently apprise a defendant of
the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
Defendants demur to the
Second Amended Complaint and first through third causes of action pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(e), on the ground that the causes of
action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
First Cause of
Action for Trespass
 
Defendants’ demurrer
to the first cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. Plaintiff
fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
“The elements of
trespass are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or control of the property; (2) the
defendant's intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto the property; (3)
lack of permission for the entry or acts in excess of permission; (4) harm; and
(5) the defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing the harm.” Ralphs
Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262.
Plaintiff fails to allege any facts to meet the element of “defendant’s
intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto the property.” Plaintiff has
merely pled conclusions without any supporting facts. In fact, Plaintiff
appears to concede, in part, that the element has not been fully pled as
Plaintiff states that more facts regarding this element may be obtained through
discovery. (SAC, ¶¶ 49, 58). 
 
Pursuant to Roberts
v. Permanente Corp. (1961) 188 Cal.App.2d 526, 530–31 intent to “harm” is
not necessary, but certainly an intentional or reckless entry is still
required.  Roberts explained this
principle in more detail as follows: “the doing of an act which will to a
substantial certainty result in the entry of foreign matter upon another's land
suffices for an intentional trespass to land upon which liability may be based.
 Id.  Here, however, Plaintiff has alleged no facts
that Plaintiff did any such act and acknowledges that the boundary intrusion
was caused by natural circumstances. 
 
Plaintiff argues that
the intentional allowance of having tenants on the property constitutes the
intentional entry. Plaintiff contends that trespass can be established by
having another enter the property and also by failing to leave the property.
Plaintiff states that Defendant caused the tenants to trespass and did not
force them to leave. However, the mere renting of the property is not the conduct
which can meet the element of intentional entry because this is not the act
that caused the land encroachment. The encroachment occurred because of the
well-known natural land movement in Portuguese Bend through no fault of
Defendants. In this manner, Plaintiff also argues, although somewhat less
vociferously, that not only the tenants, but the house should have been removed
as well. Plaintiff remarkably contends that this is “routine.” (Opposition,
page 3, lines 4-5). Thus, by Plaintiff’s logic, the element of trespass would
also be met by Defendants’ failure to remove the house. However, this act (or
failure to act), in the context of the factual allegations of this case, cannot
be seen as an intentional entry to meet the element of trespass when the cause
of the house being on Plaintiff’s property line was a longstanding naturally
occurring natural phenomenon. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer
to the first cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Second Cause of
Action for Nuisance
Third Cause of
Action for Negligence
 
Defendants’ demurrer
to the second and third causes of action is sustained without leave to amend.
Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action. 
“Civil Code section 3479 defines
a nuisance as ‘[a]nything which is injurious to health, or is indecent or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as
to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.’” Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 919.    
            “The
elements of an action for private nuisance are: First, the plaintiff must prove
an interference with his use and enjoyment of his property. Second, the
invasion of the plaintiff's interest in the use and enjoyment of the land [must
be] substantial, i.e., that it cause[s] the plaintiff to suffer ‘substantial
actual damage. Third, [t]he interference with the protected interest must not
only be substantial, but it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such
a nature, duration or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with
the use and enjoyment of the land.”  Mendez
v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-63
(internal citations and quotations omitted).
“To state a cause of action for
negligence, a plaintiff must allege (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a duty
of care, (2) the defendant breached that duty, and (3) the breach proximately
caused the plaintiff's damages or injuries.” Lueras v. BAC Home Loans
Servicing, LP (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62. “Where negligence and nuisance
causes of action rely on the same facts about lack of due care, the nuisance
claim is a negligence claim.” El Escorial Owners' Assn. v. DLC Plastering,
Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349. 
            As
to the Nuisance cause of action, Plaintiff fails to state facts to meet the
element of unreasonableness. While generally this element would be an issue of
fact, as noted above, under the factual circumstances of this action as
specifically delineated in the SAC and upon matters to which both parties have
requested judicial notice, the alleged interference with Plaintiff’s land was
caused by a natural phenomenon which Defendants could not have prevented. Thus,
the element of “unreasonable” interference cannot be met. In addition, for the
same reasons, the breach of duty element and causation element of the
Negligence cause of action cannot be stated. Defendants could not have breached
a duty or caused damage to Plaintiff when the cause of the interference was a
natural phenomenon.
Thus, the demurrer to
the second and third causes of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Motion to
Strike
            
The court may, upon a
motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,
strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP § 436.  The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Defendants move to
strike the following:
“1. Page 12,
paragraphs 78-80 indicating: “Plaintiff is informed and believes, and thereon
alleges, Defendants acted in a despicable manner, intending to vex, injure and
annoy Plaintiff while enriching themselves and have been guilty of oppression,
fraud and malice, thus warranting an award of punitive damages, in an amount
according to proof at trial. 
2. Page 12,
"Prayer for Relief’ number 4, indicating for “exemplary damages according
to proof.” (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 6-12).
 
The motion to strike
is moot upon the sustaining of the demurrer to the entire Second Amended
Complaint. 
 
            Defendants
are ordered to give notice of this ruling.