  Case Number:  18STCV04159    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  B 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                      Tuesday, October 24, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 9  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Helen
Barrera, et al. v. Los Angeles Unified School District, et al.   
18STCV04159
1.     
Los Angeles
Unified School District, et al.’s Motion to Continue Trial  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Los Angeles Unified School District, et al.’s Motion
to Continue Trial is denied without prejudice. 
 
Background 
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on November 7, 2018.
Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Minor Plaintiff R.L. was sexually abused
by co-Defendant Arlan Wesley Harrell (“Harrell”) while R.L. was attending field
trips during his enrollment as a kindergarten student at Cowan Avenue
Elementary School during the 2016-2017 school year. 
 
On October 5, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ Ex
Parte Application to Strike Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment because it
was noticed to be heard within 30 days of the trial date.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice is granted
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d).
 
Motion to
Continue Trial 
 
Pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1332(a),
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the dates assigned for a
trial are firm.  All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.”  Under CRC Rule 3.1332(b), “A party seeking a
continuance of the date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or
stipulated to by the parties, must make the request for a continuance by a
noticed motion or an ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this
division, with supporting declarations. 
The party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably
practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
 
Under CRC Rule 3.1332(c),
“[a]lthough continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits.  The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may include good cause
include:  
(1) The unavailability of
an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other
excusable circumstances;
 (2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 (3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 (4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;
 (5) The addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have
not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party's involvement in the case;
 (6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or
 (7) A significant, unanticipated change in the
status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.”
 
Other factors set forth in
CRC Rule 3.1332(d) that are relevant in determining whether to grant a
continuance include:
(1) The proximity of the
trial date; 
(2) Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; 
(3) The length of the
continuance requested; 
(4) The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; 
(5) The prejudice that
parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled
to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the
need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel
is engaged in another trial; 
(9) Whether all parties
have stipulated to a continuance; 
(10) Whether the interests
of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11) Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
 
Defendants request that the
Court continue the November 14, 2023 trial date. Defendants contend that, due
to the Court’s minute order of October 5, 2023 granting Plaintiffs’ application
to strike Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, Defendants are now deprived
of having a motion for summary judgment on the merits. Therefore, they seek to
continue the trial date so that another motion for summary judgment can be
timely filed.  Alternatively, the request
is made on the ground that the previous handling attorney became ill and did
not return to the firm.  Defendants
contend that the managing attorney believed that the departed attorney would
timely file a motion for summary judgment and her departure constitutes mistake,
inadvertence, surprise and/or excusable neglect pursuant to CCP § 473(b).  Defendants also state that a trial continuance
is warranted because it will actually assist Plaintiffs in completing their
discovery. Thus, as to the latter ground, it appears that Defendants believe
that they would be providing a benefit to Plaintiffs with this trial
continuance. However, Plaintiffs opposed
the request for a trial continuance which Defendants believe would have been of
benefit to Plaintiffs.  Finally,
Defendants’ counsel states that they will be engaged in another trial on the
same date.
 
Defendants’ motion for
trial continuance is denied. Defendants have failed to adequately meet any of
the factors noted above in Cal. Rules of Court 3.1332.  In essence, the instant motion acts as a
motion for reconsideration of the Court’s October 5, 2023 ruling. The Court
refers all parties to the Court’s October 5, 2023.  In that ruling, the Court already determined
that Defendants lacked good cause to set a motion for summary judgment within
30 days of the trial date.  Thus, for the
same reasons, Defendants lack good cause to continue the trial date which, admittedly,
would simply act to avoid the Court’s ruling, and thus allow a motion for
summary judgment to be heard on the merits. In fact, the case relied upon by
the Court in the Court’s October 5, 2023 order anticipated such a scenario
stating: “Finally, we see no reason why plaintiffs should be forced to seek a
continuance of the trial to remedy defendants' mistake in setting the hearing
within 30 days of the trial date absent prior court permission.”  Robinson v. Woods (2008) 168
Cal.App.4th 1258, 1268.  By inference, a
moving party’s attempt to request a trial continuance based on the untimeliness
of when a motion for summary judgment could be heard should not be deemed good
cause for a request for trial continuance.
 
Second, the facts regarding
the former attorney’s departure were fully briefed and presented prior to the
Court’s October 5, 2023 ruling. The Court again instructs the parties to review
the Court’s ruling which indicated that these facts did not constitute the
requisite facts to excuse the lack of good cause in bringing the motion for
summary judgment more than 30 days before the trial date.
 
Third, as noted above,
Plaintiffs have not acquiesced to Defendant’s offer that a trial continuance would
assist in Plaintiffs’ discovery efforts. The Court disregards this argument as
the Court is not able to comment on Plaintiffs’ discovery efforts and/or
whether the discovery will be completed prior to any deadlines as this issue is
not before this Court at this time. 
 
Finally, Defendants argue
that lead counsel will be engaged in another trial set to begin on November 9,
2023, in Hernandez v. LAUSD, Case No. 19STCV10523, currently assigned to Department 28.  Although the instant action was filed prior
to Hernandez, and, arguably, entitled
to priority, the fact of the matter is this Court cannot dictate to another Court
how to manage its calendar.  The Court reviewed
the docket in Hernandez and notes that Defendant District moved ex parte
for a trial continuance due to lead counsel, Mr. Hurrell, being engaged in another
trial in federal court.  The Court in
Department 28 continued the trial date in Hernandez to November 9, 2023.  Again, the instant Court is without authority
to determine, let alone order, how another Court manages its calendar.  However, the Court further notes that Defendant
District’s ex parte application in Hernandez represented that the parties were engaged in
settlement efforts and that the additional time granted may lead to a
successful settlement.  Thus, it is
premature for the Court to presently determine whether lead “trial counsel is
engaged in another trial.” (CRC, Rule 3.1332(d)(8).)  Therefore, Defendants’ motion to continue
trial is denied without prejudice.  If Hernandez does not settle prior to November
9, 2023, and, in fact, is sent out to a trial court on that date, if the case does
not settle at the trial court on November 9th, Defendants will still
have time to move ex parte for a trial continuance on November 13, 2023, based
on lead trial counsel’s then actual engagement. 
Therefore, the motion to continue trial is denied without prejudice. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court, on its own motion, orders that the Final Status Conference set on
November 7, 2023, and the Motion to Bifurcate set on November 8, 2023, be
continued to November 13, 2023, at 10:00 a.m. 

 
Defendants are ordered to
give notice of this ruling.
 