  Case Number:  22STCV06115    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  8  Tentative RulingHEARING DATE: January 16, 2024CASE NUMBER: 22STCV06115CASE NAME: John Doe v. Loyola Marymount University, et al.MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Loyola Marymount UniversityRESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, John DoeTRIAL DATE: July 28, 2025MOTION: Motion for Judgment on the PleadingsTentative Rulings: Loyola Marymount University’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the Unruh cause of action is GRANTED. Leave to amend to be argued, in the context of the case being set for trial after several continuances and several previous demurrers.I. BACKGROUNDA. FactualOn February 17, 2022, John Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed this action. On March 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint against Defendants, Loyola Marymount University (“LMU”) and Michael Mozilo (“Mozilo”). On July 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). On September 3, 2024, this court sustained a demurrer, with leave to amend, on the grounds that Plaintiff’s SAC failed to allege that he filed a complaint with a local educational agency before commencing this action.On September 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint(“TAC”) alleging the following causes of action: (1) Discrimination under Education Code § 66251, 66252, 66270, 66294.2 against LMU; (2) Discrimination in Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act against LMU; (3) Breach of Contract against LMU; (4) Negligence against Michael Mozilo and Does 50-99; (5) California Civil Code § 1708.85 “Revenge Porn Statute” against Michael Mozilo and DOES 50-99; (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress against Michael Mozilo and DOES 50-99; and (7) Injunctive Relief.Plaintiff brought this lawsuit against LMU and Mozilo alleging that LMU failed to take appropriate action to investigate and remedy alleged abusive conduct by Plaintiff’s fellow student Mozilo. Among other things, Plaintiff alleges that (a) Mozilo unlawfully took and distributed a video recording of Plaintiff in a bath tub to fellow students; (b) that Mozilo and fellow students tormented and bullied Plaintiff based on the bath tub video; (c) Plaintiff’s fellow students threatened and harassed Plaintiff; (d) that LMU’s employees, despite being aware of the misconduct, failed to investigate or take action to prevent or remedy the abuse; and (e) Plaintiffwas forced to leave school, surrender an athletic scholarship, and sustained substantial damages as a result of the misconduct and LMU’s failures to follow its legal obligations and duties.On November 19, 2024, this Court sustained LMU’s demurrer on the grounds that Plaintiff’s first cause of action failed to establish that this Court had subject matter jurisdiction over the cause of action and failed to allege that he filed a discrimination complaint with a local educational agency 90 days before initiating this action.Now, LMU has filed a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings on the grounds that it argues nowhere in the TAC does Plaintiff identify which incident his Second Cause of Action for Discrimination in Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act is based on.B. ProceduralOn December 9, 2024, LMU filed this MJOP. On January 2, 2025, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On January 9, 2025, LMU filed a reply brief.II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONSPlaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections to LMU’s Moving Evidence:Sustain: 1-5Overrule: n/a.III. ANALYSISA. Legal StandardThe standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322, citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise permits. (Id.) The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.)When the moving party is a defendant, he must demonstrate either of the following exist:(i) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint.(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(a)(B)(i)-(ii).)Additionally, a motion for judgment on the pleadings must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by telephone, at leastfive days before the date a motion for judgment on the pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.)B. DiscussionLMU argues Plaintiff’s second cause of action for Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act is time barred and does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against LMU.i. Statute of LimitationsHere, the parties disagree as to which statute of limitations applies to Plaintiff’s cause of action for Unruh Civil Rights Act Violation. LMU asserts that Plaintiff’s second cause of action is subjected to the two-year statute of limitations. (relying on Gatto v. County of Sonoma (2002) 98 Cal. App. 4th 744, 754-760 (“Gatto”); Mitchell v. Sung, 816 F. Supp. 597, 602 (N.D. Cal 1993.); Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 335.1.) However, while Plaintiff concedes that Gatto found that a two-year statute of limit applies for certain claims involving personal injury, Plaintiff’s opposition argues that the three-year statute of limitations applies, stating that Gatto also held that “no single statute of limitations applies to all” claims under the Unruh Act. (Gatto, supra, 98 Cal.App.4th at 759.) The Court in Gatto provided a lengthy analysis of the differing statute of limitations on Unruh violation claims based on personal injury, and those based on statutory liability. However, “where a cause of action is based upon statute which did not ‘create a new form of liability…but merely codified and refined existing law,’ the section 338 three-year limitations period for actions based upon statutory liability does not apply.” (Id. at 755, citing Briano v. Rubio (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 1167, 1179.)Thus, the Court will discuss whether the statute in this case merely codified and refined existing law premised on sexual harassment or gender-based discrimination or whether the statute relied on created a new form of liability. Both LMU’s moving papers and reply papers fail to adequately argue this issue. The Court will allow oral argument from the parties as to whether Plaintiff’s personal injury claims existed at common law or whether the statute creates a new basis for liability, but the Court’s tentative to grant the MJOP is NOT based on the statute of limitations.ii. Sufficiency of Facts to State a Cause of Action Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights ActNext, LMU argues that Plaintiff’s second cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against LMU because the Unruh Civil Rights Act does not apply to the Covid Video Incident, and because Plaintiff has not plead that LMU intended to discriminate against him. The elements of a claim for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act are (1) defendant is a business establishment, (2) defendant intentionally denied plaintiff accommodations, advantages, privileges, facilities, or services, (3) defendant was motivated to do so based on its perception that plaintiff belonged to a statutorily defined group, (4) plaintiff was harmed, and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (See Civ. Code, § 51; In re Cox (1970) 3 Cal.3d 205, 216.) “The objective of the Act is to prohibit businesses from engaging in unreasonable, arbitrary or invidious discrimination. Therefore, the Act applies not merely in situations where businesses exclude individualsaltogether, but also where treatment is unequal.” (Pizarro v. Lamb’s Players Theatre (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1174, citations omitted.)The Court acknowledges all of the arguments made in Plaintiff’s opposition brief and understands the allegations may show a pattern of LMU’s failure to rectify the alleged ongoing abuse to Plaintiff. However, Plaintiff’s argument that the TAC “alleges that LMU knew about what was happening and intentionally refused to stop the misconduct or take action against the other students engaging in the misconduct – even though it was continuing well into 2020 and, in fact, in and after October of 2020” (TAC, ¶ 36-38) (Opp. at p. 9), falls short of making that actual allegation. In fact, a search of the words “intent” and “intentionally” in the TAC only appear in causes of action alleged against Michael Mozilo. There is no citation in the Opposition to any paragraph of the TAC that supports the argument in the Opp. Page 10 line 3 that Plaintiff alleged intent to discriminate. A motion for judgment on the pleading tests the sufficiency of the pleading on its face. Thus, the Court cannot piece together allegations of, for example, D’Amore’s failure to interfere and/or act, LMU’s failure to take action against the students violating the school’s Covid-19 policies and instead, informing D’Amore and the other team members that Plaintiff had complained of them, failure of LMU and staff to investigate, etc. as an intent to deny Plaintiff accommodations, advantages, privileges, facilities, or services, when intentional actions are not alleged. Plaintiff fails to cite any authority indicating the Court can assume intentional conduct based on such actions. Thus, LMU’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED.The Court will allow Plaintiff to present oral argument on whether he can sufficiently allege such conduct in a further amended pleading.IV. CONCLUSIONFor the foregoing reasons, this Court tentatively GRANTS Defendant LMU’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the second cause of action.Defendant LMU is ordered to provide notice.