  Case Number:  23STCV19342    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ESTER FISHMAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
MARCUS FISHMAN, et al.,
  
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.: 23STCV19342     
  Hearing Date:  October 23, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff Ester
Fishman filed this quiet title action against Defendant Marcus Fishman and all
persons claiming any right in the subject property. Plaintiff and Defendant
were married in 2013 and separated in 2016. Plaintiff alleges that during the
parties’ relationship, Defendant was abusive and controlling. As a result,
Plaintiff alleges that under Defendant’s undue influence and coercion,
Plaintiff granted title of the two subject properties to both herself and
Defendant even though Plaintiff obtained the properties prior to marriage.
Plaintiff filed this action to claim legal title to the subject properties. 
            On September 25, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to compel Defendant’s deposition. Defendant filed his
opposition on October 10, 2024. Plaintiff filed her reply on October 16, 2024.  
LEGAL STANDARD
“If, after service of a deposition notice,
a party to the action . . . without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination . . . or
to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document … described in the deposition
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(a).)
DISCUSSION
            The present dispute concerns
Defendant’s refusal to be deposed in person. Plaintiff argues that she is
statutorily entitled to depose Defendant in person and that doing so is
necessary based on Defendant’s obstructive behavior in prior depositions. Plaintiff
also contends that Defendant has not provided adequate proof of a medical need
to appear remotely because the doctor’s note is unverified hearsay. Plaintiff
points out that Defendant has appeared for other hearings and depositions
without issue. 
            Despite the general rule that a
party may depose a witness in person within the specified geographic limits, “[t]he
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420(b).) This would include ordering the
deposition to occur remotely if necessary. 
Here, the Court finds that Defendant’s
medical condition warrants a remote deposition. Even without a doctor’s note,
Defendant himself avers under oath that his illness causes dizziness and
exhaustion which make it difficult to travel. (M. Fishman Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant
is also concerned about contracting illness due to his immunocompromised state.
(Id., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff has no evidence rebutting Defendant’s contentions,
beyond pointing out that Defendant has appeared in person for proceedings in
years prior. However, Defendant avers that the abovementioned issues arose six
months ago. (Id., ¶ 4.) 
The Court finds that an in-person
deposition would cause undue burden. Therefore, the deposition is ordered to
take place remotely. Defendant is of course expected to refrain from any
obstructive behavior during the deposition. Should issues arise during the
deposition, the Court may revisit the matter. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel
deposition is GRANTED. Deposition shall take place remotely. Sanctions are
denied.
 