 Case Number:  24STCV04100    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  32      JUSTIN SMITH,                         Plaintiff,             v.   ALLA ZORIKOVA, et al.,                          Defendants.           Case No.:  24STCV04100   Hearing Date:  October 23, 2024        [TENTATIVE]    order RE: defendants olivia jeong’s and alla    zorikova’s demurrers to first amended complaint               BACKGROUND             On February 20, 2024, Plaintiff  Justin Smith filed this action against Defendants Alla Zorikova, Olivia Jeong,  and Joycelyn Yew. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint on July  24, 2024. The FAC asserts causes of action for (1) violation of the Consumer  Legal Remedies Act (CLRA), (2) violation of the Unfair Competition Law (UCL),  and (3) fraud.              Plaintiff alleges that Defendants  run an illegal dog breeding operation and operate out of Defendant Lew’s home  in Los Angeles. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants falsely advertise their dogs  as healthy, trained, and top quality. Plaintiff allegedly purchased a puppy  from Defendants that turned out to be sick, dirty, and not properly socialized.  Plaintiff allegedly contacted Defendant Zorikova for a refund, and Defendant  Zorkova allegedly refused, instead instructing Plaintiff to sell the dog to  another buyer himself.              On August 7 and September 25, 2024,  Defendants Zorikova and Jeong, respectively, filed the instant demurrers to the  FAC. Plaintiff filed his opposition on October 10, 2024. Defendant Zorikova  filed her reply on October 14, 2024. Defendant Jeong filed her reply on October  15, 2024.     LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether  the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When  considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in  context. (Taylor v. City of Los  Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.  (a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other  extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior  Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the  defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a  demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with  extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) MEET AND CONFER Before filing a demurrer or a motion to  strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the  party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the  motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be  reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the  objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)  The Court notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer  requirement. (See Zorikova Decl.; Jeong Decl.)  DISCUSSION I.  CLRA a. Plaintiff Has Alleged Facts  Demonstrating a CLRA Violation CLRA prohibits “unfair methods of  competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices” in connection with “the  sale or lease of goods or services to any consumer.” (Civ. Code, § 1770(a).)  Such unlawful practices include, inter alia: (i) misrepresenting the  source, sponsorship, approval, or certification of goods or services; (ii) representing  that goods or services have sponsorship, approval, characteristics,  ingredients, uses, benefits, or quantities that they do not have; and (iii) advertising  goods or services with intent not to sell them as advertised. (Ibid.) Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants “misrepresented  the source and certification of puppies they are selling,” “misrepresented the  puppies . . . as having approval and characteristics they do not have,” and “advertised  puppies for sale . . . with the intent not to sell them as advertised.” (FAC ¶¶  38-40.) Specifically, Defendants allegedly deceive purchasers like Plaintiff “into  believing they will be receiving a top quality, healthy puppy or dog from a  high quality environment.” (Id., ¶ 7.) But in reality, the dog that  Plaintiff purchased was “not socialized,” had “an extreme bladder infection,”  was “filthy,” and exhibited signs of “being abused.” (Id., ¶ 28.) These  allegations facially state a violation of CLRA. (See Civ. Code, § 1770(a).)  b. Prop 64 Does Not Bar the Claim Defendants argue that “Proposition 64 from  November of 2004 imposed standing and class action requirement on causes of  action brought under California Unfair Competition Law.” (Dem. 13:13-14.)  However, Prop 64 did not impose any class  requirement for standing under the UCL. A claim under the UCL may be brought by  “a person who has suffered injury in fact and has lost money or property  as a result of the unfair competition.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17204.) This  clearly means that a single individual injured by an unlawful action may bring  a claim under the UCL.   In any event, the standing requirements  under the UCL have no bearing on the CLRA claim. Standing under CLRA is defined  in the following manner: “Any consumer who suffers any damage as a  result of the use or employment by any person of a method, act, or practice  declared to be unlawful by Section 1770 may bring an action against that person.”  (Civ. Code, § 1780(a).) No part of this requires class standing. Plaintiff has  sufficiently alleged that he suffered damage caused by Defendants’ acts because  he was deceived into purchasing a puppy that he believed was of a different  quality than it actually was. Therefore, Plaintiff may pursue the CLRA claim as  an individual. c. Failure to Provide Notice Does Not Bar  the Claim Defendants argue that Plaintiff failed to  comply with CLRA’s requirement to provide written notice 30 days prior to  filing suit. (See Civ. Code, § 1782(a).) However, the notice requirement does  not apply to actions seeking injunctive relief. (Id., § 1782(d).)  Plaintiff seeks injunctive relief as part of his CLRA claim. (Compl. ¶ 41.)  Thus, Plaintiff may assert the CLRA claim even if he did not provide notice 30  days prior to filing the complaint.  Even if the CLRA claim improperly seeks  damages in additional to injunctive relief, “[a] demurrer is not the  appropriate vehicle to challenge a portion of a cause of action demanding an  improper remedy.” (Caliber Bodyworks, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 134  Cal.App.4th 365, 384.) Because the CLRA cause of action contains sufficient  facts and properly demands injunctive relief, it is not subject to demurrer. d. Failure to Attach a Contract Does Not  Defeat the Claim Defendants argue that the CLRA claim fails  because Plaintiff referenced a contract in the complaint but failed to attach  it. Pleading a CLRA claim does not require attaching a contract. Plaintiff has  not asserted a breach of contract, but even if he had, attaching the contract  would not be required. (See Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.  (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.)  e. Factual Disputes Cannot be Considered  on Demurrer Defendants attempt to defeat the FAC  through extrinsic facts which cannot be considered on a demurrer. Specifically,  Defendants deny selling a dog to Plaintiff, deny being associated with the  business that allegedly sold the dog to Plaintiff, and assert that the dog was  actually in good health when Plaintiff bought it. These are factual disputes  that have no bearing on the sufficiency of the allegations in the complaint. On  a demurrer, the Court assumes all facts in the complaint are true and only  analyzes whether those facts sufficiently state a cause of action. As  demonstrated above, the facts alleged are sufficient to state a claim under  CLRA.     f. The FAC is Not a Sham Pleading Lastly, Defendants argue that the FAC is a  sham pleading because Plaintiff alleged in the original complaint that he  bought the puppy from Von Schutz German Shepherds LLC on the website www.vonschutz.com, but now alleges in the  FAC that he purchased the puppy from www.germanshepherddogslosangeles.com.   However, Plaintiff did not change his  position on where he purchased the puppy. Plaintiff maintains in the FAC that  he purchased the animal from a business named Von Schutz German Shepherds. (FAC  ¶ 23.) The FAC alleges that Defendants have changed their business name to  German Shepherd Dogs LLC and continue to operate under the domain www.germanshepherddogslosangeles.com.  (Id., ¶ 35.) Plaintiff does not allege that he purchased the puppy from www.germanshepherddogslosangeles.com;  he alleges that Defendants currently operate under that web address after  changing their business name. Therefore, the FAC is consistent with the  original complaint.   Additionally, the sham pleading doctrine “is  not intended to prevent honest complainants from correcting erroneous  allegations or to prevent the correction of ambiguous facts.” (Hahn v. Mirda  (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 751.) Therefore, even if Plaintiff did change his  allegations to reflect the actual website used to purchase the dog, that does  not make the FAC a sham pleading. Whether Plaintiff purchased the dog through a  website, and which website he used, are factual matters beyond the purview of a  demurrer.     For these reasons, the demurrer is  OVERRULED as to the first cause of action.          II.  UCL Business and Professions Code section  17200 prohibits unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business acts or practices.  Each of the three prongs is an independent basis for relief. (Smith v. State  Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 700, 718.)  Unlawful conduct is defined as any  practice forbidden by law. (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court  (1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 383.) UCL actions alleging unlawful conduct “borrow” from  other statutes or common law causes of action outside Section 17200. (Klein  v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1383.) Because  Plaintiff has alleged a violation of CLRA, that violation constitutes  “unlawful” conduct which serves as a predicate for a UCL violation. Therefore,  Plaintiff has adequately pled a UCL violation.  Defendants argue that “no damages can lay  to satisfy CLA and therefore, demurrer shall be sustained to this cause of  action as well.” (Dem. 13:26-28.) However, as discussed above, Plaintiff has  alleged that he was damaged by purchasing a puppy that was not of the quality  advertised. Therefore, Plaintiff has adequately pled a CLRA claim, and  derivatively, a UCL claim as well.       For these reasons, the demurrer to the  second cause of action is OVERRULED.  III.  Fraud “The elements of fraud that will give rise  to a tort action for deceit are: ‘(a) misrepresentation (false representation,  concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)  intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)  resulting damage.’” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15  Cal.4th 951, 974, quoting Lazar v.  Superior Court (1996) 12  Cal.4th 631, 638.) Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than with  general and conclusory allegations. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)  30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege  facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations  were made. (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.)  Defendants argue  that “Plaintiff refers to all the Defendants and those fails to state how  specifically Defendant would be engaged into any ‘deceptive conduct.’” (Dem. 14:3-5.)  The Court agrees that the complaint fails to plead fraud with specificity.  While the complaint sufficiently alleges deceptive conduct for purposes of the  CLRA and UCL, the allegations do not meet the heightened standard for pleading  fraud. The complaint broadly alleges that “Defendants have made false  representations and concealed material facts” (FAC ¶ 51) without attributing  any fraudulent statement or omission to Jeong or Zorikova. Nor does the  complaint allege the requisite details showing how, when, where, to whom, and  by what means the representations were made. (See Lazar, supra, 12  Cal.4th at p. 645.)  Therefore, the  demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. CONCLUSION             Defendants  Zorikova’s and Jeong’s demurrers are SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the  third cause of action and OVERRULED in all other respects.     


 
JUSTIN SMITH,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ALLA ZORIKOVA, et al., 
                        Defendants.



 
  Case No.:  24STCV04100
  Hearing Date:  October 23, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants olivia jeong’s and alla
  zorikova’s motions to quash subpoena 




 


 




BACKGROUND

            On February 20, 2024, Plaintiff
Justin Smith filed this action against Defendants Alla Zorikova, Olivia Jeong,
and Joycelyn Yew. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint on July
24, 2024. The FAC asserts causes of action for (1) violation of the Consumer
Legal Remedies Act (CLRA), (2) violation of the Unfair Competition Law (UCL),
and (3) fraud. 

            Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
run an illegal dog breeding operation and operate out of Defendant Lew’s home
in Los Angeles. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants falsely advertise their dogs
as healthy, trained, and top quality. Plaintiff allegedly purchased a puppy
from Defendants that turned out to be sick, dirty, and not properly socialized.
Plaintiff allegedly contacted Defendant Zorikova for a refund, and Defendant
Zorkova allegedly refused, instead instructing Plaintiff to sell the dog to
another buyer himself. 

            On September 26 and 30, 2024,
Defendants Zorikova and Jeong, respectively, filed the instant motions to quash
a subpoena issued to Airbnb, Inc. Plaintiff filed his opposition on October 10,
2024. Defendants filed their replies on October 15, 2024.      

LEGAL STANDARD

“If a subpoena requires the attendance of
a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things …, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a
party, witness, or consumer] . . . may make an order quashing the subpoena
entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or
conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1987.1(a), (b).)  

DISCUSSION

            The subpoena to Airbnb has a blank
proof of service, thus lacking proof that it was properly served to Airbnb.
(See Jeong Decl., Ex. 1.) Additionally, there is no indication that Defendants
were served with a notice to consumer. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3(b).)
Because the subpoena was not properly served or noticed, it must be quashed. 

CONCLUSION

            Defendants Zorikova’s and Jeong’s
motions to quash are GRANTED. 

 