 Case Number:  24STCV17056    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JONATHAN T. JACKSON,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
KEVIN D. HART, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV17056
  Hearing Date:  October 23, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motions to compel
  arbitration 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff Jonathan
T. Jackson filed this action against Defendants Kevin Hart (Hart) and Hartbeat,
LLC (Hartbeat). Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint on August
6, 2024, asserting causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) fraudulent
inducement, (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (4) malicious
prosecution, and (5) defamation. 
            The dispute between the parties
stems from a highly publicized sex tape scandal involving Hart back in 2017.
Plaintiff alleges that he was falsely accused of extortion in connection with
the scandal. Hart and his company, Hartbeat, allegedly released a docuseries in
2019, accusing Plaintiff of extortion and involvement in the dissemination of
the sex tape. 
Plaintiff and Hart settled their dispute
in July 2021 through a written settlement agreement (the Agreement), wherein
Hart agreed to issue a public statement exonerating Plaintiff of involvement in
the extortion scandal. Hart allegedly breached the Agreement by failing to
issue the statement, causing harm to Plaintiff’s reputation. Hart also
allegedly submitted fabricated evidence to prosecutors, resulting in false
charges against Plaintiff. 
On September 19 and 30, 2024, Hartbeat and
Hart, respectively, filed the instant motions to compel arbitration based on an
arbitration clause in the Agreement. Plaintiff filed his opposition on October
10, 2024. Defendants filed their replies on October 16, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) states
that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing a transaction
involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising
out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) The term “involving commerce” is
interpreted to mean simply “affecting commerce” to give the FAA the broadest
reach possible, and does not require a transaction that is actually “within the
flow of interstate commerce.” (See Allied-Bruce Terminix Co. v. Dobson (1995)
513 U.S. 265, 273-74; Citizens Bank v. Alafabco, Inc. (2003) 539 U.S.
52, 56.) Moreover, parties may agree to apply the FAA notwithstanding any
effect on interstate commerce. (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020)
46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s
Objections

Plaintiff’s objections are
     overruled. 

DISCUSSION
I.
Prima Facie Proof of Agreement
            “The moving party ‘can meet its
initial burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opposing party's signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.) 
            The Agreement contains a provision
stating: “Any controversy, claim, or dispute arising out of or relating to this
Agreement or this agreement to arbitrate . . . shall be fully and finally
adjudicated by binding arbitration to the fullest extent allowed by law.” (Hart
Decl., Ex. A, § 7(a).) The Agreement is signed by Hart (on behalf of himself
and Hartbeat) and Plaintiff. (Id. at p. 14.) Therefore, Defendants have
met their prima facie burden. 
II.
Validity of the Arbitration Clause 
An arbitration agreement need not be
enforced if “[g]rounds exist for rescission of the agreement.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2(b).) “The agreement” refers to the arbitration agreement only,
not the larger contract containing the arbitration clause. (Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 29.) Disputes over illegality,
enforceability, or interpretation of the larger contract are themselves subject
to arbitration. (Ibid.) “[A]n arbitration clause may be enforceable
regardless of the enforceability of the contract of which it is a part.” (Ajamian
v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 785.) Thus, the issue on a
motion to compel arbitration is simply whether the arbitration clause is
enforceable.         
Here, Plaintiff “seeks to invalidate the
delegation and arbitration clauses based on fraudulent inducement, material
breach, and the triggering of the ‘Hammer clause.’” (Opp. 2:19-20.) However,
these are disputes over “the interpretation, performance, formation, validity,
breach, or enforcement of this Agreement,” which the Agreement expressly states
“shall be fully and finally adjudicated by binding arbitration.” (See Hart
Decl., Ex. A, § 7(a).)   
As discussed further below, none of
Plaintiff’s arguments invalidate the arbitration clause itself. 
a. Fraudulent Inducement
“[T]he court decides claims of fraud in
the inducement of the arbitration clause, but the arbitrator decides claims of
fraud in the inducement of the contract generally.” (Ajamian, supra, 203
Cal.App.4th at p. 785.) “[M]ere allegations that the contract as a whole was
induced by fraud will not avoid the effect of an arbitration clause.” (Hayes
Children Leasing Co. v. NCR Corp. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 775, 781.) 
Plaintiff presents no evidence that he was
fraudulently induced into the arbitration clause specifically. Plaintiff argues
that “HART fraudulently induced him to enter the Agreement by fabricating the
April 27 email.” (Opp. 16-17.) This refers to an email sent to Hart in April
2018 which Plaintiff contends was fabricated and provided to law enforcement to
falsely implicate him in the extortion scheme. 
Plaintiff’s argument fails because he claims
that the email fraudulently induced him into “the Agreement,” as in the overall
Settlement Agreement. According to Plaintiff’s own cited case, this is a matter
for the arbitrator. (See Ajamian, supra, 203 Cal.App.4th at p. 785 [“the
arbitrator decides claims of fraud in the inducement of the contract generally”].)
In any event, Plaintiff fails to show how an email sent to Hart in April 2018
and then provided to prosecutors, induced Plaintiff into the Settlement Agreement
three years later in August 2021. Even if Plaintiff could prove that the email
was fabricated, he fails to prove how it induced him into the Agreement, much
less the arbitration clause specifically. The email relates to the underlying
sex tape/extortion dispute; it has no bearing on the arbitration issue.    
As Plaintiff acknowledges, “[f]raud in the
inducement or execution of a contract, including an arbitration clause . . . must
be proven by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Opp. 8:24-28, citing Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 415.)
Plaintiff’s theory regarding the April 2018 email does not come close to meeting
this standard.  
b. Hart’s Alleged Breach and the Hammer
Clause
The Settlement Agreement contains the
following provision: 
 
“Contingency of
this Agreement: This Agreement and all of the below terms, including but not
limited to all representations, warranties, promises, releases. etc. made by
Jackson, shall be rendered null, void and ineffective for any purpose at all if
either (1) all criminal charges against Jackson are not dismissed within sixty
(60) days of the date of this Agreement. or (2) KH fails to post the
above-referenced video on his Instagram account with the above verbiage and
specifications within thirty (30) days following dismissal of the criminal
charges against Jackson (collectively the ‘Two Preconditions’).”
(Hart
Decl., Ex. A., p. 2.) 
            Plaintiff argues that under this
“Hammer Clause,” he has no obligations under the Settlement Agreement,
including the obligation to arbitrate, because Hart failed to fulfill his
obligation to post a public statement matching the specifications outlined in
the Agreement. However, as established above, issues of “the interpretation,
performance, formation, validity, breach, or enforcement of this Agreement” are
themselves subject to arbitration. (See Hart Decl., Ex. A, § 7(a).) The
operation of the Hammer Clause, and Hart’s purported breach of the Agreement,
are matters of contract interpretation expressly delegated to the arbitrator.
These are not arguments that invalidate the arbitration provision. 
            Plaintiff cannot unilaterally decide
that Hart’s performance was inadequate and then use that as an excuse to avoid
the arbitration provision. The adequacy of Hart’s performance is itself a
matter for the arbitrator, falling under “the interpretation, performance,
formation, validity, breach, or enforcement of this Agreement.” (See Hart
Decl., Ex. A, § 7(a).)   
 
 
III.
Public Policy
            Citing Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v.
Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, Plaintiff argues that “arbitration cannot
shield parties from liability for wrongful acts.” (Opp. 14:9-10.) Plaintiff
contends that “the arbitration clause would allow HART to avoid accountability
for his defamation and fabrication of evidence.” (Opp. 14:10-11.) 
            The Court in Sonic-Calabasas
held that “the FAA preempts a state law rule that categorically prohibits an
adhesive arbitration agreement from requiring an employee to waive access to a
Berman hearing.” (Sonic-Calabasas, supra, 57 Cal.4th at p. 1171.) The
matter was remanded to the trial court for a determination of
unconscionability. (Id. at pp. 1171-72.) Plaintiff does not quote or
cite any portion of Sonic-Calabasas suggesting that the court believed arbitration
should have been denied because it would have shielded the defendant from
liability. An arbitration agreement merely governs the forum in which a dispute
is resolved; it does not allow a defendant to escape liability. Plaintiff
provides no explanation for how arbitration in this case would allow Hart to “avoid
accountability for his defamation and fabrication of evidence.”
            To the extent Plaintiff is referring
to public accountability, Plaintiff’s personal desire to have the case be
publicized is not a reason to avoid a binding arbitration agreement. Plaintiff
cites no authority suggesting that a dispute cannot be arbitrated just because
“it is a matter of public concern.” (See Opp. 14:12-13.) Plaintiff claims that McGill
v. Citibank, N.A. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 945 supports his position. The court in McGill
held that “a provision in a predispute arbitration agreement that waives the
right to seek [injunctive relief under the CLRA and UCL] in any forum . . . is
contrary to California public policy and is thus unenforceable under California
law.” (Id. at pp. 951-52.) McGill has no bearing on this case,
which does not involve injunctive relief under the CLRA or UCL. McGill
does not support skirting a binding arbitration agreement just because the
public exposure from a court action may “deter future misconduct by public
figures.” (See Opp. 14:18-21.)
IV.
Waiver
            Plaintiff argues that Hart has
waived his right to compel arbitration by litigating other cases related to the
sex tape/extortion scandal. Plaintiff cites no authority for the proposition
that a party’s litigation conduct in one case can lead to waiver of the right
to compel arbitration in another case. Hart’s conduct in other cases not
involving Plaintiff does not affect his ability to compel arbitration in this
case. Plaintiff has filed his own lawsuit based on his own settlement agreement
with Hart. Arbitration provisions in other contracts not involving Plaintiff,
and Hart’s conduct in those other cases, are not relevant to this motion. Plaintiff
does not point to any conduct by Hart in this case that would constitute a
waiver of the right to compel arbitration. 
V.
Additional Testimony
            “Evidence received at a law and
motion hearing must be by declaration or request for judicial notice without
testimony or cross-examination, unless the court orders otherwise for good
cause shown.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1306(a).) Facts pertaining to a motion
to compel arbitration ordinarily “are to be proven by affidavit or declaration
and documentary evidence, with oral testimony taken only in the court's
discretion.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 394, 413-14.) A trial court has discretion to “resolv[e] evidentiary
conflicts without hearing live testimony.” (Id. at p. 414.) However,
where “the enforceability of an arbitration clause may depend upon which of two
sharply conflicting factual accounts is to be believed, the better course would
normally be for the trial court to hear oral testimony and allow the parties
the opportunity for cross-examination.” (Ibid.)  
            Plaintiff argues that he should be
permitted to cross-examine Hart regarding certain contentions that Hart made in
his declaration in support of this motion. Specifically, Plaintiff contends
that there is no foundation for Hart’s claims that he was extorted, that
Plaintiff was involved in the extortion, or that the charges against Plaintiff
were dismissed because Hart chose not to pursue charges. (See Hart Decl. ¶¶
2-6.) However, these factual disputes have no bearing on the arbitration issue.
Plaintiff identifies no disputed facts pertaining to the arbitration clause
that need to be resolved by live testimony. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motions to compel
arbitration are GRANTED. The case is stayed in its entirety pending the outcome
of arbitration. 
 