  Case Number:  24PSCV00929    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  H Johnson
v. General Motors LLC, et al., Case No. 24PSCV00929
 
ORDER ON DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
1.
      Defendant General Motors LLC’s Demurrer
to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.
2.
      Defendant General Motors LLC’s
Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is DENIED as MOOT.
 
I.        Background
Plaintiff Casey Levell Johnson (“Plaintiff”)
alleges as follows: 
 
On
October 4, 2022, Plaintiff purchased a 2022 Chevrolet Bolt, VIN:
1G1FY6S09N4109536 (“subject vehicle”) from General Motors LLC’s (“GM”)
authorized dealer and agent, Chevrolet of Puente Hills (the “Dealer”). GM issued
an express warranty for the subject vehicle. The subject vehicle contains a
battery defect, wherein its charge should not exceed 90%, its mileage should
not fall below 70 miles remaining and the vehicle should not be parked indoors
overnight due to risk of fire. GM knew or should have known of the battery
defect. The Dealer negligently performed services of storing, preparing, and
repairing the subject vehicle.
 
On May 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint (the “Operative Complaint” or “FAC”), asserting causes of
action against GM, Dealer and Does 1-10 for:
 
1.       Violation of Song-Beverly
Act—Breach of Express Warranty;
2.       Violation of
Song-Beverly Act—Breach of Implied Warranty;
3.       Violation of
Song-Beverly Act—Section 1793.2;
4.       Fraud;
5.       Violation of
Business & Professions Code 17200; and
6.       Negligent
Repair.
Pending
before the Court are (1) GM’s demurrer to the Operative Complaint, and (2) GM’s
motion to strike. For the reasons stated herein, the Court sustains the
demurrer as to the fourth and fifth causes of action and grants Plaintiff 20
days’ leave to amend. In light of the ruling on the demurrer, the Court denies
the motion to strike as moot.  
II.      Legal Standard
A demurrer
may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).)
“A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole
v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,
however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in
the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or
facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may
take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land
Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].)
III.     Discussion
 
GM demurs to the fourth and fifth
causes of action (i.e., for Fraud and Violation of Business & Professions
Code 17200, respectively) in the Operative Complaint, on the basis that they
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action. 
 
As an initial matter, the Court
strikes Exhibit B to the Declaration of Steven D. Park accompanying the
demurrer, inasmuch as it is not the subject of a request for judicial notice.
The Court also denies GM’s request to take judicial notice of a fact posted on www.fueleconomy.gov, a website administered
by the United States Department of Energy and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency. (Park Decl., Exh. A.) While a court may take judicial notice
of “[r]egulations and legislative enactments issued by or under the authority
of the United States or any public entity in the United States,” Evid. Code §
452(b), the information posted on the website is neither a regulation nor a
legislative enactment. Moreover, the Court cannot say that the fact is “not
reasonably subject to dispute” because it is not “capable of immediate and
accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy”
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (h)), as “[t]he report does not cite any further
source . . . and the report cannot verify its own accuracy” (Licudine v.
Cedars-Sinai Med. Ctr. (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 881, 902).
Turning
to GM’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action, Plaintiff’s fraud claim is
based on (1) affirmative misrepresentations regarding the subject vehicle’s
range capability as well as on (2) concealment of facts pertaining to the
subject vehicle’s mileage range and battery safety.
“The elements of
fraud are (1) misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce
reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) justifiable reliance on the
misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damages.” (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
“[T]he
elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on concealment are: (1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.) In general, “fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) “This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which
show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.” (Id. [quotations and citation omitted].)
Here, Plaintiff has
failed to plead that GM had knowledge of the purported defects before Plaintiff
purchased the subject vehicle and/or that the subject vehicle suffered from any
such purported defect. Plaintiff has alleged that GM had knowledge pertaining
to battery issues in earlier Bolt models (See FAC at ¶ 21 and 23-28); however,
knowledge of a fire igniting from a Bolt in March 2019, the fact that in
October 2017 the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration published a
warning that overcharging lithium ion batteries in general can result in
spontaneous ignition, and the creation of various repair and/or update programs
by GM in 2017 and 2018 do not show that GM had knowledge of mileage range and
safety issues in Plaintiff’s 2022 Bolt. (Id.)
Further, Plaintiff has alleged that she acquired the
subject vehicle “[o]n or about October 4, 2022.” (FAC, ¶ 6.) It thus is unclear
to the Court how Plaintiff could have received a letter in December 2021
from GM’s Vice-President Steve Hill representing to her that GM “would provide
her with a new battery for the subject vehicle” before she even purchased the
subject vehicle. (Id., ¶¶ 50-51.) It is also unclear to the Court
whether Plaintiff’s fraud cause of action is based in part on Hill’s
representation, inasmuch as it is not specifically included therein (but is
incorporated by reference in Paragraph 91 of the Operative Complaint).
Plaintiff has also failed to adequately plead the
element of justifiable reliance. Plaintiff alleges that she reviewed and relied
upon a marketing brochure before purchasing the subject vehicle; however, said
brochure was for the 2020 Bolt, not the 2022 Bolt. (Id., ¶ 30.) Although
Plaintiff alleges that GM (1) marketed the Bolt as a “long range” vehicle in
commercials in January 2017, (2) had its employee and “Bolt battery expert”
Adam Piper answer questions publicly on Facebook in October 2019, (3) stated
that the Bolt would have a battery range “over 200 miles” in a January 2016
press release, and (4) marketed the “long range capability” of the Bolt on its
website, Plaintiff does not allege that she saw the commercials or press
releases, read or saw Piper’s statements, and/or went to GM’s website prior to
purchasing the subject vehicle. (Id., ¶¶ 20, 22, 29 and 92.)
The Court sustains
GM’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action on this basis.
Turning to the demurrer to the fifth cause of
action, to state a cause of action for unfair business practices, a plaintiff
must establish defendant engaged in “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business
act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising.” (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 17200.) This section establishes three types of unfair
competition, prohibiting “practices that are either ‘unfair,’ or ‘unlawful,’ or
‘fraudulent.’” (Pastoria v. Nationwide Ins. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1490,
1496.)
“Unlawful business acts or practices within the meaning of the UCL
include anything that can properly be called a business practice and that at
the same time is forbidden by law. A practice is forbidden by law if it
violates any law, civil or criminal, statutory or judicially
made, federal, state or local. By extending to business acts or practices
which are unlawful, the UCL permits violations of other laws to be treated as
unfair competition that is independently actionable. Even if the
violation of another law does not create a private right of action, if the
violation constitutes unfair competition, it is actionable.” (McKell
v. Washington Mutual, Inc.
(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1474-1475 [quotations and citations omitted].)
“A business practice
is unfair within the meaning of the UCL if it violates established public
policy or if it is immoral, unethical, oppressive or unscrupulous and causes
injury to consumers which outweighs its benefits.” (Id. at 1473.) “A fraudulent business practice is one which is likely to
deceive the public. . . [t]he determination as to whether a business practice
is deceptive is based on the likely effect such practice would have on a
reasonable consumer. (Id. at 1471.)
Plaintiff has failed to identify any fraudulent,
unlawful, or unfair business practice. The Court sustains
GM’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action on this basis.
In
light of the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, the Court denies GM’s motion to
strike as moot.
Plaintiff
is granted 20 days’ leave to amend.