  Case Number:  24STCP02281    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  82 Adeshola Helen Adegoroye,                                     Case No. 24STCP02281
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
October 25, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
Jackie
Contreras,                                                      Department:
82                                     
 Director of DPSS Los Angeles
County             Judge: Stephen I.
Goorvitch                              
 
 
NOTICE
 
The
court posts this tentative order in advance of the hearing, scheduled for
Friday, October 25, 2024, at 9:30 a.m. 
The court provides notice: If Petitioner does not appear, either
remotely or in-person, the court will take this hearing off-calendar and adopt
these tentative orders.  If Petitioner
wishes to appear remotely but is experiencing difficulty, or if she is running
late, she may contact the court’s clerk, Roberto Mendoza, at (213) 830-0782.  
 
                                                
[Tentative] Order on Demurrer to Petition
for Writ of Mandate
 
[Tentative] Order on Motion to Strike
 
 
INTRODUCTION  
 
            Petitioner Adeshola Helen Adegoroye
(“Petitioner”), a self-represented party, filed a petition for writ of mandate
challenging Respondent’s decision to deny benefits to her father.  Now, Respondent demurs to the petition and
moves to strike a prayer for relief.  The
court sustains the demurrer because: (1) Petitioner does not have standing
since her father was the Claimant; (2) Petitioner cannot represent her father
because she is not an attorney; (3) Petitioner did not include her father as a
petitioner, and did not name the California Department of Social Services as a
respondent; and (4) Petitioner does not clearly allege that her father
exhausted his administrative remedies. 
Therefore, the court sustains the demurrer.  The court shall grant leave to amend for the
Claimant or a lawyer representing him to file an amended petition/complaint,
but the court denies leave to amend for Petitioner to do so.  The court denies the motion to strike as
moot. 
 
SUMMARY OF PETITION 
 
            On or about September 26, 2018,
William Adegoroye, a 76-year-old man (the “Claimant”), applied for In-Home
Supportive Services (“IHSS”) in Los Angeles County (the “County”).  (Petition for Writ of Mandate (“Pet.”) pp. 2,
34.)[1]  “In
1973 the Legislature enacted the In-Home Supportive Services (IHSS) program to
enable aged, blind or disabled poor to avoid institutionalization by remaining
in their homes with proper supportive services.”  (Miller v. Woods (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d
862, 867.)  
 
The
County denied the application in a “Notice of Action,” dated November 16, 2018,
on the grounds that: (1) The Claimant did not provide enough information to the
County to determine if he qualifies for IHSS services; (2) The Claimant did not
provide the County with a health care certification form as required to
authorize services; and (3) The Claimant was ineligible for IHSS services due
to his having less than five years of legal residency.  (Id. p. 34.)  On November 22, 2023, the Claimant, through
his authorized representative—Petitioner—filed an administrative appeal to the
California Department of Social Services (“CDSS”).  (Id. pp. 32, 34.)
 
The
Claimant won his administrative appeal before CDSS in a decision issued on
April 5, 2024 (“Decision”).  In the
Decision, the administrative law judge overturned the 2018 denial of Claimant’s
application and issued the following order: 
 
The claim is
granted.  Los Angeles County shall
rescind its November 16, 2018 Notice of Action, continue processing the
claimant’s September 26, 2018, IHSS application; notify the claimant of any
additional information necessary in writing; notify the claimant in writing of
its determination; and aid the claimant as otherwise eligible.
 
(Pet.
p. 49.)
 
            On July 18, 2024, Petitioner
Adeshola Helen Adegoroye, filed the present lawsuit in her own name. The cover
sheet is entitled, “Writ of Mandate and Civil Rights.”  Petitioner states that she is “appealing [the
Decision] because they want to deem my income as a sponsor on sponsor deeming
income rules which is only applicable to Sponsor’s of SSI benefit
applicant.”  (Pet. p.10.)  Petitioner also states that she is “suing the
CDSS Los county for misrepresentation because they are falsely try to deem my
income and they submitted lies to the judge.” 
(Ibid.)  Petitioner also
purports to sue “for misrepresentation, discrimination and emotional
distress.”  (Id. p 11.)  As remedies, Petitioner states that her “dad
[i.e., Claimant] seeks justice and remedy for the payment of the years
me his daughter and authorized representative who had provided excellent IHSS
care services from the 26 September 2018 till today.”  (Id. at p. 11.)  Petitioner states that the amount of the
claim is $342,504 and she is also requesting the continuous hourly wage of $18
per hour every month.  She also requests
“damages for the pain and suffering they made me and my dad go through.”  (Ibid.)  
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the
grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from
judicially noticeable matters. (Code Civil Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “We assume the truth of the
allegations in the complaint, but do not assume the truth of contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of law.”  (California Logistics, Inc. v.
State (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 247.)  “A demurrer must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” 
(Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  “A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters.”  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  
 
Upon motion, the
court may “strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading” or “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (CCP § 436.) 
As with a demurrer, “[t]he grounds for a motion to strike shall appear
on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.”  (CCP
§ 437.)  Courts take a “cautious”
approach to motions to strike.  “We have
no intention of creating a procedural ‘line item veto’ for the civil
defendant.”  (PH II, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 1680, 1683.) 
“Judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as
a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A,        Petitioner Lacks Standing
to Assert Claims on Behalf of her Father
 
To have standing
to seek a writ of mandate, a party must be “beneficially interested.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1086.)  “A petitioner is beneficially interested if he
or she has some special interest to be served or some particular right to be
preserved or protected over and above the interest held in common with the public
at large.”  (Rialto Citizens for Responsible Growth v. City of Rialto (2012) 208
Cal. App. 4th 899, 913.) “This standard … is equivalent to the federal ‘injury
in fact’ test, which requires a party to prove by a preponderance of the
evidence that it has suffered an invasion of a legally protected interest that
is (a) concrete and particularized, and (b) actual or imminent, not conjectural
or hypothetical.”  (Associated
Builders and Contractors, Inc. v. San Francisco (1999) 21 Cal.4th 352, 361-362,
citation and internal quotations omitted.) 

 
The petition seeks
writ relief and civil rights remedies on behalf of the Claimant, who is
Petitioner’s father.  Specifically, in
the petition, Petitioner states:
 
I am seeking equal protective [sic] right[s] [on]
behalf of my dad as my dad’s authorized representative.  My dad seeks justice and remedy for the
payment of the years me his daughter and authorized representative who had
provided excellent IHSS care services from the 26 September 2018 till today . .
. .
 
(Pet. at p. 11.)  Petitioner lacks standing to assert these
claims.  Although Petitioner alleges that
she has “standing as a direct recipient of IHSS personal care salary,” in fact,
her father is the beneficiary.  Thus,
only the Claimant, not Petitioner, has standing to challenge decisions
concerning his benefits.  
 
            B.        Petitioner
Cannot Represent her Father in Court
 
Because Petitioner
is not an attorney, she cannot represent her father in court.  As an exhibit, Petitioner has presented an
un-notarized form designating her as her father’s authorized representative.  (Id. at 13.)  However, “it has been well settled that
persons may represent their own interests in legal proceedings but may not
practice law [for another] in this State unless [they are] active member[s] of
the state bar.”   (Drake v. Sup.Ct. (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 1826, 1830.)  Further,
“[a] power of attorney is not a vehicle which authorizes an attorney in fact to
act as an attorney at law.”  (Id. at
1831.)  Contrary to Petitioner’s
assertion, section 120222 of title 22 of the California Code of Regulations
does not permit her to represent her father in a court of law.  (Oppo. 11-12.)  Although Petitioner states that she is
“appealing” the Decision, the Decision pertained to an application for IHSS
benefits of Petitioner’s father, the Claimant. 
Petitioner, who is not an attorney, lacks standing and legal authority
to file, in propria persona, a petition for writ of mandate on behalf of
her father.  
 
C.        There Has Been a Misjoinder
of Parties
 
Respondent demurs
to the petition for misjoinder of parties and contends that the California
Department of Social Services (“CDSS”) is the true respondent for challenges to
the Decision, and William Adegoroye, the Claimant, is the true petitioner.  (Dem. 15; see CCP § 430.10(d).)  For the reasons discussed above, the court
agrees that the Claimant must be named as a petitioner to any petition for writ
of mandate challenging the Decision. 
Further, since the Decision was made by the CDSS, that government agency
must be named as the respondent.  
 
            D.        Petitioner Does Not Allege that she
Exhausted Administrative Remedies 
 
            A petitioner must
exhaust administrative remedies before prosecuting a petition for writ of
mandate.  (See, e.g., SJCBC, LLC v.
Horwedel (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 339, 345.) 
This is necessary because this court’s review is limited to review of
the administrative agency’s decision. 
(See Topanga Ass’n for a Scenic Community v. County of Los Angeles (1974)
11 Cal.3d 506, 514-515.)  Petitioner does
not clearly allege that the Claimant exhausted his administrative remedies.[2]  
 
E.         Leave to Amend 
 
A demurrer may be sustained without leave to amend when there
is no reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.)  There is no reasonable
possibility that Petitioner can assert these claims unless she retains counsel
to represent her father.  Therefore, the
court denies leave to amend for a petition filed by Petitioner as a self-represented
party.  The court grants leave to amend
for a petition filed by the Claimant himself or counsel representing the
Claimant.  
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         The
court sustains Respondent’s demurrer.
 
            2.         The
court denies Respondent’s motion to strike as moot.
 
            3.         The
court denies leave to amend to the extent Petitioner seeks to proceed as a
self-represented party.
 
            4.         The
court grants leave to amend for William Adegoroye or counsel representing him
to file a petition/complaint.  Any such
petition/complaint shall be filed within 60 days.  The court provides notice:  If no petition/complaint is filed within 45
days, absent good cause, the court will dismiss this case without prejudice.
 
            5.         The
court issues an order to show cause why this case should not be dismissed
without prejudice for failure to file an amended petition/complaint.  The OSC hearing shall be held on December 13,
2024, at 9:30 a.m.  The court provides
notice: If William Adegoroye or counsel represent him does not appear at the
hearing, either remotely or in-person, absent good cause, the court will
dismiss this case without prejudice.
 
            6.         The
court’s clerk shall provide notice.   
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED
 
 
Dated: October 25,
2024                                            ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 


