  Case Number:  23AHCV00415    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



DAVID HUANG, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AURORA
   LAS ENCINAS LLC, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00415
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES FTO REQUEST
   FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET TWO, AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET TWO

 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 1,
  2024




 


)


 



 
Plaintiffs seek an order compelling
defendant Aurora Las Encinas LLC (“Defendant”) to serve verified responses
without objections and produce responsive documents to RFP No. 80. Plaintiffs
also move for an order compelling verified responses, without objections, to
Special Interrogatory Nos. 78-97, and 104-108. Defendant objects to these
discovery requests based on the healthcare provider-patient privilege and third-party
privacy because Plaintiffs are seeking psychiatric treatment records and
information about the individual who was decedent David Huang’s (“Huang”)
roommate. 
Communications between a
psychotherapist and a patient are generally confidential. (Evid. Code § 1014.) For
purposes of the privilege, a “confidential communication between patient and
psychotherapist” is information, including information obtained by an
examination of the patient, which is transmitted between the patient and the
psychotherapist in the course of their relationship. The information must be
transmitted in confidence by a means which, so far as the patient is aware,
only discloses the information to third persons, other than those who are
present, to further the patient's interest in the consultation. (Id., §
1012.) The information may also be disclosed to those persons to whom
disclosure is reasonably necessary for the transmission of the information or
the accomplishment of the purpose for which the patient consulted the
psychotherapist. Public policy dictates that the privilege be construed broadly
in the patient's favor and that exceptions to the privilege be construed
narrowly. (People v. Yang (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 1, 47–49; Sorenson v
Superior Court (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 409, 446). The
psychotherapist-patient privilege is an aspect of a patient’s constitutional
right to privacy and is the type of privacy interest that may be overcome only
on a showing of a compelling state interest. (Kirchmeyer v. Phillips
(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1394, 1404.) 
Plaintiff argues there are compelling
state interests which override the unidentified roommate’s right to privacy
because there is a public interest in investigating Huang’s death as a possible
murder which occurred in Defendant’s facility. (Motion, p. 10.) Plaintiff also
argues that the Court can craft a protective order or redact identifying
information from the records. Defendant argues that there is no evidence that a
compelling state interest exists outweighing the roommate’s privacy interest in
his complete medical records because the police investigation is still pending
and the coroner previously could not identify any “obvious cause of death” or trauma.

The Court agrees that Plaintiffs have
not yet identified a compelling state interest in Huang’s roommate’s entire medical
records or all of the roommate’s confidential communications with Defendant as
a psychiatric patient. However, some of the discovery requests at issue seek
information which may fall under the narrow “dangerous person” exception to the
patient-psychotherapist privilege and are therefore not privileged. This
exception, set forth in Evidence Code section 1024, “applies where ‘prior to
the time of the injury complained of, the therapist determined, or reasonably
should have determined, that the therapist's patient presented a serious danger
of violence’ to the “person or property of another.” (McGovern v. BHC
Fremont Hospital, Inc. (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 181, 205 [citing Evid. Code, §
1024].) In McGovern, the court of appeal rejected the contention that
all of a patient’s mental health records were not disclosable, stating that
while “portions of the mental health records sought [] may constitute
‘confidential communication between patient and psychotherapist’ subject to the
psychotherapist-patient privilege codified in Evidence Code section 1014, all
records ‘related to [the patient]’s violent or aggressive behavior towards
others” are not. (Id., p. 204.) Accordingly, the Court GRANTS
Plaintiffs’ motion in part and orders further responses to RFP No. 80 insofar
as the response includes nonprivileged information relating to the roommate’s
violent or aggressive behavior. Similarly, Defendant is ordered to provide
further responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 86-97 pertaining to any
physical or verbal altercations that roommate may have been involved in while
hospitalized at Defendant’s facility. 
Plaintiffs have also shown a compelling
interest in determining the identity of Huang’s roommate so that he can be
deposed as a percipient witness. It is undisputed that the roommate was the
last person to see Huang alive. The use of any information provided pursuant to
this Order must be limited to the preparation and trial for this litigation (or
appellate proceeding) and shall not be disclosed, disseminated, or published to
anyone other than those identified in Paragraph 3 of the parties’ protective
order governing the release of coroner photographs. 
          Plaintiffs’
motion is GRANTED IN PART. 
 
Dated
this 1st
day of July, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 