  Case Number:  23TRCV02571    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
ANA
  MARILU LANDAVERDE
RIVERA,
  an individual,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:


 
23TRCV02571




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted in Part/denied in part




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., a California Corporation, and SONIC-HARBOR CITY H,
  INC, a California Corporation d/b/a CARSON HONDA, and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              January
15, 2025
 
Moving Parties:          Plaintiff Ana Marilu Landaverde Rivera
 
Responding Party:      Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
 
HEARING: Motion To Compel the
Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable 
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
 
RULING
 
            The Court
grants the Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant’s Most Knowledgeable. The
Court denies Plaintiff's request to strike all objections to the deposition. The
Court grants the Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant’s Most Knowledgeable
as to RFPs 1, 3, 5-9, 11, and 16. The Court denies the Motion to Compel
Deposition of Defendant’s Most Knowledgeable as to RFPs 2, 10, and 12-15. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On August
9, 2023, Plaintiff Ana
Marilu Landaverde Rivera filed the Complaint against Defendant American Honda
Motor Co., Inc., alleging causes of action for violation of the Song-Beverly
Act and negligent repair.
 
            On February 28, 2024, Plaintiff
served a Notice of Deposition of Defendant’s
Person
Most Knowledgeable.
 
            On March 21, 2024, Defendant served
its objections to Plaintiff’s Notice of PMK
Deposition.
 
            On May 2, 2024, Plaintiff served an
Amended Deposition Notice of Defendant’s PMK.
 
            On May 14, 2024, Defendant served
objections to Plaintiff’s Amended Notice of PMK
Deposition.
 
            On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff’s
Counsel emailed Defendant’s Counsel to inquire about PMK deposition dates.
            
On
July 24, 2024, Defendant’s Counsel informed Plaintiff’s counsel that it would
hold the entire week of October 28, 2024, for PMK depositions and proposed
depositions for four matters. Defense counsel followed up 6 times between July
30, 2024, and September 15, 2024, asking whether Plaintiff’s counsel intended
to take the deposition of AHM’s PMK during the week of October 28, 2024. 
 
On
July 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel the Deposition of
Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable.
 
On
January 2, 2025, Defendant filed the Opposition.
 
On
January 7, 2025, Plaintiff filed the Reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            If, after service of
a deposition notice, a party to the action . . . , without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 subd. (a).) 
 
“The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450 subd. (b)(2).)  “Although the
statute appears to apply only if the deponent fails to both appear¿and¿produce
documents, it has been held to apply simply on a deponent's failure to appear.”
(Leko v. Cornerstone Building Inspection Service (2001) 86 Cal.App. 4th
1109, 1124.)   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Plaintiff requests
the Court compel the deposition of Defendant PMK and compel Defendant to produce
all responsive documents requested in Plaintiff’s Notice of PMK Deposition
within the next 10 days. 
 
Meet and Confer
            
A motion to compel
deposition must be “accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450 subd. (b)(2).) 
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff failed to make a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve
the scheduling of the deposition prior to filing the motion, as required under the
Code of Civil Procedure § 2016.040. Defendant asserts that the issue at hand
was merely finding a mutually agreeable date, but Plaintiff's counsel
unilaterally demanded dates that aligned with their own timeline and refused to
accommodate any alternative. Having only received a single email from
Plaintiff’s counsel, Defendant claims there was no meaningful attempt at
communication or compromise.
 
Defendant highlights
that Plaintiff’s counsel relied on boilerplate correspondence and demanded a
response within an unreasonable timeframe, such as requiring a date the next
day. (Rein Decl. at ¶¶ 4-5, 7-8.) Defendant contends that this lack of
cooperation wasted resources and unnecessarily involved the Court. Defendant
requests that the Court sanction Plaintiff and/or her counsel $1,617.00 for
these repeated, avoidable actions. (Rein Decl. at ¶ 15.) 
 
Additionally,
Defendant urges the Court to encourage Plaintiff and her counsel to collaborate
with opposing counsel to schedule depositions amicably and avoid requiring
Court intervention in every case. Defendant argues that cooperation, rather
than unilateral demands, is a more practical and efficient solution.
 
Plaintiff argues
that they attempted to meet and confer on February 28, May 2, and July 11,
2024. Furthermore, Plaintiff states that Defendant’s offer for a PMK deposition
in October did not include this matter.
 
While Defendant
states they have offered dates for the deposition of their PMK, none of these
offers were related to the instant case. Instead, they were merely offers for
Plaintiffs Counsel to depose a PMK in any of the matters Plaintiff’s counsel
has against Defendant. The Court finds that these offers do not constitute an
offer of dates of availability in the instant case. Furthermore, Plaintiff has
made multiple attempts to schedule the deposition of Defendant’s PMK. Therefore,
Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
 
Deposition
 
If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action . . . , without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450 subd. (a).) 
 
While Defendant has failed to schedule a
deposition date, Plaintiff has provided no argument as to Defendant’s
objections and has provided no separate statement regarding the Matters for
Examination.
 
Therefore, the Court grants the Motion to
Compel Deposition but denies Plaintiff’s request to strike objections.
 
RFP’s
 
Defendants have objected to all of Plaintiff’s
17 RFPs. Plaintiff requests the Court strike Defendants objections and compel
responses to the RFPs.
            
RFPs 1, 3, 5-8:
Documents relating to the subject vehicle.
RFPs 2, 10, 12-15: Documents
relating to Defendant’s policies regarding customer complaints that a vehicle
is defective.
RFPs 9, 11: Documents relating
to the Deponent’s knowledge.
RFP 16: All Technical Service
Bulletins for vehicles for the same year, make, and model as the subject
vehicle.
 
RFPs 1, 3, 5-8
 
These RFPs seek documents
regarding the subject vehicle itself. Since these categories only request
information regarding the Subject Vehicle, the Court finds them to be relevant.
Furthermore, Defendant has failed to justify its objections. (Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
Therefore, the
Court grants the Motion to Compel Deposition of PMK as to RFPs 1, 3, and 5-8.
 
RFPs 2, 10, 12-15
 
These
RFPs seek a variety of information regarding Defendants policies and
procedures. While some of these requests may be relevant, they all are
overbroad as Plaintiff has not limited the requests to only documents regarding
the same make, model, and year of the subject vehicle.
 
Therefore, the
Court denies the Motion to Compel Deposition of PMK as to RFPs 2, 10, and 12-15.
 
RFPs 9, 11
 
These
RFPs seek Documents regarding the Deponent’s job
description and all material given to Deponent in preparation for the
deposition. The Court finds this request is relevant as it shows the knowledge
of the Deponent and the weight one should put on Deponent’s statements. Furthermore,
Defendant has failed to justify its objections. (Fairmont
Ins. Co., supra, 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
Therefore, the
Court grants the Motion to Compel Deposition of PMK as to RFPs 9, 11.
 
RFP 16
 
This RFP seeks all Technical Service Bulletins for
vehicles of the same year, make, and vehicle model as the subject vehicle. Since
this request is relevant to whether Defendant was willful in its alleged failure
to comply with the Act and because the request is tailored to vehicles of the
same year, make, and vehicle model as the subject vehicle, the Court
finds that it is relevant to the instant matter. (Krotin v. Porsche (1995)
38 Cal.App.4th 294, 302-03.) Furthermore, Defendant has failed to justify its
objections. (Fairmont Ins. Co., supra, 22 Cal.4th
245, 255.)
 
Therefore, the
Court grants the Motion to Compel Deposition of PMK as to RFP 16.