  Case Number:  19STCV23747    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



J.G., a minor by
  and through his Guardian ad Litem, S.F., et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et
  al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


      CASE NO.: 19STCV23747 (c/w  20STCV01832 and 19STCV30462)
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO ORDER THE DEPOSITION OF DANIEL
  AYON IN CUSTODY
 
Date: March 28, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.
No opposition has been received.
 
BACKGROUND
             These consolidated actions involve various
plaintiffs who have sued Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District
(“LAUSD”) based on allegations of sexual abuse perpetrated by Defendant Daniel
Ayon (“Ayon”), who was employed as an afterschool staff coordinator. 
 
            LAUSD now moves for an order
pursuant to Penal Code § 2623 in order to take the deposition of Ayon because
he is in custody while awaiting trial for criminal matters relating to the
events underlying these consolidated actions. (Motion at pg. 2.) 
 
DISCUSSION
            A party is entitled to take the
deposition of another party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) The court can order
a prisoner’s examination in the prison by deposition. (Pen. Code § 2623.) Such
an order is made on motion of a party, supported by an affidavit showing the
nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony expected, and its
materiality. (Ibid.)
 
The deposition is required to be taken “in
accordance with Section 2622” which permits the deposition to be taken “before
any magistrate or notary public of the county in which the prison is situated;
or in case the defendant is unable to pay for taking the deposition, before an
officer of the prison designated by the board, whose duty it shall be to act
without compensation. Every officer before whom testimony shall be taken under
this section, shall have authority to administer, and shall administer, an oath
to the witness that his or her testimony shall be the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth.” (Pen. Code § 2622.)
 
            Here, LAUSD has established that
Ayon is currently in criminal custody. (See D’Egidio Decl. ¶ 1, Exh. A.) Also, LAUSD
has shown that there is good cause in taking Ayon’s deposition. Not only is
Ayon a pertinent witness, he is a co-defendant in these consolidated actions,
and naturally, his testimony would be material to this action. (Motion at pg.
3.) Thus, LAUSD contends that it would be harmed if it were not allowed to take
Ayon’s deposition because his testimony is vital to the preparation of a
meaningful defense. (Ibid.) 
 
            Accordingly, because good cause has
been shown, LAUSD’s motion to take the deposition of Ayon pursuant to Penal
Code § 2623 is GRANTED.  The deposition
of Ayon shall be conducted in accordance with Penal Code § 2622.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 28th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



