 Case Number:  23STCV09571    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DENISE DORIS, et al.,  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
BALDWIN HILLS MULTIFAMILY LLC, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.





     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV09571
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO
  PLAINTIFFS’ FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date:  March 28, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56



 
MOVING PARTIES: Defendant
Mark Crawford, Mary Crawford aka Joanna Crawford, Apts Managements LLC, Gelber
Apts, LLC, and Expo Apts, LLC 
 
RESPONDING PARTIES: Plaintiffs
Denise Doris, et al. 
            
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition, and
reply papers. 
 
 
BACKGROUND
This
is an action arises from alleged uninhabitable conditions in four adjacent
apartment complexes located at 4018 Gelber Place, Los Angeles, CA 90008, 4024
Gelber Place, Los Angeles, CA 90008, 4029 Gelber Place, Los Angeles, CA 90008,
and 4036 Gelber Place, Los Angeles, CA 90008 (the “Subject Properties”).  On August 30, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against, inter alia,
Defendants Mark Crawford, Mary Crawford a/k/a Joanna Crawford, Apts Mgmt, LLC,
Gelber Apts, LLC, and Expo Apts, LLC (collectively, the “Crawford Defendants”) alleging
causes of action for: (1) negligence; (2) breach of implied warranty of habitability; (3) breach of the covenant of
quiet enjoyment; (4) nuisance; (5) premises liability; (6) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (7) negligent infliction of emotional
distress; (8) violation of Civil Code §1942.4; (9) constructive eviction and
willful interruption of services; (10) retaliation; (11) harassment; (12)
violation of unfair competition laws; (13) violation of tenant anti-harassment
ordinance; (14) violation of Civil Code §1940.3(b); (15) violation of Fair
Employment and Housing Act; (16) violation of Unruh Civil Rights Act; (17)
violation of disabled persons act; (18) intentional misrepresentation; (19)
negligent misrepresentation; and (20) breach of implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing.  It is noted that only
the first through twelfth and twentieth causes of action are directed at the
Crawford Defendants. 
 
The
Crawford Defendants filed a demurrer to FAC pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§ 430.010 on the ground that they have been improperly joined in this action.
Also, the Crawford Defendants move the Court for an order that they are tried
separately pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 379.5.  
 
MEET
AND CONFER
The
meet and confer requirement has been met. (Levine Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) 
 
DISCUSSION
            “A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law.”  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)
“[T]he court gives the complaint a reasonable interpretation, and treats the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded.”  (Id.)  “The court accepts as true all material
factual allegations, giving them a liberal construction, but it does not
consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions, speculation, or allegations
contrary to law or judicially noticed facts.” 
(Shea Homes Limited Partnership v.
County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)  In the demurrer context a court “may also
take notice of exhibits attached to the complain[t].”  (Holland
v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447.)  “If facts appearing in the exhibits
contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence.”  (Id.)
 
A
party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may file a
special demurrer on the ground that there is a defect or misjoinder of parties.
(Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(d); Union Carbide Corp. v. Superior Court
(1977) 36 Cal. 3d 15, 21-22.) This defect must appear on the fact of the
complaint or in matters judicially noticed. (Royal Surplus Lines Ins. Co.,
Inc. v. Ranger Ins. Co. (2002) 100 Cal. App. 4th 193, 198.) Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure § 389, “defect” means a necessary or indispensable
party is absent from the action. Whereas, “misjoinder” states that a party has
been improperly joined to an action.
 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 379(a)(1) provides:
(a)
All persons may be joined in one action as defendants if there is asserted
against them:
(1)
any right to relief jointly, severally, or in the alternative, in respect of or
arising out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences and if any question of law or fact common to all persons will arise
in the action; or
(2)
a claim, right, or interest adverse to them in the property or controversy
which is the subject of the action.
 
Special
Demurrer for Misjoinder Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(d)
             The Crawford
Defendants specially demur to the FAC on the ground that they have been
improperly joined in this action as there are no common questions of law or
fact arising out of the same transaction or events for all of the named
defendants. (Demurrer at pp. 9-12.)
 
            “Although modern joinder statutes are to be liberally
construed and applied, neither the statutes nor the case law in California
permit unlimited joinder.” (Hoag v. Sup. Ct. (1962) 207 Cal. App. 2d
611, 618.) Where there has been no showing that different defendants operated
cooperatively to cause the injury, a plaintiff has not established that
defendants are jointly and severally liable. (Id.) In Farmers Ins.
Exchange v. Adams (1985) 170 Cal. App. 3d 712 (disapproved on other grounds
by Garvey v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (1989) 48 Cal. 3d 395),
an insurance company sued numerous homeowner policy holders for declaratory
relief seeking a judicial declaration that the policy did not provide coverage
for damages arising from a single storm. The court held there was a misjoinder
of parties even though the same storm played a role in each claim. The court
stated that while it may be possible to join certain of the defendants together
under a more specific factual allegations, it was improper to label damages
herein to innumerable types of structures occurring at widely separate
locations across the state, resulting from a myriad of causes and under various
conditions as the same transaction or occurrence. (Id. at 723.)
 
            Here, Plaintiffs have alleged that, during the relevant
time period, several different individuals and entities as defendants have had ownership
and/or management interests in the Subject Properties. (FAC ¶¶ 5, 74-104.) Effectively,
these defendants are alleged to have failed to maintain the Subject Properties
in a habitable condition and were aware of the unsafe and unsanitary conditions
present at the Subject Properties. (Id. at ¶¶ 2-3, 5-6.) As to the
Crawford Defendants, they are only alleged to have had an interest in the Subject
Properties to varying degrees between February 2012 to November 2017. (Id. at
¶¶ 79-86.) The only allegation linking the Crawford Defendants with the
remaining defendants is an allegation that each defendant was an agent of the
other defendants during the relevant periods of time (Id. at ¶ 104.)
However, there are no allegations to suggest that the Crawford Defendants’
ownership or management of the Subject Properties overlapped with those of the
remaining defendants. 
 
            Plaintiffs argue that the Crawford Defendants have a
common interest in all four of the properties based on the overlap of ownership
and management of the Subject Properties. (Opposition at pg. 4.) While the
allegations within the FAC suggest that there is a common issue regarding the
purported mismanagement and uninhabitable conditions of the Subject Properties,
the FAC fails to show how the Crawford Defendants “operated cooperatively” with
the remaining defendants to cause Plaintiffs’ injuries. (Hoag, supra, 207
Cal. App. 2d at 618.) Moreover, while the FAC alleges that all defendants were
agents of the other, this conclusory allegation is undermined by the fact that
the Crawford Defendants’ ownership or management of the Subject Properties did
not overlap with that of the remaining defendants. Thus, as alleged, any
conduct of the Crawford Defendants relating to Subject Properties cannot be
imputed to the remaining defendants and visa verse. As a result, any harm that
the Plaintiffs suffered by the Crawford Defendants’ mismanagement is unrelated
to the harm purportedly caused by the remaining defendants. Therefore, the
Crawford Defendants have been improperly joined in this action and any viable
claim should be made in a separate lawsuit against them. 
 
            Plaintiffs also argue that the Crawford Defendants have
failed to show that they suffered any prejudice for being improperly joined in
this action. (Opposition at pg. 5, relying on Anaya v. Superior Court
(1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 228, 231 and Royal Surplus Lines Ins. Co. v. Ranger
Ins. Co. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 193, 198) The Court disagrees with this
assertion because Plaintiffs’ reliance on Anaya and Royal Surplus
Lines Ins. is misplaced. The issue in Anaya was a misjoinder of
plaintiff under section 378 and not a misjoinder of defendants under section
379. The court there held that the joinder of numerous plaintiffs suing
defendants for their exposure of a hazardous chemical at the same location was
proper. The court found a common question of law or fact because the injuries
were for the same chemical at the same location. The issue here is misjoinder
of defendants and whether defendants who have no relationship amongst each
other (or at least the FAC does not allege any relationship) can be sued in the
same lawsuit. 
 
Moreover,
the rule established in Royal Surplus Lines Ins. is that a properly
joined defendant cannot object to misjoinder of an improperly joined defendant
on his behalf. (Id., supra, 100 Cal.App.4th at 198.) As stated
above, the Crawford Defendants have been improperly joined in this action, and
consequently, they are prejudiced in defending against a lawsuit where there are
no common issues of law or fact amongst the defendants.
 
            Accordingly, the Court sustains the instant demurrer because
the Crawford Defendants have been improperly joined in this action.
 
Leave to Amend
“Where the defect raised
by … demurrer is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and
liberally granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in
question.” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.) Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. 
(See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.)
 
Plaintiffs request that the Court grant leave to
amend in order to cure the defect found in the FAC. (Opposition at pp. 6-7.)
Notably, Plaintiffs fail to show how the issue of misjoinder can be cured
because Plaintiffs do not suggest in their opposition that the Crawford
Defendants acted cooperatively with the remaining defendants to cause harm to
the Plaintiffs. Thus, because Plaintiffs have failed to meet their burden, the
Court denies their request for leave to amend. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, because the Crawford Defendants
have been improperly joined in this action, the Court SUSTAINS their demurrer
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure              § 430.10(d) without leave to amend.
Consequently, the Crawford Defendants’ request pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 379.5 is DENIED as moot. 
 
 
The
Crawford Defendants are ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
        
 Dated this 28th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



