  Case Number:  24STCV01864    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Lorenzo Zeferino
  Ligario,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
24STCV01864




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Coast Roofing Inc.,
  et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: August
1, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter 
Motion to Change
Venue 
Moving Party: Defendant Coast
Roofing Inc.  
Responding Party: Unopposed  
 
T/R:     The Motion to Change Venue is GRANTED. 
 
            DEFENDANT TO
NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit
on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the
hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers. No
opposition papers were filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
            
This action arises from motor vehicle collisions
on February 8, 2022. On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff Lorenzo Zeferino Ligario sued
Defendants Coast Roofing Inc.; Coast Roofing; Jose Alejandro Garcia Castro;
Elizabeth Brewer; and Felipe Martinez Alonso alleging causes of action for: (1)
Motor Vehicle Negligence, Negligent Entrustment, Negligent Training, Negligent
Hiring, Negligent Undertaking, Negligent Supervision, and Negligent Retention,
and (2) Negligence Per Se. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that the motor vehicle
collisions occurred on a public highway in Los Angeles County. (Complaint, ¶¶ 8,11.)

 
Before the Court is Defendant Coast Roofing Inc.’s
motion to change venue, seeking to move the case to San Luis Obispo County. The
motion is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code
Civ. Proc. § 397 provides that the court may, on motion, change the place of
trial: (a) when the court designated in the complaint is not the proper court;
(b) when there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be had
therein; (c) when the convenience of the witnesses and the ends of justice
would be promoted by the change; or (d) when from any cause there is no judge
of the court qualified to act. (Code Civ. Proc., § 397, subds. (a)-(d).)
Whether to grant or deny a motion to change venue “is discretionary with the
trial court and is subject to reversal only on a clear showing of an abuse of
discretion.” (Harden v. Skinner and Hammond (1955) 130 Cal.App.2d 750,
754.)  
 
“[T]he
superior court in the county where the defendants or some of them reside at the
commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 395, subd. (a).) “If the action is for injury to person or
personal property or for death from wrongful act or negligence, the superior
court in either the county where the injury occurs or the injury causing death
occurs or the county where the defendants, or some of them reside at the
commencement of the action, is a proper court for the trial of the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 395, subd. (a).) 
 
            The Court GRANTS Defendant Coast’s request for judicial notice pursuant
to Evid. Code §§ 452, 453. 
 
            Counsel for Defendant
Coast, Jason D. Ahdoot, declares that this matter arises from two separate
collisions occurring in succession. While Plaintiff alleges that venue is
proper in Los Angeles County because the accident was in Los Angeles County, a
report by the California Highway Patrol shows that the collisions occurred in
an unincorporated area of San Luis Obispo County. In addition, Defendant
Coast’s principal place of business is in San Luis Obispo County. Defendant
argues that changing venue to San Luis Obispo County would serve the interest
of judicial economy as well as the convenience of all involved parties. Counsel
believes that the other defendants reside in Santa Barbara County. 
 
            Defendant Coast has shown
that venue is proper in San Luis Obispo County. Plaintiff has not opposed to
challenge this showing, and therefore has conceded the arguments in the motion.
(Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210,
1215.) 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Coast’s motion. The case is transferred to San
Luis Obispo County.
 
 
 
 
 