  Case Number:  21STCV21402    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  C Jane Doe vs Roe #1, et al., Case No.:
21STCV21402
This is a
sexual misconduct action. 
Intervenors
Pacific Employers Insurance Company and Century Indemnity Company apply ex
parte to intervene in this action. 
Pacific
Employers and Century Indemnity seek to intervene for the narrow purpose of
participating in the jury instruction conference(s) to present and argue for
the submission of a limited number of jury instructions and special
interrogatories to the jury that will clarify the jury’s findings on facts
relevant to the timing of the claimed bodily injury and allocation of that
injury by time. Pacific Employers and Century Indemnity avers it will not
present evidence to the jury, will not make argument to the jury, will not
appear in the presence of the jury, and will not otherwise engage in or
interfere with the proceedings. 
In opposition,
Plaintiffs contention that intervention based on an interest in the matter in
litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against
both is not a matter of right, but is left within the sound discretion of the
trial court.
Code of Civil
Procedure § 387(c) authorizes that a petition to the court for leave to
intervene may be brought by “noticed motion or ex parte application.”
However, CCP §
387(d) says that “upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in
the action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied:
(A)
A provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene.
(B)
The person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the
property or transaction that is the subject of the action and that
person is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair or
impede that person's ability to protect that interest, unless that person's
interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties.
(2)
The court may, upon timely application, permit a
nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has
an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the
parties, or an interest against both.
Here, the Court
finds that since this ex parte was filed a mere two court days prior to trial
this motion is untimely. 
Moreover, even
if the motion was timely, Plaintiff did not separately file a complaint in
intervention or an answer in intervention. (See CCP § 387(e)(1).) 
Given that the
requirements under CCP § 387 have not been met the Court DENIES the ex parte
application for leave to intervene. 
Nothing in this
order shall preclude the trial court for granting leave to intervene.  