  Case Number:  22STCV08835    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA  
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES -
CENTRAL DISTRICT 
 



 
 
JANE DOE.,  
Plaintiff, 
vs. 
 
MICHELSON
  LABORATORIES, INC.., and DOES 1 to 100, inclusive,  
                                                                               
Defendants.                                


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV27119 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
DEFENDANT
  JOSEPH SOLIZ’S DEMURRER AND MTOION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF THE THIRD AMENDED
  COMPLAINT 
 
Date:
  April 30, 2024 
Time:
  8:30 a.m. 
Dept.
  56 
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Joseph Soliz.
(“Defendant Soliz”) 
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Jane Doe
(“Plaintiff”) 
 
The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.  
 
 
BACKGROUND 
This is an action for invasion of privacy and sexual
battery. The Third Amended Complaint (TAC) alleges that Plaintiff was required
by her employer, Michelson Laboratories, Inc., to undergo a drug test and
physical examination at Defendant Southern California Immediate Medical
Center’s facility. (TAC ¶¶ 9–10.) When Plaintiff went to the facility, she was
made to undergo an unjustified  x-ray,
prior to which she was directed by a male x-ray technician to take off her
clothes. (TAC ¶¶ 12–14.) This technician watched Plaintiff while she undressed,
and once she got on the x-ray table, the technician digitally penetrated her
sex organs, stating that it was part of the procedure. (TAC ¶¶ 15–18.)
The original complaint was filed on March 11, 2022. The TAC
alleges four causes of action:
1.    
Invasion of Privacy
2.    
Sexual Battery
3.    
Negligent Hiring and Retention
4.    
Premises Liability
 
On December 8, 2023, this court sustained the demurrer of
Defendants Southern California Immediate Medical Center and Thomas Roccapalumbo
to the fourth cause of action for premises liability, and granted the motion to
strike as to the prayer for punitive damages under Code of Civil Procedure §
425.13.
 
Defendant Soliz was added as Doe defendant 7 on November 22,
2023 and filed the present demurrer (the “Demurrer”) and motion to strike the
TAC (the “Motion”) on April 23, 2024.  Plaintiff
filed an opposition to the Demurrer and the Motion on April 10, 2024.  Defendant Soliz filed a reply on April 23,
2024.
 
DISCUSSION 
Demurrer
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is
relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege
facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See
id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311:
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we
give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its
parts in their context.” (Id. at
p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
[Citation.]”) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal.,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored, and
are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot
reasonably respond.” (Mahan v. Charles W.
Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if
the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any
theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p.
1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the
nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it
probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)
 
Analysis
Defendant Soliz here demurs to the first cause of action for
invasion of privacy, on the ground that it does not plead the basis for
liability against him, but rather asserts an invasion of privacy claim against
Doe 1, Southern California Immediate Medical Center, and Thomas Roccapalumbo
for taking unauthorized x-rays and having a policy permitting the same.
(Demurrer at pp. 4–5; TAC ¶¶ 25–26.) No specific allegation is included against
Doe 7 (Defendant Soliz), and although he concedes that correspondence with
Plaintiff’s counsel revealed he was intended to be added as Doe 2 — i.e. the
party accused of sexually assaulting Plaintiff — the invasion of privacy claim
includes no allegations against Doe 2 either. (Demurrer at p. 3, fn. 1.)
 
Plaintiff in opposition argues that Defendant Soliz has
already stipulated to the filing of a fourth amended complaint (the “4AC”) that
would include him in the invasion of privacy claim by inserting allegations
that he looked at Plaintiff while she disrobed for the x-ray. (Opposition at
pp. 3–4.) Because not all parties have stipulated to the amendment, the motion
for leave to file the 4AC is currently set for May 8, 2024. (Opposition at pp.
4–5.)
 
Here, because the current operative complaint contains no
allegation against Defendant Soliz identifying the basis for pleading a cause
of action for invasion of privacy, the demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the first
cause of action against Defendant Soliz, with leave to amend.
 


 
Motion
to Strike
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading,
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435(b)(1)). The notice of motion to strike a portion of a
pleading shall quote in full the portions sought to be stricken except where
the motion is to strike an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense.
(California Rules of Court Rule 3.1322.)
 
The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face
of the challenged pleading or form any matter of which the court is required to
take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437(a)). The court then may strike
out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading and
strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436.) When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable
of cure, the court should allow leave to amend. (Perlman v. Municipal Court (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
 
Defendant Soliz moves to strike the prayer for punitive
damages on the grounds that any such pleading is barred by Code of Civil
Procedure § 425.13. That statute states:
 
In any
action for damages arising out of the professional negligence of a health care
provider, no claim for punitive damages shall be included in a complaint or
other pleading unless the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading
that includes a claim for punitive damages to be filed. The court may allow the
filing of an amended pleading claiming punitive damages on a motion by the
party seeking the amended pleading and on the basis of the supporting and
opposing affidavits presented that the plaintiff has established that there is
a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant
to Section 3294 of the Civil Code.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13, subd. (a).) 
 
Although directed towards claims
arising out of “professional negligence,” the statute also applies to claims
for intentional torts against medical providers. (See Country Villa Claremont Healthcare Center, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 428, 431–32.) The statute has specifically been applied
to claims for sexual battery against medical providers, where the plaintiff
sustained the battery while a patient of the provider. In United Western Medical Centers v. Superior Court (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 500, 503, the court held that section 425.13 applied to
bar punitive damages claimed against a hospital on a sexual assault claim,
where the claim against the hospital was “expressly based on hospital's alleged
failure to “supervise and protect and safeguard” the party. (Id. at p.
504.) And in Cooper v. Superior Court (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 744, 752,
held that section 425.13 applied to a sexual assault claim arising “in the
course of gynecological services.” (Id. at p. 752.) 
 
However, it has been recognized
that “a cause of action against a health care provider for sexual battery would
not, in most instances, fall within the statute because the defendant's conduct
would not be directly related to the manner in which professional services were
rendered.” (Central Pathology Service Medical Clinic, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1992) 3 Cal.4th 181, 192.) While this language was interpreted as dictum in Cooper,
the court recognized it was “obviously correct as a factual matter,” before
distinguishing its application to a claim for sexual assault arising
specifically from gynecological services:
 
Central
Pathology noted merely that “in most instances” a claim of sexual battery would
not be related to the manner in which professional services are rendered.
Clearly this is so. Most types of services rendered by health care providers do
not involve the genitalia. Thus if a podiatrist, ophthalmologist or dentist
touches or manipulates a patient's genitalia, there will usually be no arguable
connection between such conduct and the rendition of legitimate health care. If
a patient consults an orthopedic surgeon for treatment of bursitis in an elbow,
there would usually be no occasion for the surgeon to touch or manipulate that
patient's genitalia. A doctor consulted for nutritional advice about
cholesterol levels would not likely have a legitimate medical reason for
manipulating genitalia. The list of examples of this type is endless. A doctor
rendering gynecological care, by contrast, cannot render the full panoply of
gynecological services without touching, probing or otherwise manipulating a
woman's genitalia. Thus when a gynecologist is accused, as here, of committing
a sexual battery in the course of rendering gynecological services, that
accusation is necessarily “directly related” to the manner in which the
gynecological services were rendered.
(Cooper, supra, 56 Cal.App.4th
at p. 751.) 
            The
above language is instructive here. Defendant Soliz is not alleged to be a
gynecologist, and he does not argue that this was the case. He is rather
alleged to have sexually touched Plaintiff while conducting an x-ray. There is
“no arguable connection between such conduct and the rendition” of the x-ray. (Cooper,
supra, 56 Cal.App.5th at p. 751.) Defendant Soliz in reply
argues only that the x-ray itself was related to the provision of medical
services [Reply at p. 2]; however, the connection at issue is not that between
the x-ray and medical services, but between the acts constituting sexual
battery and medical services. Defendant Soliz offers no such connection in his Motion.
 
            The
motion to strike is therefore DENIED.  
Dated
this 30th day of April 2024 
 



  


 




 


Hon.
  Holly J. Fujie 
Judge
  of the Superior Court 
 



 
 