 Case Number:  22STCV11052    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 O.B., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT, and DOES 2 through 25, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV11052
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO
AMEND ANSWER TO ADD AN
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE
 
Date: April 30, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant,
Los Angeles Unified School District
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            The currently operative First
Amended Complaint (the “FAC”) alleges: (1) negligence; and (2) negligent
hiring, retention, and supervision.     In
relevant part, the FAC alleges that Plaintiff was sexually abused by Norbert
Stuart Volk (“Volk”), a teacher employed by the Defendant from approximately
1969 to 1970. (FAC ¶¶ 18-19.) The FAC alleges that Defendant had reason to know
of Volk’s misconduct that created a risk of childhood sexual abuse. (FAC ¶ 15.)  Defendant filed its Answer to the FAC on June
22, 2022. 
            On March
15, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion for Leave to Amend its Answer (the
“Motion”). No opposition has been filed. 
DISCUSSION
Leave
to amend is permitted under the Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (a) and section 576. The policy favoring amendment and resolving
all matters in the same dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case in which
denial of leave to amend can be justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to
apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at
any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this
policy should be applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party
. . .. [citation].  A different result is
indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing
party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th
471, 487.)   
 
A
motion for leave to amend a pleading must also comply with the procedural
requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, which requires a
supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what allegations are to be added
and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence was discovered warranting
the amendment and why the amendment was not made earlier. The motion must also
include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered amendment, (2) specifications
by reference to pages and lines the allegations that would be deleted and
added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect, necessity and propriety of
the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for delay. (See Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).)
 
Defendant
seeks leave to file an amended Answer to add an affirmative defense under
Education Code § 44808, which precludes liability under certain situations for
conduct that occurred off the school site. 
Defendant
provides a copy of its proposed Amended Answer with a supporting declaration of
its counsel stating why Defendant seeks leave to amend. (See Declaration of Matther
R. Hicks; Exhibit 2.) Counsel states that he conducted a deposition of the
Plaintiff wherein Plaintiff testified that the alleged abuse by Norbet Volk
occurred both on campus at George Washington Carver Junior High School and off-campus.
(Id. ¶ 3; Exhibit 1 p. 37-39, 47-49.) Counsel further swears that the
purpose and effect of the amendment is to add an affirmative defense under
Education Code § 44808, which counsel argues may provide Defendant with an
immunity defense from liability, at least as it pertains to any alleged abuse
off-campus from Carver. (Id. ¶ 4.) Thus, counsel contends that the
proposed amendment is necessary and proper to ensure the Defendant’s due
process right to allege and try an affirmative defense under law. (Id.)
 
The
Court finds good cause in granting the Motion.  Here, the Defendant satisfies the requirements
under CRC rule 3.1324 because it states what affirmative defense is to be
included in its Amended Answer, which is an immunity defense under Education
Code § 44808. The Motion includes a copy of the proposed Amended Answer and a
declaration specifying the amendments' effect, necessity, propriety, and date
of discovery. Defendant provides a sufficient reason for the delay as Defendant
was only recently made aware after taking Plaintiff’s deposition. Furthermore, the
proposed Amended Answer redlines the changes to be made to the answer.
Therefore, because Defendants have satisfied the requirements under CRC Rule
3.1324, the Motion is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling and to file a separate copy of
the Amended Answer within ten (10) days of the date of this Order.       
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 30th day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 