

 
            This is an
action over ownership distribution allegedly owed but not paid by Defendants
RPM Property Management, LLC (RPM), Chen-Wei Liu, Yiuli Yeh, and Catherine Liu to
Plaintiff Chi-Ping (Plaintiff). On October 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed this
lawsuit alleging the causes of action for (1.) accounting, (2.) failure to pay distributions,
(3.) breach of fiduciary duty, (4.) conversion, and (5.) money had and received.
 
On January 5, 2024, Defendants RPM
Property Management, LLC, Chen-Wei Liu, Yiuli Yeh, and Catherine Liu (Defendants)
demurred to the second through fifth causes of action of the Complaint. Defendants
also filed a motion to strike portions of the Complaint. Plaintiff filed an
opposition to the demurrer and motion to strike. No timely reply was filed. 
 
            The
demurrer is overruled in part and sustained in part. The motion to strike is
granted.
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Second
Cause of Action for Failure to Pay Distributions: 
 
            The second cause of action alleges that
Defendants failed to pay Plaintiff Liu distributions that she owed as the owner
of an interest in Defendant RPM. (Compl., ¶ 17.)  
 
            Corporations
Code section 17704.04, subdivision (b), provides:
 
“A person has a right to
a distribution before the dissolution and winding up of a limited liability
company only if the limited liability company decides to make an interim
distribution. Unless the articles of organization or written operating
agreement provides otherwise, a person's dissociation does not entitle the
person to a distribution, and, beginning on the date of dissociation, the
dissociated person shall have only the right of a transferee of a transferable
interest with respect to that person's interest in the limited liability
company, and then only with respect to distributions, if any, to which a
transferee is entitled under the operating agreement. If the dissociation is in
violation of the operating agreement, the limited liability company shall have
the right to offset any damages for the breach of the operating agreement from
the amounts, if any, otherwise distributable to the dissociated person with
respect to that person's interest in the limited liability company.” [Emphasis
added]
 
            Relying on
Corporations Code section 17704.04, subdivision (b), Defendants argue that Plaintiff
has not alleged that Defendant RPM had “decide[d] to make an interim
distribution.”
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff points to allegations that Defendant RPM is still in
existence (Compl., ¶ 11) and RPM made a distribution to Defendant Victor Liu based
on his ownership interest (Compl., ¶ 12 [“Defendants VICTOR
LIU, YIULI YEH, and CATHERINE LIU have made distributions to Defendant
VICTOR LIU as the owner of an interest in Defendant RPM PROPERTY MANAGEMENT,
LLC, but have failed to make any distributions to Plaintiff JOYCE LIU.”]).
Thus, these allegations, liberally read, are sufficient to state a claim. 
 
The demurrer to the second cause of
action is overruled.  
 
Third Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary
Duty 
 
            The third cause
of action alleges that Defendants’ failure to pay these distributions violated the
fiduciary duties they owed to Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶¶ 16-17.) 
 
            “The elements of a claim for breach
of fiduciary duty are (1) the existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2) its
breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Mendoza v.
Continental Sales Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1405.)
 
            The demurrer
argues – in a conclusory manner and without any legal analysis – that these allegations
fail to state a claim.
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that she has alleged that Defendants Victor Liu,
Yiuli Yeh, and Catherine Liu are managers of Defendant RPM and, thus, have a fiduciary
relationship to Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶ 10.) However, instead of paying distributions
from Defendant RPM, they operated Defendant RPM for their own use and benefit
to the exclusion of Plaintiff, including excluding Plaintiff from receiving distributions.
(Compl., ¶ 12.)  
 
            These
allegations are sufficient to overcome the conclusory arguments made in the
demurrer. The demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled.  
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Conversion:
 
            The fourth cause of action for conversion
alleges that Defendants converted specific distributions amounts owed to Plaintiff.
(Compl., ¶ 22.) 
 
            “Conversion
is generally described as the wrongful exercise of dominion over the personal
property of another. [Citation.] The basic elements of the tort are (1) the
plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2) the
defendant's disposition of the property in a manner that is inconsistent with
the plaintiff's property rights; and (3) resulting damages.” (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) 
 
Thus, to
establish a viable cause of action for conversion, Plaintiffs must establish an
actual interference with their ownership or right of possession of property. (Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 610.)
To do that they must have “either ownership and the right of possession or
actual possession [of the property] at the time of the alleged conversion
thereof.” (General Motors Acceptance Corp. v. Dallas (1926) 198 Cal.
365, 370.) “
‘To establish a conversion, plaintiff must establish an actual interference
with his ownership or right of possession. . . . Where plaintiff neither has
title to the property alleged to have been converted, nor possession thereof,
he cannot maintain an action for conversion.’ ” (Moore v. Regents of the
Univ. of Cal. (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 136.)
 
It is
well-established that “a mere contractual right of payment, without more, will
not suffice” to support a claim for conversion. (Farmers Ins. Exchange v.
Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 452.) Moreover, “[m]oney
cannot be the subject of a cause of action for conversion unless there is a
specific, identifiable sum involved, such as where an agent accepts a sum of
money to be paid to another and fails to make the payment.” (Sanowicz v.
Bacal (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1027, 1042 [italics in original]; see also Vu
v. California Commerce Club, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 229, 235 [A
“generalized claim for money [is] not actionable as conversion.”].)
 
            Here, as
argued in the demurrer, the Complaint fails to allege facts identifying a specific
sum that was converted or that Plaintiff had a specific right to ownership or possession
to a specific sum – as opposed to a general duty by RPM to issue a distribution.

 
            The
demurrer to this cause of action is sustained. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Money Had
and Received
 
            “A cause of
action for money had and received is stated if it is alleged the defendant “is
indebted to the plaintiff in a certain sum ‘for money had and received by the
defendant for the use of the plaintiff.’ ”” (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460.)
 
            The
allegations in the Complaint alleging indebtedness resulting form the failure
to pay the distributions from Defendant RPM are adequate to state a claim under
this common count. (Id.; Hamberger-Polhemus Co. v. Hind, Rolph &
Co. (1927) 81 Cal.App. 624, 625.)
 
            The
demurrer to this common count is overruled. 
 
Legal Standard for
Motions to Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant”
matters include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendants
move to strike the request for punitive damages from the Complaint. 
 
            With
respect to the punitive damages request, Plaintiff relies on the allegations
in the breach of the fiduciary duty claim and the (now sustained) conversion
claim. (Compl., ¶¶ 20, 24.) 
 
Punitive
damages are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code, § 3294.) “Something more than
the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There
must be circumstances of aggravation our outrage, such as spite or malice, or a
fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and
deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called
willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific intent to injure is not
necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct
was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of
others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925)
71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,”
“maliciously,” or with “oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without
more, sufficient to give rise to a claim for punitive damages, but such
language is permissible where the complaint contains sufficient factual support
for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior
Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
The
Complaint is devoid of any allegations showing that Defendants acted
“willfully,” “maliciously,” or with “oppression, fraud, or malice.” Rather,
Plaintiff relies solely on the allegations showing the existence of a tort
claim for breach of fiduciary duty. (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-895 [“Something
more than the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive
damages. There must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite
or “malice,” or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or
such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his
conduct may be called willful or wanton.’ [Citation]”].) Accordingly,
the motion to strike is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer is to the Complaint is
overruled as to the second, third, and fifth causes of action, and is sustained
as to the fourth cause of action. The motion to strike is granted. Plaintiff
shall have leave to amend. The amended complaint shall be served and filed on
or before April 5, 2024.