 Case Number:  KC070042    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Bharat  Patel, et al. v. Dr. Prakash Patel  Motion  for Award of Incidental Compensation or, in the Alternative, an Order for an  Accounting  TENTATIVE  RULING The Court  DENIES the motion for award of incidental compensation or, in the alternative,  an order for an accounting.               Defendants are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of the Court’s order.  BACKGROUND  This is a real property dispute. On February 14, 2018, Plaintiffs Bharat  Patel (Bharat) and Dinesh Patel (Dinesh) (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this  action (KC070042) against Dr. Prakash Patel and Does 1 through 10, alleging  causes of action for breach of settlement agreement and fraud. On March 16,  2020, Prakash Patel (Prakash) and Hardika Patel (Hardika) (collectively,  Defendants) filed a separate action (20STCV10801) against Bharat Patel, Dinesh  Patel, and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for voiding and  rescission of first settlement agreement, voiding and rescission of second  settlement agreement, voiding and rescission of third settlement agreement,  fraud (misrepresentation), fraud (false promise), fraud (concealment),  negligent misrepresentation, voiding and rescission of first settlement  agreement (fraud), voiding and rescission of second settlement agreement  (fraud), and voiding and rescission of third settlement agreement (fraud). The  actions were later consolidated on June 23, 2020, with KC070042 being  designated as the lead case.  On July 27, 2020, Bharat and Dinesh filed a cross-complaint  against Prakash and Hardika. The current operative pleading is the Second  Amended Cross-Complaint (SACC), filed on March 13, 2023, which alleges causes  of action for breach of settlement agreement, fraud (misrepresentation), fraud  (concealment), conspiracy to commit fraud, and declaratory relief.  On October 10, 2022, the Court entered summary judgment in favor  of Bharat and Dinesh on Prakash and Hardika’s complaint.  On January 19, 2024, after a four-day non-jury trial, concurrent  with a jury trial, the Court issued a statement of decision in favor of Plaintiffs  awarding specific performance.  On February 20, 2024, the Court entered judgment in favor of  Plaintiffs and against Defendants.              On February 29, 2024, Plaintiffs  moved for an award of incidental compensation or, in the alternative, an order  for an accounting. On March 12, 2024, Defendants opposed the motion. On March  18, 2024, Plaintiffs replied.  REQUESTS  FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE              The Court GRANTS Defendants’  requests for judicial notice. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) But the Court takes judicial notice only as to the  existence, content, and authenticity of such documents; it does not take  judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted therein. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  DISCUSSION  Summary of Arguments  Plaintiffs seek an order from the Court awarding them  incidental compensation in the amounts of either $368,615.61 or $283,914.01.  Alternatively, Plaintiffs seek an accounting. Plaintiffs contend they are  entitled to full performance of the underlying settlement agreement, including  recovery of payments made on the subject property from November 2018 through  February 2020, specifically loan payments on the Wells Fargo Loan and the  Amalgamated Bank Loan, plus other expenses, for a total of $160,538.48. They  also seek $283,914.01 for other payments made in connection with the subject  property from February 2020 onward, less the $75,836.88 Hardika paid.  Plaintiffs alternatively seek an accounting for incidental damages, comprised  of interest on the two aforementioned loans, property taxes, maintenance, and  property insurance, all amounting to $283,914.01.  In opposition, Defendants contend Plaintiffs’ motion  is substantively unsupported and that an accounting would be procedurally  improper at this stage of the action. Defendants contend Plaintiffs should have  presented evidence for an accounting at trial, but they did not do so, and that  Plaintiffs ultimately declined to request any further relief at trial. Defendants  further argue that any arguments and evidence regarding damages or compensation  should have been submitted during trial, and that the Court rejected  Plaintiffs’ arguments regarding damages and compensation during trial.  Defendants also argue that the Court’s basis for  previously denying Defendants’ motion for refund of moneys, i.e., the Court’s inability  to amend the judgment, applies equally to Plaintiffs’ motion here. Defendants  also argue that an accounting is not proper since trial has concluded, and  argues that the Court asked Plaintiffs’ counsel on at least three occasions at  trial if Plaintiffs were seeking any other relief or damages, but that  Plaintiffs’ counsel stated there was no other relief to be sought. (Lew Decl. ¶  5.)  Analysis  The Court finds this motion to be similar to Defendants’  previous motion for refund of moneys paid, which the Court denied. (Order Re:  Tentative Ruling (3/6/24).) Plaintiffs’ motion also does not cite any statutes  or other procedural law as the basis for this motion, and thus it is unclear  under what legal authority Plaintiffs may bring it post entry of Judgment. The  Court further notes that judgment was entered in this case on February 20,  2024. (Judgment (2/20/24).) Given the entry of judgment, and the parties’  continued dispute over who bears responsibility for which payments and  reimbursements, the Court construes Plaintiffs’ motion as a motion to amend the  judgment.  “While a court has power to correct mistakes in its  records and proceedings, and to set aside judgments and orders inadvertently  made, which are not actually the result of the exercise of judgment, it has no  power, having once made its decision after regular submission, to set aside or  amend for judicial error. [Citations.]” (Stevens v. Superior Ct. in  & for San Joaquin Cnty. (1936) 7 Cal.2d 110, 112.)  As noted above, the Court entered judgment in this matter  on February 20, 2024. Plaintiffs do not seek the Court to correct minor issues  in the judgment. Rather, they seek the Court to make further awards with  respect to incidental compensation or an accounting based on expenses incurred  in connection with the underlying dispute. As noted before, it is too late to  raise these issues, especially now that the judgment has been entered. (See Order  Re: Tentative Ruling (3/6/24); Stevens, supra, 7 Cal.2d at p. 112.)  Plaintiffs also present no evidence that the judgment was  inadvertently made or that it was not the result of the exercise of judgment. (See  Stevens, supra, 7 Cal.2d at p. 112.) In fact, the decision upon which  the judgment was entered was made after a four-day non-jury trial. (Statement  of Decision (1/19/24).) Plaintiffs present no evidence of errors at trial or in  the proceedings of the trial either. The judgment has been entered and it  cannot be changed for the reasons Plaintiffs seek.  Moreover, as Defendants correctly argue, Plaintiffs did  not present evidence in support of or otherwise articulate any bases at trial  for the Court to award Plaintiffs the incidental compensation sought here or an  accounting. The Court asked Plaintiffs during the trial whether they sought any  other relief, and they indicated they did not. (See Lew Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs  should have addressed these issues of compensation arising from “delay” damages  at trial, but Plaintiffs did not do so. (Cf. Bravo v. Buelow (1985) 168  Cal.App.3d 208, 211 fn. 1 [finding no error that although the plaintiff failed  to specifically plead “delay” damages, plaintiff’s counsel advised on two  separate occasions at trial that he was seeking delay damages and the case was  tried on that theory by both sides without objection.]) The Court also notes  that the SACC does not specifically request “delay” damages, or an accounting  for that matter. (See Id.; SACC, Prayer for Relief, 12:19-13:5.) Accordingly,  Plaintiffs have forfeited their right to recover any such incidental  compensation or an accounting at this stage of this action.  Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion.   CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES the motion for award of incidental compensation  or, in the alternative, an order for an accounting.                Defendants are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of the Court’s order.