  Case Number:  21PSCV00636    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Art  Weiss, Inc. v. Cloud Control,  Inc., et al.  Plaintiff  Art Weiss, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment without  prejudice.                Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a breach of lease agreement and guaranty dispute. On August  9, 2021, plaintiff Art Weiss, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants  Cloud Control, Inc. (Cloud Control), Jefferson Liou (Liou) (collectively, Defendants)  and Does 1 through 10. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC)  on the same day against Defendants and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes of  action for common counts, breach of contract, breach of written guaranty, and  unjust enrichment.  On January 5, 2024, Plaintiff moved for summary judgment. The  motion is unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD  The  purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide  courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to  determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to  resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25  Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires  the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and  ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by  other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any  material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of  law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119,  italics in original and quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “The  function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the  scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to  disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited  by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th  59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d  367, 381-382.)  “On a motion  for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make  a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf  v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A plaintiff  moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden  of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party has  proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on  the cause of action. Once the plaintiff ... has met that burden, the  burden shifts to the defendant ... to show that a triable issue of one or more  material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The  defendant … shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to  show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth  the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the  cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “[A] plaintiff bears the burden of persuasion that ‘each element  of’ the ‘cause of action’ in question has been ‘proved,’ and hence that ‘there  is no defense’ thereto.” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850, citing  Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(1).)”  Courts  “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary  judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore  v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE              The Court GRANTS  the requests for judicial notice. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) But, the Court takes  judicial notice only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of public  records and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the  truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 389, 400.)  DISCUSSION  Summary of Material Facts  On November 29, 2017, Plaintiff entered into a written lease  agreement (the Lease) with Defendant Cloud Control for certain real property  located at 13450 Brooks, Unit A, Baldwin Park, CA 91706 (the Premises) for a  three-year period commencing on December 1, 2017, at a monthly rate of $19,875.00.  (UMF 1.) Defendant Liou signed the Lease on behalf of Cloud Control. (UMF 2.)  Liou executed a guaranty (the Guaranty) for the Lease, wherein Liou agreed to guarantee  Cloud Control’s payments and performance under the Lease. (UMF 3-6.) The  Guaranty gave Plaintiff the right to proceed against Liou if Cloud Control  breached the Lease. (UMF 7.) The parties entered into an addendum agreement  (the Addendum) on January 5, 2018, to include Unit C at the Premises for the  remainder of the 3-year term in the Lease, commencing on February 1, 2018. (UMF  8.) The terms of the Addendum were otherwise identical to the Lease. (UMF 9.)  The Addendum incorporated the Guaranty, and thereby extended its obligations to  Liou. (UMF 10.) Cloud Control was obligated to maintain the Premises, return  the Premises in good condition upon surrender, and pay for 25% of common area  expenses. (UMF 11-13.) The Lease, Addendum, and Guaranty provide for recovery  of attorney’s fees to the prevailing party for any actions based thereon. (UMF  14.)                Beginning on December 1, 2018, Cloud  Control stopped paying rent and common area expenses, and abandoned both Unit A  and Unit C before the expiration of the Lease and the Addendum. (UMF 15.) Due  to Cloud Control’s breaches, Plaintiff sustained damages in the amount of  $418,442.62. (UMF 16.) Plaintiff mitigated its damages by reletting Units A and  C to a new tenant around April 1, 2019. (UMF 17.) Liou failed to pay Cloud  Control’s obligations under the Lease and Addendum per the Guaranty. (UMF 18.)  Plaintiff filed the operative FAC on August 9, 2021, alleging causes of action  for common counts, breach of contract, breach of written guaranty, and unjust  enrichment . (UMF 19-20.) Liou answered the FAC on October 27, 2021. (UMF 21.) The  Court entered default judgment against Cloud Control on September 19, 2022, in  the amount of $548,627.45, comprised of $418,442.62 in damages, $126,220.63 in  prejudgment interest, $3,440.00 in attorney’s fees, and $524.20 in costs. (UMF  22.)  First Cause of Action – Common Counts[1]  “The essential allegations of a common count ‘are (1)  the statement of indebtedness in a certain sum, (2) the consideration, i.e.,  goods sold, work done, etc., and (3) nonpayment.’ [Citation.]” (Allen v. Powell (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 502, 510.)  Plaintiff contends there is no triable issue of fact that  Liou is indebted to Plaintiff in the amount of $418,442.62, plus the sums that  are included in the default judgment entered against Cloud Control. Plaintiff then  contends there is no dispute the possession of the Premises constituted the  consideration, and that there is no dispute Liou guaranteed Cloud Control’s  payments and performance under the Lease and Addendum but failed to do so.  The Court finds Plaintiff has established each element of the  cause of action for Common Counts. The Court agrees the evidence shows Liou was  obligated under the Guaranty to cover the $418,442.62 at issue (UMF 16-18, 22).  The Guaranty provides that Liou  would guarantee the prompt payment of all rents and other sums owed under the  Lease and Cloud Control’s prompt performance thereunder. (Statement of  Evidence, Ex. 2.) The prejudgment interest, attorney’s fees, and costs were imposed only  against Cloud Control per the default judgment issued on September 19, 2022, and  not necessarily a sum due under the Lease (see UMF 22). However, this is more  form over substance because Plaintiff has established the certain sum of $418,442.62  owed under the Lease and Guaranty, and the Lease provides for attorney’s fees  to the prevailing party (Lease, ¶ 31), and Plaintiff seeks prejudgment interest  in the Complaint, (Compl., Prayer for Relief ¶ 2). It is indisputable that the consideration  in this case is the possession of the Premises by Cloud Control, pursuant to the  terms of the Lease and Addendum, which were guaranteed by Liou under the  Guaranty. (UMF 2-10). It is also indisputable that Liou guaranteed the payment  of all rents and all other sums payable by Cloud Control under the Lease and  Addendum, but failed to pay the sums owed by Cloud Control. (UMF 2-10, 18, 22.)  The burden of proof now shifts to Defendant Liou to establish the existence of  a triable issue of material fact.  Liou has not opposed the motion for summary judgment. Accordingly,  Liou has not established the existence of a triable issue of material fact as  to the First Cause of Action for Common Counts.  Second Cause  of Action – Breach of Contract              “To prevail on a cause of action for breach of  contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff's  performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant's  breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  “As damages are an element of a breach of contract cause of action [citation],  a plaintiff cannot obtain judgment on a breach of contract cause of action in  an amount of damages to be determined later.” (Paramount Petroleum Corp. v.  Superior Ct. (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 226, 241.)              Plaintiff moves for summary judgment on the grounds that Liou  has no defense to the First Cause of Action for breach of contract as to the  subject lease agreement and guaranty. The following is a brief summary of  Plaintiff’s proffered undisputed material facts: 1.                   On or about November 29, 2017, Plaintiff and Defendant Cloud  Control entered into the Lease for Cloud Control to use and occupy the  Premises, at Unit A, for a period of three (3) years, with base rent in the  amount of $19,875.00 per month, payable on the first day of each month, commencing  around December 1, 2017, terminating November 30, 2020. (UMF 1.) 2.                   Liou signed the Lease on behalf of Cloud Control, and the  obligations pursuant to the terms of the Lease were guaranteed by Liou under paragraph  1.11 of the Lease. (UMF 2, 3.) Specifically, paragraph 1.11 of the Lease  states, “[t]he obligations of the Lessee under this Lease are to be guaranteed  by . . . Liou (‘Guarantor’).” (UMF 3, 4.) 3.                   Liou concurrently executed the Guaranty giving Plaintiff the right  to proceed against Liou for any breach or default of the Lease by Cloud  Control. (UMF 5). Under the Guaranty, Liou “unconditionally and irrevocably  guarantee[d] the prompt payment by Lessee of all rents and all other sums  payable by Lessee under said Lease and the faithful and prompt performance by Lessee  of each and every one of its terms, conditions and covenants of said Lease . .  ..” (UMF 6.) The Guaranty further gave Plaintiff the right to proceed against  Liou, as guarantor, for any breach or default of the Lease by Cloud Control.  (UMF 7.)  4.                   On or about January 5, 2018, Plaintiff, by the Addendum, leased a  second unit at the same property, at Unit C (Unit C), to Cloud Control, to use  and occupy the Premises as described in particularity in the Lease. (UMF 8.) The  Addendum incorporated the terms of the Lease, and all terms of the Addendum  mirrored the Lease, except for the start date. (UMF 9.) 5.                   The Addendum incorporated the Guaranty signed by Liou, therein,  extending Liou’s obligations as guarantor to the terms of the Lease for Unit C.  (UMF 10.) 6.                   Under the Lease and Addendum, Cloud Control was required to keep  the Premises, utility installations, and alterations in good order, condition,  and repair; requiring Defendants to exercise and perform good maintenance  practices, such as restorations, replacements, or renewals, when necessary to  keep the premises and all improvements thereon in good order, condition, and  state of repair. (UMF 11.) Upon surrender of the Premises, Cloud Control was  required to return the Premises with all of the improvements, parts, and  surfaces thereof broom clean and free of debris, and in good operating order,  condition and state of repair, with exception to ordinary wear and tear. (UMF  12.) 7.                   Under the Lease and Addendum, Cloud Control was responsible for  25% of the common area operating expenses, which included, but were not limited  to, property taxes, utilities, and common area improvements. (UMF 13.) 8.                   Commencing on or about December 1, 2018, and continuing every  month thereafter, Cloud Control failed to pay rent, failed to pay their share  of the common area operating expenses, and abandoned Units A and C before the  expiration dates of the Lease and Addendum. (UMF 15.) 9.                   Due to Cloud Control’s breaches of the Lease for Unit A and the  Addendum for Unit C, Plaintiff sustained damages comprised of delinquent rent,  late charges, delinquent common area operating expenses, costs to repair the  Premises, costs to relet the Premises, and legal fees; totaling $418,442.62.  (UMF 16-18, 22.) 10.               Around April 1, 2019, Plaintiff was able to mitigate its damages  by reletting Units A and C to a new tenant, at a rate less than fair market  rental value, for the remainder of the term of the Lease for Unit A and the  Addendum for Unit C. (UMF 16-17, 22.)  11.               The damages owed by Cloud Control to Plaintiff have not been  satisfied, and Liou has failed to pay Cloud Control’s obligations, pursuant to  his obligations under the Lease, Addendum, and the written Guaranty. (UMF  18-20, 22.) 12.               On September 19, 2022, this Court entered a Default Judgment  against Cloud Control, for a total of $548,627.45, which is comprised of  damages in the amount of $418,442.62, prejudgment interest in the amount of  $126,220.63, Attorney fees in the amount of $3,440.00, and Costs in the amount  of $524.20. (UMF 22.)  The Court finds Plaintiff has established every element of its  claim for breach of contract against Liou. The evidence establishes that there  was a written Lease and Addendum between Plaintiff and Cloud Control to lease  the Premises, and that Liou agreed to guarantee the payment of Cloud Control’s  obligations thereunder. (UMF 1-13.) The evidence establishes that Plaintiff gave  possession of the Premises to Cloud Control as required under the Lease. (UMF  1, 8.) The evidence establishes that Cloud Control breached the Lease and  Addendum by failing to pay the rent and expenses due and abandoned the premises  prior to the end of the term. (UMF 15.) The evidence further establishes that  Liou failed to pay Cloud Control’s obligations due under the Lease and Addendum  as required by the Guaranty. (UMF 18.) As a result of these breaches, Plaintiff  sustained damages comprised of delinquent rent, late charges, delinquent common  area operating expenses, costs to repair the Premises, costs to relet the  Premises, and legal fees, totaling $418,442.62. (UMF 16.) The burden of proof  now shifts to Defendant Liou to establish the existence of a triable issue of  material fact.  Liou has not opposed the motion for summary judgment. Accordingly,  Liou has not established the existence of a triable issue of material fact as  to the Second Cause of Action for Breach of Contract.  Third Cause  of Action – Breach of Written Guaranty  The necessary elements for breach of written guaranty  are: (1) that the defendant guaranteed payment of the indebtedness of the  primary obligor to the plaintiff; (2) a default on the indebtedness; (3) that  the plaintiff notified the guarantor of the default; and (4) that the guarantor  did not remit funds to the plaintiff under the guaranty agreement. (Torrey  Pines Bank v. Superior Court (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 813, 819.)  The Court finds Plaintiff has established every element of its  claim for breach of written guaranty against Liou. The evidence establishes  that Liou, the owner of Cloud Control agreed to guaranty the payment of Cloud  Control’s obligations under the Lease and Addendum. (UMF 1-13.) The evidence  establishes that Cloud Control breached the Lease and Addendum by failing to  pay the rent and expenses due and abandoned the premises prior to the end of  the term. (UMF 15.) The evidence establishes that Plaintiff notified Liou of the  unpaid amounts due and owing from Cloud Control under the Lease and Addendum. (UMF  15; Statement of Evidence, Ex. 8 - Decl. of Matthew Sawyer ¶ 16, Ex. 3.) The  evidence further establishes that Liou failed to pay Cloud Control’s  obligations due under the Lease and Addendum as required by the Guaranty. (UMF  18.) As a result of these breaches, Plaintiff sustained damages comprised of  delinquent rent, late charges, delinquent common area operating expenses, costs  to repair the Premises, costs to relet the Premises, and legal fees, totaling  $418,442.62. (UMF 16.) The burden of proof now shifts to Defendant Liou to establish  the existence of a triable issue of material fact.  Liou has not opposed the motion for summary judgment. Accordingly,  Liou has not established the existence of a triable issue of material fact as  to the Third Cause of Action for Breach of Written Guaranty.              Fourth Cause of Action -- Unjust  Enrichment              “The elements  for a claim  of unjust enrichment are receipt  of a benefit  and unjust retention  of the benefit at the expense  of another. [Citation.] The theory of unjust  enrichment requires one who acquires a benefit which may not justly be  retained, to return either the thing or its equivalent to the aggrieved party  so as not to be unjustly enriched. [Citation.]” (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel  (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 759, 769, internal quotation marks omitted.)  The Court notes that Plaintiff’s motion  for summary judgment does not address every cause of action in the FAC,  specifically the Fourth Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment. The FAC alleges  each cause of action in the FAC against Liou, including the Unjust Enrichment  claim. (FAC, ¶¶ 44-49.) The Court does not see that any dismissal has been filed as to the Unjust Enrichment claim. Accordingly, for the Court to grant summary judgment,  Plaintiff needs to address each cause of action. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,  subd. (a)(1) [“A party may move for summary  judgment in an action or proceeding if it is contended  that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or  proceeding.”]; Id., § 437c, subd. (c).) By failing to address the Fourth  Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment, Plaintiff failed to establish the  absence of a triable issue of material fact as to the entire action.  The Court  further notes that Plaintiff only moved for summary judgment and did not also  move for summary adjudication in the alternative. Therefore, the Court cannot  grant the motion as to the separate causes of action discussed above.              Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for  summary judgment without prejudice.  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment without  prejudice.                Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     