 Case Number:  22PSCV01925    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:   Michael Rosas, et al. v. OC
Auto Exchange dba LA Auto Exchange, et al. 
Motions
to be Relieved as Counsel (x2) 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES the motions to be relieved as Plaintiffs’ counsel
without prejudice. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a fraud action. On November 21, 2022, plaintiffs Michael
Rosas and Odalys Rosas (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action against defendants
OC Auto Exchange dba LA Auto Exchange, a California corporation, Western Surety
Company, a South Dakota corporation, Capital One Auto Finance Inc., a Texas
Corporation (collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 through 10. On February 21,
2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint against Defendants
and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes of action for fraud & deceit,
negligent misrepresentation, violation of Business and Professions Code section
17200, action for rescission of sales contract for sale of goods pursuant to
California [sic] Code section 1698, violation of California Civil
Code section 1632, violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty [sic],
Civil Code section 1790, et seq., violation of the Consumers [sic] Legal
Remedies Act – Equitable and Injunctive Relief, and violation of Vehicle Code
section 11711. 
On
September 5, 2023, Ben Roberts of Law Office of Ben Roberts moved to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs have not opposed the motions. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
The Court has
discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be
granted, provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 403-407.) 
A motion to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Council
Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all
parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362,
subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
Ben
Roberts of Law Office of Ben Roberts (Counsel) seeks to be relieved as counsel
for Plaintiffs. Counsel contends he and his firm have lost all contact with
Plaintiffs. (Roberts Decls., ¶ 2.) 
Grounds for permitting an attorney to withdraw from representation
include the client’s conduct that “renders it unreasonably difficult for the
lawyer to carry out the representation effectively[.]” (Cal. Rules of
Professional Conduct, rule 1.16, subd. (b)(4).) A breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship is also grounds for allowing the attorney to
withdraw. (Estate of Falco (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014.) While
the Court finds Plaintiffs’ lack of communication sufficient grounds for
permitting withdrawal, the Court finds a few issues with Counsel’s motions that
need to be fixed. 
First, each of the Judicial Council forms Counsel filed with the
Court show that Counsel provided the wrong courthouse contact information in
the caption of each document. Counsel provided the contact information for the
Pomona Courthouse, but the correct courthouse is the West Covina Courthouse. It
is unclear to the Court whether Counsel served the forms with the incorrect
courthouse information, which would be inadequate notice to Plaintiffs of the
location for the hearing on these motions. 
Second, Counsel’s declarations indicate that he could not confirm
Plaintiffs’ last known address, but instead confirmed through an investigator
that Plaintiffs’ address and phone number are the same. (Roberts Decls., ¶ 3,
subd. (b).) Counsel does not state how the information was confirmed through
the investigator. The Court does not find this information sufficient to
confirm Plaintiffs’ current address. 
Third, the proposed orders contain outdated hearing information,
as the Post-Arbitration Status Conference was continued to May 13, 2024,
following Counsel’s filing of these motions. (See Minute Order (3/14/24).) In
fact, the Court noted at the hearing on March 14, 2024 that Counsel would need
to provide an updated proposed order to include that Plaintiffs must appear and
advise the Court of the status of arbitration. (Id.) 
            Therefore, the Court DENIES the
motions without prejudice. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motions to be relieved as Plaintiffs’ counsel
without prejudice. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days.