 Case Number:  23PSCV00303    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Defendant,
Cascade Drilling, L.P’S (“Cascade”) DEMURRER to Plaintiff, Southern California
Edison Company’s (SCE) FAC is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
Background
 
This is a
negligence action. Plaintiff SCE alleges the following against Defendants
Cascade, STEARNS, CONRAD AND SCHMIDT, CONSULTING ENGINEERS, INC. (the “Engineers”);
UTILIQUEST, LLC (“Utiliquest”): In the performance of excavation work at or
near Plaintiff’s electric facilities, Defendants were negligent and caused
damage to Plaintiff’s electric facilities.
 
On January
31, 2023, SCE filed its complaint asserting the following causes of action
(COAs): 1.     Cost of Repair Pursuant to California
Public Utilities Code §7952 2.     Negligence 3.     Trespass to Chattels 4.     Violation of Government Code Section
4216, et seq. 5.     Breach of Contract 6.     Negligence
 
On February
28, 2023, the Engineers filed its answer and a cross-complaint against Cascade
and Utiliquest.
 
On March 9,
2023, Utiliquest filed its answer as to SCE’s complaint and filed a
cross-complaint against Cascade and the Engineers. 
 
On June 1,
2023, Cascade a demurrer, which the court sustained with leave to amend on
7/17/23. 
 
On August 16,
2023, Plaintiff filed its FAC, realleging the same COAs against the same
Defendants. 
On September
15, 2023, Utiliquest filed its answer to the FAC. 
 
On October 2,
2023, Cascade filed the instant demurrer to the FAC. 
 
On October
16, 2023, Plaintiff filed its opposition. 
 
On October
23, 2023, Cascade filed its Reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
A demurrer
for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) Two
grounds for a demurrer are when (i) the complaint states insufficient facts to
assert a cause of action and (ii) when the allegations are vague, ambiguous, or
uncertain. (Code of Civ. Proc., §430.10, subds. (e), (f).)[1] The defects
must appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code of
Civ. Proc., § 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only
allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis
for the claim against him. (Semole v.
Sansoucie (1972) 28
Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) 
 
Timeliness
 
According to CCP section 1005,
subdivision b, all moving papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court
days before the hearing. 
 
Here, Counsel for Plaintiff indicates that
he did not receive the Demurrer to First Amended Complaint until October 12,
2023, only days before Plaintiff’s opposition was due despite repeatedly asking
about status of service. (Opp. p. 3.) Indeed, a review of the POS attached to
the demurrer does not provide Plaintiff’s firm’s name. (Demurrer p. 24 of 32 of
PDF.) However, as revealed in the Reply and in the email exchanges, there
appears to have been a technical error with Plaintiff’s email system. (Reply
pp. 3-4.) The existence of a system failure is evidenced by the fact that the
FAC was timely sent as evidenced by an email dated September 8, 2023 at 4:09 PM
that bears the demurrer to the FAC. (Reply, Ex. 1, p. 8 of 30 of PDF.) 
 
Even assuming timely service was not
provided, the court would merely continue the hearing, which with the court’s
impacted schedule, would not allow for a hearing until next year, which is
disadvantageous to both parties. 
 
Therefore, as service was made and,
most importantly, Plaintiff had the opportunity to adequately respond, the
court will address the merits of the demurrer. 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
Cascade again demurs to the first four COAs asserted against it. 
 
Previously,
the court sustained Cascade’s demurrer because the only fact pled
was that Defendants collectively did not exercise due care and caused damage,
which left insufficient ultimate facts as to how Cascade purportedly breached a
duty. As the court noted, “to say someone was negligent without explaining what
duty they owed (statutory or common law) and why they owed it, and how they
breached said duty does not apprise Cascade of the allegations against it.”
(July 17, 2023 Tentative Ruling.) In short, the demurrer to the original
complaint was sustained because it lacked factual details as it was
conclusively pled. Now, while Plaintiff has provided some additional facts—that
Cascade and the Consulting Engineers had a duty to “maintain[] an active
Underground Service Alert ticket and ensur[e] that the underground utilities in
the area of the proposed excavation had been marked by all utility companies
prior to the commencement of excavation” but that said Defendants “failed to
comply with the foregoing requirements” (¶14)[2]—the FAC still does not
differentiate between what duty Cascade versus the Engineers owed Plaintiff,
what Cascade as opposed to the Engineers supposedly did or failed to do, and
how Cascade as opposed to the Engineers caused damage, or what that damage is.
 
First, though no legal authority is
provided by Cascade, a pleading that lumps allegations Defendants is an
improper form of pleading. (See Wilson v. Household Fin. Corp.,
(1982) 131 Cal. App. 3d 649, 653 [noting that court properly sustained demurrer
because plaintiff cannot allege claim against defendant by merely lumping it
together with the other defendant, as the demurring defendant did not have
duties of an insurer].) Pleadings like this that assert multiple claims against
multiple defendants without specifying which defendants are liable for which acts
or omissions make it difficult for defendants to
make informed responses to a Plaintiff's allegations, as evidenced here by
Cascade’s demurrer. 
 
To the extent
that Plaintiff maintains this form of pleading is proper, its citation does not
support that contention. Plaintiff cites to Haning, Flahavan, & Kelly,
California Practice Guide: Personal Injury, 5:426 (The Rutter Group, 2013). For
one, the source is a secondary source; thus, it merely serves as persuasive
authority. Second, while the source does iterate that “negligence and product liability claims can be
pleaded generally without specifying
the particular breach or the particular manner in which the accident occurred,”[3] that does not address the
issue here which is that the same facts have been pled against multiple
defendants. Absent a citation otherwise, lumping allegations against
Cascade and the Engineers is improper. 
 
Second, perhaps contributing to the lack of sufficient facts apprising
Cascade of what it has done versus the Engineers is that the FAC does not
explain the role of each Defendant. The only party sufficiently
identified is Plaintiff, which “own[s] and maintain[s] certain facility at
[location].” (FAC ¶2.) Cascade and the Engineers are not explained, aside
from their entity status. The court only learns of the parties’ possible
roles in the demurrer. Cascade explains that Cascade is a drilling contractor;
Cascade was hired by the Engineers to work on a project; the Engineers hired
Cascade to perform some of the work for the project, including the
drilling/excavation work; and Utiliquest is a company that is responsible for
locating underground utility lines and marking their locations. (Demurrer p.
4.) Accordingly, from the demurrer, it appears that the Engineers are being
sued for vicarious liability. In any event, as on a demurrer a court is bound
by the four corners of the pleading and not the briefs, the relevant
information must be found in the complaint. (See Melikian v. Truck Ins.
Exchange (1955) 133 Cal.App.2d 113, 114.) 
 
As this argument—that Defendant (i.e., Cascade) is not apprised of the
allegations it because the very same allegations are asserted against another defendant
(the Engineers)—is the basis for all the pertinent COAs, the court sustains the
demurrer with leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the court SUSTAINS the entirety of the demurrer with leave to amend.
 
 


