  Case Number:  21STCV47582    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  49 Angel Cordova v. Fortifi Financial, Inc., et al.MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF ISSUES MOVING PARTY: Defendants Fortifi Financial, Inc., and California Municipal Finance AuthorityRESPONDING PARTY(S): NoneSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Angel Cordova brings this action against Defendants Fortifi Financial, Inc., and California Municipal Finance Authority.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants, who are administrators and/or authorized contractors of the Property Assessed Clean Enregy (“PACE”) Program, engaged in fraud by soliciting Plaintiff to build an ADU on his property.  Defendants allegedly misled Plaintiff into agreeing to the ADU and forged his signatures on documents in order to create PACE assessments on Plaintiff’s property without his knowledge.  Plaintiff alleges that no work was ever done on his property, and over $100,000 in property assessments have been placed on the property.Defendants now move for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of issues. No opposition was filed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.Defendants are to file a [Proposed] Judgment consistent with this ruling.Defendants to give notice.DISCUSSION:Motion for Summary JudgmentI. Judicial NoticePursuant to Defendants’ request, the court takes judicial notice of Exhibits E, I, J, and K.II. Legal StandardThe function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843. In analyzing motions for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.  Thus, summary judgment is granted when, after the Court’s consideration of the evidence set forth in the papers and all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c); Villa v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741. As to each claim as framed by the Complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense. Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389. A defendant has met its burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if it demonstrates the absence of any single essential element of plaintiff’s case or a complete defense to plaintiff’s action.  Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(o)(2); Bacon v. Southern Cal. Edison Co. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 854, 858.  Once the defendant moving party has met the burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show via specific facts that a triable issue of material facts exists as to a cause of action or a defense thereto.  § 437c(o)(2). III. AnalysisA. First Cause of Action for Fraud; Third Cause of Action for Rescission; Fourth Cause of Action for Violation of Business and Professions Code Section 17200; Sixth Cause of Action for Violation of Business and Professions Code Section 7160 In analyzing motions for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)In support of his First Cause of Action for Fraud, Plaintiff alleges Defendants “made or encouraged false representations and/or knowingly concealed or failed to disclose material facts pertinent to the PACE loans to solicit Plaintiff to agree to a PACE loan and assessment.” (Compl. ¶ 63.) Defendants “fail[ed] to disclose that the loans would come from PACE funding, fail[ed] to disclose the amounts and terms of the loans, and fail[ed] to disclose that the loans would be secured by tax assessments recorded senior to existing mortgages.” (Id.) These allegations also form the basis of Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for rescission, [FN 1]  in which Plaintiff seeks rescission of the PACE loans and assessment contracts because, among other reasons, they were “obtained through fraud.” (Compl. ¶ 75.) Likewise, Plaintiff’s Fourth and Sixth Causes of Action are based on alleged fraudulent representations or omissions. Business and Professions Code section 17200 defines “unfair competition” to include “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice....” “The scope of section 17200 is broad, encompassing ‘anything that can properly be called a business practice and that at the same time is forbidden by law.’ ... It governs ‘anti-competitive business practices’ as well as injuries to consumers, and has as a major purpose ‘the preservation of fair business competition.’” [Citations.] (Linear Tech. Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc., (2007) 152 Cal. App. 4th 115, 133).  Business and Professions Code section 7160 provides a cause of action for damages by “any person” who relies on “false or fraudulent representations or false statements knowingly made” by a “contractor or solicitor” in a contract for a home improvement project. (BPC § 7160.) “[E]ven without opposition, a court may not grant a motion for summary judgment unless it first determines that defendants have met their initial burden of proof.” (Denton v. City and County of San Francisco (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 779, 794; Thatcher v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal. App. 4th 1081, 1086 [A court to may not grant summary judgment based solely on the absence of an opposition].) “A defendant moving for summary judgment has the initial burden of showing, with respect to each cause of action set forth in the complaint, the cause of action is without merit. A defendant meets that burden by showing one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established, or there is a complete defense thereto.” (Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal. App. 5th 1095, 1101.)On May 5, 2023, this court granted Defendants’ motion to deem their requests for admission admitted, “to the extent [the requests] are appropriate.” (See May 5, 2023, Minute Order.) These admissions now form the basis of the moving party’s motion for summary judgment. “As a general rule an admission is conclusive in the action as to the party making it.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.410, subd. (a); Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1522.)Defendants present evidence that they did not make any false representations to Plaintiff. (SSUMF 6.) Rather, Defendants were unaware of Plaintiff and non-party GND’s “scheme” to use PACE financing to build an ADU. Construction of an ADU is not a PACE eligible improvement. (SSUMF 5.) Defendants never represented that PACE financing could be used to construct an ADU. (SSUMF 6.) Indeed, Defendants relied on Plaintiff’s false representations that the funds would be used to construct the PACE eligible Improvements, including a new lighting control system, wall insulation, core plumbing system, whole house manifold, and duct replacement—in other words, not an ADU. (SSUMF 1.)“A prima facie showing is one that is sufficient to support the position of the party in question. [Citation.] No more is called for.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 851 [emphasis added].) “The prima facie showing by the moving party must be such that it would, if uncontradicted, entitle the moving party to judgment as a matter of law.” (Id. at 851.) That is, “a moving defendant must present evidence which, if uncontradicted, would constitute a preponderance of evidence [i.e., show it is more likely than not] that an essential element of the plaintiff's case cannot be established.” (Kids’ Universe v. In2Labs (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 870, 879.)Considering the evidence, Defendants have met their initial burden to demonstrate that Plaintiff cannot establish his fraud-based claims. This shifts the burden to Plaintiff to establish a triable issue of material fact. By failing to oppose, Plaintiff has not carried that burden.Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of Plaintiff’s First, Third, Fourth, and Sixth Causes of Action are GRANTED.B. Second Cause of Action for NegligenceTo prevail on a cause of action for negligence, Plaintiff must show that (1) the defendants owed the plaintiff a legal duty, (2) the defendants breached the duty, and (3) the breach proximately or legally caused (4) the plaintiff's damages or injuries. (Thomas v. Stenberg (2012) 206 Cal. App. 4th 654, 662.)Plaintiff alleges Defendants were negligent by, “among other things, failing to identify or stop their authorized contractors and agents’ rampant practice of recruiting homeowners to build ADUs through PACE financing with Defendants’ loans, failing to identify multiple red flags in those loans and the pattern of other similar loans, failing to ensure homeowners were sufficiently apprised of the terms of the loans, failing to check homeowners’ actual income, failing to identify that the loans were not being used for energy efficient upgrades or water conservation upgrades such as by inspecting the properties or the permits, in many instances fully paying all of the loan monies to contractors before the projects had even commenced (such as what occurred with Plaintiff), and in many instances recording taxassessments for those loans before the projects even started and/or were completed (such as what occurred with Plaintiff).” (Id. ¶ 69.) Plaintiff also alleges Defendants “failed to properly vet and monitor their authorized contractors’ and their agents.” (Id. ¶ 70.)Defendants provided Plaintiff with a Financing Application and an Assessment Contract, and on June 12, 2018, Plaintiff executed same. (SSUMF 7.) In a recorded phone call that same day, Plaintiff represented that he understood the financing terms. (SSUMF 8.) On July 3, 2018, Plaintiff represented both written and verbally that the improvements were installed and completed to his satisfaction. (SSUMF 9.) As already noted, Defendants also present evidence that they did not make any false representations to Plaintiff. (SSUMF 6.) Defendants never represented that PACE financing could be used to construct an ADU. (SSUMF 6.) Defendants relied on Plaintiff’s false representations that the funds would be used to construct the PACE eligible Improvements, including a new lighting control system, wall insulation, core plumbing system, whole house manifold, and duct replacement. (SSUMF 1.)Finally, Defendants presents evidence that Plaintiff admitted to having no evidence that GND or Vega were agents of Defendants. (SSUMF 20.)Considering the above evidence, Defendants have met their initial burden to establish they did not breach any duty owed to Plaintiff. This shifts the burden to Plaintiff to establish a triable issue of material fact. By failing to oppose, Plaintiff has not carried that burden.Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Second Cause of Action is GRANTED.C. Seventh Cause of Action for Cancellation of Assessment Agreement and Lien; Eighth Cause of Action for Violations of California Home Solicitations ActIn support of his seventh cause of action for cancellation, Plaintiff alleges he “has suffered a financial loss because of these PACE assessments and lien.” (Compl. ¶ 96.) He alleges the agreements “are riddled with unconscionable terms and conditions,” including excessive interest rates and insufficient disclosures. (Id. ¶ 97.) Relatedly, in support of his eighth cause of action for violations of the Home Solicitation Act, Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to make the necessary disclosures. (Id. ¶¶ 103-109.) As to the seventh cause of action for cancellation, Defendants present evidence the document contains all the requisite PACE financing terms including, among others, Truth-in-PACE Disclosure Statement that identifies the amount financed, applicable interest rate and payment terms as well as a Notice of his right to cancel. (SSUMF 7-9.) Plaintiff verbally represented that he understood the same. (Id. 8.)As to the eighth cause of action, Defendants present evidence they are not home improvement contractors. (SSUMF 13.) Defendants also present evidence that the finance agreement and assessment are not home improvement contracts. (SSUMF 13, 17.) Plaintiff admitted the same in his RFAs. (Id.)Considering the above evidence, Defendants have met their initial burden to establish Plaintiff cannot meet the essential elements of his claims. This shifts the burden to Plaintiff to establish a triable issue of material fact. By failing to oppose, Plaintiff has not carried that burden.Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Seventh and Eighth Causes of Action is GRANTED.D. Fifth Cause of Action for Declaratory ReliefFinally, Plaintiff seeks a judicial declaration that: (1) “The loans and assessment contracts purportedly entered into between Plaintiff, on the one hand, and Defendants, on the other, should be rescinded or the obligations otherwise cancelled;” (2) “The PACE liens on the real property owned by Plaintiff should be withdrawn and extinguished and removed from title;” and (3) “Plaintiff is entitled to recover any or all payments made in connection with the PACE program and PACE liens, including payments made by way of tax payments, andout of pocket payments to try to mitigate damages.” (Compl. ¶ 86.) “[I]n a declaratory relief action, the defendant's burden is to establish the plaintiff is not entitled to a declaration in its favor.” (Gafcon, Inc. v. Ponsor & Assocs. (2002) 98 Cal. App. 4th 1388, 1402.) As discussed in this ruling, Defendants have met their burden to establish they did not defraud Plaintiff, nor commit negligence, in connection with the PACE Assessment. (SSUMF 3, 6.) There is also no basis to rescind, cancel or otherwise extinguish the PACE Assessment. Therefore, Defendants have met their burden to establish the Plaintiff is not entitled to a declaration in his favor. By failing to oppose, Plaintiff has not established the existence of a triable issue.Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Fifth Cause of Action is GRANTED.Based on the above, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   October 24, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court FN 1 - It is noted that courts generally treat rescission as a remedy rather than a standalone cause of action. (Nakash v. Superior Ct. (1987) 196 Cal. App. 3d 59, 70 [“Rescission is not a cause of action; it is a remedy.”].) In either case, the claim or remedy fails, as discussed herein.