  Case Number:  23PSCV03141    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Metro Gold Line Foothill
Extension Construction Authority’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Second Amended
Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiffs Alicia Olivares, Stephanie Watkin, Amaris Violet
Gutierrez, Abel Valentino Gutierrez, and Angelina Victoria Gallegos
Defendant Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Metro Gold Line Foothill
Extension Construction Authority’s Motion to
Strike Punitive Damages from Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint
Respondent:
Plaintiffs Alicia Olivares, Stephanie Watkin, Amaris Violet Gutierrez, Abel
Valentino Gutierrez, and Angelina Victoria Gallegos
Defendants
Kiewit Corporation, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit Infrastructure West Co., and Parsons
Construction Group, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint
Respondent:
Plaintiffs Alicia Olivares, Stephanie Watkin, Amaris Violet Gutierrez, Abel
Valentino Gutierrez, and Angelina Victoria Gallegos
Defendants
Kiewit Corporation, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit Infrastructure West Co., and Parsons
Construction Group, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from Plaintiffs’ Second
Amended Complaint
Respondent:
Plaintiffs Alicia Olivares, Stephanie Watkin, Amaris Violet Gutierrez, Abel
Valentino Gutierrez, and Angelina Victoria Gallegos
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Metro Gold Line Foothill
Extension Construction Authority’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Second Amended
Complaint is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to Plaintiff Stephanie Watkin’s causes of
action and with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to Plaintiffs Angelina
Victoria Gallegos and Abel Valentino Gutierrez’s fifth and sixth causes of
action.
Defendant Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Metro Gold Line Foothill
Extension Construction Authority’s Motion to
Strike Punitive Damages from Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint is deemed MOOT.
Defendants
Kiewit Corporation, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit Infrastructure West Co., and Parsons
Construction Group, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to
Plaintiff Stephanie Watkin’s causes of action and with twenty (20) days leave
to amend as to Plaintiffs Angelina Victoria Gallegos and Abel Valentino
Gutierrez’s fifth and sixth causes of action.
Defendants
Kiewit Corporation, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit Infrastructure West Co., and Parsons
Construction Group, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from Plaintiffs’ Second
Amended Complaint is deemed MOOT.
BACKGROUND
This
is a wrongful death action arising from a motor vehicle collision. In November
2022, Alberto J. Gutierrez was the passenger of a 2006 GMC Sierra that was
travelling eastbound on Route 66 in Glendora near the intersection of Hunters
Trail. As a result of the allegedly narrow construction of the road, Alberto
Gutierrez’s truck was forced off the road by a vehicle in the other lane and
collided with a wall on the southside of the roadway. Alberto Gutierrez was
killed after the impact caused the truck to flip over.
On
October 10, 2023, Plaintiffs Alicia Olivares, individually and as successor in
interest to Alberto Gutierrez; Stephanie Watkin, individually and as successor
in interest to Alberto Gutierrez; Amaris Violet Gutierrez, by and through
Watkin as guardian ad litem; Abel Valentino Gutierrez, by and through Watkin as
guardian ad litem; and Angelina Victoria Gallegos, individually and as
successor in interest to Alberto Gutierrez (collectively, Gutierrez Plaintiffs)
filed a complaint against Defendants City of Glendora (the City), Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LACMTA), the Metro Gold Line
Foothill Extension Construction Authority (Foothill Gold Line), Kiewit
Corporation (Kiewit), Fernando Vasquez Barrera, and Does 1-200, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) dangerous condition of public
property, (3) negligence per se, (4) loss of consortium, (5) wrongful death,
and (6) survival.
On
December 8, 2023, the Gutierrez Plaintiffs amended the Complaint to replace Doe
1 with Defendant Kiewit-Parsons and Doe 2 with Defendant Kiewit Infrastructure
West Co. (Kiewit West). On December 11, 2023, the Gutierrez Plaintiffs amended
the Complaint to replace Doe 3 with Defendant Parsons Construction Group Inc.
(Parsons).
On
February 2, 2024, the Gutierrez Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint
(FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
On
February 20, 2024, LACMTA filed a cross-complaint against Vasquez Barrera and
Does 1-10, alleging causes of action for (1) indemnification, (2) apportionment
of fault, and (3) declaratory relief. On the same day, Foothill Gold Line also
filed a cross-complaint against Vasquez Barrera and Does 1-10, alleging causes
of action for (1) indemnification, (2) apportionment of fault, and (3)
declaratory relief.
On
March 6, 2024, Kiewit, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit West, and Parsons (collectively,
Kiewit-Parsons Defendants) filed a cross-complaint against Vasquez Barrera and
Roes 1-50, alleging causes of action for (1) equitable indemnity, (2) implied
indemnity, (3) comparative fault, and (4) declaratory relief.
On April 22,
2024, the court sustained the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC in
part with leave to amend.
On May 13,
2024, the Gutierrez Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against
the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
On June
14, 2024, LACMTA and Foothill Gold Line filed one of the present demurrers and
motions to strike. On the same day, the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants also filed
one of the present demurrers and motions to strike. Prior to filing on May 23,
2024, the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants’ counsel attempted to meet and confer
telephonically with the Gutierrez Plaintiffs’ counsel and was unable to reach a
resolution. (Fersch Decl., ¶ 3.) On August 2, 2024, the court continued a
hearing on the present demurrers in order for LACMTA and Foothill Gold Line to
further meet and confer. On August 5, 2024, LACMTA and Foothill Gold Line’s
counsel telephonically met and conferred with the Gutierrez Plaintiffs’
counsel. (Anvari Suppl. Decl., ¶ 5.)
A hearing
on the present demurrers and motions to strike are set for September 18, 2024,
along with a case management conference.
ANALYSIS
The
Kiewit-Parsons Defendants, LACMTA, and Foothill Gold Line (collectively,
Defendants) demur to the Gutierrez Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action (loss of
consortium), fifth cause of action (wrongful death), and sixth cause of action
(survival). For the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS their demurrers in their
entirety.
Legal Standard
A
party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering
demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
Loss of Consortium (Fourth Cause of Action)
Defendants
argue Watkin’s fourth cause of action for loss of consortium fails to plead
sufficient facts to state a claim because Watkin lacks standing. The court
agrees.
Legal
Standard
A
cause of action for loss of consortium “has four elements: ‘(1) a valid and
lawful marriage between the plaintiff and the person injured at the time of the
injury; [¶] (2) a tortious injury to the plaintiff's spouse; [¶] (3) loss of
consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and [¶] (4) the loss was proximately
caused by the defendant’s act.’” (LeFiell Manufacturing Co. v. Superior
Court (2012) 55 Cal.4th 275, 284-285, quoting Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 746, fn. 2.) Because “a cause of action for loss of
consortium ‘must be narrowly circumscribed,’” courts refuse to recognize
standing for cohabiting couples who are unmarried, even when their relationship
parallels that of a married one. (Elden v. Sheldon (1988) 46 Cal.3d 267,
277-278, quoting Borer v. American Airlines, Inc. (1977) 19 Cal.3d 441,
444.)
With
regards to domestic partnerships, “the Legislature has granted legal
recognition comparable to marriage both procedurally and in terms of the
substantive rights and obligations granted to and imposed upon the partners”
when those partners qualify for and register their partnership pursuant to the
Domestic Partner Act. (Koebke v. Bernardo Heights Country Club (2005) 36
Cal.4th 824, 845, citing Fam. Code, § 297.5, subd. (a).) A domestic partnership
is established “when both persons file a Declaration of Domestic Partnership
with the Secretary of State” and meet the requirements for a domestic
partnership. (Fam. Code, § 297, subd. (a).)
Discussion
In
previously sustaining the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of
action, the court found the FAC failed to establish Watkin had standing because
it did not allege Watkin was in a domestic partnership with Alberto Gutierrez
that was registered with the California Secretary of State. (4/22/2024 Ruling,
p. 4.) The SAC does not cure this deficiency as it also fails to allege Watkin
and Alberto Gutierrez’s domestic partnership was registered with the California
Secretary of State and instead alleges it was registered with the County of Los
Angeles. (SAC, ¶ 64.) Registration of a domestic partnership with the county does
not satisfy the requirements of the Domestic Partner Act. (See Velez v.
Smith (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1167 [declining to allow same-sex couple
to pursue dissolution of their domestic partnership pursuant to the Domestic
Partner Act when they registered their partnership with the county and not the
state].)
Accordingly,
because Watkin lacks standing as Watkin was not in a registered domestic
partnership pursuant to the Domestic Partner Act, Defendants’ demurrers to this
cause of action are SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
Wrongful
Death and Survival (Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action)
Defendants
contend the Gutierrez Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action for wrongful death and
sixth cause of action for survival fail to plead sufficient facts to state a
claim because Watkin, Gallegos, and Abel Gutierrez lacks standing. The court agrees.
Legal
Standard
Wrongful
Death
Code
of Civil Procedure section 377.60, subdivision (a) establishes that a wrongful
death action may be brought on the behalf of a decedent by the decedent’s
personal representative or by the following individuals:
“The decedent’s surviving spouse, domestic partner,
children, and issue of deceased children, or, if there is no surviving issue of
the decedent, the persons, including the surviving spouse or domestic partner,
who would be entitled to the property of the decedent by intestate succession.
If the parents of the decedent would be entitled to bring an action under this
subdivision, and the parents are deceased, then the legal guardians of the
decedent, if any, may bring an action under this subdivision as if they were
the decedent’s parents.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.60, subd. (a).)
In
addition, an action may be brought by an individual on the behalf of the
decedent “if they were dependent on the decedent, the putative spouse, children
of the putative spouse, stepchildren, parents, or the legal guardians of the
decedent if the parents are deceased.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.60, subd.
(b)(1).) A “‘putative spouse’ means the surviving spouse of a void or voidable
marriage who is found by the court to have believed in good faith that the
marriage to the decedent was valid.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.60, subd. (b)(2).)
A “‘domestic partner’ means a person who, at the time of the decedent's death,
was the domestic partner of the decedent in a registered domestic partnership
established in accordance with subdivision (b) of Section 297 of the Family
Code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.60, subd. (f)(1).)
Survival
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 377.30, a survival action may be
brought by the decedent’s personal representative or successor in interest. For
the purposes of this provision, successor-in-interest is defined as “the
beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or other successor-in-interest who
succeeds to a cause of action or to a particular item of the property that is
the subject of a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.)
Discussion
Watkin’s Standing
The SAC alleges Watkin is
Alberto Gutierrez’s registered domestic partner. (SAC, ¶ 2.) But as noted
above, Watkin’s domestic partnership is not recognized by the Domestic Partner
Act as Watkin failed to allege the partnership was registered with the
California Secretary of State. Thus, the court finds Watkin lacks standing to
bring a wrongful death and survival action.
Gallegos’ Standing
The SAC alleges Gallegos is
one of Alberto Gutierrez’s surviving children. (SAC, ¶ 3.) The SAC also alleges
Gallegos was Alberto Gutierrez’s stepchild and that Gallegos was dependent on
Alberto Gutierrez. (SAC, ¶ 3-4.) Pursuant to Probate
Code section 6454, a stepchild can be a beneficiary of the foster parent or
stepparent if the following requirements are met:
“(a) The relationship began during the person’s
minority and continued throughout the joint lifetimes of the person and the
person’s foster parent or stepparent. 
(b) It is established by clear and convincing evidence
that the foster parent or stepparent would have adopted the person but for a
legal barrier.” (Prob. Code, § 6454.)
In previously sustaining the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of
action, the court found the FAC failed to meet these requirements as it merely alleges Gallegos is the stepchild
of Alberto Gutierrez without establishing if Gallegos was legally adopted, if
Gallegos was legally dependent on Alberto Gutierrez, and if Gallegos’
relationship with Alberto Gutierrez met the requirements of Probate Code
section 6454. (4/22/2024
Ruling, p. 5.)
Here, while the SAC adds the conclusory
allegation that Gallegos was “dependent” on Alberto Gutierrez, it fails to
allege compliance with the requirements of Probate Code section 6454, even
while doing so for the other children. (SAC, ¶ 3, 4, 71, 79.) While the
Gutierrez Plaintiffs’ opposition includes additional facts about Alberto
Gutierrez and Gallegos’ relationship, the Gutierrez Plaintiffs failed to
properly include them in the SAC. (Opp., p. 7:28-8:13.) Thus, the SAC fails to
establish Gallegos has standing.
Abel Gutierrez’s Standing
The SAC alleges Abel Gutierrez is one of Alberto
Gutierrez’s surviving children. (SAC, ¶ 3.) But it is unclear if Abel Gutierrez
is Alberto Gutierrez’s biological child or stepchild. While the use of “child”
without any qualification would generally suggest a biological or adopted
child, the SAC uses the same term to describe Alberto Gutierrez’s stepchildren,
including Gallegos and Amaris Gutierrez. (SAC, ¶ 3-4.) Thus, the court finds
the SAC needs to specify if Abel Gutierrez is Alberto Gutierrez’s biological child
or if Abel Gutierrez is a stepchild who meets the requirements in Probate Code section 6454.
Thus,
the SAC fails to establish Abel Gutierrez has standing.
Conclusion
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrers to these causes of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to
Watkin and with leave to amend as to Gallegos and Abel Gutierrez.
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, LACMTA and Foothill Gold Line’s demurrer to the SAC is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to
Watkin’s causes of action and with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to
Gallegos and Abel Gutierrez’s fifth and sixth causes of action.
Furthermore, the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants’ demurrer to the SAC is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to Watkin’s causes of action and with twenty (20)
days leave to amend as to Gallegos and Abel Gutierrez’s fifth and sixth causes
of action.
Based upon above analysis, the Defendants’ motions to strike punitive damages are deemed MOOT.