  Case Number:  21STCV27393    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




rosa maria samples, as trustee of the
  Maria A. Gonzalez Living Trust and as executrix of the Last Will and
  Testament of Maria A. Gonzalez

   ;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
northern california mortgage fund xiv, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV27393




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   15, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
 
defendant’s motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Northern California
Mortgage Fund XIC
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:        Plaintiff Rosa Maria
Samples, as trustee of the Maria A. Gonzalez Living Trust and as executrix of
the Last Will and Testament of Maria A. Gonzalez
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the
Alternative, Summary Adjudication
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court overrules defendant Northern California Mortgage Fund XIV’s
evidentiary objections to the First Amended Complaint, filed on November 13,
2023, because they were not filed within the time required by Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(4) [“A reply to the opposition shall be served and
filed by the moving party not less than five days preceding the noticed or
continued date of hearing”]; Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1354, subd. (a) [“all
written objections to evidence in support of or in opposition to a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication must be served and filed at the same
time as the objecting party’s opposition or reply papers are served and
filed”].)  Further, defendant Northern
California Mortgage Fund XIV has not cited to any authority allowing it to file
evidentiary objections to the complaint in this action, which the court has not
considered as evidence but is relevant in that it “delimit[s] the scope of the
issues” and “frame[s] the outer measure of materiality in a summary judgment
proceeding.”  (Hutton v. Fidelity
National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493 [internal quotations
omitted].)
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant
Northern California Mortgage Fund XIV’s request for judicial notice as to
Exhibits Q, R, S, T, D, G, K, and U. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c); Yvanova v. New Century
Mortgage Corp. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 919, 924 , n. 1 [judicial notice was
properly taken of recorded deed of trust, assignment of deed of trust,
substitution of trustee, notices of default, and trustee’s deed upon
sale].)  The court notes, however, that
“although the existence of a document, such as a document recorded in
the official records of a government body, may be judicially noticeable, the
truth of statements contained in the document and their proper
interpretation are not subject to judicial notice.”  (Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue
Cross of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 836 [emphasis in
original].) 
The court grants defendant
Northern California Mortgage Fund XIV’s request for judicial notice as to
Exhibits V, W, and X.  (Evid. Code,
§ 452, subd. (d).) 
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication
“is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in
order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact
necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence,
show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant Northern California Mortgage Fund
XIV (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order granting summary judgment in its
favor and against plaintiff Rosa Maria Samples, as trustee of the Maria
A. Gonzalez Living Trust and as executrix of the Last Will and Testament of
Maria A. Gonzalez (“Plaintiff”) on her First Amended Complaint or,
alternatively, summary adjudication as to the sixth and seventh causes of
action.[1]  

1.     Sixth
Cause of Action for Cancellation of Instruments
“To prevail on a claim to cancel an instrument, a plaintiff must
prove (1) the instrument is void or voidable due to, for example, fraud; and
(2) there is a reasonable apprehension of serious injury including pecuniary
loss or the prejudicial alteration of one’s position.”  (Thompson v. Ioane (2017) 11
Cal.App.5th 1180, 1193-1994 [internal quotations omitted].)
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the sixth cause of action for cancellation of instruments has no merit because Defendant
has shown that an element of the cause of action (that the underlying
instruments are void or voidable) cannot be established.  
Plaintiff has alleged that the Notice of Default, and any other
documents that rely thereon, should be cancelled because (1) the Notice of
Default “is void/voidable based on an improperly calculated demand[,]” and (2)
the Notice of Trustee’s Sale “is void because the amount claimed to be owing .
. . is improperly and unlawfully calculated and demanded by the trustee.”  (FAC ¶¶ 71-73.)  In support of its motion, Defendant has
submitted Plaintiff’s discovery responses to show that Plaintiff cannot support
her factual claim that the amount demanded in the Notice of Default was
improperly calculated, on which the sixth cause of action is based.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995)
31 Cal.App.4th 573, 581; Bayramoglu v. Nationstar Mortgage LLC (2020) 51
Cal.App.5th 726, 733 [“A plaintiff’s ‘factually devoid’ discovery responses may
be used to shift the burden of production onto the plaintiff when the ‘logical
inference’ is that the plaintiff possesses no facts to support his or her
claims”].) 
In response to an interrogatory requesting the identification of
facts supporting the allegation that the demand amount was improperly
calculated, Plaintiff stated that “Maria A[.] Gonzalez [(“Gonzalez”)] did not
consent to this loan and had no meeting of the minds regarding this loan.”  (Def. Compendium of Evidence (“Def. COE”),
Sec. 2, Ex. O, COE p. 190:15-22 [Response to Special Interrogatory No.
8].)  Similarly, Plaintiff stated that
she was unable to “give an exact amount of amount due and owing” without
receiving an accounting.  (Id., p.
191:17-25 [response to Special Interrogatory No. 11].)  Further, when asked to admit that the amount
reflected on the Notice of Default was accurate as of the date that it was
recorded, Plaintiff stated the following: 
“I don’t know.  I nor my mother,
[Gonzalez] received any statements from Northern California Mortgage.  As of now, we have belief that it is not
accurate.”  (Def. COE Ex. P, COE p.
202:20-25 [response to Request for Admission No. 4].) 
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has met its burden to show
that this cause of action has no merit by submitting Plaintiff’s “factually
devoid” discovery responses, which support a “logical inference” that Plaintiff
possesses no facts to support her claim that the Notice of Default used an
improperly calculated demand and, consequently, that Plaintiff cannot establish
the element that the Notice of Default, Notice of Trustee’s Sale, and the
documents reliant thereon are void or voidable. 
(Bayramoglu, supra, 51 Cal.App.5th at p. 733; Thompson,
supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1193-1994.)
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of the existence of a
void or voidable instrument to be cancelled.
Plaintiff has argued, in her opposition papers, that (1) Gonzalez
had no understanding of the subject loan; (2) Defendant owed Gonzalez a duty to
vet and inquire of the loan made to her and acted negligently; and (3) the
demand on the Notice of Default was improperly calculated.  (Opp., p. 4:2-59.)  However, Plaintiff has not presented any
evidence in support of those assertions,[2]
nor has Plaintiff presented argument contending that Defendant’s showing is
insufficient to show that Plaintiff cannot establish the element of a void or
voidable instrument. 
The court also notes that Plaintiff appears to request leave to
amend the First Amended Complaint to include a cause of action for identity
theft under Civil Code section 1798.92, et seq. 
(Opp., p. 6:15-18.)  However, Plaintiff
does not explain how amending her complaint to include this cause of action (1)
shows the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to the sixth cause
of action for cancellation of instruments, or (2) would require the court to
deny Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the sixth and seventh
causes of action.  
Moreover, although Plaintiff asserts that her “counsel has
diligently sought to meet and confer in order to add the cause of action for
identity theft by a stipulation[,]” the court disagrees.  (Opp., p. 6:16-17.)  The only evidence submitted in support of
this contention is a letter dated November 30, 2022, requesting that the
parties stipulate to the addition of this cause of action.  (Opp., Ex. A.)  Plaintiff has not submitted any other
evidence detailing her efforts to add this cause of action, and Plaintiff did
not file a motion requesting leave to amend the complaint at any time after the
November 30, 2022 letter was sent and before the November 15, 2023 hearing on
this motion.  Plaintiff has not explained
her delay in seeking leave to amend.
Thus, the court finds that (1) Plaintiff unreasonably delayed in
requesting this amendment, and (2) Defendant would be prejudiced by this
amendment, and therefore denies Plaintiff’s request that the court grant leave
to amend the complaint to add a cause of action for identity theft against
Defendant.  (Distefano v. Forester (2001)
85 Cal.App.4th 1249, 1264-1265 [“If the opposing party’s evidence would show
some factual assertion, legal theory, defense or claim not yet pleaded, that
party should seek leave to amend the pleadings before the hearing on the
summary judgment motion”]; Green v. Rancho Santa Margarita Mortgage Co. (1994)
28 Cal.App.4th 686, 692 [“a long unexcused delay is sufficient to uphold a
trial judge’s decision to deny the opportunity to amend pleadings, particularly
where the new amendment would interject a new issue which requires further
discovery”].)
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the sixth cause of action for cancellation of instruments.
2.     Seventh
Cause of Action for Quiet Title
“To prevail on a quiet title claim, a plaintiff must establish
title to the property in dispute.”  (Thompson,
supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at p. 1195; Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020.)  Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant, as
beneficiary and assignor, entered into a Deed of Trust with Gonzalez, as
borrower, as a result of the undue influence, fraud, and elder abuse of certain
individual defendants, and “seeks to quiet title as of March 2, 2017, the date
on or about which [Gonzalez] executed the Deed of Trust for $300,000.”  (FAC ¶¶ 76, 79-80.) 
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the seventh cause of action for quiet title has no merit because Defendant
has not shown that the element of Plaintiff’s right to title to the property
cannot be established.  
In its motion, Defendant argues that the loan and perfected Deed
of Trust are valid because (1) Plaintiff has admitted that Gonzalez signed the
loan documents, albeit allegedly as a result of undue influence on the part of
individual defendants Sergio Alberto Herrera, Carlos Rafael Gonzalez, and Luz
Velasquez, such that the loan and perfected Deed of Trust are valid; (2) even
if Gonzalez was defrauded by third parties, such fraud would not have rendered
the contract with Defendant voidable; (3) Defendant “did everything it was
required to do as a lender[;]” and (4) the third party individuals alleged to
have defrauded Gonzalez are not affiliated with Defendant.  The court finds that these arguments are insufficient
to show that Plaintiff cannot establish title to the subject property. 
First, the court acknowledges that (1) Plaintiff’s discovery
responses state that Gonzalez signed the Deed of Trust, and (2) Defendant has
submitted the declaration of the licensed Notary Public that notarized the Deed
of Trust for Gonzalez, whose notary journal states that she notarized the Deed
of Trust for Gonzalez on March 7, 2017. 
(Def. COE Ex. O, COE p. 193:6-17 [response to Special Interrogatory No.
15 stating that “as of the date of signing the loan documents, Maria Gonzalez”
had various characteristics and showed signs of dementia]; Kirsanova Decl.,
¶ 4.)  But Plaintiff’s discovery
responses have also stated—as noted by Defendant—that Gonzalez obtained the
subject loan as a result of the individual defendants’ forgery and/or undue
influence over Gonzalez.  (Ibid.;
Def. COE Ex. O, COE pp. 183:6-184:13 [response to Special Interrogatory No. 2,
stating that certain of the individual defendants “unduly influenced” Gonzalez
to obtain another loan from Defendant, and further stating that those
individuals also “forged her signature on [other unspecified]
documents”].)  Defendant has not cited
any legal authority establishing that, because Plaintiff has stated in her
discovery responses that Gonzalez signed the documents, the underlying loan is
valid as a matter of law, irrespective of her claims that she obtained the loan
as a result of undue influence or other fraudulent acts.
Second, although Defendant contends that “being allegedly
defrauded by an unaffiliated third-party does not render a contract with a
different party voidable[,]” Defendant has not cited any authority to support
that contention.  Defendant relies on
Civil Code sections 1566, 1567, and 1575, none of which appears to stand for
that proposition.  Instead, Civil Code
sections 1566 and 1567 define, respectively, “consent, when voidable[,]” and
“apparent consent, when not free.”  (Civ.
Code, §§ 1566, 1567.)  Similarly,
Civil Code section 1575 sets forth conduct that consists of undue
influence.  (Civ. Code,
§ 1575.)  These provisions do not
support Defendant’s assertions that (1) a contract executed by a person without
consent is not voidable as against a different party, or (2) a contract
executed by a person as a result of undue influence is not voidable. 
Third, Defendant states that it did everything that was required
of it as a lender by, inter alia, sending disclosures to the borrower,
notarizing documents through an approved notary, obtaining identity
verification documents, and thereafter funding the loan.  But Defendant does not cite any authority
establishing that, by taking these actions, the Deed of Trust and other related
documents relating to the subject property are not voidable as a result of the
wrongdoing on the part of the individual defendants. 
Fourth, Defendant has presented evidence showing that, aside from
the fact that individual defendant Sergio Herrera brought the loan to FJM
Capital, Inc., Defendant has not “had any relationship whatsoever with Sergio
Herrera, Carlos Gonzalez, or Luz Velasquez.” 
(Bardis Decl., ¶ 16.) 
However, Defendant has not cited any authority establishing that,
because it was not involved with the alleged scheme to defraud Gonzalez, the
loan and the Deed of Trust are valid. 
The court notes that, in a cause of action for quiet title, there does
not need to be any allegation or evidence of wrongdoing on the part of a
defendant.  Instead, all that is required
is that there exist “adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against which
a determination is sought.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., §761.020, subd. (c); Water for Citizens of Weed California v.
Churchwell White LLP (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 270, 281 [“The purpose of a
quiet title action is to establish title against any adverse claims to property
or any interest therein”].)  Thus, the
involvement or noninvolvement of Defendant in the alleged wrongdoing is
immaterial, as the purpose of a quiet title cause of action is to
determine—irrespective of whether the entity claiming an adverse interest is
alleged to have committed wrongful acts or omissions—whether the plaintiff
establishes title to the property in dispute. 
Finally, the court acknowledges that “[w]here a complaint seeks to
quiet title to real property and cancel an instrument and both claims
are based on the same facts, it is said that the cancellation claim is
incidental to the claim to quiet title such that the action asserts only one
claim.”  (Deutsche Bank National Trust
Co. v. Pyle (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 513, 523 [emphasis added].)  Here, Plaintiff’s causes of action for
cancellation of instruments and quiet title are based on different facts.  Specifically, the cancellation of instruments
cause of action is based on the allegations that the Notice of Default and
consequently, the Notice of Trustee’s Sale are void or voidable because the
amount claimed to be due was based on an improperly calculated demand.  (FAC ¶¶ 22, 71-72.)  In contrast, the quiet title cause of action
is based, at least in part, on the allegation that Plaintiff signed the Deed of
Trust in favor of Defendant “as a result of the elder abuse, fraud, and undue
influence” of the individual defendants, such that Defendant’s claim is
“without right” and Defendant has “no right, title, estate, lien or interest
in” the subject property.  (FAC
¶ 76.)  Thus, the court finds that
Plaintiff’s cause of action for cancellation of instruments is not “incidental”
to this cause of action and therefore the court may both grant summary
adjudication in favor of Defendant on the cancellation of instruments cause of
action and deny summary adjudication as to the quiet title cause of
action.  (Pyle, supra, 13
Cal.App.5th at p. 523.) 
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has not met its burden to
show that Plaintiff cannot establish the element of Plaintiff’s title to the
subject property.  (Thompson, supra,
11 Cal.App.5th at p. 1195; Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020.)
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the seventh cause of action for quiet title.
ORDER
            The court denies defendant Northern
California Mortgage Fund XIV’s motion for summary judgment. 
            The court grants defendant Northern
California Mortgage Fund XIV’s motion for summary adjudication as to plaintiff Rosa Maria
Samples, as trustee of the Maria A. Gonzalez Living Trust and as
executrix of the Last Will and Testament of Maria A. Gonzalez’s sixth cause of
action for cancellation of instruments. 
            The court denies defendant Northern
California Mortgage Fund XIV’s motion for summary adjudication as to plaintiff Rosa Maria
Samples, as trustee of the Maria A. Gonzalez Living Trust and as
executrix of the Last Will and Testament of Maria A. Gonzalez’s seventh cause
of action for quiet title.
The court orders defendant Northern California Mortgage Fund XIV to
give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 15, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


