 Case Number:  21STCV08525    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  GIGI BANGURA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  ALBERT DANG, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV08525  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO STRIKE DEFENDANT’S EXPERT WITNESSES  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 23, 2023  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Gigi Bangura (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Albert Dang, State of California, California State University, California State University of Northridge, CSU-Northridge, and Does 1 to 50 for damages arising from an automobile collision. Trial is currently set for May 30, 2024.  On April 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to strike defendants Board of Trustees of the California State University (erroneously sued as “State of California, California State University, California State University of Northridge, and CSU Northridge”) and Albert Dang’s (collectively, “Defendants”) supplemental expert designation Misty Coffman (“Coffman”) and Taylor Ehrlich (“Ehrlich”), and contends that Defendants refuse to de-designate Dr. Christopher Warren Young Jr. (“Dr. Young”). On April 29, 2024, Defendants filed a notice of withdrawal of the expert witness designation of Dr. Young. Further, Defendants’ opposition filed on May 10, 2024, provides that Plaintiff has withdrawn her request to strike Ehrlich, and at issue is only Coffman’s designation. Plaintiff’s reply appears to support this contention that only expert Coffman is currently at issue. Thus, the Court limits its review to the contentions surrounding Coffman’s designation only, and finds the other issues raised in the moving papers moot.   Preliminary, Plaintiff argues the motion should still be heard notwithstanding the discovery motion cut-off date. CCP § 2024.020 provides that “any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the date initially set for the trial of the action.” This code section does not preclude the Court from exercising its discretion to have a motion concerning discovery to be heard closer to the initial trial date or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set. (CCP § 2024.050.) Further, Defendants notably do not oppose the procedural aspect of the motion’s filing. The Court will therefore consider the motion on the merits.   Moving Argument  Plaintiff contends that Defendants designated Coffman as a lifecare planner, which is duplicative of their lifecare planner Dr. Timothy Cushing (“Dr. Cushing”). Plaintiff asserts that despite Defendants’ contention during meet and confer efforts that Dr. Cushing is not a lifecare planner, Dr. Cushing had asserted at his deposition that he was hired as a lifecare planner even though he was not initially designated as a lifecare planner. Plaintiff argues Defendants did not seek leave to augment or amend their expert witness list under CCP §2034.620, and that the supplemental expert Coffman, a lifecare planner, is duplicative of Dr. Cushing’s designation. Opposing Argument Defendant argues Dr. Cushing is a physiatrist who will opine on physical medicine and orthopedics, and that he was designated to opine on Plaintiff’s medical treatment, future treatment, and Plaintiff’s claimed injuries based on his review of Plaintiff’s medical records. Defendant contends that Dr. Cushing’s testimony that he would comment on the life care plan does not make him a life care planner, because he did not generate a life care plan in this matter. Defendant asserts Dr. Cushing’s designation is different from Coffman’s, whose purpose is to comment on life care costs.  Reply Argument Plaintiff argues that Defendants provide no support that the expert designation controls, and not the deposition testimony of their experts. Plaintiff avers Dr. Cushing reaffirmed multiple times throughout the deposition that he was hired to determine a life care plan, and the lifetime health care and other types needed related to the injuries allegedly sustained.   II. MOTION TO EXCLUDE PLAINTIFF’S EXPERT WITNESSES  Legal Standard Parties may arrange a date to exchange expert witness information, and the failure to abide by the requirements for doing so once a demand for exchange is made may result in exclusion of the expert. (CCP §§ 2034.210, 2034.300.)  “Any party may make a demand for an exchange of information concerning expert trial witnesses without leave of court. A party shall make this demand no later than the 10th day after the initial trial date has been set, or 70 days before that trial date, whichever is closer to the trial date.”  (CCP § 2034.220 (emphasis added).)  “The demand shall specify the date for the exchange of lists of expert trial witnesses, expert witness declarations, and any demanded production of writings. The specified date of exchange shall be 50 days before the initial trial date, or 20 days after service of the demand, whichever is closer to the trial date, unless the court, on motion and a showing of good cause, orders an earlier or later date of exchange.”  (CCP § 2034.230(b) (emphasis added).)  Parties may offer supplemental experts not listed in the initial exchange under the following conditions:   Within 20 days after the exchange described in Section 2034.260, any party who engaged in the exchange may submit a supplemental expert witness list containing the name and address of any experts who will express an opinion on a subject to be covered by an expert designated by an adverse party to the exchange, if the party supplementing an expert witness list has not previously retained an expert to testify on that subject. (CCP § 2034.280(a).)   CCP § 2034.280 permits a supplemental designation responsive to the opposing party's designation if and only if the supplementing party has not previously retained an expert on the subject(s) in question. There are, however, limitations on the use and, more importantly, abuse of the supplemental expert witness designation provisions of section 2034.280.  The legislatively preferred method of expert witness exchange is simultaneous and mutual. (CCP § 2034.210.) If the parties do not comply with the requirements of a mutual and simultaneous exchange of experts, the Court has the authority to strike any non-conforming expert witness designation in whole or part. (CCP § 2034.300; see Osborne v. Todd Farm Service (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 43, 202 Cal.Rptr.3d 84; Fairfax v. Lords (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1019, 1021, 41 Cal.Rptr.3d 850.)     Discussion Here, Defendants served their supplemental expert list on April 18, 2024 (Mot. Exh. B), which is within 20 days after the initial exchange on April 2, 2024. (CCP § 2034.280(a).) Defendants did not previously retain an expert designated as a life care planner in the initial exchange. (Mot. Exh. A.) Dr. Cushing was not listed as a life care planner, nor does his designation delineate him as a life care planner. (Mot. Exh. A – Adams Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) Regardless of his testimony at deposition, Dr. Cushing will be testifying to the contents of his report. Nowhere in his report does he mention a life care plan. (Opp. Exh. 3.) Assuming Plaintiff has designed her own life care planner, the supplemental designation of Dr. Coffman acts as the rebuttal witness.    III. CONCLUSION  Plaintiff’s motion to strike Defendant’s supplemental expert designation is DENIED, but the denial is conditioned upon Defendants making Coffman immediately available for deposition within the next three (3) court days; expert discovery shall be reopened for this limited purpose.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the Court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 22nd day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  