 Case Number:  22STCV03568    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MARBELLA VILLA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  200 PINE AVENUE, LLC, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV03568  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 23, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Marbella Villa (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants 200 Pine Avenue, LLC (“200 Pine”), Automac Parking, Inc. (“Automac”), and Does 1 to 50 for damages arising from a slip and fall on water. Plaintiff filed amendments to complaint naming Octopus Japanese Cuisine, Inc. as Doe 1, Octopus Restaurant Long Beach, Inc. (“Octopus Restaurant”) as Doe 2, and Riverrock Real Estate Group, Inc. (“Riverrock”) as Doe 3.  On November 17, 2022, 200 Pine filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint against Octopus Restaurant, Automac, and Roes 1 to 200 for (1) Breach of Contract – Additional Insurance, (2) express indemnity, (3) partial indemnity on a comparative fault basis, (4) implied indemnity, (5) comparative contribution (6) total equitable indemnity, (7) apportionment, and (8) declaratory relief. On March 28, 2024, Octopus Restaurant a First Amended Cross-Complaint against Automac, 200 Pine, Riverrock, and Roes 1 to 20 for (1) express contractual indemnity, (2) equitable indemnity and contribution, (3) breach of contract, and (4) declaratory relief – duty to defend. Riverrock now seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against Octopus Restaurant and Automac for (1) express indemnity – duty to defend, (2) partial indemnity on a comparative fault basis, (3) implied indemnity, (4) comparative contribution (5) total equitable indemnity, (6) apportionment, and (7) declaratory relief. Automac opposes the motion, and Riverrock filed a reply.  Moving Argument Riverrock argues the proposed cross-complaint will not raise new issues, and makes claims for express and implied indemnity under contracts already in dispute. Riverrock avers that all other parties have agreed to the filing the cross-complaint except for Automac, and that Riverrock had revised the proposed cross-complaint twice in attempt to satisfy Automac’s objections. However, Automac will not stipulate, necessitating this motion. Riverrock avers no parties will be prejudiced by the filing of the cross-complaint because the contracts at issue are already before the court, and have already been the subject of discovery and depositions between the parties.  Opposing Argument Automac contends Riverrock delayed in seeking leave to cross-complaint, because it has been over a year since Riverrock demanded indemnity from Automac. Automac avers it would not stipulate to the cross-complaint because of unsupported language related to express indemnity and breach of contract. Automac asserts that Riverrock is not a party to the contract between 200 Pine and Automac, and that the agreement does not provide indemnification between Automac and any property managers, in which Riverrock is a “property manager.” Automac further contends Riverrock does not have any new information, because the deposition of Automac’s employee on January 12, 2024 did not reveal any information Riverrock did not already have in 2022 and 2023.  Reply Argument Riverrock argues Automac has acknowledged in its opposition Riverrock’s position that it is a party to and beneficiary of the contract. Riverrock avers the contract contemplates it as a beneficiary under the agreement by naming the “Property Manager” as an additional insured under the liability insurance policies.   II. MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT  Legal Standard A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the complaint or cross-complaint.  (CCP §§ 412.20(a)(3), 428.50(a), 432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a trial date. (CCP §428.50(b).)   If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time limits described above, he or she must obtain permission from the court to file the cross-complaint.  (CCP §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal. App. 3d 94, 99.) Leave to file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of justice. (CCP §428.50(c).) Further, where the proposed cross-complaint arises out of the same transaction as plaintiff’s claim, the court must grant leave to file the cross-complaint so long as defendant is acting in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50 supplements the authority provided generally to amend pleadings.  Discussion Here, it is undisputed that the proposed cross-complaint arises from the same incident, and encompasses issues already in dispute and subject to discovery by the parties. The Court is not persuaded that Riverrock has been unduly dilatory in seeking leave to file its cross-complaint, especially when no actual prejudice has been articulated by Automac. The parties dispute whether Riverrock is fairly encompassed as a “property manager” under the contractual provisions, but this is not an issue to be resolved on a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint. Trial is currently scheduled for April 11, 2025, and there is ample time to conduct any discovery or for any motions to be brought prior to discovery and motion cut-off deadlines. Further, there are no facts supporting an inference of bad faith or any deliberate delay tactic aimed at prejudicing any party for this Court to deny the motion. (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank¿(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 100 [“‘Bad faith,’ is defined as ‘[t]he opposite of “good faith,” generally implying or involving actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake ..., but by some interested or sinister motive[,] ... not simply bad judgment or negligence, but rather ... the conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; ... it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating with furtive design or ill will.”].) The Court finds it in the interest of justice to allow the pleading.  III. CONCLUSION  The motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is therefore GRANTED. Riverrock is ordered to file a separate copy of its proposed cross-complaint within five (5) days of the date of this Order.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 22nd day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   