  Case Number:  19STCV04503    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JOHN NEWMAN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  JOSE ALVARADO, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 19STCV04503  [TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 23, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff John Newman (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Jose Alvarado (“Alvarado”), Ricardo Almanza Bernal (“Almanza”), Nissin International Transport U.S.A., Inc. (“Nissin”), and Does 1 to 100 (collectively, “Defendants”) for damages arising out of a motor vehicle accident. The complaint sets forth a single cause of action for motor vehicle negligence. The form complaint alleges all Defendants operated the motor vehicle, employed persons who operated the motor vehicle in the course of their employment, owned the motor vehicle, entrusted the motor vehicle, and that Defendants were the agents and employees of each other. (Compl. p. 4.)  Nissin now moves for summary judgment against Plaintiff’s complaint on the grounds that it owed no duty to Plaintiff and that Plaintiff cannot establish causation. Plaintiff opposes the motion, and Nissin filed a reply.   II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Nissin requests the Court to take judicial notice of Plaintiff’s complaint filed in this matter. The request is granted. (Evid. Code §452(d).)   III. MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Burdens on Summary Judgment In reviewing a motion for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)    The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if the party does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).)  Whether Facts Evince An Employment Relationship Here, the following material facts are undisputed. On November 9, 2018, Plaintiff was struck by a van that had backed up into him. The van driver, Alvarado, was a driver hired by Almanza Trucking. Almanza’s business, which has been in operation since 1996. Almanza became associated as an independent with a company called Fast Express in 1996, and Fast Express assigned jobs to Almanza to pick up and deliver loads. Almanza began making deliveries for Nissin through assignments by Fast Express in 1998. Almanza then parted ways with Fast Express in 1999, and began working directly with Nissin. Nissin did not guarantee when Almanza would receive work, nor did Nissin have a set schedule for pickups and deliveries. All jobs for Nissin to be performed by Almanza Trucking related to picking up merchandise in one place and taking it to another place, or taking it to Nissin. Nissin and Almanza Trucking entered into a monthly Agreement in 2018. Almanza Trucking uses other drivers to perform deliveries for Nissin, which includes defendant Alvarado. All vehicles and equipment used by Almanza Trucking were paid for by Almanza.  Here, Nissin argues it is entitled to summary judgment because it cannot be held liable for the conduct of an independent contractor. Nissin has met its relatively low prima facie burden that Almanza, and by extension Alvarado, were independent contractors. Under common law, a person who hires an independent contractor is generally not liable to third parties for injuries caused by the contractor in performing work. “Central to this rule of nonliability was the recognition that a person who hired an independent contractor had ‘“no right of control as to the mode of doing the work contracted for.’” [Citations].” (Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693.) The burden shifts to Plaintiff to present a triable issue of material fact. In opposition, Plaintiff argues there is an issue of material fact as to whether Alvarado was an independent contractor based on Borello & Sons, Inc. v. Department of Industrial Relations (1989) 48 Cal.3d 341. However, before proceeding on the merits, there are procedural issues with Plaintiff’s opposition that must be addressed.  First, Plaintiff failed to comply with CCP §437c(b)(3), which provides that the separate statement “shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material facts the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence. Failure to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may constitute a sufficient ground, in the court's discretion, for granting the motion.” Here, Plaintiff’s separate statement disputes some of Nissin’s material facts, but fails to reference any supporting evidence. Rather, the separate statement generally cites Borello & Sons, Inc. v. Department of Industrial Relations (1989) 48 Cal.3d 341, and notably fails to reference the facts and evidence utilized in Plaintiff’s memorandum of points and authorities. “Opposition separate statements must cite to facts and evidence for the evidence to be considered by the court.”" (Champlin/GEI Wind Holdings, LLC v. Avery (2023) 92 Cal. App. 5th 218, 226.) Second, Plaintiff did not file any evidence with the Court. (See CCP 437c(b)(2) [“The opposition, where appropriate, shall consist of affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice shall or may be taken.”].) Plaintiff’s memorandum of points and authorities refers to an” Exhibit A, Deposition Transcript of Bernal” at pages 75-76, 77-78, and 97 in support of his contention that Nissin retained all necessary control over the delivery operation, including over the delivery driver Alvarado. However, the Court is unable to locate the referenced exhibit. Even if this Court were to consider only Nissin’s evidence, and on its own initiative cross-compare the page numbers cited by Plaintiff with those provided in Nissin’s exhibits, not all of the pages referenced by Plaintiff were provided in Nissin’s exhibits.  Although the Court has discretion to grant Nissin’s motion based on the above-mentioned defects, it will not exercise that discretion at this time. “[A]n immediate grant of summary judgment is, in most instances, too harsh a consequence. “[T]he proper response in most instances, if the trial court is not prepared to address the merits of the motion in light of the deficient separate statement, is to give the opposing party an opportunity to file a proper separate statement....” [Citations].” (Collins v. Hertz Corp. (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 64, 74.)  IV. CONCLUSION  Based on the foregoing, the hearing on Nissin’s motion for summary judgment is CONTINUED to _______________ in Department 31 of Spring Street Courthouse. Plaintiff must submit a proper and responsive separate statement, including any and all evidence relied upon, pursuant to CCP §437c. The opposition curing the above-noted defects must be served and filed not less than 14 days preceding the continued hearing date. The reply shall be served and filed not less than five calendar days preceding the continued hearing date.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 22nd day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   