 Case Number:  20STCV00944    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  RON YORK, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  JULIO VILLENA, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV00944  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 23, 2024  I.  MOTIONS TO COMPEL Defendant Hollywood Glass Co., Inc. (“Hollywood”) propounded special interrogatories, set three, and request for production of documents (“RPDs”), set four, on plaintiff Ron York (“Plaintiff”) on February 22, 2024. Plaintiff did serve responses. Hollywood therefore seeks an order compelling Plaintiff to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery and to pay sanctions.  Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing responses to the outstanding discovery has now been served. The Court notes that the opposition relates only to the special interrogatories, set three, and the Court is unable to locate any opposition as it relates to the RPDs. Nonetheless, Hollywood on reply appears to concede responses were served, and argues only the imposition of monetary sanctions due to Plaintiff’s history of not complying with discovery until after a discovery motion has been filed.  Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the motion to compels moot in light of the responses served on Hollywood prior to the hearing. (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 776.) The only remaining issue is sanctions.   II. SANCTIONS Plaintiff’s counsel argues they did not serve discovery responses due to a calendaring error when Plaintiff was in the process of substituting out his counsel, and during the hand-off process, there was confusion over who would handle the discovery responses. In reply, Hollywood argues Plaintiff nor his counsel have ever complied with discovery rules absent an order compelling them to do so, and that Ms. Hultin as been Plaintiff’s attorney since July 2023.  Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response, unless a court makes certain findings.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).) Here, the Court finds monetary sanctions warranted. Hollywood, in the moving papers, requests $1,221.65 for each motion. A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.) The Court will award monetary sanctions, but not to the full extent requested.      Hollywood is awarded 1 hour for each motion to compel, and 1 hour to appear at the hearing, at the requested rate of $200 per hour, for a total $600 as attorney’s fees.  Sanctions are sought and imposed against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s attorney of record, jointly and severally. Plaintiff and/or his counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Hollywood Glass Co., Inc., by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $600, within twenty (20) days.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 22nd day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   