


[1]
The court disagrees with Plaintiff that Mr. Healy cannot authenticate
Plaintiff’s signature. Mr. Healy is the custodian of employee records and has
been for the past 10 years. (Healy Decl. ¶ 2.)
 


[2]
Plaintiff argues that Defendants have a heightened showing to authenticate her
signature. However, the authority she cites pertains to electronic signatures,
not physical signatures, because “an individual cannot confirm or deny the
authenticity of an electronic signature by viewing a computer printout of the
person’s name followed by the word electronic signature.” (Iyere, supra, at p. 757.) Additionally, “[w]hile handwritten and
electronic signatures once authenticated have the same legal effect, there is
considerable difference between the evidence needed to authenticate the two.” (Id. at 758.) Therefore, the court
rejects this argument.
 


[3]Plaintiff
included a footnote that her claims for sexual harassment should be excluded
because the Legislature intended to exclude such claims from arbitration.
Defendants contend that the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and
Sexual Harassment Act of 2022 does not apply because it is not retroactive.
Plaintiff did not further develop this argument in her opposition, which the
court interprets as conceding.
 


[4]
The court agrees with Defendants that Plaintiff has not shown Defendants motion
to compel is “unreasonable” because Plaintiff has not claimed to expend
resources she would have saved by arbitrating the dispute instead or that
Defendants otherwise took advantage of the judicial processes that are not
available at arbitration. (Quach v. Cal.
Commerce Club, Inc. (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 470, 484.)


[5]
Plaintiff’s citation to cases finding procedural unconscionability for failing
to attach the rules also involved substantively
unconscionable provisions in the omitted rules. In fact, the weight to be
given such a procedural violation has been significantly limited by the California
Supreme Court which has instructed trial courts to “more
closely scrutinize the substantive unconscionability of terms that were ‘artfully
hidden’ by the simple expedient of incorporating them by reference rather than
including them in or attaching them to the arbitration agreement.” (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc., (2016) 62
Cal.4th 1237, 1246.) Stated otherwise, “the law requires more than the simple
failure to provide the employee with a copy of the rules.” (Cisneros Alvarez v. Altamed Health Services
Corporation (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 572, 590, as modified (Mar. 4, 2021)). Further,
Defendants cite to Peng v. First Republic
Bank (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462 and Bigler
v. Harker School (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 727 for the proposition that
failure to attach the AAA Rules standing alone is insufficient to find
procedural unconscionability. 
 


[6]
Plaintiff also argues that the MAP is substantively unconscionable because
Defendants did not sign it.
 


[7]Plaintiff
has not challenged any particular aspect of the AAA Rules as limiting her
discovery right. 


[8]Plaintiff’s
reliance on Najarro v. Superior Court
(2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 871, 883, is misplaced. There there were multiple agreements
and the Court ultimately concluded that at least as to one of the agreements,
there was fraud in the execution.

