 Case Number:  22STCV04724    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   October
31, 2023                                            
 
CASE NAME:           Valerie Lynn Smith v. The Buffalo Club
Limited Partnership, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                22STCV04724

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
The Buffalo Club Limited Partnership and Brayner Ferri
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Valerie Lynn Smith
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      
An
Order compelling arbitration;
2.      
An
Order dismissing or staying Plaintiff’s pending action.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      
 
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On February 7, 2022, Plaintiff Valerie Lynn Smith
(Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendants The Buffalo Club Limited
Partnership and Brayner Ferry (Defendants) with seven causes of action for: (1)
sexual battery; (2) sexual harassment; (3) sex discrimination; (4) failure to
take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent sexual harassment and
discrimination; (5) retaliation; (6) intentional infliction of emotional
distress; and (7) wrongful constructive termination in violation of public
policy.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff began working for
Defendants as a server and bartender in July 2019. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant Ferry began behaving inappropriately towards her at the outset of her
employment. Such alleged behavior included unwanted sexually charged comments
and touching as well as after-work phone calls and texting. Plaintiff alleges
that if she ignored him, he would not schedule her for work. Plaintiff alleges
that in May 2021, she was no longer able to endure the harassment and snapped
at Defendant Ferry, who then accused her of doing her check out incorrectly and
fired her.  
 
Defendant The Buffalo Club Limited Partnership filed an
Answer on December 5, 2022. 
Defendant Ferry filed an Answer on August 9, 2023.
 
Defendants filed the instant motion on August 11, 2023.
Plaintiff timely filed an opposition on October 18, 2023. Defendants timely
filed a reply on October 24, 2023.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Evidentiary
Objections:
 
Although the court is unaware of any
legal authority which requires a court to rule on evidentiary objections on a
motion, except as to a motion for summary motion/adjudication, the Court
nonetheless, overrules the objections. [Cal. Code Civ. Proc. (CCP)
§ 437c(q)] or a special motion to strike [CCP § 425.16 (b)(2); see also, Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v.
Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 947-949.]   
 
Compel Arbitration:
 
Under California law, the trial court has authority to compel
arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.2 where a written agreement for such
arbitration exists and one of the parties refuses to arbitrate. 
Specifically, the statute provides that, “[o]n petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement arbitrate the
controversy exists.”  The statute further sets forth four grounds upon
which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to compel
arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a pending
action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same
transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered depository
institution. 
 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In determining whether an
arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine only
the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration
[citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties' intentions,
in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113
Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration clause
requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is whether that controversy
is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v. Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th
310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular
dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending the parties to arbitration. The
court should order them to arbitrate unless it is
clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the
dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional Peace
Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿ 
 
“[A] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary
proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final
determination.”¿¿(Giuliano, supra, at
p. 1284.)¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Existence of
Arbitration Agreement
 
In determining the enforceability of an arbitration
agreement, the court considers “two ‘gateway issues’ of arbitrability: (1)
whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between the parties, and (2)
whether the agreement covered the dispute at issue.”¿ (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961 (Omar).)¿¿¿  
 
1.     
Agreement Between Parties:
The moving party can meet its initial burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement by attaching a copy of the Agreement to
this motion bearing the signature of the opposing party. (See Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 541-543 [“The
party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear
the¿respondent's signature.”].) Alternatively, the moving party can meet its
initial burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion. (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) 
 
Here, Defendants met their initial burden because they
attached a copy of the Mutual Arbitration Policy (MAP) with Plaintiff’s
physical signature. (Declaration of Charles Healy (Healy Decl.) ¶ 2, Exhibit
A.) 
 
“If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden
and the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the
opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the
authenticity of the agreement.” (Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal. App. 5th 158,165 (Gamboa).) The evidence must be
sufficient to create a factual dispute to shift the burden back to the
arbitration proponent who retains the ultimate burden of proving, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the authenticity of the signature. (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 747, 755 (Iyere).)
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendants failed to authenticate her
signature because Mr. Healey is not qualified to authenticate it and she does
not recall signing the MAP.[1]
(Opposition p. 12:6-12; Declaration of Valerie Smith (Smith Decl.) ¶¶ 8, 10.) However,
Plaintiff does not challenge that the physical signature is hers, just that she
does not recall signing the MAP and that she would not have signed it if she
knew it limited her ability to sue Defendants.[2]
(Smith Decl. ¶¶ 8, 9, 10.) Under Gamboa,
Plaintiff produced evidence to challenge the MAP’s authenticity. However, under
Iyere, Plaintiff did not produce
evidence challenging the MAP’s authenticity because she acknowledged that she
signed a stack of documents but does not remember signing the MAP. (Iyere, supra, at p. 756 [finding no
conflict between the plaintiff’s statement that they signed a stack of
documents and no longer recall signing those documents two years later.]) Since
Plaintiff’s signature is physical, not electronic, she “is capable of
recognizing . . . her own personal signature” and her “failure to remember
signing is of little or no significance.” (Id.
at 0. 757.) Additionally, Defendants provided supplemental evidence to compare
Plaintiff’s signature on the MAP to other documents, such as the Sexual
Harassment Policy and the House Rules. (Supplemental Healy Decl. ¶ 4, Exhibit
B.) The Court personally reviewed the signature on the MAP and various other
documents attached Exhibit B. The Court finds that the handwritten printed name
and cursive signatures are strikingly similar in all of the documents the Court
reviewed. 
 
Accordingly, notwithstanding Plaintiff’s claim denying
remembering signing the MAP, the court finds that Defendants have met their
burden by a preponderance of the evidence establishing the existence of a valid
agreement between the parties. 
 
Therefore, the Defendant has
established that the Arbitration Agreement exists.  
 
2.      The
Agreement Covers the Dispute at Issue:
Applicability of
MAP to Subject Dispute
 
Defendants contend the MAP covers the subject dispute
because Plaintiff filed an employment action that is not otherwise excluded by
the MAP. Plaintiff did not directly oppose this argument.[3]
 
Here, the MAP applies to the instant dispute. First, the MAP
states it covers “any existing and all future disputes between you and the
Company that relate in any way to your employment.” [Healy Decl., Exhibit A.]
Plaintiff’s claim against Defendants concerns her employment with them and is
not otherwise carved out. 
 
Therefore, the agreement applies to the subject dispute.
 
Defenses to
Arbitration
 
Plaintiff argues that the court should not compel
arbitration because the MAP is unconscionable and Defendants waived arbitration
by moving to compel too late.[4]
 
Once it is determined that a valid arbitration agreement
exists, the burden shifts to the opposing party to “prove by a preponderance of
the evidence any defense to the petition.” (Lacayo
v. Catalina Restaurant Group Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 244, 257, review
denied (Nov. 13, 2019)). 
 
Unconscionability
 
In Armendariz, the California Supreme Court stated
that when determining whether an arbitration agreement was unconscionable,
there is both a procedural and a substantive element. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Service, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 82, 114 (Armendariz)).  
 
a.     
Procedural
Unconscionability
 
Defendants contend there is no procedural unconscionability
because the MAP is clear on its face, it is a separate stand-alone agreement,
and was presented to Plaintiff for consideration along with other new hire
documents prior to beginning her employment. Plaintiff argues there is
substantial procedural unconscionability because there was unequal bargaining
power, she was a low-wage worker who desperately needed a job, she did not
negotiate its terms, she has no memory of seeing the MAP, no one explained the
terms to her, she did not receive a copy of AAA’s rules, and the MAP did not
explain the significance of arbitration.
 
Courts determine whether an agreement is procedurally
unconscionable by looking at surprise and oppression. Oppression is an
“inequality of bargaining power, when one party has no real power to negotiate
or a meaningful choice. Surprise occurs when the allegedly unconscionable
provision is hidden.” (Carmona v. Lincoln
Millennium Car Wash, Inc.¿(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 (Carmona).) Examples of contracts that
are procedurally unconscionable are contracts of adhesion, which is a
“standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it.” (Armendariz, supra, at p. 113). “The
circumstances relevant to establishing oppression include, but are not limited
to (1) the amount of time the party is given to consider the proposed contract;
(2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed
contract; (3) the length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity
of the challenged provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and
(5) whether the party’s review of the proposed contract was aided by an
attorney. (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019)
8 Cal.5th 111, 126-27 (OTO).)
 
Here, while this may have been a contract of adhesion, as
most employment contracts are, this alone does not mean the whole agreement is
procedurally unconscionable. “When arbitration is a condition of employment, there is
inherently economic pressure on the employee to accept arbitration. This alone
is a fairly low level of procedural unconscionability.” (Cisneros Alvarez v. Altamed Health Services Corporation (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 572, 591).
Plaintiff’s argument that it is “unclear” which AAA Rules apply fails because
the MAP clearly states the AAA Employment Arbitration Rules “in place at the
time of the dispute will govern the procedures used in arbitration.”[5] (Healy Decl., Exhibit
A.) Additionally, Plaintiff’s remaining arguments for procedural
unconscionability fail under Oto
because she claims she felt rushed to sign the onboarding documents because the
restaurant needed to open, but did not claim that Defendants stood over her to
ensure she hurried. (Smith Decl. ¶¶ 7,12.) Plaintiff did not claim that
Defendants did not give her time to consider the MAP. (Smith Decl. ¶¶ 7, 11,
12, 13, 14, 15.)  Finally, the MAP is
three pages long and is not convoluted with legalese or other needlessly
complex terms. (Healy Decl., Exhibit A.) Plaintiff has not otherwise provided
evidence of surprise or oppression.
 
Thus, the agreement is minimally
procedurally unconscionable. 
 
b.      Substantive Unconscionability
Plaintiff argues the MAP is substantively unconscionable
because it lacks mutuality.[6]
Defendants argue that the MAP meets the
Armendariz factors and the MAP is mutual.
 
“Substantive unconscionability pertains to the fairness of
an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are overly harsh
or one-sided.” (Carmona, supra, at p. 85). There are five minimum substantive
requirements to an enforceable arbitration agreement: (1) neutral arbitrators,
(2) more than minimal discovery, (3) written award sufficient for judicial
review, (4) all types of relief otherwise available in court, and (5) no
unreasonable costs or fees as a condition of access. (Armendariz, supra, at
p.102.) When there is little procedural unconscionability, a party opposing
arbitration must show substantial substantive unconscionability. (Id. at 114.)
 
Here, the court agrees with Defendants that the MAP is not
substantively unconscionable. First, it meets the Armendariz factors by providing: (1) “an impartial and independent
arbitrator”; (2) Discovery is pursuant to the AAA Rules[7];
(3) “the arbitrator shall render a written decision”; (4) “limited to disputes,
claims or controversies that a court of law would be authorized to entertain or
would have jurisdiction over to grant relief”; and (5) the employee’s “share of
such fees and costs shall not exceed an amount equal to your local court civil
filing fee.” (Healy Decl., Exhibit A.) As to mutuality, the MAP provides that
“you and the Company forego any right either may have to a jury trial on claims
relating in any way to your employment.” (Ibid.)[8]

 
Accordingly, the MAP is not so substantively unconscionable
to warrant unenforcement.
 
c.      
Waiver

Plaintiff contends that Defendant waived the right to compel
arbitration. Specifically, Plaintiff argues that Defendant waited two years before
filing the motion. 
 
“California courts may refuse to enforce an arbitration
agreement “upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of
any contract,” including waiver. (Lewis
v. Fletcher Jones Motor Cars, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 436, 444.)
Further, “a party may be said to have ‘waived’ its right to arbitrate by an
untimely demand, even without intending to give up the remedy.” (Id.) 
 
Moreover, Lewis went onto discuss the factors in St. Agnes: 
 
“Specifically, the St. Agnes court identified the following
as “factors [that] are relevant and properly considered in assessing waiver
claims”: “(1) whether the party's actions are inconsistent with the right to
arbitrate; (2) whether ‘the litigation machinery has been substantially
invoked’ and the parties ‘were well into preparation of a lawsuit’ before the
party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a
party either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed
for a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking
arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings;
(5) ‘whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial
discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had taken place’; and (6)
whether the delay ‘affected, misled, or prejudiced’ the opposing party.” '
[Citations.]” (St. Agnes, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p. 1196, 8
Cal.Rptr.3d 517, 82 P.3d 727.) No one of these factors predominates and each
case must be examined in context.
 
(Id.) 
 
In Davis v. Shiekh
Shoes, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 956 (Davbis), the Court of Appeal affirmed
the trial court’s finding of waiver. The Court found that Shiekh’s lengthy
delay in moving to compel arbitration, coupled with its request for trial, active participation
in discovery, acquiescence to the trial and discovery schedule, and court
appearances, the trial court had ample evidence from which to conclude Shiek’s
actions were inconsistent with an intent to arbitrate.”(Id. at p. 970.) 
 
A comparison of the
facts here to the facts in Davis is
warranted. While the delay between the filing of the complaint and the filing
of this motion is 18 months, at least ten months of the delay is attributable
to Plaintiff for failing to timely serve Corporate Defendant with the Summons
on Complaint. As such, the motion was filed by Corporate Defendant nine months
after appearing and by the individual two days after appearing. 
 
Defendant has offered a further explanation that explains
the delay. In their reply, Corporate Defendant explains that since they filed
their answer, the parties were participating in private mediation and had not
conducted discovery. (Foster Dec. ¶¶2-3,9.) Moreover, the Court observes that Defendant
did indicate in their Answer, in their eighteenth affirmative defense, that
they were seeking arbitration. A closer examination of Plaintiff’s December 1,
2022 and August 29, 2023 Case Management Statements corroborate Defendant’s
position that mediation was scheduled for May 23, 2023. It appears that shortly
after the mediation failed, this motion was filed. Lastly, the Court notes that
there have been no other motions filed or litigated by either party. 
 
In sum, Defendant’s
reasoned explanation for the delay and their participation in mediation justifiably
supports the delay in filing this motion. Most significantly, after mediation
failed, Defendants move expeditiously to file this motion. Accordingly, the
Court finds that Defendant’s conduct here is substantially different than
Sheik’s in Davis, and as such, this
record does not support a finding of waiver of the arbitration clause.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      The
action is STAYED pending arbitration.
 
OSC re: status of Arbitration on May 6, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             October
31, 2023                    __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


