  Case Number:  23CHCP00383    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 10/24/23
Case #23CHCP00383
 
ORDER TO SHOW RE:
DISMISSAL
 
 
On 9/14/23, Petitioner/Plaintiff Rigoberto Lopez-Reyes
(Petitioner), representing himself, filed a “Petition to Initiate Proceedings”
“pursuant to Title 7-Chapter 4.3 Section 65915(d)(3).”  The petition prays for the following relief: 
 
“1. 
Order the Los Angeles County Planning department to concede to my
petition of density bonus waiver for Zoning and other regulations that may
impede the physical erection of the project for Permanent Supportive housing
for homeless veterans.  APN 3211001040
2. 
Monetary compensation for 250,000.00 for legal fees, since they
knowingly violated the law, after presented with the law they colluded to block
state law with bad faith actions including the denial letter.”
 
(See Petition, p.2:8-14)
 
On 9/21/23, because no hearing on the petition had been
reserved and because the Court is unable to determine what Petitioner intended
to file, the Court set an Order to Show Cause as to
why Petition should not be dismissed for Petitioner's failure to reserve a
hearing date and/or failure to state a cognizable claim on 10/24/23.  (See 9/21/23 Minute Order).
 
Additionally, the Court ordered Petitioner to file a
written declaration at lease ten calendar days before the 10/24/23
hearing.  Id.
 
On 10/13/23, a letter (not signed under penalty of
perjury) was received from Petitioner which again references “Title7- Chapter
4.3 section 65915(d)(3)” and indicates that Petitioner is trying to build
supportive permanent housing for disabled veterans and claims that Petitioner
is following all laws and guidelines. 
Despite, the foregoing, Petitioner claims that the “planning department”
is improperly denying his request for a “Zoning regulations waiver in order to
get [the] project permitted.”
 
Petitioner has still not reserved a hearing date on the
petition nor has a proof of service showing the petition has been served on
Respondent/Defendant County of Los Angeles Department of Regional Planning been
filed.  
 
Because the petition and letter submitted by Petitioner does
not cite the body of law in which the cited section (65915(d)(3)) appears
(i.e., Government Code, Business & Professions Code, etc.), it is not clear
what authority Petitioner claims provides the basis for the petition.  If Petitioner intended to rely on subsection
(d)(3) of Government Code 65915, “Applicants seeking density bonus; concessions
or incentives; conditions, agreements and submission requirements; duties of
local officials; legislative findings, declarations and intent,” it provides: 
 
“The applicant may initiate
judicial proceedings if the city, county, or city and county refuses to grant a
requested density bonus, incentive, or concession. If a court finds that the
refusal to grant a requested density bonus, incentive, or concession is in
violation of this section, the court shall award the plaintiff reasonable
attorney's fees and costs of suit. This subdivision shall not be interpreted to
require a local government to grant an incentive or concession that has a
specific, adverse impact, as defined in paragraph
(2) of subdivision (d) of Section 65589.5, upon health or safety, and for
which there is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the
specific adverse impact. This subdivision shall not be interpreted to require a
local government to grant an incentive or concession that would have an adverse
impact on any real property that is listed in the California Register of
Historical Resources. The city, county, or city and county shall establish
procedures for carrying out this section that shall include legislative body
approval of the means of compliance with this section.”
 
While this statute provides authority for an applicant to
initiate judicial proceedings, the applicant has the burden of doing so in a
manner that sets forth a cognizable claim which Petitioner has failed to do in
this case.  If Petitioner intended to
seek relief through a writ of mandate under CCP 1094.5 it appears that such a
filing must be made in the Central District. 
See LASC Local Rule 2.3(a)(1)(A).
 
Based on the failures to set forth a cognizable claim,
reserve a hearing date and serve the petition, the petition is dismissed
without prejudice.  
 