 “This case arises from Defendants’ failure to honor their agreement to pay Willat a contractually-required bonus payment in connection with the sale of Willat’s former home, located at 9120 Oriole Way, Los Angeles, California (the “Property”). . . . Willat sold the Property at a discount, based on Defendants’ promises to develop and resell the Property [ ] and to then share a percentage of the proceeds with Willat pursuant to a Bonus Agreement between Willat and the Buyer. [ ] Defendants had no intention of making a bona-fide effort to develop and resell the Property. . . . Because of their conduct, Defendants now assert that the Buyer cannot afford to pay even the minimum bonus payment under the Bonus Agreement.”  (Compl. ¶¶ 2-5.)  Plaintiff Boyd Willat now seeks to compel further responses from Defendant 9120 Oriole Way, LLC as to his requests for production, set one, requests for admission, set one, form interrogatories, set one, and special interrogatories, set one.   Defendant contends that there were difficulties providing adequate discovery responses because defense counsel was in trial from September 18, 2023, until March 12, 2024.  Defendant contends that supplemental responses will be provided as to much of the subject discovery.Form Interrogatories The Motion directed at form interrogatories is denied without prejudice because Defendant indicates that it will provide supplemental responses.  The supplemental responses should still be provided within 30 days.  The Court declines to award sanctions at this time.Special InterrogatoriesPlaintiff seeks to compel further responses as to special interrogatories (“SI”) nos. 1, 3, 7, 8, 44-62, 65-70, and 74-78.The Motion is denied without prejudice as to SI nos. 1, 3, 7, 8, 44-52, 65-70, and 74-78 because Defendant states that it will supplement its responses to these SIs.  Defendant has responded as to SI nos. 53-62 as follows: “because a response to this interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or the making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of or from the documents of Responding Party, and because the burden or expense of preparing or making it would be substantially the same for Propounding Party as it is for Responding Party, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.230, Responding Party directs propounding party to the documents produced concurrently herewith from which the answer to this interrogatory may be derived or ascertained.”  Defendant indicates in its Opposition that it will “provide a further response directing Plaintiff to a more narrow scope of documents from which Plaintiff can derive the information he seeks.”The reference to documents per Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.230 is appropriate as these SIs seek “a detailed summary of all construction expenditures and work performed on the PROPERTY” for various years.  However, as noted by Defendant, a specific reference to the documents at issue will need to be provided.  As Defendant has already agreed to provide this reference, there is nothing to compel.  The Motion to Compel is denied, without prejudice.  Further responses should still be provided within 30 days.  Requests for Admission Plaintiff seeks further responses as to his requests for admission nos. 16 and 17.  Defendant contends its objections are proper. Request no. 16 states, “Admit that on January 3, 2018, Robert Rosen wrote an email to Boyd Willat in which he stated that YOU had ‘secured a lender to finance the entire build’ of the PROPERTY.” Request no. 17 states, “Admit that on January 3, 2018, Robert Rosen wrote an email to Boyd Willat in which he stated that YOU were ‘now ready to realize the plan’ to ‘build this fantastic house on the premier lot in the Bird Streets and sell it!’ ” Defendant responded as follows: “Responding Party objects to this request on the grounds that it is not full and complete in and of itself in that it requires reference to other documents to respond to this request. Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.060(d).” The objections lack merit.  The requests do not require any further reference to any document—either such emails exist as described or they do not. The Motion is granted.  Further responses are to be provided within 20 days.  The Court awards sanctions in the reduced amount of $750. Requests for ProductionPlaintiff seeks further responses as to his requests for production nos. 15-16, 18-23, and 32.  Plaintiff seeks further production as well.  Plaintiff contends, among other things, that “the Company Defendant produced just one 5,800+ page PDF, without page breaks or ESI, containing a random assortment of unorganized scanned paper documents. Willat is entitled to receive all of the Company Defendant’s responsive ESI—including but not limited to all responsive emails—in electronic format, with metadata and document breaks so that his counsel can review it.”Defendant contends that “Defense counsel does not have the ability or wherewithal to produce the documents in a native form that includes Bates labeling, which is necessary to provide a controlled document production. To the extent that the Court orders production in the native form, Oriole Way will need to retain a third litigation support company to provide these services. For that reason, Oriole Way requests that the Court provide Oriole Way 45 days to provide the documents in the native form, if so ordered.”Plaintiff is entitled to all ESI, including metadata, to the extent it exists.  The documents are to be produced in proper format.As to the specific requests themselves, which relate to financial information, Defendant does not seem to oppose providing a response and production.  Defendant has not justified its objections in its briefing.  Therefore, the Motion is granted.  Further responses and production are to be provided within 30 days.  The Court awards reduced sanctions in the amount of $750.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 