 Case Number:  23STCV12048    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  29 Villamil-Matias v. Hollywood VIP Hotel
23STCV12048
Defendant’s Motion to Require Plaintiff to File Undertaking
 
Tentative
 
The motion is denied.
 
Background
 
On May 26, 2023, Plaintiff Juan
Villamil-Matias (“Villamil-Matias”) filed an action against Defendants Hollywood
VIP Hotel (“Hotel”), LM Orchid Investments LLC, LM Miranda Investments, LLC,
and Does 1 through 25 for general negligence and premises liability.  Plaintiff alleges that on May 28, 2021, he
was seriously injured when he slipped and fell in the shower of a hotel room owned,
maintained and/or controlled by Defendants due to a slippery substance left in
the bathtub.
 
On October 27, 2023, Defendant Hotel
filed an Answer.
 
On August 23, 2024, Defendant LM Orchid
Investments LLC dba Hollywood VIP Hotel (“Defendant”) filed this motion to
require Plaintiff to file an undertaking. 
On September 13, Defendant filed a supplemental declaration of counsel
in support of the motion.  Plaintiff
filed an Opposition on October 2.  No
reply has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
“When
the plaintiff in an action … resides out of state … the defendant may at any
time apply to the court by noticed motion for an order requiring the plaintiff
to file an undertaking to secure an award of costs and attorney’s fees which
may be awarded in the action or special proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (a).)  
 
Attorney’s
fees for purposes of section 1030 are “reasonable attorney’s fees a party may
be authorized to recover by a statute apart from this section or by contract.”  (Ibid.)
 
To
obtain an order requiring an undertaking, the defendant must show (1) “that the
plaintiff resides out of the state” and (2) “that there is a reasonable
possibility the moving defendant will obtain judgment in the action.”  (Id., subd. (b).)  “The motion shall be accompanied by an
affidavit … set[ting] forth the nature and amount of the costs and attorney’s
fees the defendant has incurred and expects to incur by the conclusion of the
action.” (Ibid.)
 
If the motion is
granted, the plaintiff must file the undertaking within 30 days after service
of the court’s order requiring it; if plaintiff fails to do so, the action is
subject to dismissal.  (Id., subd. (d).)
 
“The determinations
of the court under this section have no effect on the determination of any
issues on the merits of the action … and may not be given in evidence nor
referred to in the trial of the action.” 
(Id., subd. (f).)
 
“The purpose of
[section 1030] is to enable a California resident sued by an out-of-state
resident to secure costs in light of the difficulty of enforcing a judgment for
costs against a person who is not within the court’s jurisdiction.” (Alshafie v.
Lallande (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 421, 428.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant seeks an order requiring Plaintiff to file an undertaking.
 
First, Defendant must show that Plaintiff resides outside of
California.  Defendant has made this
showing.  (Eldridge Decl., ¶¶ 3-4 &
Exh. A.)  Plaintiff does not contest this
point.
 
Second, Defendant must show that it has a “reasonable possibility”
that it will prevail.  Defendant has the
burden of proof on this issue. (Shannon
v. Sims Service Center, Inc. (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 907, 914.) As the Court of Appeal has explained, all that is
required is a showing that it is “reasonably possible that [defendants] would
win.” (Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1427,
1432.) A plaintiff is “not required to show that there [is] no possibility that
[plaintiff] could win at trial.” (Ibid.)
 
In support of the motion, Defendant offers no evidence on this point.  Defendant argues in its memorandum (among
other things) that the hotel has no records of the incident, but Defendant does
not offer any admissible evidence on this point (such as, for example, a
declaration from a hotel employee or manager explaining how reported injuries
are logged or documented and stating that no records exist).  Statements of counsel, whether in the
memorandum or the supporting declaration, are not evidence.
 
Accordingly, the motion is denied. 
Defendant has not met its burden of proof under the statute.
In addition, and independently, the Court also notes that moving party
has not shown the basis for the requested undertaking in the amount of $35,000,
as opposed to some greater or lesser amount. 
(Also, although Plaintiff’s counsel states that Plaintiff is “unable to
furnish an undertaking” because of “financial hardship,” Plaintiff supports no
supporting evidence.)
 
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to require Plaintiff to
file an undertaking.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.