  Case Number:  24STCV16073    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Kellee Murayama,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV16073




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Yoon Young Lee, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: November 20, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter 
Demurrer to Complaint and Motion to
Strike
Moving Party: Defendants Yoon Young Lee and Jun
Kyoung Lee
Responding Party: Plaintiff Kellee Murayama
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE IS
GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On June 27, 2024, Plaintiff Kellee
Murayama filed a complaint against Defendants Yoong Young Lee, Eugene Lee, and
Sang Jun Jin, asserting causes of action for (1) negligence; and (2) breach of
fiduciary duty. Plaintiff, the owner of a condominium unit in building managed
by Defendant Jin, alleges Defendants improperly allowed the occupant of another
unit owned by the Lee Defendants to hoard dead and live cats, causing
Plaintiff’s tenant to move out of the building.
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Demurrer to
Complaint
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
The Lee Defendants demur to the first
cause of action for negligence on the ground that it does not state sufficient
facts to support punitive damages. This is not grounds for demurrer. Rather, it
is grounds for a motion to strike. Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a cause of
action for negligence against the Lee Defendants.
 
The demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
B. Motion to Strike
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to
response to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part" of that pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or
improper matter asserted in any pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the Court." (CCP § 436.) 
 
Punitive damages are available in noncontract cases where the defendant
is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civil Code § 3294(a).) 
Conclusory allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages.  (See, e.g., Fisher v. San
Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal. App. 3d 590, 620.)  However, “the stricken language must be read
not in isolation, but in the context of the facts alleged in the rest of
petitioner's complaint.”  (Perkins v.
Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal. App. 3d 1, 6.)
 
The Lee Defendants move to strike the
prayer for punitive damages on the ground that Plaintiff has not alleged
malice, oppression, or fraud. The Court agrees. Plaintiff alleges only simple
negligence against the Lee Defendants. There are no facts showing malice,
oppression, or fraud. 
 
The motion to strike is GRANTED.