 Case Number:  22GDCV00048    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  NCD 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Calendar:
        4                                              
Date:               2/9/2024                      
Case
No:                                 22
GDCV00048                        Trial Date:    April
15, 2024
Case
Name:                             Harutyunyan,
et al. v. Bejanyan, et al. 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
                                                                                          
Moving
Party:                                     Plaintiffs
Armine Harutyunyan and Vadim Harutyunov  
Responding
Party:      Defendant Alen Bejanyan  
 
 
Name
of Deponent:     Alen Bejanyan    
 
Status of Deponent:    Defendant
(party)
 
DEPO ATTENDANCE REQUIRED BY:
Formal Notice  [Amended Deposition Notice]                      
 
RELIEF REQUESTED BY MOVING PARTY:
Order compelling Alen Bejanyan to
attend deposition and provide testimony 
 
Points & Authorities
supporting sanction:    Yes
 




FACTUAL BACKGROUND:
Plaintiffs Armine Harutyunyan and Vadim Harutyunov allege that
defendant Alen Bejanyan is the purported owner of property and a residence
located on Dublin Drive in Glendale, which plaintiffs have rented from
defendant since February of 2019.  
Plaintiffs allege that on August 1, 2021, plaintiffs and defendant
entered into an agreement for plaintiffs’ purchase of the subject property and
pre-paid rents, pursuant to which rent for one year was to be paid in advance
in the amount of $5,000 per month, with the first month free if paid in cash,
and plaintiffs would receive an option to purchase in exchange for a cash
payment of $5,000, with the total sale price of the subject property to be
$1,650,000. 
 
            The
agreement was memorialized in an executed form California Residential Purchase
Agreement and in an executed Lease Agreement with Option to Purchase.  
 
            Plaintiffs
allege that they paid defendant $60,000 in cash, consisting of eleven months’
rent at $5,000 per month and $5,000 cash as consideration for plaintiffs’
option to purchase the subject property, receipt of which was acknowledged by
landlord in the Lease.  The Lease
specified that the Lease was for the time period August 1, 2021 to July 31,
2025, and that the time period for plaintiffs to exercise the option to
purchase ran from August 1, 2021 until July 31, 2022. 
 
            The
complaint alleges that on August 5, 2021, defendant served a 60-Day Notice to
Quit on plaintiffs, which did not specify any cause for termination, including
the statutorily required just cause pursuant to Civil Code section 1946.2 or
Glendale Municipal Ordinance section 9.30.031. 
In December of 2021, defendant filed an unlawful detainer lawsuit
against plaintiffs, which did not correctly specify that the tenancy was
subject to the subject Glendale Municipal Code and required just cause for
termination.  
 
            Plaintiffs
allege that on January 14, 2022, plaintiffs notified defendant that plaintiffs
were exercising their option to purchase the subject property, but defendant
has refused to enter escrow and honor the agreement between the parties and is
attempting to sell the subject property to another for a higher price.  The complaint alleges causes of action for
breach of contract, promissory fraud, and quiet title. 
 
            Defendant
Bejanyan has filed a cross-complaint against plaintiffs as cross-defendants,
alleging that in February of 2019 cross-defendants rented the subject house in
Glendale for the agreed upon sum of $5,000 per month and entered a written
agreement to live in the house for 2 ½ years, until August 2021.   
 
The operative cross-complaint, the
Second Amended Cross-Complaint (SACC), alleges that beginning in January of
2021 and then in April of 2021, cross-defendants negotiated with
cross-complainant for an option to purchase the subject house.  Cross-complainant alleges that he offered the
cross-defendants an option to purchase the house for with a purchase price of
$1,650,000 and requested a $150,000 earnest money deposit for the property, but
that cross-defendants refused to pay the deposit as they did not have the funds
available.  The SACC alleges that the
parties never reached an agreement regarding the purchase of the house. 
 
            In August
of 2021, cross-complainant filed an unlawful detainer lawsuit against
cross-defendants.  
 
            Cross-complainant
alleges that while in the proceedings for the unlawful detainer lawsuit,
cross-complainant received a falsified Lease to Purchase agreement, and that
this was the first time cross-complainant had ever seen this document and had
never signed it.  The SACC alleges that
one of the falsified documents was a forged Lease Agreement with Option to
Purchase the premises, and that in January of 2022, cross-complainant was
informed by Glenoaks Escrow Company that the subject property was officially in
escrow.  The SACC alleges that Glenoaks
Escrow sent cross-complainant documents such as a California Residential
Purchase Agreement, and Joint Escrow Instructions, all of which must have been
produced through forgery or falsified means, as cross-complainant had never
seen nor agreed to the terms of any of the documents. 
 
            The file
shows that on January 27, 2022, the court heard an ex parte application filed
by plaintiffs for, among other relief, an order to deem matters related.  The application was granted, the court
finding that this case is related to the UD action 21PUD01291, deeming this
case the lead case, ordering the cases assigned to Department D, and ordering a
stay in the UD case pending resolution of the lead case.  The court noted that the “parties may file a
stipulation to consolidate cases.”   On
May 9, 2022, the court at a case management conference indicated that counsel’s
joint motion to consolidate the related cases was heard and granted.  The minute order also states, “Later, after
further consideration, the Court vacates the order consolidating cases
21PDUD01291 AND 22GDCV00048.  Cases are
ordered unconsolidated.”   
 
            On November
18, 2022, the court heard a demurer to the SACC, which was sustained with leave
to amend to the first cause of action for fraud and intentional deceit.  The demurrer was sustained with ten days
leave to amend.  Cross-complainant did
not file or serve a Third Amended Cross-Complaint within the time permitted,
and on December 8, 2022, the court signed and filed an Order dismissing the
first cause of action in the SACC with prejudice. 
 
ANALYSIS:
CCP section 2025.450 (a) provides
that "if after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action...  without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it... the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony..."
 
In this case, defendant was served
with an Amended Notice of Taking Deposition, which is not attached to the
moving papers, but submitted with the opposition. [Opposition, Keshishian
Decl., Ex. A].  Defendant served a timely
objection, which is also not attached to the moving papers, but submitted with
the opposition.  [Keshishian Decl., Ex.
B]. 
 
The Objection objects to
propounding party’s “unilateral selection of October 26, 2023 as the date of
the depositions,” states the witness and counsel are unavailable, and
indicates, “Responding Party will meet and confer with Propounding Party for
alternative dates for the deposition.” 
[Ex. B, p. 2:7-10].  The Objection
was served by email on October 20, 2022. 
 
            The moving
papers indicate that the parties met and conferred by email, but does not
attach the email chain, which is also submitted with the Opposition.  It shows that on Thursday, October 26, 2023,
counsel for plaintiffs sent an email, his second in two days requesting a
deposition date for defendant, and indicating that “Should you fail or refuse
to provide acceptable dates,” a motion to compel would be filed requesting
sanctions.  [Keshishian Decl., Ex.
C].  The email states, “I will wait until
Monday before filing the motion.”  
[Keshishian Decl., Ex. C].  On
Monday, October 30, 2023, defendant’s counsel responded, “our client is
available to be deposed on the following dates: 
November 16, 21, 22 and 30. He will require a Russian interpreter and
the deposition must be conducted remotely as he is no longer in the
country.”  [Keshishian Decl., Ex. D]. 
 
            The
opposition indicates that a response to this email was never received.
[Keshishian Decl., para. 7].
 
            This motion
was filed and served on November 9, 2023, over a week after dates were
suggested.  
 
            As argued
in the opposition, this shows that defendant did not “without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410,” fail “to appear for examination…”  
 
The objection that the date was one
unilaterally set on which defendant and counsel were unavailable appears valid,
and defendant was willing to reschedule to a date in the near future at the
time.   
            
In any case, defendant in the
opposition appears to concede that defendant may be deposed on a mutually
agreeable date.  
 
Defendant’s counsel also indicates
in the opposition that the parties have actively engaged in discussing
mediation to resolve the matter, and plaintiffs have filed a joint stipulation
to continue trial and other dates, with plaintiffs during discussions
concerning that stipulation indicating wanting to save resources on discovery
and depositions pending the outcome of the mediation.  There is no declaration evidencing this
representation.  The court file does show
that on December 5, 2023, the court signed and filed a Joint Stipulation to
Continue Trial and Related Dates, indicating the parties had selected a
mediator and would be seeking to complete mediation within the next 90 to 120
days, and the trial date and all related dates were continued to April 15,
2024.  [Joint Stipulation
12/05/2023].  
 
The only objection which defendant
attempts to justify in the opposition is the objection that the deposition was
set without consulting defendant and argues that it was accordingly reasonable
to object on that ground, and to not appear for deposition, and to offer
alternative dates.  
 
Under the circumstances, the court
finds that defendant has in the opposition conceded the need for a deposition,
and to set a firm date for defendant’s deposition.  The court will hear from both sides
concerning whether this date should be set after the anticipated mediation
date. 
 
Sanctions



This posture leaves the issue of
sanctions, which are sought by the moving parties. 
 
Under CCP section 2025.450 (g)(1)
“if a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor
of that party and against the deponent...unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”   
 
Although defendant will be ordered
to appear for deposition, the court does not find the objection to the
unilateral setting of the deposition to have been unreasonable, and it appears
that alternate dates had been offered well before the plaintiffs chose to
disregard the offer and incur the expense of making the motion instead.  Defendant’s conduct was substantially justified,
and the motion was not yet necessary at the time it was filed.  Hence, no sanctions are awarded. 
 
RULING:
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Attendance and Testimony of
Alen Bejanyan:
The Court notes that defendant in the opposition has indicated
willingness to appear and testify at deposition on a mutually available
date.  Defendant Alen Bejanyan is ordered
to appear for deposition and to give testimony via video remote procedure on a
mutually convenient date and time no later than March 8, 2024.  The Court will hear from both sides
concerning whether the date should be scheduled within the next thirty days, or
if the parties would prefer a longer window to have the opportunity to first
complete mediation.   
 
Monetary sanctions requested are DENIED.  
 
 
DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING
TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE 
AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES
 
Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via
LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance. 
Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 
 
If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is
otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the
tentative. 
 