 Case Number:  22GDCV00323    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  NCD 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Calendar:               5
Date:                      2/9/2024                                                                           
Case
Number:        22 GDCV00323                Trial date:  July 1, 2024
Case
Name:            Tashchyan v. Stepanyan, et al.  
                                                      
MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (2)
(Or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication) 
 
Moving Party:           Defendant Stepanyan Surgical Arts Center 
Defendant Martin Stepanyan, D.D.S. 

Responding Party:     Plaintiff Stepan Tashchyan  
 
Relief Requested: 
            Order
granting summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication on
plaintiff’s five causes of action 
 
CAUSES OF ACTION:         from
First Amended Complaint  
1)     
Dental Malpractice—Breach of Standard of Care 
2)     
Dental Malpractice—Negligent Misrepresentation 
3)     
Dental Malpractice—Failure to Properly Keep or Provide
Medical Records 
4)     
Breach of Oral Contract 
5)     
Specific Performance
 
SUMMARY OF COMPLAINT:
Plaintiff Stepan Tashchyan alleges
that in May of 2019 plaintiff entered into an oral contract with defendants
Martin Stepanyan, D.D.S. and Stepanyan Surgical Arts Center wherein defendants
promised to provide dental care and procedures with guaranteed outcomes in
exchange for plaintiff’s payment of certain sums of money.  Plaintiff alleges that from May of 2019
plaintiff was under the dental care of defendants, and in August 2019
defendants performed a surgical procedure on plaintiff for extraction of teeth,
placement of maxillary implants, placement of implant fixtures, and bone
grafting.  In March of 2020, defendants
performed further procedures, including uncovering.  
 
Plaintiff alleges that shortly
thereafter plaintiff began experiencing problems with the implants, such as
ill-fitting implants and pieces that started to loosen and fall out, which
caused plaintiff to suffer significant pain. 
Plaintiff immediately informed defendant of the issues and asked for
help, but defendants were unable to or refused to correct the issues.  Plaintiff alleges that because defendants
were not responding to plaintiff’s requests to fix the problems, plaintiff had
to seek treatment from another dental surgeon to correct the issues which
caused plaintiff to incur additional costs. 
The First Amended Complaint alleges that defendants breached the
standard of care for dentists and dental surgeons practicing in their
community, causing plaintiff injuries and damages, and also breached the
contract between the parties. 
 
Plaintiff further alleges that he
has made repeated requests for his medical records from defendants, but his
requests were denied or ignored. 
Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff contacted the Dental Board of California
and filed a complaint, as a result of which some documents were finally sent to
plaintiff but that the documents were missing important records, such as
radiology from before and after the procedure, complete chart notes, surgical
notes, and periodontal records prior to the procedure.   Plaintiff alleges that defendants’ failure
to make, keep, or provide plaintiff’s complete medical records exacerbated
plaintiff’s injury and delayed his ability to get further treatment and
mitigate his damages.  It is also alleged
that defendants’ refusal to provide complete medical records violates Health
& Safety Code section 123100, et seq. 

 
ANALYSIS:
Defendants Stepanyan Surgical Arts
Center and Martin Stepanyan, D.D.S. have brought virtually identical motions
for summary judgment/adjudication. 
Plaintiff in opposition has filed very similar oppositions to each motion.   
 
Procedural
Request for Continuance
            The oppositions make a brief argument
that if the court is inclined to grant the motion, the hearing should be
continued. 
 
CCP
§ 437c (h) provides
“If
it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary
judgment... that facts essential to justify the
opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, then be presented, the
court shall deny the motion, or order a continuance to permit affidavits to be
obtained or discovery to be had or may make any other order as may be just.” 
 
Since the amendment of the summary judgment
timelines in 2003, the courts have imposed good faith/diligence requirement on
parties seeking continuances.   The
Second District in Cooksey v. Alexakis (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 246, set
forth the required elements of an affidavit in support of a request for
continuance, holding that 
“A declaration in support of a request for a
continuance under section 437c, subdivision (h) must show:
    (1)
the facts to be obtained are essential to opposing the motion; 
          (2)
there is reason to believe such facts may exist; and
          (3)
the reasons why additional time is needed to obtain these facts.”




Cooksey,
at 254, citations, internal quotations omitted. 

 
          It is
recognized that where an appropriate declaration meeting these requirements is
submitted, then denial of the motion or grant of the continuance is
mandatory.  Dee
v. Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 149, 167.   Where the declaration is not timely
submitted, or fails to make the required showing, then whether to grant a
continuance is a matter within the trail court’s discretion, and the trial
court’s ruling will be reviewed for abuse of discretion.   Cooksey, at 254. 
 
          In Cooksey, the Second District
affirmed the trial court’s denial of a request for a continuance, as the
declaration was not only untimely but inadequate, as it “provided no
explanation how the outstanding discovery was relevant to the issues raised by
respondent’s motion,” and failed to show diligence in obtaining the outstanding
discovery, so failed to show a justifiable reason why the essential facts could
not be presented.  
 
          In Cooksey, a medical
malpractice case, the declaration requesting a continuance was not filed until
the day of the hearing on the summary judgment motion, and there was no
indication how outstanding discovery was necessary for the opposition.  In addition, the declaration contained no
explanation of why the discovery sought could not have been initiated sooner,
and counsel acknowledged that he had intentionally delayed discovery for
tactical reasons, to delay disclosure of the medical expert’s opinion as long
as possible.   See Cooksey, at
255-257.   
          
            Here, the memoranda in support of
the oppositions briefly indicate that defendant has not yet been deposed,
despite several efforts and delays, and the deposition is now scheduled for
March 5, 2024.  
 
            The declarations of counsel
submitted with each opposition do not mention a request for continuance, and do
not indicate that facts essential to justify the opposition may exist but
cannot, for reasons stated, now be presented. The declarations do not show or
mention that there are facts to be obtained which are essential to opposing the
motions, there is reason to believe such facts may exist, or the reasons why
additional time is needed to obtain these facts.
 
            The declarations at best state that
several exhibits are attached to the declarations, including, “a true and
correct copy of the deposition notices for the deposition of Defendant
previously served.” [Aroustamian Declarations, paras. 2 (vi)].  
 
            The attached deposition notices show
that a deposition of defendant was originally noticed in May of 2023, was then
noticed for June and then July, and is now noticed for March 5, 2024.  [Aroustamian Declarations, para. 2, Ex.
6].  There is no explanation why there
has been such a delay in obtaining the deposition, and particularly why it was
not sought more urgently in the more than 75 days since these motions were served,
so no showing of diligence.  It is also
not explained what facts plaintiff expects to obtain at this deposition which
would defeat the motions.  The
declarations accordingly do not meet the requirements with respect to obtaining
a continuance, so the granting of a continuance is discretionary with the
court. 
 
            The showing does not explain how
deposing defendant could assist in defeating these motions, which could be
defeated by a medical expert based on the facts and medical records in this
matter, or by evidence within the knowledge of plaintiff concerning his alleged
his lack of informed consent, promises and representations made to plaintiff,
and plaintiff’s alleged receipt of incomplete medical records.   
 
            The court does not continue the hearings
on this showing. 
 
Substantive 
Under CCP § 437c(p)(2) a defendant
“has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if
the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if
not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.  Once the
defendant... has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff... to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.”
 
CCP § 437c(f)(1) provides that “A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.”
 
            Defendants Stepanyan
Surgical Arts Center and Martin Stepanyan, D.D.S. seek to establish that plaintiff
will be unable to establish all elements of his causes of action. 
 
Issue 1- THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION
FOR NEGLIGENCE – DENTAL MALPRACTICE IS BARRED BECAUSE EXPERT REVIEW ESTABLISHES
DEFENDANT, DR. STEPANYAN, MET THE STANDARD OF CARE AT ALL TIMES, AND DID NOT
NEGLIGENTLY CAUSE MR. TASCHYAN’S ALLEGED INJURIES 

To establish a cause of action for
professional negligence against health care providers such as Dr. Stepanyan and
his professional corporation, plaintiff must plead and prove the following
elements:  
1) Defendant owed a legal duty to
use due care;
2) Defendant’s breach -- the
negligent act or omission; and 
3) The breach as the proximate or
legal cause of the resulting injury.   
Elam v. College Park Hospital (1982) 132 Cal.App.3d
332, 338.   
 
The California Supreme Court has
noted in connection with professional malpractice claims against health care
providers that it has:
“consistently held that a physician
is required to possess and exercise, in both diagnosis and treatment, that
reasonable degree of knowledge and skill which is ordinarily possessed and
exercised by other members of his profession in similar circumstances.” 
Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 408,
citations omitted.  
 
With respect to a claim for medical
negligence: 
“’The standard of care against which the acts of a physician are to be
measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents
the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by their
testimony [citations], unless the conduct required by the particular
circumstances is within the common knowledge of the layman.’ (Sinz v. Owens
(1949) 33 Cal.2d 749, 753
[205 P.2d 3, 8 A.L.R.2d 757]; accord, Brown v. Colm (1974) supra,
11 Cal.3d 639, 643; Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8
Cal.3d 229, 236-237 [104 Cal.Rptr. 505, 502 P.2d 1]; Huffman v. Lindquist
(1951) 37 Cal.2d 465, 473
[234 P.2d 34, 29 A.L.R.2d 485].)”
Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399.  See also Barris v. County of Los Angeles
(1999) 20 Cal.4th 101, 114. 
 
            With
respect to medical causation:
“…medical causation can only be determined by expert medical
testimony. (Gin Non Louie v. Chinese Hospital Assn. (1967) 249 Cal.App.2d 774, 784 [57 Cal.Rptr. 906]; Stephenson v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (1962) 203 Cal.App.2d 631, 635 [21 Cal.Rptr. 646].)”
Salasguevera v. Wyeth Laboratories, Inc. (1990) 222
Cal.App.3d 379, 385.
 
Under Evidence Code section 801,
the opinion testimony of an expert is limited to opinions:
“(a) Related to a subject that is
sufficiently beyond common experience that the opinion of an expert would
assist the trier of fact; and 
(b) Based on matter (including his
special knowledge, skill, experience, training, and education) perceived by or
personally known to the witness or made known to him at or before the hearing,
whether or not admissible, that is of a type that reasonably may be relied upon
by an expert in forming an opinion upon the subject to which his testimony
relates...”
 
Defendants rely
on the virtually identical declarations of Dr. Anthony Pogrel, M.D., D.D.S.,
M.S.D., F.A.C.P. in support of their motions. [Notice of Lodgement, Ex.
F].  
 
The
declaration adequately establishes Dr. Pogrel’s qualifications to testify as an
expert, as Dr. Pogrel is a licensed oral and maxillofacial surgeon, with the
appropriate education, training, and professional experience, and is familiar
with the standard of care required for doctors of oral and maxillofacial
surgery in the California community.  [Pogrel Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4].  Dr. Pogrel’s CV is attached as Exhibit 1. [Pogrel
Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. 1].  
 




The
declaration also establishes that Dr. Pogrel has reviewed the appropriate
patient medical records, including the records from Stepanyan Surgical Arts
Center.  [Pogrel Decl. ¶ 5]. Dr. Pogrel
has also reviewed the FAC in this matter, various discovery responses, and the
transcript of the deposition of plaintiff in this matter. [Pogrel Decl. ¶ 5].  Copies of
the medical records from Stepanyan Surgical Arts Center are submitted along
with a declaration of Dr. Stepanyan authenticating the records.  [Ex. K, Stepanyan Decl. ¶ 3, NOL, Exs. C-E].  


 
Dr. Pogrel provides substantial
testimony setting forth an understanding of the facts, and the reasons for Dr.
Pogrel’s opinions.
 
Specifically, Dr. Pogrel states the
opinion that Dr. Stepanyan complied with the standard of care for oral and
maxillofacial surgery at all times during his treatment and care of plaintiff,
and explains that plaintiff never consulted with Dr. Stepanyan for “filling
procedures” as alleged in the FAC, so Dr. Stepanyan could not have breached the
standard of care for rendering such procedures, that the time frame for the
placement and implant procedures for the eight implants was within the standard
of care, that Dr. Stepanyan appropriately sent plaintiff to a third-party
restorative doctor for temporary upper bridge restoration, and that there is no
evidence that any of the implants placed by Dr. Stepanyan failed or loosened at
any time.  [Pogrel Decl. ¶ 7, (a)-(e)]. 
It is also the expert’s opinion that Dr. Stepanyan’s post-operative and
follow-up care was appropriate and within the standard of care, and that the
records maintained by defendants regarding the treatment were appropriate for
the treatment provided.   [Pogrel Decl. ¶
7 (f)-(i)].  
 
Dr. Pogrel also states, with
respect to informed consent, his opinion that “Dr. Stepanyan’s August 7, 2019
and March 12, 2020 Dental Implant Informed Consent forms were appropriate and
within the standard of care and adequately displayed the known risks of the
procedures to be performed.”  [Pogrel Decl.
¶ 7 (b)]. 
 
Dr. Pogrel states his professional
opinion with respect to medical causation:
“Based on my knowledge, skill,
education, training and experience, and a thorough review of the medical
records described above, it is my opinion to a reasonable degree of medical and
dental probability, that no act or omission on the part of Dr. Stepanyan was a
substantial factor in causing or contributing to any injury or damage to Mr.
Tashchyan.”
[Pogrel Decl. ¶ 8]. 
 
It is held that “[w]hen a defendant
moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations
that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to
summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert
evidence.”  Munro v. Regents of
University of California (1989) 215 Cal. App. 3d 977, 985, quotation
omitted.    
 
Here, the declaration of Dr. Pogrel
sufficiently establishes that the conduct of the moving defendants fell within
the applicable standard of care, and the burden shifts to plaintiff to raise
triable issues of material fact.  
 
The Second District holds that in a
medical malpractice case, if a plaintiff’s expert declaration in opposing
summary judgment sets forth specific factual breaches of
duty, the defendant doctor’s motion for summary judgment should be
denied.  Hanson v. Grode (1999) 76
Cal.App.4th 601, 607.  
 
Plaintiff in opposition to the
motions relies on the virtually identical declarations of Sharareh Tajbakhsh,
D.D.S., M.S.D., F.A.C.P.  
 
The declaration adequately
establishes the expert’s qualifications to render opinions on the
medical-dental standard of care applicable in the community to the treatment of
patients like the plaintiff in this case, as Dr. Tajbakhsh is a licensed
dentist and board certified prosthodontist with the appropriate education,
training, and professional experience, and is familiar with the standard of
care required for dentists, doctors of oral and maxillofacial surgery, and prosthodontists
in the California community.  [Tajbakhsh Decl.
¶¶ 2, 3].  Dr. Tajbakhsh’s CV is attached
as Exhibit A. [Tajbakhsh Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A]. 

 




The declaration also establishes
that Dr. Tajbakhsh has reviewed the appropriate patient medical records,
including the records from Stepanyan Surgical Arts Center and Dr. Raffi
Margossian. [Tajbakhsh Decl. ¶ 4]. Dr. Tajbakhsh has also reviewed the FAC in
this matter, various discovery responses, the moving papers, and the
transcripts of the deposition of plaintiff in this matter. [Tajbakhsh Decl.
¶ 4].  
 



Dr. Tajbakhsh is of the opinion
that Dr. Stepanyan breached the standard of care by failing to adequately plan
and coordinate the prosthodontic and surgical components involved in
plaintiff’s treatment, failing to exercise the level of skill, knowledge,
judgment and prudence required in performing plaintiffs’ prosthodontic and
surgical procedure and follow-up treatment, keeping
grossly inadequate treatment records, and failing to obtain plaintiff’s
informed consent for the treatment provided. 
[Tajbakhsh Decl. ¶ 5, 8-16].  Dr. Tajbakhsh also notes that Dr. Margossian,
who subsequently treated plaintiff, noted problems in clinical notes which
included that the implants placed in the posterior were not positioned
properly, the position of the implants and depth of the abutments were not adequate,
causing to bridge to come out, the span of the bridge was too long, and the
implants were placed too far apart to accommodate the bridge.  [Tajbakhsh Decl. ¶ 16].  Dr. Tajbakhsh also opines that Dr. Stepanyan,
who is not a prosthodontist, fell below the applicable standard of care in not
referring the patient to a prosthodontist. 
[Tajbakhsh Decl. ¶ 15].
 
Specifically with respect to
informed consent, Dr. Tajbakhsh indicates:
“Mr. Tashchyan was not informed
about what type of prosthesis he was going to receive and what his options were
such as implant supported bar with acrylic teeth, removable implant supported
prosthesis, or implant supported fixed prosthesis. There is no evidence that
Mr. Tashchyan gave his informed consent for the prosthetic treatment rendered
by Dr.
Stepanyan. No informed consent form
was signed for the prosthetic treatment rendered.”
[Tajbakhsh Decl. ¶ 9; See also ¶ 11].

 
            Dr. Tajbakhsh
also notes that the informed consent form of August 7, 2019 reads, “if a crown,
bridge, or denture is to be attached to the implants, this will be done by a
restorative doctor of patient’s choice,” suggesting defendants would not be
providing the restorative work, and that if defendants did not intend to
provide restorative dental work, under the proper standard of care, Dr.
Stepanyan should not have done any surgical placement for the patient without
consulting with the restorative dentist. 
[Tajbakhsh Decl. ¶ 12].
 
Dr. Tajbakhsh is also of the
opinion that “to a reasonable degree of medical and dental probability,”
defendants’ treatment of plaintiff “that fell below the applicable standard of
care caused or contributed to Mr. Tashchyan’s injuries and damage.”  [Tajbakhsh Decl. ¶ 6].  
 
The declaration sufficiently sets forth
specific factual breaches of duty to raise triable issues of fact with respect
to whether the conduct of defendants fell within the standard of care and was
the cause of plaintiff’s claimed injuries, as well as triable issues with
respect to whether plaintiff will be able to establish his claim on the basis
of a lack of informed consent.  The
motion therefore is denied as to the first cause of action.  
 
Issue 2. THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION
FOR NEGLIGENT MISREPRESENTATION LACKS MERIT BECAUSE THERE WAS NO
MISREPRESENTATION OF MATERIAL FACT MADE TO PLAINTIFF, NOR COULD PLAINTIFF HAVE
REASONABLY RELIED UPON THE ALLEGED MISREPRESENTATION 
The
elements of a claim for negligent misrepresentation are:  1) assertion of a false statement; (2) honest
belief by the speaker that the statement is true, but without reasonable ground
for such belief, (3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and (4) resulting
damage.  See Anderson v. Deloitte
& Touche (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1468, 1474-1476.   
 
            Defendants argue that plaintiff will
be unable to establish this cause of action because at no time did Dr.
Stepanyan promise or warrant a specific successful outcome from the procedures
provided nor that plaintiff would no longer have dental issues.  [Stepanyan Decl., para. 6].  Defendants also argue that the informed
consent forms plaintiff executed expressly stated that plaintiff understood
that “the doctor cannot guarantee the results of the procedure,” and also
acknowledged that follow up visits or additional treatment “may be
needed.”  [UMF Nos. 36, 37, and evidence
cited, Exs. D, E].  
 
As
discussed above, plaintiff’s expert points out that there is an ambiguity
raised in the August 7, 2019 agreement which expressly states that, “If a
crown, bridge or denture is to be attached to the implants, this will be done
by a restorative doctor of patient’s choice,” when Dr. Stepanyan apparently
intended at the time to do such work for plaintiff, and plaintiff understood
that Dr. Stepanyan would be doing that work. 
[Tajbakhsh Decl. ¶ 12].     
 
Plaintiff
in opposition also relies on his deposition testimony, in which plaintiff states
that despite that sentence, plaintiff understood that after Dr. Stepanyan
placed the upper implants, he was going to place a bridge on those implants,
and that Dr. Stepanyan promised he would do everything.  [Arou    Decl., Ex. 1, Tashchyan Depo., p.
29:3-21].   In that deposition testimony,
plaintiff also indicates that it was agreed that Dr. Stepanyan would “do
everything,” and “everything was going to be included in the $36,000
that we discussed,” but that during the second surgery, Dr. Stepanyan told
plaintiff he would have to pay an additional amount of $2,000 to put plaintiff
to sleep again.   [Aroustamian Decl.,
para. 2, Ex. 1, Tashchyan Depo., p. 30:13-25].  Plaintiff indicated that the alternative to
not being put to sleep was not acceptable:
“So I said, well, Doctor, there are, like,
12 screws that you have to input. How can I endure it? How can I endure if you'
re going to cut my gums 12 times?”
[Tashchyan Depo, p. 30:20-22]. 
 
The doctor then told plaintiff the price for
being put under which plaintiff would have to pay.   [Tashchyan Depo., p. 30:23-25]. 
 
This showing is sufficient to support a
claim for negligent misrepresentation with respect to what services were
represented would be provided, so triable issues remain on at least one
theory.  [See Response to UMF No. 38, and
evidence cited]. The motion as to this cause of action is denied. 

 
Issue 3. THE THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION
FOR FAILURE TO PROPERLY KEEP AND/OR PROVIDE MEDICAL RECORDS IS BARRED BECAUSE
DEFENDANT COMPLIED WITH HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE §123110 AND THE DENTAL BOARD OF
CALIFORNIA FOUND DR. STEPANYAN HAD NOT VIOLATED THE DENTAL PRACTICES ACT 
Under Health and Safety Code section 123100:
“The Legislature finds and declares that every person having ultimate
responsibility for decisions respecting his or her own health care also
possesses a concomitant right of access to complete information respecting his
or her condition and care provided.”
Health & Safety Code section 123110 provides, in pertinent part:
“(a) Notwithstanding Section 5328 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code, and except as provided in Sections 123115 and 123120, any adult patient
of a health care provider, … and any patient's personal representative shall be
entitled to inspect patient records upon presenting to the health care provider
a request for those records and upon payment of reasonable costs, as specified
in subdivision (k)…. A health care provider shall permit this inspection during
business hours within five working days after receipt of the request. The
inspection shall be conducted by the patient or patient's personal
representative requesting the inspection, who may be accompanied by one other
person of their choosing.
(b)(1) Additionally, any patient or patient's personal representative
shall be entitled to a paper or electronic copy of all or any portion of the
patient records that they have a right to inspect, upon presenting a request to
the health care provider specifying the records to be copied, together with a
fee to defray the costs of producing the copy or summary, as specified in
subdivision (k). The health care provider shall ensure that the copies are transmitted
within 15 days after receiving the request….
(h) Any health care provider described in paragraphs (4) to (10),
inclusive, of subdivision (a) of Section 123105 who willfully violates this
chapter is guilty of unprofessional conduct. Any health care provider described
in paragraphs (1) to (3), inclusive, of subdivision (a) of Section 123105 that
willfully violates this chapter is guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine
of not more than one hundred dollars ($100).”
Defendants argue that defendants provided plaintiff all of his records
in May of 2021, and that in June of 2021, plaintiff received a letter from the
Dental Board informing plaintiff it had found no evidence of a violation of the
Dental Practices Act.  [UMF Nos. 42-44,
and evidence cited, FAC, Ex. A, Ex. I].  
 
Plaintiff in opposition argues that plaintiff received some medical
records from defendant, but not his complete chart.  Plaintiff argues that a comparison of what
was provided to plaintiff with what was produced by defendants in discovery in
this matter in response to Requests for Production shows that at least 26 pages
were not sent to plaintiff previously.  [Response to UMF No. 47, and evidence cited, Aroustamian
Decl., Exs. 2-5].  Plaintiff submits a
copy of the 30 pages of documents which were not provided prior to the
litigation.  [Ex. 5]. 
 
Plaintiff also points out that his medical
expert Dr. Tajbakhsh, has questioned the completeness of the records and x-ray
records, supporting a reasonable inference that certain records were either
generated but improperly not retained, or exist but were not provided to
plaintiff, as required under statute.  
[Response to UMF No. 46, and evidence cited, Tajbakhsh Decl., para. 17].
  Dr. Tajbakhsh points out specifically,
for example, that “The communications with the laboratory do not seem to be
complete as they do not correspond with the number of treatments received by
Mr. Tashchyan.”  [Tajbakhsh Decl. ¶ 17 c.].
 
 
The declaration also raises triable issues
of material fact with respect to whether plaintiff can establish this cause of
action on a theory that medical records were not properly kept by
defendants.   Specifically, Dr. Tajbakhsh
states that “The medical records provided by Stepanyan Surgical Arts Center are
limited, not complete, and below the applicable standard of care for medical
record keeping for dental practitioners in the California community.”  [Tajbakhsh
Decl. ¶ 17]. Dr. Tajbakhsh specifically points to the communications with
the lab appearing incomplete as set forth above, as well as the limited
useability of the x-ray images, and lack of clarity and details in the chart
notes.  [Tajbakhsh Decl. ¶ 17
(a)-(c)].   
 

Triable issues of fact have been raised.  Hence, the motion as to this cause of action is
denied. 
 
Issue 4. THE FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION
FOR BREACH OF ORAL CONTRACT IS BARRED BECAUSE PLAINTIFF CANNOT ESTABLISH A
VALID CONTRACT EXISTED WHEREIN DR. STEPANYAN MADE AN EXPRESS GUARANTEE OF A
SPECIFIC OUTCOME
“To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must prove
(1) the contract, 
(2) the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance, 
(3) the defendant's breach, and 
(4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” 
Richman v.
Hartley (2014, 2nd Dist.) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.
 
            Defendant again argues that Dr.
Stepanyan made no oral assurances to plaintiff which would be considered
enforceable, essentially making the same argument made above in connection with
the negligent misrepresentation cause of action.   
 
As
discussed above, plaintiff has submitted evidence in opposition to the motion
from which a reasonable inference can be drawn that Dr. Stepanyan entered into
an oral contract with plaintiff that plaintiff would receive treatment from Dr.
Stepanyan for an agreed upon price which would include everything and breached
that oral contract by requiring plaintiff to pay for services to put him to
sleep for the second surgery. [Tashchyan Depo., pp. 29:3-21; 30:13-25]. 
 

            Defendants
in the reply argue that plaintiff has conceded in the separate statement that
Dr. Stepanyan did not promise a specific successful outcome.  [See Response to UMF No. 59, “Undisputed.”].   However, this is not inconsistent with
plaintiff’s position that there was an oral representation that there would be
no hidden or additional charges for the treatment course, which is a valid
theory, particularly when it would appear from all of the evidence before the
court that the cost of having the patient put under for a significant dental
surgery should have been anticipated by the dental professional before the
course of treatment commenced.  
 
            Under CCP §
437c(c): 
“(c) The motion for
summary judgment shall be granted if all
the papers submitted show that there is             no triable issue as to any material fact and that the
moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. In determining
whether the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
the court shall consider all of
the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which objections
have been made and sustained by the court, and all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence, except summary judgment shall not be
granted by the court based on inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence
if contradicted by other inferences or evidence that raise a triable issue as
to any material fact.”
(emphasis added).
 
            Here,
considering all the evidence before the court, triable issues of fact remain as
to this cause of action.  The motion
accordingly is denied on this issue.  
 
Issue 5. THE FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION
FOR SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE PROVIDING A COPY OF PLAINTIFF’S ENTIRE MEDICAL FILE
AND ALL MEDICAL RECORDS IS BARRED BECAUSE PLAINITFF HAS BEEN PROVIDED, ON NUMEROUS
OCCASIONS, HIS ENTIRE MEDICAL CHART WITH DEFENDANTS
Defendants
rely on the same facts discussed above with respect to the third cause of
action, again arguing that plaintiff was provided with his entire medical
chart.   The separate statement on this
issue simply states, “Defendant hereby incorporates Undisputed Material Facts
Nos. 39-53, supra.” [UMF No. 60].  
 
As
discussed above, in response to those facts, plaintiff has submitted evidence
supporting a reasonable inference that defendants did not provide plaintiff
with his entire medical records, to which plaintiff is entitled.  [See Responses to UMF Nos. 46, 47, 49-53, and
evidence cited, Exs. 2, 3, 4, 5, Tajbakhsh Decl., para. 17].  Triable issues of fact have been raised.  Therefore, the motion on this cause of action
also is denied.    

 
RULING:
Defendant Stepanyan Surgical Arts Center’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
Alternative, Summary Adjudication:
Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.
Motion for Summary
Adjudication:
 
Issue 1- THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION FOR NEGLIGENCE – DENTAL
MALPRACTICE IS BARRED BECAUSE EXPERT REVIEW ESTABLISHES DEFENDANT, DR.
STEPANYAN, MET THE STANDARD OF CARE AT ALL TIMES, AND DID NOT NEGLIGENTLY CAUSE
MR. TASCHYAN’S ALLEGED INJURIES.

Motion is DENIED. 
Plaintiff has submitted
admissible expert
testimony citing specific factual breaches of duty which raises triable issues
of fact with respect to the establishment of medical negligence. See Hanson
v. Grode (1999, 2nd Dist.) 76 Cal.App.4th 601, 607.  Specifically, plaintiff has presented
evidence which raises triable issues of fact with respect to whether the
conduct of defendants fell within the standard of care and whether those acts
or omissions caused or contributed to plaintiff’s alleged injuries.  [See Responses to UMF Nos. 29-31; Tajbakhsh
Decl. ¶¶ 2-4, 6, 8-16]. 
 
Issue 2. THE SECOND
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR NEGLIGENT MISREPRESENTATION LACKS MERIT BECAUSE THERE WAS
NO MISREPRESENTATION OF MATERIAL FACT MADE TO PLAINTIFF, NOR COULD PLAINTIFF
HAVE REASONABLY RELIED UPON THE ALLEGED MISREPRESENTATION. 
Motion is DENIED. 
Plaintiff has
raised triable issues of material fact with respect to whether plaintiff will
be able to establish this cause of action based on a theory that defendants
represented that plaintiff would receive all services from defendants for a
specified price. [Response to UMF No. 
38, and evidence cited, Aroustamian Decl., Ex. 1, Tashchyan Depo., p.
29:3-21; 30:13-25].   
 
Issue 3. THE THIRD
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR FAILURE TO PROPERLY KEEP AND/OR PROVIDE MEDICAL RECORDS IS
BARRED BECAUSE DEFENDANT COMPLIED WITH HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE §123110 AND THE
DENTAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA FOUND DR. STEPANYAN HAD NOT VIOLATED THE DENTAL PRACTICES
ACT.
Motion is DENIED. 
Plaintiff has
raised triable issues with respect to whether defendant failed to properly
provide all medical records to plaintiff, as well with respect to whether
defendant failed to comply with the applicable standard of care with respect to
the keeping of those records.  [Responses
to UMF Nos. 46, 47, and evidence cited, Aroustamian Decl., Exs. 2-5; Tajbakhsh
Decl., para. 17 and para. 17, subdivisions (a)-(c)].   
 
Issue 4. THE FOURTH
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR BREACH OF ORAL CONTRACT IS BARRED BECAUSE PLAINTIFF CANNOT
ESTABLISH A VALID CONTRACT EXISTED WHEREIN DR. STEPANYAN MADE AN EXPRESS
GUARANTEE OF A SPECIFIC OUTCOME.
Motion is DENIED. 
Plaintiff has
submitted evidence in opposition to the motion from which a reasonable
inference can be drawn that Dr. Stepanyan entered into an oral contract with
plaintiff that plaintiff would receive treatment from Dr. Stepanyan for an
agreed upon price which would include everything and breached that oral
contract by requiring plaintiff to pay for services to put him to sleep for the
second surgery. [Tashchyan Depo., pp. 29:3-21; 30:13-25]. 
 
Issue 5. THE FIFTH
CAUSE OF ACTION FOR SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE PROVIDING A COPY OF PLAINTIFF’S ENTIRE
MEDICAL FILE AND ALL MEDICAL RECORDS IS BARRED BECAUSE PLAINITFF HAS BEEN
PROVIDED, ON NUMEROUS OCCASIONS, HIS ENTIRE MEDICAL CHART WITH DEFENDANTS.
Motion is DENIED. 
Plaintiff has
submitted evidence supporting a reasonable inference that defendants did not
provide plaintiff with his entire medical records, to which plaintiff is
entitled.  [See Responses to UMF Nos. 46,
47, 49-53, and evidence cited, Exs. 2, 3, 4, 5, Tajbakhsh Decl., para.
17].  
 
Defendant Stepanyan
Surgical Arts Center’s Objections to Plaintiff’s Declaration in Support of
Opposition to Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative,
Summary Adjudication are OVERRULED as not in proper format. 
 
Request for
continuance in the opposition papers is DENIED.

 
 
Defendant Martin Stepanyan, D.D.S.’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication: 
Motion for Summary Judgment is
DENIED.
Motion for Summary
Adjudication:

 
Issue 1- THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION FOR NEGLIGENCE – DENTAL
MALPRACTICE IS BARRED BECAUSE EXPERT REVIEW ESTABLISHES DEFENDANT, DR.
STEPANYAN, MET THE STANDARD OF CARE AT ALL TIMES, AND DID NOT NEGLIGENTLY CAUSE
MR. TASCHYAN’S ALLEGED INJURIES.
Motion is DENIED. 
Plaintiff has submitted admissible expert
testimony citing specific factual breaches of duty which raises triable issues
of fact with respect to the establishment of medical negligence. See Hanson
v. Grode (1999, 2nd Dist.) 76 Cal.App.4th 601, 607.  Specifically, plaintiff has presented
evidence which raises triable issues of fact with respect to whether the
conduct of defendants fell within the standard of care and whether those acts
or omissions caused or contributed to plaintiff’s alleged injuries.  [See Responses to UMF Nos. 29-31; Tajbakhsh
Decl. ¶¶ 2-4, 6, 8-16]. 
 
Issue 2. THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION FOR NEGLIGENT
MISREPRESENTATION LACKS MERIT BECAUSE THERE WAS NO MISREPRESENTATION OF
MATERIAL FACT MADE TO PLAINTIFF, NOR COULD PLAINTIFF HAVE REASONABLY RELIED
UPON THE ALLEGED MISREPRESENTATION. 
Motion is DENIED. 
Plaintiff has raised triable issues of material fact with
respect to whether plaintiff will be able to establish this cause of action
based on a theory that defendants represented that plaintiff would receive all
services from defendants for a specified price. [Response to UMF No.  38, and evidence cited, Aroustamian Decl.,
Ex. 1, Tashchyan Depo., p. 29:3-21; 30:13-25].  

 
Issue 3. THE THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION FOR FAILURE TO PROPERLY
KEEP AND/OR PROVIDE MEDICAL RECORDS IS BARRED BECAUSE DEFENDANT COMPLIED WITH
HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE §123110 AND THE DENTAL BOARD OF CALIFORNIA FOUND DR.
STEPANYAN HAD NOT VIOLATED THE DENTAL PRACTICES ACT.
Motion is DENIED. 
Plaintiff has raised triable issues with respect to whether
defendant failed to properly provide all medical records to plaintiff, as well
with respect to whether defendant failed to comply with the applicable standard
of care with respect to the keeping of those records.  [Responses to UMF Nos. 46, 47, and evidence
cited, Aroustamian Decl., Exs. 2-5; Tajbakhsh Decl., para. 17 and para. 17,
subdivisions (a)-(c)].   
 
Issue 4. THE FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION FOR BREACH OF ORAL
CONTRACT IS BARRED BECAUSE PLAINTIFF CANNOT ESTABLISH A VALID CONTRACT EXISTED
WHEREIN DR. STEPANYAN MADE AN EXPRESS GUARANTEE OF A SPECIFIC OUTCOME.
Motion is DENIED. 
Plaintiff has submitted evidence in opposition to the motion
from which a reasonable inference can be drawn that Dr. Stepanyan entered into
an oral contract with plaintiff that plaintiff would receive treatment from Dr.
Stepanyan for an agreed upon price which would include everything, and breached
that oral contract by requiring plaintiff to pay for services to put him to
sleep for the second surgery. [Tashchyan Depo., pp. 29:3-21; 30:13-25]. 
 
Issue 5. THE FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION FOR SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE
PROVIDING A COPY OF PLAINTIFF’S ENTIRE MEDICAL FILE AND ALL MEDICAL RECORDS IS
BARRED BECAUSE PLAINITFF HAS BEEN PROVIDED, ON NUMEROUS OCCASIONS, HIS ENTIRE
MEDICAL CHART WITH DEFENDANTS.
Motion is DENIED. 
Plaintiff has submitted evidence supporting a reasonable
inference that defendants did not provide plaintiff with his entire medical
records, to which plaintiff is entitled. 
[See Responses to UMF Nos. 46, 47, 49-53, and evidence cited, Exs. 2, 3,
4, 5, Tajbakhsh Decl., para. 17].  
 
Defendant Martin Stepanyan, D.D.S.’s Objections to
Plaintiff’s Declaration in Support of Opposition to Defendant’s Motion for
Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication are OVERRULED as
not in proper format. 
 
Request for continuance in the opposition papers is DENIED.
 
 
DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING
TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE 
AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES
 
Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via
LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance. 
Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 
 
If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is
otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the
tentative. 
 