 Case Number:  23STCV19923    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



NATHANIEL HOWARD,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
KENNETH MELROSE; LAW OFFICES OF KEN J. MELROSE; LAW OFFICES OF
  KENNETH J. MELROSE, LLC; BMS LEGAL SERVICES LLC; STEPHEN SOLENDER; STEPHEN
  SOLENDER dba THE SOLENDER GROUP; THE SOLENDER GROUP, INC.; YANGKYOUNG LEE;
  MICHAEL MANAPOL; FIRST INDEMNITY INSURANCE AGENCY, INC., ERIC CANTON, and
  DOES 1 through 400, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          23STCV19923
 Hearing Date:   September
  20, 2024
 Trial Date:        None
  Set 
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Kenneth
  Melrose dba Law Office of Ken J. Melrose and Law Office of Kenneth J.
  Melrose, PC’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint [RES ID # 7195]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Nathaniel Howard (Howard)
sues Defendants Kenneth Melrose (Melrose), Law Offices of Ken J. Melrose
(Melrose Law), Law Offices of Kenneth J. Melrose, LLC (Melrose LLC), BMS Legal
Services, LLC (BMS Legal), Stephen Solender (Solender), Stephen Solender dba
The Solender Group (Solender Group), The Solender Group, Inc. (Solender Inc.),
Yangkyoung Lee (Lee), Michael Manapol (Manapol), First Indemnity Insurance
Agency, Inc. (First Indemnity), Eric Canton (Canton), and Does 1 through 400
inclusive pursuant to a March 29, 2024, First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging
causes of action for (1) Fraud, Conspiracy, Aiding and Abetting, (2) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty, Conspiracy, Aiding and Abetting, (3) Statutory Remedies per
Penal Code Section 496, (4) Negligence, (5) Breach of Contract, (6) Conversion,
(7) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (8) Negligence, and (9) Declaratory Relief. 
The claims arise from the following
allegations. Howard retained attorney Brian Witzer in late 2017 to represent
him in a personal injury action allegedly valued at over $25 million. In early
2020, Witzer engaged Melrose as his partner. Throughout the course of the
litigation, Witzer, Melrose, and the other Defendants mishandled Howard’s case and
concealed Witzer’s significant ongoing financial issues. 
B. Motion Before the Court
On May 30, 2024, Defendants
Kenneth Melrose dba Law Office of Ken J. Melrose, and Law Office of Kenneth J.
Melrose, PC (erroneously sued as Law Offices of Kenneth J. Melrose, LLC), (collectively,
Melrose Defendants) demurred to the entire FAC, the third cause of action for statutory
remedies per Penal Code § 496, and the sixth cause of action for conversion. 
On May 31, 2024, the
Melrose Defendants also filed a motion to strike portions of the FAC. 
On August 5, 2024,
Howard filed a combined opposition to the demurrer and motion to strike and
request for leave to amend to include a cause of action for Welfare &
Institutions Code section 15610.23.
On September 13,
2024, the Melrose Defendants filed a combined reply responding to the combined
opposition, which argues that the demurrer should be sustained and the leave to
amend denied.  
 
II. Requests for Judicial Notice 
Pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d), the Court
may take judicial notice of “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2)
any court of record of the United States or of any state of the United States”.
The court however may not take judicial notice of the truth of the contents of
the documents. (Herrera v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196
Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) Documents are only judicially noticeable to show their
existence and what orders were made such that the truth of the facts and
findings within the documents are not judicially noticeable. (Lockley v. Law
Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th
875, 885.)  
The Melrose Defendants request that the Court take judicial notice
of the following: 
(1)   The pleadings and papers filed in
the proceedings in the instant case, Nathaniel Howard v. Kenneth Melrose.
et. al., Los Angeles County Superior Court Case No. 23STCV19923
(2)   The docket and register of actions
delineating the proceedings in the Personal Injury Matter, in the case titled
Nathaniel Howard v. Clark Construction Group-California LP, et al.; Superior
Court of California, County of Riverside, Palm Springs Branch, Case No.
PSC1901153
(3)   The Voluntary Petition for
Non-Individuals Filing for Bankruptcy, filed on March 29, 2021, in the United
States Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California Case No.
2:21-bk-12517-NB
(4)   The pleadings and papers filed in
the proceedings in the second malpractice complaint titled, Nathaniel Howard
v. Brian D. Witzer and Law Offices of Brian D. Witzer, Inc. et al. (LASC
Case No. 23STCV29384)
(5)   The Notice of Motion and Motion for
Approval of Compromise of Controversy, filed by the bankruptcy trustee Timothy
J. Yoo on February 20, 2024, in the case titled In re: Law Offices of Brian
D. Witzer.; United States Bankruptcy Court Case No. 2:21-bk-12517-NB
(6)   The March 14, 2024 Order Approving
Compromise of Controversy, filed by the bankruptcy trustee Timothy J. Yoo on
February 20, 2024, in the case titled In re: Law Offices of Brian D. Witzer.;
United States Bankruptcy Court Case No. 2:21-bk-12517-NB
(7)   The February 16, 2024 Motion for
Approval of Settlement with Nathaniel Howard, filed by the Special Counsel for
Debtor, Michael S. Kogan, in the case titled In re: Brian D. Witzer.;
United States Bankruptcy Court Case No. 2:23-bk-14528-NB
(8)   The March 14, 2024 Order on
Approval of Settlement with Nathaniel Howard, filed by the Special Counsel for
Debtor, Michael S. Kogan, in the case titled In re: Brian D. Witzer.;
United States Bankruptcy Court Case No. 2:23-bk-14528-NB
The requests for judicial notice are
GRANTED to the extent of the existence of the documents. However, the Court
does not take judicial notice of the truth of the matters within the documents.
(See C.R. Tenet Healthcare Corp. (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1094,
110.)  
 
III. Demurrer
A.   
Meet and Confer 
Defendants have met the demurrer
meet and confer requirement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41
subdivision (a)(3)(B). (Emami Decl., ¶ 3.)
B.   
Procedural Deficiencies
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1110 requires that “[a] notice of motion must state in the opening paragraph the
nature of the order being sought and the grounds for issuance of the order.” 
The Melrose Defendant’s Notice of Demurrer
requests an order sustaining the Demurrer to the entire FAC, the third cause of
action for statutory remedies per Penal Code § 496 and the sixth cause of
action for conversion. The Melrose Defendant’s request for an order sustaining
the cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty only appears in their
memorandum of points and authorities. This violates Rules of Court rule 3.1110.
The party against whom an order may be issued is entitled to adequate notice 
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1112 requires that “the papers filed in support of a motion must consist of
at least the following: (1) A notice of hearing on the motion; (2) The motion
itself; and (3) A memorandum in support of the motion…” 
Howard’s combined opposition and
request for leave to amend to add an additional cause of action should have
been submitted separately. The combined opposition and leave to amend is not
sufficient to provide Defendants with adequate notice. This not only violates
the requirement in California Rules of Court, Rules 3.1112, but basic due
process.
C.   
Legal Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) This
device can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a
[general] demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) 
In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally
and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v.
Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) The face
of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits
contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland
v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447.)
A demurrer for uncertainty tests
whether the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 430.10, subd. (f).) 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury
v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616, disapproved
on other grounds in Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guar. Co. (1998) 19
Cal.4th 26, 46 [holding claims for unfair business practices need not be pled
specifically, impliedly disapproving Khoury].) As a result, a special
demurrer for uncertainty is not intended to reach failure to incorporate
sufficient facts in the pleading but is directed only at uncertainty existing
in the allegations already made. (People v. Taliaferro (1957) 149
Cal.App.2d 822, 825, disapproved on other grounds in Jefferson v. J.E.
French Co. (1960) 54 Cal.2d 717, 719-720 [statute of limitations
question].) 
D.   
Analysis
1.    
Demurrer to the Entire FAC, Failure to Join
Indispensable Party
The Melrose Defendants demur to the
entire FAC on the grounds that Howard failed to join indispensable parties, and
that the entire FAC is vague and uncertain.
Code of Civil Procedure § 389
subdivision (a) defines the person who should be joined if possible, known as a
“necessary party.” A party is necessary if (1) in his absence complete relief
cannot be accorded among those already parties or (2) he claims an interest
relating to the subject of the action and is so situated that the disposition
of the action in his absence may (i) as a practical matter impair or impede his
ability to protect that interest or (ii) leave any of the person already
parties subject to a substantial risk of incurring double, multiple, or
otherwise inconsistent obligations by reason of his claimed interest.”
A party found “necessary” pursuant
to subdivision (a) may then be found “indispensable” pursuant to subdivision
(b).  (County of Imperial v. Superior
Court, (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 13, 26.) 
A determination that a party is necessary is the predicate for a
determination of whether the party is indispensable. (Deltakeeper v. Oakdale
Irrigation Dist., (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 1092, 1100.) 
Code of Civil Procedure § 389 subdivision
(b) provides: “If a person as described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision
(a) cannot be made a party, the court shall determine whether in equity and
good conscience the action should proceed among the parties before it, or
should be dismissed without prejudice, the absent person being thus regarded as
indispensable.  The factors to be
considered by the court include: (1) to what extent a judgment rendered in the
person’s absence might be prejudicial to him or those already parties; (2) the
extent to which, by protective provisions in the judgment, by the shaping of
relief, or other measures, the prejudice can be lessened or avoided; (3)
whether a judgment rendered in the person’s absence will be adequate; (4)
whether the plaintiff or cross-complainant will have an adequate remedy if the
action is dismissed for nonjoinder.”
A necessary party is regarded as
indispensable if the court determines, in equity and good conscience, that the
action must be dismissed in the party’s absence in light of, inter alia, whether a judgment rendered
in the party’s absence will be adequate. 
TG Oceanside, L.P. v. City of Oceanside, (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th
1355, 1365-66.  The controlling test for
whether a necessary party is indispensable is whether “the plaintiff seeks some
type of affirmative relief which, if granted, would injure or affect the
interest of a third person not joined.  Save
Our Bay v. San Diego United Port District, (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 686,
692.  In other words, a third party is
indispensable if his or her rights must necessarily be affected by the judgment.
Each of the four factors in subdivision (b) must be considered, but “no factor
is determinative or necessarily more persuasive than another.”  (County of Imperial, supra, 152
Cal.App. 4th at 35.)
A failure to join an indispensable
party is not a jurisdictional defect in the fundamental sense of
jurisdiction.  The court has the power to
render a decision as to the parties before it in the absence of an indispensable
party.  It is for reasons of equity and
convenience only that a court will not proceed with a case where it determines
that an indispensable party is absent and cannot be joined. (Save Our Bay,
supra, 42 Cal.App.4th at 693.)
The Melrose Defendants argue that Brian
Witzer and the Law Offices of Brian Witzer (the Witzer Parties) are
indispensable parties to the action and that neither Howard, nor the Melrose
Defendants, can obtain complete relief without the addition of the Witzer
Parties. (Memo. p. 5.) Otherwise, the Melrose Defendants state that they are
potentially subject to incurring multiple or inconsistent obligations. (Memo p.
5.) The FAC states that in early 2020, Melrose became Witzer’s partner and
joint-venturer. (FAC ¶ 22) Howard states that whenever he “would interact with
Witzer, he would also interact with Melrose, and vice-versa” and that “Melrose
and Witzer would refer to each other as partners…” (FAC ¶¶ 24(b)-(c).) In July
2020, Witzer, “aided and abetted by Melrose,” [… ] “intentionally misdirected
and misappropriated at least ‘six figures’ of Howard’s funds…” (FAC ¶ 39.) The
FAC alleges that Melrose, Witzer, and the other Defendants “lie[d] to Howard
and engage[d] in malfeasance as to the Underlying Lawsuit; and continued to aid
and abet and conspire with [the Witzer Parties] to defraud, breach fiduciary
duty and otherwise damage Plaintiff.” (FAC ¶ 45.) 
Here, throughout the FAC the
actions of the Witzer Parties and the Melrose Defendants are inextricably intertwined.
In the ‘Damages’ section of the FAC, virtually every allegation charges “Witzer
and Melrose.” For example, paragraph 81(d): “During the course of the claim,
Witzer and Melrose …. instructed Plaintiff not to work…”, paragraph 81 (e):
“During the course of the claim, Witzer and Melrose … insisted that Plaintiff
obtain exceedingly expensive litigation funding”, paragraph 81(f): “During the
course of the claim, Witzer and Melrose … failed to alert Plaintiff to the fact
that he had a significant malpractice claim…”, paragraph 81(h): “During the
course of the claim, Witzer, Melrose…intentionally discouraged Howard from
using available healthcare insurance…” and so forth.
In addition, the FAC mixes the
actions of the Witzer parties and the Melrose Defendants in describing the
scope of the causes of action. For example, the scope of the first cause of
action for fraud “addresses acts and omissions occurring while Howard was being
‘represented’ under his contract with [the Witzer Parties], and then under his
contract with [the Melrose Defendants.] (FAC ¶ 85.) The FAC alleges various
acts of malfeasance causing Howard’s damages that span from 2017 to 2024,
however Witzer did not engage Melrose until 2020. (FAC ¶ 80, 22). 
The Witzer Parties are necessary
parties because the FAC alleges that there is a lack of independence between
the Witzer Parties and the Melrose Defendants. While the Witzer Parties are not
directly relevant to determining whether the FAC alleges liability against the
Melrose Defendants for their own acts of malfeasance, it would be inequitable to
hold the Melrose Defendants responsible for the actions of the Witzer Parties,
especially for conduct that occurred during the three years before Melrose
partnered with Witzer. Thus, the FAC fails to join a necessary party. 
Accordingly, for that reason alone,
the Demurrer to the FAC must be SUSTAINED. It is noted that Plaintiff states
his intention to add Witzer to the complaint, at least to the extent there are
any insurance proceeds. (Opp. at p. 10.)
2.    
Demurrer to the Entire FAC, Vague and Uncertain 
For many of the same reasons, the FAC
is vague and uncertain. The FAC fails to provide the Melrose Defendants with
adequate clarity regarding the specific allegations made against them. In
opposition, Howard points to numerous portions in the FAC referencing
allegations made against the Melrose Defendants. However, the uncertainty stems
from the lack of clarity in how the allegations against them distinguish their
liability from that of the Witzer Parties, and the other Defendants. This issue
is particularly pronounced given that many of the accusations of malfeasance
and resulting damages pertain to the period before Witzer and Melrose became
partners. Thus, the accusations against the Melrose Defendants are not sufficiently
certain as to give the Melrose Defendants adequate notice of the allegations
against them, specifically. 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
FAC are SUSTAINED on the grounds of uncertainty as well.  
            Since the
Court has sustained the Demurrer to the entire FAC due to failure to join a
necessary party and on uncertainty grounds, the Court need not analyze
Defendant’s arguments for demurrer to specific causes of action. Upon
amendment, plaintiff should keep in mind the requirement that, unless relating
to fraud or another heightened standard of pleading, the complaint must contain
not conclusions of law, but rather ultimate (though not evidentiary) facts supporting
each claim as to each defendant. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th
531, 550.)
IV. Motion to Strike
A.   
Meet and Confer
Defendants have met the motion to
strike meet and confer requirement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
435.5 subdivision (a)(3)(B). (Mot. to Strike, ¶ 2.) 
B.   
Legal Standard
The court may, upon a motion or at
any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (a) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (b) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §
436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782
[“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) 
For the purposes of a motion to
strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the term
“pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer, complaint, or cross-complaint,
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an immaterial allegation or irrelevant
matter in a pleading entails (1) an allegation that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense, (2) an allegation that is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
C.   
Analysis
The Melrose Defendants move to
strike the following from the FAC: Page 67, lines 18-19, Prayer No. 2: “As to
all Defendants except for Lee, for treble damages and attorney fees per Penal
Code section 496.” 
Defendants argue that the FAC does not
plead sufficient facts to establish that Melrose knowingly gave substantial
assistance to someone who performed wrongful conduct, and thus the third cause
of action for statutory remedies under Penal Code section 496 cannot be stated;
thus, the prayer for relief cannot support this relief. 
Because the demurrer has been
sustained, the motion to strike is MOOT.
V. Conclusion
Defendants Kenneth Melrose dba Law Office of Ken J. Melrose and Law
Office of Kenneth J. Melrose, PC’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED, with leave to amend. 
 
Defendants Kenneth Melrose dba Law Office of Ken J. Melrose and Law
Office of Kenneth J. Melrose, PC’s Motion to Strike is DENIED as moot. 