  Case Number:  21STCV44256    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



TIANMU INVESTMENT HONG KONG LIMITED, a Hong Kong Limited
  Liability Company,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
MAR CANTON, an individual; COURTNEY SOLOMON, an individual;
  CINELOU HOLDINGS, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company; ATMOSPHERE
  ENTERTAINMENT MM, INC., a California corporation; and DOES 1 through 50,
  inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          21STCV44256
 Hearing Date:   September
  20, 2024
 Trial Date:        October
  22, 2024
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Mark
  Canton’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or Alternatively, Summary Adjudication
  [RES ID # 5348]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Tianmu Investment Hong
Kong Limited (Tianmu) sues Defendants Mark Canton (Canton), Courtney Solomon
(Solomon), Cinelou Holdings LLC (Cinelou), Atmosphere
Entertainment MM, Inc., and Does 1 through 50 (collectively, Defendants) pursuant
to a December 3, 2021 Complaint, asserting causes of action for: (1) Breach of
Agreement (Robotech Agreement); (2) Breach of Agreement (DI Agreement); (3)
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (4) Negligent
Misrepresentation; (5) Fraud; (6) Violations of California Corporations Code §§
25400, 25401, et seq.; and (7) Violation of California Corporations Code §
25504, et seq. 
This action involves a contractual
agreement (Robotech Agreement) in which Tianmu agreed to invest $6,700,000 in a
film Defendants were producing titled “Robotech.” (Compl., ¶¶ 15-17.) The
Robotech Agreement provided that Plaintiff would be paid a $500,000 producer
fee, a $6,200,000 recoupment fee, plus one-third of the gross proceeds of
Robotech payable to Defendant Canton subject to a 1% cap. (Compl. ¶18.) Despite
multiple representations by Defendants that Robotech was moving forward and set
to be released in 2018, Robotech and other film projects were never produced. (Compl.
¶¶ 19-33.) 
On July 4, 2017, Tianmu and
Defendant Cinelou entered into the Debt Investment Agreement (DI Agreement) in
which Tianmu loaned Defendants $5,000,000 in connection with three of Defendants
other film projects. (Compl., ¶43.) The DI Agreement stated that Tianmu would
be repaid the loan amount, plus 17.5% interest, within twelve months after the
Defendants received the loan. (Compl. ¶44.) The Defendants did not produce any
motion picture projects under the DI Agreement and failed to repay the loan
amount. (Compl. ¶¶ 45-46.)
B. Relevant Procedural History
On August 25, 2023, Default was
entered against Defendant Atmosphere Entertainment MM, Inc.
On April 26, 2024, Defendants Solomon
and Cinelou moved for summary judgment, or in the alternative, for summary
adjudication. 
On July 15, 2024, the Court granted
in part and denied in part the motion. The Court granted Summary Adjudication
to both Solomon and Cinelou as to the Breach of the Robotech Agreement. The
Court granted Summary Adjudication to Solomon as to the Breach of the DI
Agreement and Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing.
The Court denied Summary Adjudication to Cinelou as to the Breach of the DI
Agreement and Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing.
Finally, the Court denied Summary Adjudication to both Solomon and Cinelou as
to Negligent Misrepresentation, Fraud, and Violations of the California
Corporations Code (Min. Order at p.9, July 15, 2024.)
C. Motion Before the Court
On July 3, 2024, Defendant Canton moved
for summary judgment, or in the alternative, for summary adjudication. 
On September 6, 2024, Tianmu
opposed the motion. 
On September 13, 2024, Canton
replied. 
Canton’s motion is now before the
Court. 
II. Motion
A. Evidentiary Objections
Canton objects to the following
portions of Tianmu’s evidence submitted in support of the Opposition to Canton’s
Motion for Summary Judgment:   
1.    
Declaration of Jun Fang, ¶ 4, page 2, lines 16-18: “In
November 2015, Defendant Canton represented to Tianmu that if Tianmu invested
in the motion picture project “Robotech”, then Tianmu was guaranteed to recoup
its investment plus a guaranteed profit.”
2.    
Declaration of Richard M. Rosenthal, Esq., ¶ 4, page 2,
lines 10-13: “Attached hereto and marked as “Exhibit A” is a true and correct
copy of a Presentation deck dated October 2, 2015 for the film “Yellow Birds”
in which on page 10, Mark Canton is identified as the Co-CEO of Cinelou Films,
the company that produced the film “Yellow Birds” in which Plaintiff invested.”
3.    
Declaration of Richard M. Rosenthal, Esq., Exhibit A,
pages 92-150.
The Court rules as followed:
OVERRULED: 1
SUSTAINED: 2, 3 
B. Legal Standard
A motion for summary judgment shall
be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact for trial or that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
A party may also seek summary
adjudication of select causes of action, affirmative defenses, claims for
damages, or issues of duty, which may be made by a standalone motion or as an
alternative to a motion for summary judgment and proceeds in all procedural
respects like a motion for summary judgment, but which must completely dispose
of the challenged cause of action, affirmative defense, claim for damages, or
issue of duty. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (f)(1)-(2), (t).) 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that no triable issue of
material fact exists. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.) This burden on summary judgment or adjudication “is more
properly one of persuasion rather than proof, since he
must persuade the court that there is no material fact for a reasonable trier
of fact to find, and not to prove any such fact to the satisfaction of the
court itself as though it were sitting as the trier of fact.” (Id.
at p. 850, fn. 11.) 
If the moving party meets this
burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a rebuttal prima facie
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Id. at p. 849.)
“[I]n ruling on motions for summary judgment courts are to ‘“liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”’ [Citations].” (Cheal
v. El Camino Hospital (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 736, 760.)
C. Analysis
1. First Cause
of Action, Breach of Robotech Agreement
Establishing a claim for breach of
contract requires a showing of “(1) the existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D’Arrigo Bros. of
California v. United Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790,
800.) “Further, the complaint must indicate on its face whether the contract is
written, oral, or implied by conduct.” (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation
Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458–459.)
It is undisputed that Canton is not
a party to the Robotech Agreement. (Canton Decl. ¶ 2; Fowler Decl. Ex. A; UMF
No. 4.) Rather, Tianmu argues that Canton is an alter ego of Cinelou. (Opp.
18.) To support this argument, Tianmu states that Canton was “located at the
same address as the other Defendants at the time of the Robotech Agreement.”
(Opp. p. 18.) This is insufficient to show a finding of alter ego. (Sonora
Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.) 
Thus, Tianmu has not met its burden
of proof to establish that a genuine issue of material fact exists as to the
breach of contract claims. 
However, in an excess of caution, the
Court will also address the substance of the breach of contract, Robotech
Agreement, claim. 
On summary judgment, Canton argues
that this claim fails because (1) no payment to Tianmu is due under the
Robotech Agreement, (2) any alleged promises contrary to the written terms are
inadmissible parole evidence, and (3) Tianmu cannot establish liability against
Canton for the contract claim under an alter ago theory. To support these
arguments, Canton presents the Declarations of John D. Fowler and Mark Canton,
the Robotech Agreement, and Tianmu’s Responses to Cinelou’s Request for
Admission (RFA) and Special Interrogatories. The Canton Declaration states at
paragraph 2 that “[T]o date, production of Robotech has not commenced. No fees
or proceeds from Robotech have been paid to myself or to Atmosphere.” (Canton
Decl. ¶ 2:10-11; UMF Nos. 2-3.) The Fowler Declaration attached a copy of the
Robotech Agreement as Exhibit A, which states at paragraph 5.2, “Purchaser
hereby represents and warrants that neither [Cinelou] nor any representative or
member of [Cinelou] has made any representation or warranty with respect to the
profitability or success of the Picture or Subsequent Production (as
applicable), including without limitation […] (B) no assurance that the Picture
or a Subsequent Production (as applicable) will be produced or completed.” (Fowler
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A; UMF No. 5.) 
In addition, paragraph 9 of the
Robotech Agreement states, “This Agreement and the other documents delivered
pursuant to the terms hereof set forth all of the promises, covenants,
agreements, conditions and understandings among the parties hereto with respect
to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior and contemporaneous agreements
and understandings, inducements or conditions, expressed or implied, oral or
written, with respect thereto. [Tianmu] acknowledges that no representation or
promise not expressly contained in this Agreement bas been made by [Cinelou] or
any of its agents, employees or representatives.” (Fowler
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A; UMF No. 6.) Furthermore, the Fowler Declaration attaches
a copy of Tianmu’s RFA. (Fowler Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. D) In response to RFA No. 2: “Admit
that Robotech has not been produced,” Tianmu states “Admitted.” (Fowler Decl.,
¶ 6, Ex. D, p. 3:8-11.) In response to RFA No. 3: “Admit that no income has
been generated from Robotech,” Tianmu states “Plaintiff is without sufficient
knowledge to deny or admit.” (Fowler Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. D, p. 3:13-16.)
In response, Tianmu argues that
Canton breached the Tianmu Agreement by not producing the film, not paying Tianmu
the producer fee, not paying Tianmu the recoupment fee, and not paying any
share of the defined gross proceeds of the film payable. (Opp. p. 10.) Tianmu argues
that the Defendants made frequent promises that the film would be produced, told
Tianmu that progress regarding the production was underway, and repeatedly told
Tianmu that the film was moving forward. (Opp. p. 10.)
To support these arguments, Tianmu presents
the Declaration of Jun Fang, the director of Tianmu Investment Hong Kong
Limited. In paragraph 16, the Fang Declaration states: “Canton represented to
Tianmu that ‘we are making progress. The latest script is in and Sony feels
good and excited. We are waiting for the Director to finish editing his next
movie in 4 weeks and we will all meet and hopefully move forward at last. Going
to be great.’” (Fang Dec. ¶ 16.) The Fang Declaration states in paragraph 9
that: “Defendant Canton repeatedly told Plaintiff that essential progress
regarding the production were underway. Plaintiff relied on these statements.
In email communications after the signing of the agreement, Canton repeatedly
told Plaintiff that the Picture was moving forward, but in fact did not
actually fulfill the agreement and did not explain the state of the development
of the project.” (Fang Dec. ¶ 9.) 
However, Tianmu presents no
evidence showing that Canton had a duty to complete Robotech, where the
Robotech Agreement contains express language stating that Cinelou makes no
assurances that there ever will be any economic interest payable to Tianmu and
that Cinelou makes no assurances that the film will be produced or completed. Further,
Tianmu presents no evidence to refute Canton’s contention that the Robotech
Agreement was completely integrated such that any other agreements,
understandings, inducements, or conditions are barred under the parol evidence
rule. 
Thus, based on the evidence
presented, there is no triable issue of material fact as to the breach of contract,
Robotech Agreement, claim. 
Accordingly, summary adjudication
is GRANTED as to the first cause of action 
2. Second Cause
of Action, Breach of DI Agreement
Similarly, it is undisputed that
Canton is not a party to the DI Agreement. (Canton Decl. ¶ 3; Fowler Decl. Ex. B;
UMF No. 11.). As discussed above, Tianmu has not presented evidence to support
a finding of alter ego. 
Accordingly, summary adjudication
is GRANTED as to the second cause of action.  
3. Third Cause
of Action, Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
Because Canton is not a party to
either contract, the third contractual cause of action fails as well. 
Accordingly, summary adjudication
is GRANTED as to the third cause of action. 

4. Fourth and
Fifth Causes of Action, Negligent Misrepresentation and Fraud 
“The elements of negligent
misrepresentation are ‘(1) the misrepresentation of a past or existing material
fact, (2) without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, (3) with
intent to induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) justifiable
reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.’” (National
Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh, PA v. Cambridge Integrated Services Group,
Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 35, 50.)
“The elements of intentional
misrepresentation ‘are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3)
intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5)
resulting damage.’” (Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co.
(2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.)
On summary judgment, Canton argues
that these claims fail because (1) Tianmu did not pay Cinelou the $5 million
investment under the DI Agreement, so there can be no actual reliance or
damages, (2) Tianmu does not specify any false statements or promises that were
made to him prior to execution of the Robotech Agreement, and (3) Tianmu cannot
prove that any reliance was reasonable. (Mot. p. 11.) To support these
arguments, Canton argues that Tianmu is a “sophisticated institutional investor
who invests in similar projects” and that “[t]he Robotech Agreement expressly
disclaims any guarantees of Robotech’s profitability, production or release
date.” (Mot. p. 11; UMF No. 5) Based on the evidence presented and legal
arguments raised, Canton has met his initial burden of proof because a jury
could find that there are no triable issue of fact regarding whether Canton made
a negligent or intentional misrepresentation to Tianmu that Tianmu justifiably
relied on. 
The burden thus shifts to Tianmu to
make a rebuttal prima facie showing that a jury could find triable issues of
material fact. Tianmu argues that in November 2015, prior to signing the
Robotech Agreement, Canton represented to Tianmu that Tianmu “was guaranteed to
recoup its investment plus a guaranteed profit” if it invested in Robotech. (Fang
Decl. ¶ 4.) Tianmu also presents evidence that Dennis Pelino, an agent of
Canton and Cinelou, sent an email representing that the film was projected to
“generate an expected 500 million USD global box office.” (Fang Decl. ¶ 5, Ex.
B.) The evidence does not show any alleged misrepresentations by Canton
regarding the DI Agreement (See Fang Decl. ¶¶ 19-27, Exs. L-Q). However,
based on the evidence, and construing the evidence liberally in favor of the
opposing party, there is a triable issue of fact whether Canton misrepresented
the likelihood of Robotech’s success and whether Tianmu reasonably relied on
the alleged misrepresentation. 
Accordingly, summary adjudication
is DENIED as to the fourth and fifth cause of action.  
5. Sixth and
Seventh Causes of Actions for Violations of Corporations Code Sections §§
25400 and 25401, et. seq., and 25504 et. seq.
Pursuant to Corporations Code
Section 25400, subdivision (d), it is unlawful for “a broker-dealer or other
person selling or offering for sale or purchasing or offering to purchase the
security, to make, for the purpose of inducing the purchase or sale of such
security by others, any statement which was, at the time and in the light of
the circumstances under which it was made, false or misleading with respect to
any material fact, or which omitted to state any material fact necessary in
order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under
which they were made, not misleading, and which he knew or had reasonable
ground to believe was so false or misleading.” (Corp. Code, § 25400(d).)
            Pursuant to Corporations Code
Section 25401, “[i]t is unlawful for any person to offer or sell a security in
this state, or to buy or offer to buy a security in this state, by means of any
written or oral communication that includes an untrue statement of a material
fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
in the light of the circumstances under which the statements were made, not
misleading.” (Corp. Code, § 25401.) 
            Canton does
not make any arguments in his motion or reply discussing the sixth and seventh
causes of action for violations of the Corporations Code.  Thus, Canton has not met his initial burden to
make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material
fact. 
Accordingly, summary adjudication
is DENIED as to the sixth and seventh cause of action.  
 
III. Conclusion
            Defendant
Mark Canton’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication is GRANTED as to:
1.    
The first cause of action, Breach of Agreement,
Robotech Agreement 
2.    
The second cause of action, Breach of Agreement, DI
Agreement
3.    
The third cause of action, Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
Defendant Mark Canton’s Motion for
Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is DENIED as to: 
4.    
The fourth cause of action, Negligent Misrepresentation
5.    
The fifth cause of action, Fraud
6.    
The sixth cause of action, Violations of California
Corporations Code Sections §§ 25400 and 25401, et. seq.
7.    
The seventh cause of action, Violations of California
Corporations Code Section 25504, et. seq.    