  Case Number:  23CHCV01334    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  F49  



Dept.
  F49




Date:
  11/14/24




Case
  Name: Gerardo Reyna v. Jorge Alberto Flores, Hanmar LLC, City of Los
  Angeles, County of Los Angeles, and Does 1 to 30




Case
  No. 23CHCV01334



 
 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

NOVEMBER 14, 2024
 

DEMURRER 

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV01334

 
Motion
filed: 7/26/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant City of Los Angeles
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Gerardo Reyna 
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order sustaining Defendant City of Los Angeles’s Demurrer to the Third Cause of
Action in Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The Demurrer
is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from alleged personal injuries and
damages Plaintiff sustained in an automobile collision on May 5, 2022. 
 
On May 5, 2023, Plaintiff Gerardo Reyna (“Plaintiff” or
“Reyna”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Jorge Alberto Flores (“Flores”),
Hanmar LLC (“Hanmar”), the City of Los Angeles (“City of LA”), the County of
Los Angeles (“County of LA”), and Does 1 to 30. The Complaint alleges the
following causes of action: (1) Motor Vehicle Liability (against Flores and
Hanmar), (2) Negligence (against Flores and Hanmar), and (3) Dangerous
Condition of Public Property (Cal. Gov. Code, § 835, et seq.) (against City of LA
and County of LA). Subsequently, Flores and Hanmar filed their Answer to the
Complaint on April 26, 2024. On August 23, 2024, County of LA was dismissed
with prejudice at Plaintiff’s request.
 
On April 26, 2024, Flores and Hanmar filed their
Cross-Complaint (“4/26/24 Cross-Complaint”) against Roes 1 through 100,
alleging (1) Implied Indemnity, (2) Contribution, and (3) Declaratory Relief.
Subsequently, Flores and Hanmar substituted City of LA and City of Pacoima as
Roe 1 and Roe 2, respectively.
 
On July 11, 2024, City of LA filed its Cross-Complaint
(“7/11/24 Cross-Complaint”) against Hanmar and Flores, and Roes 1 to 20,
alleging (1) Apportionment of Fault, (2) Indemnification, and (3) Declaratory
Relief. Subsequently, Flores and Hanmar filed their Answer to the 7/11/24
Cross-Complaint on August 9, 2024.
 
On July 26, 2024, City of LA filed the instant Demurrer to
the Complaint. Subsequently, Plaintiff Reyna filed an Opposition to the
Demurrer on October 31, 2024. No Reply papers have been received by the Court.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds
for which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of
which the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of
a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions
of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) 
 
At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the
claim against them. (Semole v.
Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “treat[s] the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law[.]” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525 (Berkley).) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
A.    Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant City of LA requests that
the Court take judicial notice of the following matters:
 
1.     
Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) No. 1: Plaintiff’s Claim for Damages
served on the City of Los Angeles on October 5, 2022 (RJN Ex. “A.”)
 
2.     
RJN No. 2: Plaintiff’s Complaint filed on May 5,
2023. (RJN Ex. “B.”)
 
Evidence
Code section 425 provides, in pertinent part, “Judicial notice may be taken of the
following matters: ... (c) Official acts of the legislative,
executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of
the United States…. (h) Facts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” Additionally, “official acts” includes the existence
of the records and files of a state public entity. (See Hogan
v. Valley Hospital (1983) 147 Cal. App. 3d 119, 195
[“Records and files of an administrative board are properly the subject of
judicial notice.”])  
 
            Accordingly, the Court GRANTS RJN No. 1. 
 
However,
the court need not take notice of filings within its own case
record. Judicial notice of court filings recognizes only the fact of their
filing and that the statements therein were made; the court does not take
notice of their contents’ truth. (Wolf v. CDS Devo (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 903, 914-915.) The facts of the documents’ filing and contentions
are already in the case file. To take unnecessary, redundant judicial notice
would only create confusion.
 
            Accordingly, the Court DENIES RJN No. 2.
 
B.     Meet
and Confer
 
A party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person
or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.
Proc., section 430.41(a).) A failure to meet and confer does not constitute
grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections
430.41 (a)(4).)
 
Here, City of LA’s good faith efforts to meet and confer were
sufficient. (Pinder Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.)
 
C.    Third Cause of Action – Dangerous Condition
of Public Property (Gov. Code, § 835 et seq.)
 
Government Code section 835 provides, in pertinent
part, that “a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous
condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in
a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was
proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition
created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred,
and that either: ¶
(a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public
entity within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or ¶ (b) The public
entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition under
Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to
protect against the dangerous condition.” 

 
1)     
Dangerous Condition
 
Pursuant to Government Code section
830, “Dangerous condition” means “a condition of property that creates a
substantial (as distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of
injury when such property or adjacent property is used with due care in a
manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” (Gov. Code,
§ 830, subd. (a).)
Furthermore, “[a] condition is not a dangerous condition within the
meaning of this chapter merely because of the failure to provide regulatory
traffic control signals, stop signs, yield right-of-way signs, or speed
restriction signs, as described by the Vehicle Code, or distinctive roadway
markings as described in Section 21460 of the Vehicle Code.” (Gov. Code, § 830.4.) Cases interpreting this statute have held that it
provides a shield against liability only in those situations where the alleged
dangerous condition exists solely as a result of the public entity's
failure to provide a regulatory traffic device or street marking. However, the
immunities of Government Code
section 830.4 do not govern a case where the intersection was dangerous
not only because of the absence of regulatory traffic devices; but also because
of other basis. (See Washington
v. City and County of San Francisco (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1531, 1535 (Washington)
[the court found that as a matter of law the immunity of section 830.4 does not
apply where a dangerous condition was due to vision limitations caused by (1) the
metal pillars in the middle of 13th Street, and (2) the shadow caused by the
freeway above.])
 
            Significantly, case law establishes
a distinction between misleading traffic lights and inoperative traffic lights.

 
            In Mathews v. State of California
ex rel. Dept. of Transportation (1978) 82 Cal.App.3d 116 (Mathews),
the court found that malfunctioning traffic control signals – where the
east-west traffic signal was stuck on green while the north-south traffic signal
remained stuck on red – constituted a dangerous condition within the meaning of
Government Code section 830. (Mathews, supra, at p. 122.) The
court reasoned that a motorist travelling on a busy roadway approaching a green
signal, without the knowledge of the signals being stuck in their positions,
can be deceptively lulled into a sense of freedom from interference by cross
traffic. (Ibid.)  
 
Conversely, in Chowdhury v. City
of Los Angeles (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1187 (Chowdhury), the Court of
Appeal held that extinguished, inoperative traffic lights did not constitute a “dangerous
condition” as a matter of law. Since the signals were entirely off, they
neither misled nor misdirected motorists. (Chowdhury, supra, at
p. 1195.) The Chowdhury court emphasized that, in such cases, motorists
approaching an intersection with inoperative traffic signals are governed not
by the City’s extinguished lights, but by the provisions of the Vehicle Code
section 21800, which effectively transform an inoperative signal light into a
stop sign. (Ibid.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges that
“when [Plaintiff] was struck by Defendant FLORES who failed to yield the right
of way to traffic while the traffic lights within the intersection were
non-operable.” (Compl. ¶
14.) Additionally, in Plaintiff’s Claim for Damages filed on October 5, 2022,
Plaintiff describes the incident, stating, in part: “The traffic lights at the
time were not working and instead of indicating a malfunction by flashing red,
they were completely off. Claimant and another driver were thus unaware of any
traffic lights. Claimant entered the intersection and was struck on his
driver’s side door.” (RJN Ex. “A.”) 
 
            This
situation aligns with the circumstances in Chowdhury, where the traffic
lights at the intersection were extinguished and inoperative, rather than
misleading or creating a false impression of safety. In contrast, Mathews
involved traffic signals that were malfunctioning but still visibly active,
with one direct stuck on green the other on red, where a motorist could
reasonably be misled into believing cross-traffic would not proceed into the
intersection. Here, however, Plaintiff cannot claim that he was deceptively
lulled into a sense of safety by the extinguished, inoperative lights. 
 
Moreover, although Plaintiff asserts
that he was “unaware of any traffic lights,” he acknowledges that he “entered
the intersection.” (RJN Ex. “A.”) As noted the Chowdhury, an inoperative
signal light at the intersection is turned into a four-way stop by the
operation of Vehicle Code section 21800, which sets forth, in part, that  “The driver of any vehicle approaching an
intersection which has official traffic control signals that are inoperative
shall stop at the intersection, and may proceed with caution when it is safe to
do so.” (Veh. Code, §
21800, subd. (d)(1).) While any property can be dangerous if used in a
sufficiently improper manner, a four-way stop is not inherently dangerous
condition when used with due care by the general public and the only risk of
harm was from a motorist who failed to exercise due care by obeying the de
facto stop signs.
 
            Consequently,
in alignment with established precedent, when the traffic signals were entirely
turned off, their defective condition could not mislead nor misdirect the injured
party. “The same result obtains whether the traffic signals are extinguished by
design or by accident.” (Chowdhury, supra, 38 Cal.App.4th at p.
1195.)          
 
In the present case, where the
traffic lights were “non-operable” and “completely off,” as alleged by
Plaintiff, liability does not attach to City of LA as a matter of law. 
 
            Additionally, the Court finds
Plaintiff’s argument – that the Chowdhury decision relied on extensive
discovery and is therefore inapplicable at the demurrer stage – misguided. As
Plaintiff notes, in Chowdhury, the City of Los Angeles was found to have
acted in accordance with the Department of Transportation Manual of Policies
and Procedures. However, this finding, along with the supporting evidence,
addressed a different issue: whether the “concealed trap” statute applies to
the accidents proximately caused by confusion arising from pedestal stop signs
posted, by the city employees, at other intersections, though not at the one
where the accident occurred. (Chowdhury, supra, 38 Cal.App.4th at
1197.) As for the issue before us – whether inoperative traffic lights constitute
a dangerous condition – the Chowdhury court clearly held that they do
not, as a matter of law.   
 
Furthermore, the factual
allegations in the Complaint, which are treated as true for the purpose of reviewing
the Demurrer, directly implicate the immunity for City of LA provided under
Government Code section 830.4. Plaintiff alleges that a dangerous
condition exists solely as a result of the City of LA's failure to provide operational
traffic signals at the intersection. Plaintiff does not allege any additional conditions, such
as obstruction or shadow limiting his vision, caused the intersection to be a
dangerous condition. (See Washington,
supra, 219 Cal.App.3d at p. 1535.)
 
            Accordingly, the Court finds Chowdhury
instructive. Assuming the truth of the factual allegations, the Court concludes
that the inoperative traffic lights at the time of the accident do not constitute
a dangerous condition as matter of law. 
 
            Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS the
Demurrer on this ground.
 
2)      City of
LA’s Liability under Government Code sections 815.2 and 840.2
 
City of
LA further argues that Plaintiff has failed to allege a statutory liability
against it under Government Code sections 815.2 and 840.2 (Mot. at pp. 10, 14.)
 
Government
Code section 815.2 provides, in pertinent part, “A public entity is liable for injury proximately
caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the
scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section,
have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal
representative.” (Gov. Code, § 815.2, subd. (a).) This statue
creates vicarious liability on the part of a public entity for the torts of its
employees. (Hoff v. Vacaville Unified Sch. Dist. (1988) 19 Cal. 4th 925,
932.)
 
            Government Code section 840.2
provides, “An employee of a public entity is liable for injury caused by
a dangerous condition of public property if the plaintiff establishes that the
property of the public entity was in a dangerous condition at the time of the
injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that
the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of
injury which was incurred, and that either: ¶ (a) The dangerous condition
was directly attributable wholly or in substantial part to a negligent or
wrongful act of the employee and the employee had the authority and the funds
and other means immediately available to take alternative action which would
not have created the dangerous condition; or ¶ (b) The employee had the
authority and it was his responsibility to take adequate measures to protect
against the dangerous condition at the expense of the public entity and the
funds and other means for doing so were immediately available to him, and he
had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section
840.4 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect
against the dangerous condition.”
 
            The Court notes that the Complaint
does not allege that any employee of the City of LA created a dangerous
condition on public property. Additionally, Plaintiff’s Opposition does not
address the liability under these code sections, thereby waiving these issues
raised in the Demurrer. Furthermore, as the Court has concluded that inoperative
traffic lights, in the circumstance, do not constitute a dangerous condition,
the Complaint has failed to sufficiently state a cause of action under
Government Codes 815.2 and 840.2.
 
            Based on the above, the Court
SUSTAINS the Demurrer on this ground.
 
D.    Leave to Amend
 
Generally, leave to amend is
available when “the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer is
reasonably capable of cure . . . to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the
defect in question.” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004)
120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.) A demurrer may be sustained without leave to amend
where, “‘the facts are not in dispute, and the nature of the plaintiff's claim
is clear, but, under the substantive law, no liability exists.’ [Citation.]” (Seidler
v. Municipal Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1233.) The burden of proving
the existence of a reasonable possibility to cure the defect by amendment is
squarely on the plaintiff. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)
 
As discussed above, the factual
allegations are undisputed that the traffic lights were extinguished and inoperative
at the time of the accident. Furthermore, the nature of Plaintiff’s Third Cause
of Action clearly rests on City of LA’s liability based solely on the inoperative
traffic lights. The Court has determined that, under the substantive law, no
liability attaches as inoperative traffic lights do not constitute a dangerous
condition within the meaning of Government Code section 830.
 
Therefore, the Court finds no
reasonable possibility that Plaintiff can cure this defect through amendment.
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the
request for leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant City of Los Angeles’s Demurrer to Third Cause of Action in
the Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Moving
party to give notice.