 Case Number:  22STCV39547    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




eduardo luna

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
villa patrician home
   owner’s association, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV39547




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   31, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion to disqualify counsel
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Eduardo Luna           
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:
   Defendants BJD Services, LLC, Dawn
Kuykendall, Jerilyn Rivetti Kuykendall, Brian McWilliams, Rodney Owens, Villa
Patrician Home Owner’s Association, Inc., and Villa Patrician Home Owner’s
Association, Inc. (sued as Doe defendant 1)
Motion to Disqualify Counsel
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with this motion.[1]

DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Eduardo Luna (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order
disqualifying Shawn M. Olson and the Olson Law Firm (“Counsel”) as counsel for
defendants BJD Services, LLC, Dawn Kuykendall, Jerilyn Rivetti Kuykendall,
Brian McWilliams, Rodney Owens, Villa Patrician Home Owner’s Association, and
Villa Patrician Home Owner’s Association (sued as Doe defendant 1)
(collectively, “Defendants”), or any other party in this action.
Plaintiff moves for this relief on the ground that (1) the Complaint
alleges derivative claims on behalf of defendants Villa Patrician Home Owner’s
Association and Villa Patrician Home Owner’s Association (sued as Doe 1)
(collectively referred to as “Villa HOA”); (2) the breach of fiduciary duty
causes of action are alleged against members of the board of Villa HOA; and (3)
the derivative claims make the Villa HOA entities nominal defendants and
plaintiffs in this action, such that Counsel is “representing both Plaintiffs
and Defendants in the same lawsuit.” (Notice of Mot., p. 2, ¶¶ 1-3.) 
“A
trial court’s authority to disqualify an attorney derives from the power
inherent in every court ‘[t]o control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of
its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with
a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter pertaining thereto.’”  (People
ex rel. Dept. of Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 1135, 1145.)  “The paramount concern [when resolving
disqualification motions] must be to preserve public trust in the scrupulous
administration of justice and the integrity of the bar.”  (Ibid.) 
The court finds that (1) the Complaint does not allege facts sufficient
to support any claims brought derivatively on behalf of Villa HOA, and (2)
therefore the argument and evidence presented by the parties do not show that
disqualification of Counsel based on concurrent representation is required. 
As set forth above, Plaintiff asserts that disqualification is required
because Counsel is deemed to be representing both plaintiffs and defendants in
this action since the Complaint alleges derivative claims on behalf of Villa
HOA.  (Notice of Mot., p. 2, ¶¶ 1-3; Mot.,
pp. 1:8-11 [“The complaint raises derivative claims, so the [Villa HOA entities]
actually stand[] in the position as a plaintiff[,]” but one attorney cannot
represent “both sides in that situation”], 2:3-4, 2:6 [“Disqualification is
Mandatory Based [o]n The Derivative Claims”].) 
Specifically, Plaintiff asserts that there exist the following
conflicts: (1) between defendants Dawn Kuykendall (“D. Kuykendall”) and Jerilyn
Kuykendall Rivetti (“J. Rivetti”), on the one hand, and Villa HOA on the other
hand, based on the first two causes of action alleging that the individual
defendants breached the fiduciary duties to Villa HOA, and (2) between
defendants Rodney Owens, BJD Services, LLC, and Brian McWilliams, on one hand,
and Villa HOA on the other hand, on the ground that the individual defendants
are alleged to have aided and abetted D. Kuykendall and J. Rivetti’s breaches
of fiduciary duties to the Villa HOA entities. 
(Mot., p. 3:4-8, 5:6-20.) 
Thus, Plaintiff’s motion is solely based on the theory that the
Complaint alleges derivative claims on behalf of the Villa HOA entities, which
has the legal effect of including them in this lawsuit as both plaintiffs and
nominal defendants, such that Counsel is concurrently representing parties
adverse to each other.  However, the
court finds that the Complaint does not allege facts sufficient to constitute derivative
claims. 
“An action is derivative, that is, in the corporate right, ‘ “if the
gravamen of the complaint is injury to the corporation, or to the whole body of
its stock and property without any severance or distribution among individual
holders, or it seeks to recover assets for the corporation or to prevent the
dissipation of its assets.” ’”  (Everest
Investors 8 v. McNeil Partners (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 411, 425.)  
First, the court finds that the first, second, fifth, and sixth causes
of action do not state facts sufficient to support derivative claims brought on
behalf of Villa HOA because those causes of action (1) are expressly brought by
the plaintiff(s) in their individual or personal capacities, and (2) do not
seek to recover damages suffered by the corporations.  (Compl., pp. 5:14-16 [first cause of action
is brought “By Plaintiffs Personally”] [emphasis added], 7:8-10 [second
cause of action is brought “By Plaintiffs Personally”] [emphasis added],
9:24-26 [fifth cause of action is brought “By Plaintiff Mr. Luna” and against Villa
HOA], 11:2-4 [sixth cause of action is brought “By Plaintiff Luna”]; Compl.,
¶¶ 17-19, 24-25, 38, 43-45.)  
Second, although the third and fourth causes of action appear to
allege facts that would support derivative claims on behalf of Villa HOA for
damages suffered by the corporations, these causes of action are expressly
brought “By Plaintiffs Personally” and do not state that they are
derivative claims on behalf of the Villa HOA entities.  (Compl., ¶¶ 29-30 [alleging that certain
of the defendants breached their fiduciary duties to Villa HOA by failing to
seek competitive bidding for maintenance], 33-34 [alleging aiding and abetting
of the breaches of fiduciary duties]; Compl., pp. 8:4-6, 9:5-7; Cal. Rules of
Ct., rule 2.112 [“Each separately stated cause of action . . . must
specifically state: [¶¶] (3) The party asserting it if more than one party is
represented on the pleading”].) 
Moreover, the Complaint’s prayer asserts relief in favor of the plaintiffs
and does not seek relief on behalf of Villa HOA.  (Compl., p. 11:22-23 [“Plaintiffs seek
a judgment against Defendants”] [emphasis added].) 
The court therefore finds that the gravamen of each cause of action of
the Complaint is not “injury to the corporation,” and further finds that no
cause of action “seeks to recover assets for [Villa HOA] or to prevent the
dissipation of its assets.”  (Everest
Investors 8, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th at p. 425.)  Thus, because (1) Plaintiff seeks relief
solely on the ground that the Complaint seeks derivative claims, but (2) the
Complaint does not allege facts sufficient to constitute derivative claims
brought on behalf of Villa HOA, the court finds that the pleadings and evidence
do not show the existence of a conflict of interest based on concurrent
representation that requires the disqualification of Counsel.
ORDER
The court denies plaintiff
Eduardo Luna’s motion to disqualify counsel. 
The court orders defendants
BJD Services, LLC, Dawn Kuykendall, Jerilyn Rivetti Kuykendall, Brian
McWilliams, Rodney Owens, Villa Patrician Home Owner’s Association, and Villa
Patrician Home Owner’s Association (sued as Doe defendant 1) to give notice of
this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 31, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


