  Case Number:  23PSCV02165    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  K Defendant Ronald B.
Bibonia’s Demurrer to Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Defendant
Bibonia is ordered to file an Answer within 10 days.
Wilfred T. Co’s
Demurrer to Complaint is SUSTAINED in part (i.e., as to the first through
fourth, sixth and seventh, and ninth causes of action). The court will inquire
of the parties whether leave to amend should be granted.
Background   
Plaintiff Flossie C. Parungao (“Plaintiff”) alleges as
follows:
Plaintiff and Wilfred T. Co aka
Winnifredo T. Co (“Co”) are siblings. In June 2004, Plaintiff located and
negotiated the purchase of the property located at 302 S. Loraine Ave.,
Glendora, California 91741 (“Property”) to serve as her residence. Co offered
to assist Plaintiff with the purchase of the subject property. Plaintiff and Co
agreed that (1) Co would co-sign the purchase financing documents and take
record title to the subject property, (2) Plaintiff would provide all of the
funds needed for the down payment and closing costs, (3) Plaintiff would
thereafter directly pay or provide funds for payment of the loan, property
taxes, insurance and other subject property related-expenses, and that (4) upon
request from Plaintiff, Co would execute such documents and take such other
actions as might be needed to evidence he had no interest in the subject
property other than the bare record title he would be relinquishing
(“Contract”). Plaintiff did all things required of her under the Contract. 
 
In 2023, Plaintiff asked Co to sign
over record title to her; Co refused. Plaintiff’s ensuing investigation
revealed that Co transferred the subject property into the Ronald B. Bibonia
and Wilfred T. Co Revocable Trust dated November 24, 2020 (“Trust”).
On July 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against Co, individually and as Co-Trustee of the Trust, Ronald
Bibonia (“Bibonia”), individually and as Co-Trustee of the Trust (collectively
“Defendants”), and Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Specific Performance of Oral Contract
2.                 
Breach of Oral Contract
3.                 
Fraud [Promise Without Intent to Perform]
4.                 
Intentional Misrepresentation
5.                 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
6.                 
Conversion
7.                 
Violation of Penal Code § 496
8.                 
Quiet Title 
9.                 
Accounting
10.             
Imposition of Constructive Trust 
On April 26, 2024, the court sustained with leave to amend
the demurrer as to the first through fourth, and sixth and seventh causes of
action. It also overruled the demurrer as to fifth and eighth causes of action.
On May 16, 2024, the Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint against Co, individually and as Co-Trustee of the Trust, Bibonia,
individually and as Co-Trustee of the Trust (collectively “Defendants”), and
Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Specific Performance of Oral Contract
2.                 
Breach of Oral Contract
3.                 
Fraud [Promise Without Intent to Perform]
4.                 
Intentional Misrepresentation
5.                 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
6.                 
Conversion
7.                 
Violation of Penal Code § 496
8.                 
Quiet Title 
9.                 
Accounting
10.             
Imposition of Constructive Trust 
A Case Management Conference is set for July 30, 2024.
Legal Standard
A demurrer may be made on the grounds that
the pleading, inter alia, does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action and/or is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e)
and (f).)
When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only
allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis
for the claim against him. (Semole v.
Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,
however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in
the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or
facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may
take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land
Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].)
Discussion

Defendants demur, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f), to the first through ninth causes of action
in Plaintiff’s complaint, on the basis that they each fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute causes of action and are uncertain.[1]
Request for Judicial Notice
The court rules on Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice
(“RJN”) as follows: Granted as to Exhibit A (i.e., deed of trust recorded April
11, 2007).
Merits
            As to
Bibonia
Bibonia contends that the demurrer should be summarily
sustained as it pertains to him, on the basis that the FAC is again “completely
devoid of factual allegations” against him. (Dem., 18:9). A review of the FAC
demonstrates that Bibonia was not contractually bound based on the alleged oral
contract but merely listed on the Property’s title. Plaintiff’s contention that
Bibonia is a beneficiary to the property is insufficient to allege his
involvement in the alleged oral agreement. Nevertheless, Bibonia’s name on the
Property’s title “is sufficient to include him” on the eighth cause of action
for quiet title. As a result, Bibonia’s demurrer is sustained on this basis as
to causes of action one through seven, and nine without leave to amend.
            As to
Co
First and Second Causes of
Action (i.e., Specific Performance of Oral Contract and Breach of Oral Contract,
Respectively)
“[T]he elements of a
cause of action for breach of contract are (1) the existence of the contract,
(2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s
breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
Plaintiff has alleged
that in June 2004, she “located and negotiated the purchase of the Property to
serve as her residence” and that “[a]t the time, . . . [her brother] Co offered
to assist [her] with the purchase of the Property (FAC, ¶¶ 7 and 8); that she
and Co agreed that “(1) Co would assist [her] by co-signing the purchase
financing documents and taking record title to the Property, (2) [she] would
provide all of the funds needed for the down payment and closing costs, (3)
[she] would thereafter directly pay or provide funds for the payment of the
loan, property taxes, insurance and other Property related expenses, and (4)
upon request from [her, Co would execute such documents and take such other
actions as might be needed to evidence he had no interest in the Property other
than the bare record title he would be relinquishing (‘Contract’)” (Id.).
Co
first argues that the alleged oral contract is barred by the Statute of Frauds.
(See Civil Code § 1624, subd. (a)(3) [“The following contracts are invalid,
unless they, or some note or memorandum thereof, are in writing and subscribed
by the party to be charged or by the part’s agent: . . . (3) An agreement for
the leasing for a longer period than one year, or for the sale of real
property, or of an interest therein . . .”] On April 26, 2024, the court
overruled the demurrer on statute of frauds grounds. As a result, the court
will not consider the Statute of Frauds argument.
Co next argues that the alleged
oral contract fails for lack of consideration. (See Civ. Code § 1550 [“It is
essential to the existence of a contract that there should be: 1. Parties
capable of contracting; 2. Their consent; 3. A lawful object; and, 4. A
sufficient cause or consideration”].)
Plaintiff’s only
response is that making “substantial payments over an extended period of time”
constitutes consideration. (See Opposition at 14.) Plaintiff relies on Flojo
International, Inc. v. Lassleben (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 713, 719, in support
of her contention. However, Flojo does not support her contention. In Flojo,
a former distributor of products for a company obtained ownership of the
company, extinguished the debts the company owned to the distributor, and
provided the former owner royalty rights for future sale of goods. (Id.
at 719-20.) The court reversed an order granting summary judgment and held that
consideration to the company’s prior owner in extinguishing debt was
“sufficient reason” or consideration to bind the company. (Id. at 720.)
Here, Plaintiff again fails to articulate the consideration that Co received. Her
contention that other family members “benefited” by making “the Property
available as a residence” for a sibling demonstrates a sibling “promissory
estoppel” cause of action more so than an oral agreement. Moreover, it appears
this alleged consideration was not alleged as part of the original oral
agreement. The demurrer is sustained.
Third and Fourth Causes of
Action (i.e., Fraud [Promise Without Intent to Perform and
Intentional Misrepresentation,
Respectively)
“The essential
allegations of an action for fraud are a misrepresentation, knowledge of its
falsity, intent to defraud, justifiable reliance, and resulting damage.” (Roberts v. Ball, Hunt, Hart, Brown &
Baerwitz (1976) 57 Cal.App.3d 104, 109.) “’Promissory fraud’ is a
subspecies of the action for fraud and deceit. A promise to do something
necessarily implies the intention to perform; hence, where a promise is made
without such intention, there is an implied misrepresentation of fact that may be
actionable fraud.” (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)
Co asserts that there is
no actionable misrepresentation because, “[Plaintiff] herself failed to perform
her own obligations under the alleged agreement, including (1) failure to
co-sign for the loan and (2) failure to pay off the mortgage as agreed.” (Dem.,
13:15-17). Plaintiff alleges that Co promised beginning in 2004 that he “would
execute documents and take such [] actions as might be needed to evidence he
had no interest in the Property other than the bare record title he would be
relinquishing (‘Promise’).” (FAC ¶ 23.) However, there is no specificity as to
the specific false statements made by Co. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto.
Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) In fact, it is unclear what
actionable statements are alleged in the FAC except for that found in paragraph
30 in the FAC (“I will do that.”). (People ex rel. Allstate Ins. Co. v.
Discovery Radiology Physicians, P.C. (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 521, 549.) Because
the consideration (i.e. as to Co) under the alleged oral agreement is
ambiguous, the statement in paragraph 30 does not provide the necessary
sufficiency to support a claim because the extent of the agreement has not been
fully described.
Co’s demurrer to the
third and fourth causes of action is sustained.
Sixth Cause of Action (i.e.,
Conversion)
“The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s
ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the defendant’s
conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.”
(Los Angeles Federal Credit Union v. Madatyan (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1383, 1387 [quotations
and citation omitted].) Further, “[t]he tort of conversion applies to personal
property, not real property.” (Salma v. Capon (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th
1275, 1295.)
Plaintiff has alleged that “Defendant Co has repudiated his
agreement to replace himself with Plaintiff as record title holder of the
Property, denied Plaintiff’s interest as owner of the Property. In doing so,
Defendants have effectively converted and taken for their own use and benefit
all of the monies expended by Plaintiff in connection acquisition [sic] and
ownership of the Property.” (FAC, ¶ 43).[2]
Co asserts that Plaintiff’s cause of action fails because the
Property cannot be the subject of a claim for conversion. Plaintiff, in turn,
argues that “[w]hat was taken was not real property, but instead a specific
corpus of personal property—money. . .” (Opp., 12:14-15). Plaintiff, however,
has not alleged that the “monies expended” by Plaintiff to live in the property
ever went to Co, as opposed to the lender. Co’s demurrer to this cause of
action is sustained.
 
Seventh Cause of Action (i.e.,
Violation of Penal Code § 496)
Penal Code § 496, subdivision (a) provides, in relevant
part, that “[e]very person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that
has been obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the
property to be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or
aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any property from the owner,
knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be punished by
imprisonment in a county jail for not more than one year, or imprisonment
pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170.”
While Co does not provide any authority for his position that
Penal Code § 496 does not apply to real property, Plaintiff’s allegation
portend to allow a lower threshold or burden to obtain more than compensatory
damages. As stated before, without greater foundation and briefing, the court
will not allow this cause of action to proceed at this time. Co’s demurrer to
this cause of action is sustained.
Ninth Cause of Action (i.e.,
Accounting)
“A cause of action for an accounting requires a showing that a
relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an
accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be
ascertained by an accounting.” (Teselle
v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.)
Plaintiff has alleged
that she “is entitled to an accounting of all loans and other transactions
secured by or relating in any way to the Property from 2004 to the present, an
accounting of any charges or liens against the Property resulting from the
conduct and activities of Defendant, as well as an accounting of all property
and other assets obtained or derived by Defendants with funds borrowed against
or otherwise obtained with respect to the Property.” (FAC, ¶ 55).
As the court held
before, Plaintiff has not alleged that Co ever received any monies for the
Property from Plaintiff or anyone else in connection with the Property at any
time. Further, Plaintiff has not alleged that Co encumbered the Property at any
time. Co’s demurrer to this cause of action is sustained.

[1]
             The court previously
overruled the demurrer as to the fifth and eighth causes of action. (See Order,
April 26, 2024.) As a result, the court will consider only the demurrer as to
the first through fourth, sixth and seventh, and ninth causes of action. 


[2]              It appears Plaintiff failed to edit
the FAC as the same grammatical mistakes are repeated in both versions.

