 This is an employment action.  On June 2, 2023, the Court compelled this matter to arbitration. Plaintiff Garland Adrian Goff now seeks to vacate the stay in this matter and withdraw from arbitration because Defendant American Guard Services, Inc. failed to timely pay arbitration fees. Defense counsel argues the Motion should be denied because the failure to pay was inadvertent as defense counsel was, at the time, dealing with an unexpected cancer illness, diagnosis, and treatment.Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.98 provides in relevant part,(a) In an employment or consumer arbitration that requires, either expressly or through application of state or federal law or the rules of the arbitration provider, that the drafting party pay certain fees and costs during the pendency of an arbitration proceeding, if the fees or costs required to continue the arbitration proceeding are not paid within 30 days after the due date, the drafting party is in material breach of the arbitration agreement, is in default of the arbitration, and waives its right to compel the employee or consumer to proceed with that arbitration as a result of the material breach.(b) If the drafting party materially breaches the arbitration agreement and is in default under subdivision (a), the employee or consumer may unilaterally elect to do any of the following:(1) Withdraw the claim from arbitration and proceed in a court of appropriate jurisdiction. . . .Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.98 does not have any component relating to intent or diligence.  Rather, it plainly provides that the failure to timely pay fees results in waiver of arbitration and that a plaintiff may thereafter choose to proceed in the courts.  As Defendant has conceded its payment was untimely, Plaintiff has a right to reinstate the action.  Plaintiff also seeks $3,960 in sanctions; this represents the time associated with the instant Motion and the prior motion to compel arbitration.Given the circumstances relating to defense counsel’s health, the Court will award reduced sanctions in the amount of $750.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1281.98(c), 1281.99.)The Motion is granted.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 