 Case Number:  23STCV16039    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Bernard Smith’s Motions to
Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories and Requests for Production
Plaintiff Bernard Smith moves to
compel defendant Federal Express Corporation (FedEx) to provide further
responses to special interrogatory No. 68 and to requests for production No.
105.  Plaintiff also moves to compel
FedEx to provide a privilege log.  
Special interrogatory No. 68 asks
FedEx to “describe
any and all findings as a result of” an investigation it took into plaintiff’s internal
EEO complaint to FedEx in September 2022. 
FedEx responded only by objecting based on attorney-client privilege and
work product.  Request for production No.
105 asks FedEx to produce documents about that investigation.  FedEx responded by objecting on various
grounds, including attorney-client privilege and work product, and by agreeing
to “produce all non-privileged documents that comprise the Internal EEO
Complaint … and the Investigation FedEx conducted in connection with” it.  
Meet and
Confer
Plaintiff did not make an adequate effort to informally
resolve these discovery disputes.  Motions
to compel further responses to interrogatories or requests for production must include
“a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (CCP §§ 2030.300(b)(1), 2031.310(b)(2).)  The moving party must make a “reasonable and good faith attempt at
an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2016.040.)  
Plaintiff’s initial meet and confer letter to FedEx argued
the information in response to special interrogatory No. 68 was “not privileged
or work product information.”  (Butzen Decl.
ISO Motion re: Special Interrogatories, Ex. 5, p. 3.)  Regarding request for production No. 105, the
letter argued the response was inadequate because it “state[d] you are only
producing documents that comprise the Internal EEO [matter] FedEx opened” but
not “whether you are producing documents that relate to the investigations
thereinto.”  (Id., p. 4.)  Plaintiff further argued the responses do not
state FedEx would produce “all responsive documents in your possession,
custody, or control.”  (Ibid.)  FedEx responded with detailed arguments about
attorney-client privilege and work product. 
(Id., Ex. 6, pp. 4-9.) 
Plaintiff did not respond to FedEx’s letter.  (Lindberg Decl., ¶ 30.)
Plaintiff’s motions do not argue these privileges do not
apply at all.  Instead, the motions argue
exclusively that defendants “waived those objections by asserting the adequacy
of their investigations into Plaintiff’s complaints as a defense.”  (Motions, p. 11-13.)  Plaintiff did not raise this argument to
FedEx before filing the motions.  Because
plaintiff failed to inform FedEx of the motions’ central argument about waiver,
plaintiff did not make a reasonable and good faith attempt to informally
resolve the issues presented by the motion. 
FedEx had no chance to respond to this waiver argument until after
plaintiff filed the motions.  
Plaintiff also did not meet and confer as required regarding his
demand for a privilege log.  Plaintiff’s
meet and confer letter did not raise the issue. 
(Butzen Decl. ISO Motion re: RFPs, Ex. 7.)
Plaintiff’s reply briefs do not address FedEx’s argument that
plaintiff failed to meet and confer as required.
Attorney-Client Privilege and Work Product
Plaintiff argues FedEx waived the attorney-client privilege
and work product doctrine by putting the adequacy of its investigation at
issue.  Plaintiff relies on Wellpoint
Health Networks, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 110 (Wellpoint).  There, the Court of Appeal stated, “If a
defendant employer hopes to prevail by showing that it investigated an employee’s
complaint and took action appropriate to the findings of the investigation,
then it will have put the adequacy of the investigation directly at issue, and
cannot stand on the attorney-client privilege or work product doctrine to
preclude a thorough examination of its adequacy.  The defendant cannot have it both ways.  If it chooses this course, it does so with the
understanding that the attorney-client privilege and the work product doctrine
are thereby waived.”  (Id. at p.
128.)  This may result in an “implied
waiver,” which “must be ‘narrowly defined and the information required to be
disclosed must fit strictly within the confines of the waiver.’  [Citation.] 
The party opposing the privilege bears the burden of showing that there
has been an implied waiver.”  (2,022
Ranch v. Superior Court (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1377, 1395.)
Plaintiff does not establish FedEx implicitly waived
attorney-client privilege or work product protection.  Plaintiff’s reliance on Wellpoint is
misplaced.  The Court of Appeal has held
implied waiver under Wellpoint does
not apply to post-employment investigations. 
In
City of Petaluma v. Superior Court (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 1023, 1036,
the court addressed waiver under Wellpoint based on the “avoidable
consequence defense.”  The court stated the
“defense focuses upon what the employer and employee did or did not do while
the employee was employed.  The assertion
of the avoidable consequences defense may put the adequacy of an investigation
into issue if the person was still employed and able to take advantage of any
corrective measures the employer undertook as a result of the investigation.  The investigation may also be relied upon to
show that the employer took reasonable steps to prevent and correct workplace
sexual harassment while the employee was employed.  But the assertion of an avoidable consequences
defense does not put a post-employment investigation directly at issue in the
litigation.  The employee necessarily
could not have taken advantage of any corrective measures adopted in response
to a post-employment investigation.  Further,
a post-employment investigation would not itself demonstrate that the employer
took reasonable steps to prevent and correct workplace harassment while the
employee was still employed.”  (Id.
at pp. 1036-1037.)  The court concluded
the defendant “does not seek to rely on the post-employment investigation
itself as a defense, nor could it,” so the defense “does not constitute a
waiver of any attorney-client or work product protection afforded to the
post-employment investigation.”  (Id.
at p. 1037.)
For
the same reason as City of Petaluma, FedEx did not inject into this case
the issue of the adequacy of its investigation of plaintiff’s complaint in
September 2022.  It is undisputed that
FedEx terminated plaintiff in August 2022. 
(Comp., ¶ 28.)  By the time
plaintiff complained in September 2022, he was not part of the workplace and
could not experience its social environment. 
Acting to correct the social environment of the workplace as to
plaintiff was no longer possible.  FedEx
has not waived attorney-client privilege or work product protection as to the
post-employment investigation into plaintiff’s complaint made in September
2022. 
FedEx’s
objections to special interrogatory No. 68 and request for production No. 105
are sustained.
Sanctions
            FedEx moves for $1,500 in sanctions
against plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel on the motion regarding special
interrogatory No. 68 and $3,000 in sanctions on the motion regarding request
for production No. 105.  Sanctions for
these unsuccessful motions are mandatory unless the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (CCP §§ 2030.300(d), 2031.310(h).)  Plaintiff’s motions were unsuccessful.  He did not act with substantial
justification.  Sanctions are just under
the circumstances.
Disposition
            Plaintiff Bernard Smith’s motion to
compel further responses to special interrogatories is denied.  Plaintiff Bernard Smith and his counsel Andrew
Butzen are ordered to pay
defendant Federal Express Corporation $1,500 in sanctions within 30 days. 
Plaintiff
Bernard Smith’s motion to compel further responses to requests for production
is denied.  Plaintiff
Bernard Smith and his counsel Andrew Butzen are ordered to pay
defendant Federal Express Corporation $3,000 in sanctions within 30 days.
Plaintiff
and his counsel are jointly and severally liable for all sanctions.      