  Case Number:  22STCV26384    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Lajos “Lali” Hugyetz’s
Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendants’ Person Most Knowledgeable and Connor
Harrington 
Plaintiff Lajos “Lali” Hugyetz moves
to compel the deposition of defendant Equinox Holdings, Inc.’s (Equinox) person
most knowledgeable on numerous topics and to compel the deposition of Connor
Harrington.  
Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450(a) provides, “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a
person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it … the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony.”  (CCP § 2025.450(a).) 
            Plaintiff
shows good cause to compel the deposition of Equinox’s person most
knowledgeable.  After rescheduling
several times, plaintiff’s last notice of deposition stated the deposition of
Equinox’s person most knowledgeable would take place April 18, 2024, at 10:00
a.m.  (Kirsh Decl., Ex. 6, 5th Amended
Notice of Depo.)  Plaintiff’s counsel testifies,
“On April 18, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel was approximately 35 minutes late to
begin taking the deposition of Defendants PMK.  Defendants’ Counsel and its PMK left the deposition
and refused to appear.  Plaintiff’s
counsel offered to wait as long as necessary for Defendants’ Counsel and
Defendants PMK to return to the remote deposition so that it could be completed
on the same day and communicated this to Defendants’ Counsel.  Defendants’ Counsel responded that they would
not return and that they were refusing to appear.  Plaintiff requested alternate dates to
complete the deposition of Defendants PMK, however, Defendants responded that
it would no longer make Defendants PMK nor Connor Harrington available for
deposition and would seek a protective order to prevent Plaintiff from taking
this deposition.  As of today’s date,
Defendants continue to refuse to make Defendants PMK and Connor Harrington
available for deposition.”  (Id.,
¶ 10.)  
Defendants’ counsel states plaintiff’s
counsel was 40 minutes late.  (Liao
Decl., ¶ 31, Ex. J.)  He further
testifies, “On April 18, 2024, Defendants’ counsel sent an email to Plaintiff
communicating that the repeated cancellations and rescheduling of the PMQ
deposition (as well as those for [other witnesses]), combined with Plaintiff’s
Counsel’s failure to attend at the scheduled times or notify Defendants of any
delays, demonstrate a pattern of disregard for the PMQ/Harrington’s time.  Consequently, Defendants intend to file a
motion for a protective order for the depositions of the PMQ and Harrington.  Defendants proposed that the parties engage
in an Informal Discovery Conference to address the issue expeditiously.”  (Id., ¶ 32, Ex. K.)  “Plaintiff rejected this proposal and instead
filed” this motion.  (Id., ¶
33.)  
            Equinox’s
person most knowledgeable, Connor Harrington, appeared for examination but failed
to proceed with it.  Plaintiff’s
counsel’s conduct was unprofessional and discourteous.  It also wasted Harrington’s time and caused
Equinox to incur unnecessary attorney fees. 
But the failure of plaintiff’s counsel to timely appear at the
deposition did not justify Equinox and the deponent leaving and refusing to go
forward with the deposition that day.  The
notice of deposition included 20 matters of examination, two of which included
over a dozen subcategories.  (Kirsh
Decl., Ex. 6.)  The deposition
foreseeably would have lasted far more than 40 minutes.  If plaintiff’s counsel had showed up on time,
Harrington would have continued testifying long after 10:40 a.m.  Plaintiff’s counsel was significantly late,
but not so late as to justify Equinox and Harrington’s conduct.   
Protective Order      
Equinox argues that, if the court
grants this motion, it should issue a protective order limiting the deposition
to seven hours on one day.  “The court,
for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any
party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.  This protective order may include, but is not
limited to, one or more of the following directions: [¶¶] (5) That the
deposition be taken only on certain specified terms and conditions.”  (CCP § 2025.420(b).)
            Equinox
shows good cause for such an order. 
Plaintiff’s counsel rescheduled this deposition more than once, then was
at least 35 minutes late for the deposition on April 18, 2024.  Plaintiff has repeatedly wasted deponent
Harrington’s time and has shown no contribution for this unprofessional
conduct.  Justice requires limiting
Harrington’s deposition or depositions (both as Equinox’s person most qualified
and as an individual) to one day, combined, to protect him from unwarranted
annoyance or oppression.
Disposition    
Plaintiff Lajos “Lali” Hugyetz’s
motion to compel deposition of defendant Equinox Holdings, Inc.’s person most
knowledgeable and of Connor Harrington is granted.  
Defendant Equinox Holdings, Inc. is
ordered to produce its person most knowledgeable and
Connor Harrington for deposition within 20 days.  Defendant Equinox Holdings, Inc. may specify
the time and location of the deposition. 
  
The court hereby orders that the deposition of both Equinox Holdings,
Inc.’s person most knowledgeable and the deposition of Connor Harrington as an
individual together shall be limited to a combined 7 hours on a single day.  