On December 29, 2023, Plaintiff Selim Hoxha filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) for (1) FEHA disability discrimination, (2) FEHA failure to accommodate, (3) FEHA age discrimination, (4) FEHA retaliation for requesting accommodations, (5) FEHA harassment, (6) FEHA failure to prevent discrimination, retaliation, and harassment, (7) violation of paid sick leave, etc., (8) retaliation and interference/violation of kin care, (9) interference with COVID-19 supplemental paid sick leave, (10) negligent hiring and retention, (11) whistleblower retaliation, (12) violation of the UCL, and (13) FEHA association based discrimination.Defendant The Regents of the University of California demurs to Plaintiff’s harassment claim for failure to state sufficient facts. When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)To establish a prima facie case of harassment under the FEHA, the plaintiff must show that (1) she was a member of a protected class, (2) she was subjected to unwelcome harassment based on her protected status, and (3) the harassment unreasonably interfered with her work performance by creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.  (Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 876.)  “ ‘Harassment cannot be occasional, isolated, sporadic, or trivial; rather the plaintiff must show a concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine or a generalized nature.’ ”  (Aguilar v. Avis Rent A Car System, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 121, 131.)  In other words, the harassment must be “sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the condition of the victim’s employment and create an abusive environment,” as judged by the reasonable person belonging to the plaintiff’s protected class.  (Thompson, at p. 877.)With respect to the SAC, the Court ruled: “There are no allegations of severe or pervasive conduct constituting harassment.   The SAC merely references a number of personnel management issues (particularly the denial of accommodations and job assignments), which do not properly relate to the subject claim.  While personnel management may serve as evidence of harassment where there is a widespread pattern of bias communicating a hostile message (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 763), personnel management alone is not sufficient.  The allegations about various comments merely relate to denying accommodation requests despite Plaintiff’s disabilities.”The TAC does not remedy this defect and merely echoes the prior allegations of wrongful job assignments and a refusal to provide reasonable accommodations.  The additional facts about other declarants go no further.  As discussed, this is insufficient to establish harassment.  The Demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend.  An answer is to be filed within 20 days.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.