 On February 19, 2014, the Court entered judgment in favor of Plaintiff Pacific L 39 LLC and against Defendants Nejat Kohan and Hormoz Ramy in the amount of $4,981,792.79.  Subsequently, Plaintiff assigned the judgment to WVJP 2017-2, LP.On July 23, 2021, the Court entered a charging order against Kohan’s interest in Palm Plaza Family LP.  That order states, “the transferable interest in the Palm Plaza Family LP (hereinafter ‘Partnership’) of the Judgment Debtor is charged with payment of the judgment entered against Judgment Debtor in the within action on, February 19, 2014 in the original amount of $4,981,792.79 (the ‘Judgment’), plus interest and post-judgment costs as allowed by law. Further, said Partnership is to pay any and all partnership profits or distributions otherwise payable to Judgment Debtor, which are either past due, currently due, or due in the future, directly to the judgment creditor's attorney of record, Hemar, Rousso & Heald, LLP.”The partnership owns a shopping center located at 2655-2677 Thousand Oaks Blvd., Thousand Oaks, CA 91362.On April 18, 2023, the Court granted a motion by The Judgment Creditor to foreclose against Kohan’s interest in Palm Plaza Family LP and entered an order accordingly. The Judgment Creditor presented the aforementioned order to the Riverside County Sheriff, who responded as follows: CCP 699. 720(a)(2) prohibits the Sheriff from executing against the interest of an individual partner in a partnership. While the enforcement of judgment against the same is allowable by very specific requirements outlined in the Corporations Code, the order and writ you have provided are insufficient for the Sheriff to levy and sell this property. If the court orders a receiver to sell it ( CCP 712.060, 564, 568.5), you will need to go that route. If the court orders the Sheriff to sell it, we will need a Writ of Sale for Personal Property listing this exact property to be sold (CCP 716.010, 716.020) accompanied by a certified court order for sale of this exact property. At a minimum, said court order must direct the Riverside County Sheriff specifically to levy and sell the specific property, the CCP sections governing the sale, and if applicable, any terms/conditions of this sale (For an idea of what some of the court order verbiage may look like, see Crocker National Bank v. Jon R. Perroton, 208 Cal. App. 3d 1 (1989)). The Judgment Creditor now “requests that the Court enter an amended foreclosure order, which comports with the request of the Riverside County Sheriff. Specifically, the Judgment Creditor seeks an Order that directs the Riverside County Sheriff to levy the Judgment Debtor’s 25% interest in the Partnership and sell the Judgment Debtor’s 25% interest in the Partnership pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., §§ 699.720(b) and 708.310, and Corporations Code § 15907.03. Further, Judgment Creditor requests that the Court, in entering an amended foreclosure order, specifically grant the Judgment Creditor the right to obtain a Writ of Sale for Personal Property pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 720.010 and that a certified copy of the amended foreclosure order will satisfy the requirements of Code Civ. Proc., § 716.010, et seq.”Nejat Kohan contends that (1) if his interest is to be sold, it should be sold where it would make the most money, which is in Ventura County, where the partnership’s assets are located, and not in Riverside County; (2) the Motion and writ of execution again fail to specifically describe the property that will be sold; (3) an appraisal should first be ordered because the other partners would like to purchase Nejat’s interest and the parties have had settlement discussions to negotiate a purchase price; (4) Kohan was improperly served with the Motion by mail at his home and not at his designated service address; and (5) his interest in the partnership is subject to a lien by Sid Kohan.Nejat’s last contention is again rejected and was already addressed in the Court’s April 18, 2023, ruling.Further, the argument about service lacks merit because Nejat has not shown prejudice.  To the contrary, Nejat filed an opposition raising multiple arguments, as usual.  Next, the argument as to the location of the sale lacks merit because the sale of the partnership’s real property in Ventura County is not at issue.  As Nejat himself acknowledges, the only interest at issue is his right to distributions.  It’s not at all clear why such an interest would obtain more profits in Ventura County specifically.  More importantly, this personal property at issue would seem to relate to Riverside County where Nejat resides.  As to the issue of an appraisal and settlement, that is a matter that is wholly between the parties.  There is apparently no right to an appraisal provided by the Corporations Code under these circumstances.  (See Corp. Code § 16504.)  Certainly, Nejat cited nothing on this point. Finally, the specific description of the property at issue has been indicated: Nejat’s 25% transferable interest in Palm Plaza Family LP.  This is a right to distributions only.  What other description can be provided?  In sum, the Motion is granted.Judgment Creditor to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.