 Case Number:  23STCV04112    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR  COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE  COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT      WALTER GEE,                          Plaintiff,             vs.   LAGUNA CREEK CONSTRUCTION, INC., et al.,                           Defendants.   ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )            CASE NO.: 23STCV04112   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR TERMINATING    SANCTIONS   Dept. 48 8:30 a.m. September 17, 2024      On  August 20, 2024, Plaintiff Walter Geefiled a motion for terminating or issue sanctions  against Defendants Laguna Creek Construction Inc. (dba ALFA Kitchen, Bath and Flooring)  (“ALFA”) and Mohammadali Kalantari. On  August 21, 2024, Plaintiff withdrew that motion and filed a new motion for terminating  or issue sanctions. Defendants’  evidentiary objections are overruled.  Defendants’  request for judicial notice of the second amended complaint is denied as unnecessary  because the pleading is already part of this case’s record. LODGED  DOCUMENTS With  his motion, Plaintiff filed a notice of lodging of unredacted documents.  Plaintiff lodged with the Court electronic versions  of the unredacted documents on August 30, 2024. A  party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file an application for  an order sealing the record.  (California  Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).)  Plaintiff  lodged the records with the Court, but Plaintiff did not file an application to  file the documents under seal.  Defendants  also did not timely file an application to file these documents under seal.  (See California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(3)(B).) However,  the lodged documents contain information related to bank records and phone records  of Kalantari.  The Court finds that privacy concerns regarding this information is an overriding  interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record.  The proposed redaction of only the protected,  private information is narrowly tailored, and there are no less restrictive means.  Additionally, the unredacted documents are not  relevant to the disposition of this motion. Accordingly,  the Court sua sponte orders that the unredacted lodged documents be filed under  seal. DISCUSSION Plaintiff  argues that “Kalantari presented false declarations of himself and Yang to the Court,  concocted a false exhibit to mislead the Court and Plaintiff about Yang’s payments  to ALFA, lied under oath about the partnership with Yang, deleted or refused to  produce emails and text messages, forged Yang’s signature on two documents, lied  about knowing that Yang was unlicensed while Kalantari contracted with Yang and  pulled permits for the Gee project, and falsified phone records produced in discovery.”  (Motion at p. 2.) Plaintiff  seeks terminating sanctions, or in the alternative, issue sanctions and other relief. A.        Plaintiff’s Request for Terminating or  Issue Sanctions is Denied. A  court may impose a terminating sanction against anyone engaging in conduct that  is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d).)  Misuse  of the discovery process includes failing to respond to discovery, unjustifiably  making unmeritorious objections to discovery, and disobeying a court order to provide  discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)  “The trial court may order a terminating sanction  for discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the]  conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to  the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain  the discovery.’  [Citation.]  Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating  sanctions should not be made lightly.  But  where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows  that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules,  the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’”  (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223  Cal.App.4th 377, 390.) A  court may impose an issue sanction ordering that designated facts must be taken  as established in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the  misuse of the discovery process.  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).)  A court may  also impose an issue sanction prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the  discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses.  (Ibid.) Plaintiff  seeks terminating sanctions, or in the alternative, an order that the following  issues be conclusively established and that Kalantari and ALFA may not contest them:  (1) Kalantari authorized Yang to use ALFA’s license and logo for the Gee Project;  (2) Kalantari received $40,000 from Yang for the use of ALFA’s license for the Gee  Project; (3) Kalantari manufactured the Alleged Subcontract and Termination Letter  to conceal his partnership with Yang; (4) Kalantari knew Yang was unlicensed when  he permitted Yang to use ALFA’s license number and when he pulled permits for the  Gee Project; (5) Kalantari and ALFA defrauded Plaintiff by concealing and misrepresenting  Yang’s license status and absconding with Plaintiff’s $72,300 deposit; (6) Yang’s  Declaration dated March 13, 2023, Kalantari’s Declaration filed April 4, 2024, and  Kalantari’s Declaration filed May 14, 2024 are false declarations; (7) Kalantari  assisted Yang in drafting the Gee Contract; (8) Kalantari agreed to be business  partners with Yang. Plaintiff  contends that Kalantari coerced Yang into signing a declaration that Yang later  testified was false.  (Motion at pp. 11-13.)  Yang also testified that he has no memory of signing  a subcontract with ALFA, and the signatures on the Alleged Subcontract and Termination  Agreement do not look like his signature.   (Id. at p. 13.)  Additionally,  Kalantari lied about when he learned that Yang was unlicensed, perjured himself  before the CSLB, falsified documents about his payments to Yang, lied about his  partnership with Yang, falsified phone records, and field false declarations.  (Id. at pp. 14-15, 17-19.)  The credibility of Yang and Kalantari is an issue  for the jury.  Plaintiff does not explain  how this supports the issues he wants to establish or why the existence of conflicting  evidence means that issues should be conclusively established in his favor. Plaintiff  argues that Kalantari failed to produce certain emails that were identified by Google,  as well as text messages and WhatsApp messages that are presumed to exist.  (Motion at pp. 15-17.)  The Court will not order any issue conclusively  established based on the absence of evidence to establish it. Under  the totality of the circumstances, Plaintiff has not shown a history of willful  discovery abuse by Defendants, and the Court cannot find that less severe sanctions  would be ineffective and that terminating sanctions are warranted.  Additionally, Plaintiff has not shown grounds  for conclusively establishing the requested issues. B.        Plaintiff’s Additional Requests Are Denied. In  addition to issue sanctions, “Plaintiff requests that the Court order Kalantari  and ALFA to refrain from deleting any files on their computers and phones and to  permit Plaintiff to have them forensically examined.”  (Motion at pp. 2-3.)  Defendants already have a duty to not destroy  evidence.  If Defendants have objected to  forensic examination, then Plaintiff should seek to compel forensic examination  through a different motion. Plaintiff  also “requests that the Court order the Chase bank records and T-Mobile phone records  produced pursuant to Plaintiff’s subpoena in this action be deemed only ‘Confidential’  and not ‘Attorney’s Eyes Only.’”  (Motion  at p. 3; see id. at p. 20.)  Plaintiff  contends that he “will have a difficult time preparing for trial and presenting  evidence at trial if Gee is unable to view these documents.”  (Id. at p. 20.)  Plaintiff’s request to modify the protective order  should be brought as a fully brief separate motion, not as a closing request in  this motion. CONCLUSION The  motion is DENIED.On
July 16, 2024, the Court ordered Lead Counsel of record for each party to
electronically serve and file a declaration that they have read the Court’s
ruling and to certify that the revised separate statements represent the parties’
best efforts to comply with the terms of that order.Plaintiff’s
Counsel timely filed a declaration on July 31, 2024.



Defendants’
Counsel did not file any declaration. 
The Court admonishes Defendants’ Counsel for their failure to comply
with the Court order.  Future violations
may result in sanctions. Moving  party to give notice. Parties  who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org  indicating intention to submit.  If all parties  in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are  required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)  is also on calendar.             Dated this 17th day of September 2024                     Hon. Thomas D. Long Judge of the Superior    Court        