 Case Number:  20STCV18986    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



KAYVAN SETAREH, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND POWER,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV18986
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO AMEND COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
September 17, 2024



 
On May 19, 2020, Kayvan Setareh filed this action against
Defendants Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (“LADWP”) and Pacific Bell
Telephone Company (erroneously sued as AT&T Corp.) (“Pacific Bell”).
On August 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion for leave to file a first amended complaint (“FAC”).  LADWP filed an opposition, and Pacific Bell filed
an opposition and joinder.
The
Court may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow an amendment
to any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).)  A motion to amend a pleading
must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and
must state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted
or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations
are located.  (California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a).)  The motion shall also be
accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment
is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)  The Court does not ordinarily consider the validity
of the proposed amended pleading when determining whether to grant leave to amend.  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)
Plaintiff
identifies the amendments and provides a copy of the proposed FAC.  Kayvan Setareh seeks to only substitute the Plaintiff
from himself to Hudson Studios LLC.  According
to Plaintiff’s counsel, Hudson Studios LLC, is the owner of the subject property
and is the proper Plaintiff.  (Siciliano Decl.
¶ 4.)  The facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered at the deposition of Kayvan Setareh on June 25, 2024.  (Siciliano Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
Defendants
argue that Kayvan Setareh “is a sophisticated commercial property developer who
understands the significance of having one’s name on the title to a property.  When Plaintiff filed his action, he knew he was
not the owner of the building.”  (LADWP Opposition
at p. 3.)  Kayvan Setareh’s ownership of other
properties and his understanding of the difference between holding title versus
actual ownership is not relevant at this stage. 
(Id. at pp. 3-6.)  Similarly,
Defendants’ arguments about the statute of limitations and whether the claims relate
back are premature because the Court does not ordinarily consider the merits when
granting leave to amend.  (Kittredge, supra,
213 Cal.App.3d at p. 1048.)  Pacific Bell’s
cited authority involves a demurrer, not a motion to amend.  (Pacific Bell Opposition at pp. 3-4.)
“Defendants
argue plaintiffs should not be permitted to substitute a new plaintiff because their
failure to name the new plaintiff in their original complaint was not a mistake.  No such rule exists.  To the contrary, courts have permitted plaintiffs
who have been determined to lack standing, or who have lost standing after the complaint
was filed, to substitute as plaintiffs the true real parties in interest.  [Citations.] 
Amendments for this purpose are liberally allowed.”  (Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan Assn.
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 243.)  The proposed
amendment changes only the Plaintiff.  It
does not “state facts which give rise to a wholly distinct and different legal obligation
against the defendant.”  (Id.)
Additionally,
Plaintiff has filed an ex parte application that indicates that the parties stipulated
to various relief in light of amendment, including their intention to return to
mediation.
Because
there is no showing of prejudice, the motion for leave to amend the complaint is
GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to file the
FAC within five days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 17th day of September 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 