  Case Number:  19STCP05134    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  86 FANGARY v. CITY OF HERMOSA BEACH
Case No. 19STCP05134
Hearing Date: February 28, 2024
 
 
                             ORDER
DENYING PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
 
                             ORDER
SETTING AMOUNT OF DISCOVERY SANCTIONS
 
                                                                                                                                                                                            
 
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
 
Petitioner, Dina Fangary, seeks an order from this
court finding Respondents, the City of Hermosa Beach, Mary Campbell and Stacey
Armato (collectively, Respondents), violated Government Code section 54963
(Section 54963). Petitioner also seeks permanent injunctive relief against
Respondents “directing them to refrain from further violations of . . .
Government Code section 54963.” (Third Amended Petition [TAP] ¶
124.)[1]
Respondents oppose the TAP.
 
Petitioner’s
request for judicial notice (RJN) of Exhibits A through I is granted.
 
Petitioner
filed a reply brief consisting of 22 pages thereby violating California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1113, subdivision (d).[2]
Petitioner did not seek permission to file an oversized reply brief.
Accordingly, the court has considered only the following pages of Petitioner’s
reply brief: 1:1 through 3:13, 5:4 through 12:17. (The break from 3:13 through 5:4
represents material irrelevant to any reply arguments.)
 
The
TAP is denied.
 
The Underlying Dispute and Factual Background
 
Respondent Campbell and Respondent Armato are
councilmembers with the City of Hermosa Beach City Council. (First Amended
Petition [FAP], ¶¶ 24, 25.)
 
After conflicted and extensive law and motion practice,
a single cause of action remains to be resolved at trial. The fourth cause of
action alleges Respondents violated Section 54963. Specifically, the fourth
cause of action alleges:
 
Plaintiff hereby alleges that Mayor Campbell and Councilmember Armato
willfully and recklessly violated California Government Code section 54963,
which prohibits disclosure of confidential information that has been acquired
by being present in a closed session. California Government Code section 54963
specifically prohibits disclosure of such confidential information, and defines
confidential information as “a communication made in a closed session that is
specifically related to the basis for the legislative body of a local agency to
meet lawfully in closed session under this chapter.” Mayor Campbell and
Councilmember Armato violated this requirement during the December 4, 2019
Special City Council Meeting by disclosing information regarding performance evaluation
of the City Manager, a matter that only took place in closed sessions and not
during publicly noticed meetings. Therefore, to the extend Councilmember Armato
and Councilmember Campbell disclosed during City Council public meetings any
information they acquired regarding the City Manager’s performance evaluation
that occurred in closed session, such disclosures constituted a violation of
California Government Code section 54963. (FAP, ¶ 134.)
 
The City Council held closed session meetings on April
9, April 23 and October 10, 2019. (RJN, Ex. A, pp. 7, 18, 30.)[3]
The meeting agenda for each meeting reflects a public employee performance
evaluation for a public employee, the City Manager,[4]
pursuant to Government Code section 54957 will be discussed. (Ibid.)
 
The City Council conducted a meeting on December 4,
2019. (RJN, Ex. C [p. 526], Ex. E [p. 581 - partial uncertified transcript].) Petitioner
argues Respondents violated Section 54963 during the December 4, 2019 meeting
“by disclosing information regarding performance evaluation of the city
manager, a matter that only took place in closed sessions and not during
publicly noticed meetings.” (Opening Brief 1:10-12.) “[F]ormer councilmembers
Campbell and Armato, . . . willfully and recklessly violated [Section 54963],
by disclosing in a public meeting Confidential Information they acquired by
being present in these closed session meetings.” (Opening Brief 2:2-5.)
Further, according to Petitioner, Respondent City “took no action to remedy the
situation or ensure that it does not happen again.” (Opening Brief 2:7-8.)
 
Petitioner asserts:
 
There are numerous statements made during the December 4, 2019 [City
Council] meeting regarding the city manager performance and/or interactions
with a councilmember, all of which are Confidential Information. See RJN
Exhibit E, E-067:2-098-17. All such statements cannot be listed in this brief
due to page limitations.[5]
(Opening Brief 8:7-10.)
 
Petitioner reports the confidential information
disclosed during the December 4, 2019 meeting “referred to employment issue for
Suja Lowenthal.” (Opening Brief 3:4.) Petitioner alleges the following
statements made by Respondent Campbell and Respondent Armato at the December 4,
2019 meeting violated Section 54963.[6]
 
Statements
by Councilmember Armato: 
 
“ ‘. . . the council unanimously agreed to hire a facilitator.’ See RJN
Exhibit E, E079:16-17; and 
 
‘We were relieved to hear that . .’ Id. at E-080:2-3.”
 
Statements
by Councilmember Campbell: 
 
“ ‘And the fact that I made my motion primarily based on the fact that
there was a broken-down, complete breakdown between councilmember Fangary and
our City Manager.[’] Id. at E-089:16-19; 
 
‘And that the Council decided there was a severe enough disfunction,
behind the scenes, that was impacting us . . . .’ Id. at E-091:20-23; 
 
‘And if we have a serious issue that is getting in the way, on a very
routine basis . . . .’ Id. at E-093:2-4; and 
 
‘So what I meant in my quote in the press release, is yeah,
essentially, Council Member Fangary has not been working or communicating with
the City Manager.’ Id. at E95:10-13.”
 
Applicable
Law
 
Section 54963,
subdivision (a) provides:
 
A person
may not disclose confidential information that has been acquired by being
present in a closed session authorized by Section 54956.7, 54956.8, 54956.86,
54956.87, 54956.9, 54957, 54957.6, 54957.8, or 54957.10 to a person not
entitled to receive it, unless the legislative body authorizes disclosure of
that confidential information.
 
Section
54963 defines “confidential information” as “a communication made in a closed
session that is specifically related to the basis for the legislative body of a
local agency to meet lawfully in a closed session under this chapter.” (§
54963, subd. (b).)
 
Section 54963 also
specifies “[d]isclosing information acquired by being present in a closed
session under this chapter that is not confidential information” does not
violate the statute. (Id. at subd. (e)(3).)
 
Analysis
 
“[A] party has the
burden of proof as to each fact the existence or nonexistence of which is
essential for the claim for relief . . . .” (Evid. Code, § 500.)
 
To demonstrate her claim
Respondents violated Section 54963, subdivision (a), Petitioner argues the City
Council, a legislative body, may “hear, discuss, deliberate, or take action” on
matters at meetings open to the public or closed sessions when permitted by law.
(Gov. Code, §§ 54952.2, subd. (a), 54953, subd. (a), 54954.2, subd. (a), 54954.5.)
A legislative body may use a closed session “to consider the appointment,
employment, evaluation or performance, discipline, or dismissal of a public employee
. . . .” (Id. at § 54957, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
The personnel exception
to the open meeting laws should be narrowly construed. (Morrow v. Los
Angeles Unified School District (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1438.)
Finally, the general purpose of the open meetings law is “to increase public
awareness of issues bearing on the democratic process.”[7]
(Ibid.)
 
Petitioner asserts “it [therefore]
does not require a Brown Act genius to conclude” any action by the City Council—including
discussions and deliberation—must have occurred at an open meeting or a closed
session. (Opening Brief 2:20.) Petitioner advises the City Council’s agendas
would provide the public with an understanding of the topics about which the
City Council intended to take some action. (Opening Brief 2:24-3:2.)
 
Petitioner contends the confidential
information disclosed to the public arose during the City Council’s closed
sessions conducted on April 9, April 23 and October 10, 2019. She notes the
closed session agenda items reflect the city manager’s job performance would be
discussed. (RJN, Ex. A, pp. 7, 18, 30
[public employee performance evaluation].) As none of the City Council’s public
meeting agendas reflect any discussion of the city manager, Suja Lowenthal,
Petitioner deduces any City Council action concerning the city manager must
have occurred in closed session. (Opening Brief 3:11-13 [“. . . a thorough
review of the minutes of every CC public meeting during the relevant time
period does not identify any CC meeting where the CC took a vote regarding city
manager evaluation or performance issues, or discussed items regarding same”].)
 
Petitioner reports the personnel exception to open
meetings requirements is “to protect employees from public embarrassment” and
“permit free and candid discussions of personnel matters by a local government
body.” (Opening Brief 10:6-8 [quoting Fischer v. Los Angeles Unified School
District (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 87, 96.) Petitioner argues:
 
Rather than respecting the purpose of the personnel exception ‘to
protect employees from public embarrassment’ and ‘permit free and candid
discussions of personnel matters by a local government body’, consistent with
the goal of the legislature when creating the personnel exception, on December
4, 2019, Respondents elected instead to engage in significant discussions
regarding the city manager’s performance without concerns of protecting employees
from public embarrassment. Such information was intended to be Confidential
Information, consistent with the legislature’s intent in creating the personnel
exception. As such, all said Confidential Information is prohibited from
disclosure to the public. (Opening Brief 10:11-18.)
 
Instead of discussing
the identified offending statements and whether Respondents violated Section
54963 by disclosing confidential information, Petitioner—as the court
understands it—takes the position any information released from a legislative
body’s closed session violates Section 54963.[8]
(See, e.g., Opening Brief 6:25-27.) She reaches her legal conclusion based on the
concept of the confidentiality and privacy of closed sessions generally.
(Opening Brief 11:5-11 [press cannot attend closed session], 11:12-21
[alternate member of legislative body cannot attend closed session], 11:22-12:2
[mayor cannot attend closed session], 12:3-13 [staff cannot attend closed
session], 12:14-13:9 [closed session minutes confidential].)

Petitioner’s position stops short. Her theory here ignores a significant
exception to the law of closed meetings; Petitioner does not acknowledge that “[d]isclosing
information acquired by being present in a closed session under [the opening
meeting laws] that is not confidential” is expressly not a violation of Section
54963. (§ 54963, subd. (e)(3).) Petitioner does not demonstrate that any and/or
all of the allegedly offending statements made by Respondent Campbell and/or
Respondent Armato during the public session were protected under Section 54963
as confidential information. That is, she fails to meet her burden of proof on
the TAP. 
 
As noted earlier, confidential
information for purposes of Section 54963 “means a communication made in a
closed session that is specifically related to the basis for the legislative
body of a local agency to meet lawfully in closed session . . . .” (§
54963, subd. (b).) The closed session agendas from April 9, April 23 and
October 10, 2019 reveal the “evaluation of performance” of “a public employee” served
as the “basis” for the closed session meeting. (Gov. Code, § 54957, subd.
(b)(1); § 54963, subd. (b).) Thus, to the extent the communications in those
closed session meetings “related to” the evaluation of performance of a public
employee (the city manager) they constitute confidential information under
Section 54963.
 
Petitioner argues on
December 4, 2019, Respondent Campbell and Respondent Armato revealed communications—confidential
information—made in closed session on April 9, April 23, and/or October 10,
2019 when the City Council evaluated the performance of Suja Lowenthal, the
City Manager. Context is important and critical here. Based on the transcript
of the City Council meeting of December 4, 2019 and consideration of the entire
discussion during that public meeting, the court finds Petitioner’s position
unpersuasive. The statements do not relate to an evaluation of the city
manager’s job performance—they concern the inability and unwillingness of
Councilmember Fangary[9]
to communicate with the city manager (except by email and text message) and the
difficulty of doing the City’s business where a councilmember—someone who then
desired to take office as mayor pro tem—is unwilling to speak directly with the
city manager.[10] The statements
do not reflect any suggestion by the City Council the city manager is at fault
for Councilmember Fangary’s unwillingness to communicate with her except by
email or text message.
 
The controversy here
began when the City Council departed from its usual tradition of rotating the
position of mayor pro tem between councilmembers and passed over Councilmember
Fangary for the position. The City Council made that decision during a public
meeting on November 21, 2019.
 
At the next public City
Council meeting, on December 4, 2019, the City Council discussed an open
meetings law demand to cure and correct pertaining to the November 21, 2019 City
Council’s appointment of a mayor pro tem other than Councilmember Fangary. (RJN, Ex. E pp. 582, 585.) The demand letter alleged
the City Council violated the opening meetings law “by by-passing the normal
rotation procedure [for the appointment of a mayor pro tem] without advance
notice or discussion.” (RJN, Ex. E p. 585.) According to the City, however, the
agenda for the November 21, 2019 meeting “made it very clear that there would
be consideration of the appointment of the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem and that
description was sufficient under the Brown Act.”[11]
(RJN, Ex. E p. 586.)
 
In response to the demand to cure and correct letter,
members of the City Council discussed the “unusual Council decision” (RJN, Ex.
E p. 595) to appoint a mayor pro tem “outside of what’s customary in [the City
Council’s] rotation order, typically.” (RJN, Ex. E p. 595.) The City Council “openly”
discussed “the reasons [] and conditions and situation, that led up to that
unusual Council decision.” (RJN, Ex. E p. 595.) The City Council’s discussion
focused on certain councilmembers’ belief the City would be better served if
Councilmember Fangary did not serve as mayor pro tem.
 
Respondent
Campbell explained:
 
While Hermosa Beach, elected bodies and other cities have a practice of
rotating [in] customary fashion, it’s not always the case. Aberrations do
happen, as our City Attorney just clarified for us. And is actually been my
understanding, that none of us up here is entitled to serve as Mayor or Mayor
Pro Tem. As they—these are appointed positions and include a significant level
of added leadership responsibility which has real impacts on this council body,
as well as the overall governance process. . . . The Council’s decision to go
in a different order for this rotation cycle, I believe, is in the best
interest of the City as this time. (RJN, Ex. E pp. 595-596.)
 
At the December 4, 2019 meeting,
members of the City Council, including Councilmember Fangary, as well as
members of the public discussed the City Council’s November 21, 2019 decision
to elect someone other than Councilmember Fangary as mayor pro tem in detail. During
those discussions, a member of the public reported Councilmember Fangary
“stopped talking to the city manager over an incident and that [Councilmember
Fangary was] thinking about resigning from the City Council.” (RJN, Ex. E pp. 627-628.) The member of the public
revealed he had “started hearing from other people [and] realized, this is
general information out there in the world . . . .” (RJN, Ex. E p. 628.) In
fact, the city manager told the commenting member of the public “she was
willing to do most anything to resolve the problem and move forward.” (RJN, Ex.
E p. 628.) The member of the public said he “came away thinking that [Councilmember
Fangary] was the problem and [the city manager] was not the problem.” (RJN, Ex.
E p. 628.)
 
Councilmember Fangary addressed the City Council on
the issues raised during public comment. (RJN, Ex. E p. 639.) Councilmember
Fangary discussed (what had been referred to as) the “dysfunctional dynamics of
the situation” “relating to the dialogue with [the] city manager . . . [and
his] perception that [he was] not welcome in city hall.” (RJN, Ex. E p. 639.)
Accordingly, Councilmember Fangary elected to communicate with the city manager
(and the City’s staff) “primarily by e-mail and text.” (RJN, Ex. E pp. 639-640.)
Councilmember Fangary also explained he had been “communicating all the time”
with the city manager and believed he was “doing [his] job.” (RJN, Ex. E pp.
640, 644.)
 
Councilmember Fangary raised the issue of the allegedly
privileged nature of the City Council’s communications during closed session.
(RJN, Ex. E p. 644.) He noted “basically, [] anything that’s done in closed
session” is “privileged communications.” (RJN, Ex. E p. 644.) He stated: “We
didn’t have a meeting to waive anything that happened in closed session. But
the mayor decided in the press release to include privileged information from
the closed session, but I can’t speak about it because it has not been waived.”
(RJN, Ex. E p. 645.) Councilmember Fangary continued: “So just puts me in a
little bit of a bind, that I have a pile of information—a press release that I
disagree with, but in order for me to defend myself and – disagreement, I would
have to express closed session information, which I am refusing to do until the
counsel actually does, takes a vote for it.” (RJN, Ex. E p. 645.)
 
In response to Councilmember Fangary’s statements at
the City Council meeting, Councilmember Massey provided his assessment and
perception of the conflict between Councilmember Fangary, the city manager and other
councilmembers. (RJN, Ex. E pp. 647-657.) Councilmember Massey indicated he could
not support Councilmember Fangary’s appointment as mayor pro tem. (RJN, Ex. E
p. 649.) He explained:
 
For the reasons stated in the City’s press release, and as been
reported in recent news reports, of specific concern to me, Councilmember
Fangary has been gratuitous combative, demeaning, and counter-productive in
communications with the City Manager and her staff. ¶
That is conduct that need not be tolerated here, or in any other work place. To
further characterize it, these are persistent communications at times, where,
the effort is to win an argument, find fault, and express incredulity, rather
than offer to support and find solutions.¶ As former Mayor Schmeltzer pointed
out, it was common knowledge that Councilmember Fangary unilaterally ceased
communications with the City Manager. All direct communications, outside of
City Council meetings, and a handful of group communications. . . . ¶ That
decision occurred when communications by Councilmember Fangary were challenged,
in a particularly contentious exchange between him and the City Manager, over
an issue Councilmember Fangary had raised about a perceived promise, that he
would be able to park behind the Bart Street gates at City Hall, outside of
City Hall meeting times. That’s what precipitated this. ¶ Rather than accept
the explanation that adequate parking for public safety personnel and full-time
city staff was paramount, Councilmember Fangary interpreted Councilmember’s not
being able to park behind the gates of City Council meetings nights, as a lack
of trust in him, and leaving Councilmembers to fend for themselves. None of the
rest of us share those concerns.  And we
all express concern about the way the exchange had been handled, and the
decision to cease communications with the City Manager. ¶ In the wake of that,
the Council offered and did establish a mediated dialogue between Councilmember
Fangary and the City Manager to repair the relationship. Because we wanted him
to succeed. . . . [T]he City Manager was willing to participate in that
process. Councilmember Fangary did not participate in that process . . . . (RJN, Ex. E pp. 649-650.)
 
After considering context of the City Council’s
discussion on December 4, 2019, the court finds each statement identified by
Petitioner that was made during the meeting was not confidential and did not
violate Section 54963. While the identified statements relate in a broad sense to
the city manager and her ability to “direct an entire workforce to get everything
done that needs to be done in the City” (RJN, Ex. E p. 671), the statements do
not relate to her specific job performance akin to an employee evaluation—they
address Councilmember Fangary and the City Council’s reasons he should not
serve as mayor pro tem. That the statements included the city manager in a
collateral way does not make them confidential statements related to a public
employee’s job evaluation. The identified statements are not of the type that
would subject the city manager to “public embarrassment.” (Fischer v. Los
Angeles Unified School District, supra, 70 Cal.App.4th at 96.) This is
especially true given that Councilmember Fangary’s unwillingness to communicate
with the manager other than in writing was well known and, according to comment
by at least one member of the public, openly discussed by the city manager.
 
Petitioner’s contention “Respondents elected . . . to
engage in significant discussions regarding the city manager’s performance
without concerns of protecting employees from public embarrassment[,]”
mischaracterizes Respondents’ statements and ignores context. Nothing suggests the
City Council considered the city manager at fault (or in dereliction of her
job) for the way in which Councilmember Fangary elected to deal with her.[12]
Moreover, the comments all explain why the councilmembers did not believe (and
did not vote for) Councilmember Fangary on November 21, 2019 to serve as the
City’s mayor pro tem.
 
For completeness, the court evaluates each identified
statement for confidentiality and a violation of Section 54963.
 
·      
Councilmember
Armato’s statement: “. . . the council unanimously agreed to hire a
facilitator.” (RJN, Ex. E p. 659.)
 
The entire statement by Respondent Armato provides:
“In an attempt to help repair the relationship between [the city manager] and [Councilmember
Fangary], the council unanimously agreed to hire a facilitator.” (RJN,
Ex. E p. 659.) The comment does not address the city manager’s job performance.
It relates to repairing the relationship between Councilmember Fangary and the
city manager in an attempt to help Councilmember Fangary “succeed” in his work
with the City. (RJN, Ex. E p. 650 [Councilmember Massey’s statement].) Nothing
in the statement is evaluative of the city manager’s job performance, critical
of the city manager or her job performance, or would subject the city manager
to embarrassment given the context and a totality of the circumstances. Based
on her statements to others, the city manager did not consider Councilmember
Fangary’s unwillingness to speak to her confidential.
 
·       Councilmember Armato’s statement: “We were relieved to
hear that . . . .” (RJN, Ex. E, p. 660.)
 
The entire statement by Respondent Armato provides: “Around
the first part of July, [Councilmember Fangary] indicated to us that he, in
fact, was not going to be resigning. We were relieved to hear that, we
thought he was ready to come to the table to repair that damaged relationship.”
(RJN, Ex. E, pp. 659-660.) The comment has nothing to do with the city
manager’s job performance. The comment relates to the City Council being
“relieved” Petitioner’s husband had decided not to resign. Moreover, Petitioner
has not demonstrated her husband advised the City Council he would not be
resigning during a closed session.
 
·      
Councilmember Campbell’s
statement: “And the fact that I made my motion primarily based on the fact that
there was a broken-down, complete breakdown between councilmember Fangary and
our City Manager.” (RJN, Ex. E p. 669.)
 
Respondent Campbell made the statement in the context
of explaining a press release about the City’s change in rotation practice
concerning the appointment of a mayor pro tem. (See Fangary Reply Decl., Ex. A
[text of press release].) For the reasons discussed earlier, Councilmember
Fangary’s issues with the city manager and his failure to communicate with her
(other than by email or text message) is not disclosure of confidential
information from a closed session thereby violating Section 54963. 
 
·       Councilmember Campbell’s statement: “And that the
Council decided there was a severe enough disfunction, behind the scenes, that
was impacting us . . . .” (RJN, Ex. E p. 671.)
 
The entire statement by Respondent Campbell provides:
“Not because I’ve taken criticism for the motion that I made at all. I feel
devastated we are in this position. And that the Council decided there was a
severe enough dysfunction, behind the scenes, that was impacting us, our
City Manager, and all our city staff by extension—and don’t think they aren’t
impacted. They know what’s going on.” (RJN, Ex. E p. 671.) Again, the statement
relates to the reason the City Council passed over Councilmember Fangary for
appointment as mayor pro tem. While Respondent Campbell’s statement references
the city manager, the statement does not specifically relate to or evaluate her
job performance. The statement addresses how Councilmember Fangary’s
relationship with others impacts the City’s ability to do business.
 
·       Councilmember Campbell’s statement: “And if we have a
serious issue that is getting in the way, on a very routine basis . . . .”
(RJN, Ex. E p. 673.)
 
The entire statement by Respondent Campbell provides:
“And if we have a serious issue that is getting in the way, on a very routine
basis, and out ability to get our of our way and get the work of the city done,
I find it a really pathetic waste of time, energy, attention, and money.” (RJN,
Ex. E p. 673.) Like Respondent Campbell’s statement concerning “severe enough
disfunction” discussed above, the statement addresses why it would not be in
the best interests of the City, according to Respondent Campbell, to have
Councilmember Fangary serve as mayor pro tem. The statement does not relate to
the city manager’s job performance specifically. 
 
·       Councilmember Campbell’s statement: “So what I meant
in my quote in the press release, is yeah, essentially, Council Member Fangary
has not been working or communicating with the City Manager.” (RJN, Ex. E p. 675.)
 
Like Respondent Campbell’s statement concerning
“severe enough disfunction” and “we have a serious issue,” discussed above, the
statement addresses why it would not be in the best interests of the City,
according to Respondent Campbell, to have Councilmember Fangary serve as mayor
pro tem. The statement does not relate to the city manager’s job performance specifically.
On its face, the statement merely reflects Councilmember Fangary’s
unwillingness to communicate with the city manager.
 
Because the court finds Petitioner has not met her
burden of demonstrating Respondents disclosed confidential information from a
closed session in violation of Section 54963, Petitioner is not entitled to
relief. Therefore, the court need not address Respondents’ claim (1) Petitioner
does not have standing to assert a violation of Section 54963; (2) the claim is
moot; (3) the open meeting laws do not authorize this court to review the
minutes from the City Council’s closed sessions; and (4) Petitioner failed to
comply with Government Code section 54960.2, subdivision (a).
 
Based on
the foregoing, the TAP is denied. 
 
ORDER SETTING AMOUNT OF DISCOVERY SANCTIONS
 
On December 2, 2022, after a hearing on Respondents’
motion to compel, this court ordered Petitioner to sit for her deposition no
later than December 23, 2022. (Order, December 2, 2022, p. 2.)
 
Despite the order, Petitioner did not sit for her
deposition on or before December 23, 2022.
 
After a hearing on Respondents’ motion for terminating
sanctions on March 8, 2023, the court ordered Petitioner to sit for her
deposition on March 28, 2023 at Respondents’ counsel’s office. The court also
found an award of monetary sanctions appropriate and deferred the decision on
the amount of sanctions imposed until the date of trial.[13]
The court found Petitioner misused the discovery process.
 
On October 2, 2023, after Petitioner’s request for additional
time to file her opposition to Respondents’ request for discovery sanctions in
the amount of $33,197.23, the court extended the time for Petitioner to file
her opposition to October 31, 2023. (Minute Order October 2, 2023.) Petitioner
did not file any opposition by that date or the date of trial.
 
On November 13, 2023, the day before the trial on the
petition, Respondents filed a notice of non-opposition to their request for
$33,197.23 as discovery sanctions.
 
On November 14, 2023, the morning of the trial, Petitioner
served the court with an affidavit of actual prejudice under Code of Civil
Procedure sections 170.1 and 170.3. The trial did not go forward.
 
Ultimately, the court reset trial for February 28,
2024.
 
On February 23, 2024—just three court days before
trial—Petitioner filed her opposition brief to the amount of monetary sanctions
sought by Respondents. Petitioner’s opposition brief is 115 days late.
Petitioner did not seek leave of court to file a late opposition. Respondents
have understandably objected to the court’s consideration of the late-filed
opposition. Accordingly, on its own motion, the court strikes and does not
consider Petitioner’s late-filed opposition. 
 
Respondents explain their entitlement to $33,927.23 as
and for discovery sanctions as follows:
 
As set forth in greater detail below, Respondents incurred a total of
$31,927.23 in attempting to secure Petitioner’s deposition following the
December Order, which efforts included corresponding extensively with
Petitioner’s counsel, noticing and re-noticing Petitioner’s deposition, seeking
ex parte relief in connection with Petitioner’s violation of the December
Order, preparing for and taking a notice of non-appearance at Petitioner’s
scheduled deposition, proceeding with the Motion, and drafting this brief.
Respondents anticipate incurring an additional $1,270 in preparing for, and
attending, the hearing on the amount of monetary sanctions. Accordingly,
Respondents are entitled to a total of $33,197.23 as a result of Petitioner’s
and her counsel’s grave misuse of the discovery process, including their
willful violation of this Court’s December Order. (Brief in Support of Amount
of Monetary Sanctions Previously Imposed filed September 13, 2023 [emphasis
added].)
 
As a preliminary matter, Respondents’ request for
$1,270 to prepare and attend the hearing on the amount of sanctions is unreasonable.
The court struck Petitioner’s late-filed opposition brief. Respondents’
counsel’s appearance is tied to the trial on the petition. Respondents’ counsel
is not required to make a separate appearance on the sanctions issue.
 
After reviewing the evidence and invoices, the court
makes substantial reductions to the amount of sanctions requested.
 
As to December 2022 billings, the court finds the following reductions in
attorneys’ fees sought warranted: 8.8 hours of the 11.4 claimed for services of
Megan Garibaldi (MG), all of the hours claimed (.5) for services of Michael
Jenkins (MJ), 12.5 of the 12.9 hours claimed for services of John Natalizio
(JN), all of the hours claimed (.6) for services of Patrick Donegan (PD) and
1.2 hours of the 1.5 hours claimed for services of Nathalie Camarena (NC).
 
For MG, the court makes the following reductions: .5
hours on 12/2 for a deposition outline as preparing for a deposition is
unrelated to Petitioner’s misuse of the discovery process; .7 hours on 12/5 for
the same reason; 2.7 hours on 12/16 to review deposition questions as the
discovery sought is unrelated to Petitioner’s misuse of the discovery process; .5
hours of the .8 hours sought on 12/19 as an unreasonable charge for taking a
non-appearance certificate; 2.4 hours on 12/20 for services related to an unsuccessful
and unnecessary ex parte application; .5 hours on 12/21 for overseeing service
of the ex parte application as a wholly administrative expense for which an
attorney’s services were unnecessary; and 1.5 hours on 12/22 to attend an
unsuccessful and unnecessary ex parte application where the court did not call
the matter and ruled from chambers that Respondents failed to make an
affirmative, factual showing of irreparable harm. (The court also notes
Respondent appeared virtually for at an ex parte hearing on 12/20 that
Respondent did not properly place on calendar.)
 
For MJ, the court finds all time billed (.5 hours) was
unnecessary and duplicative. See 12/2 (review deposition draft questions),
12/13 (confer about deposition), 12/19 (confer about no appearance at
deposition) and 12/20 (services related to unsuccessful and unnecessary ex
parte hearing).
 
For JN, the court makes the following reductions: 3.3
hours on 12/16 to prepare for Petitioner’s deposition as such services are
unrelated to Petitioner’s misuse of the discovery process; 1.10 hours on 12/16 for
engaging in a strategy call before the scheduled deposition as it is unrelated
to a misuse of the discovery process; 2.0 hours on 12/19 to prepare for the
deposition as unrelated to a misuse of the discovery process; .2 hours on 12/19
to attend the deposition where Petitioner did not appear and MG took a non-appearance
certificate; and 5.9 hours on 12/20 to draft an unsuccessful and unnecessary ex
parte application that did not state an affirmative, factual showing of
irreparable harm.
 
For PD, the court finds all time billed (.6 hours) was
unnecessary and duplicative of other attorneys’ efforts (discussing options for
a motion to compel).
 
For NC, 1.2 hours for services on 12/20 for
researching terminating sanctions for the unsuccessful and unnecessary ex parte
application. In addition, the amount of time expended for such services—given
the statutory authority—appears unreasonable.
 
Given the reasonable billing rates of the attorneys,
the court finds monetary sanctions in the amount of $813 warranted for
services performed by Respondents’ attorneys in December 2022. The court finds
reasonable 2.6 hours billed by MG at $254 per hour; .4 hours billed by JN at
$218 per hour; and .3 hours billed by NC at $218 per hour.
 
As to January 2023 billings, the court finds the 2.5 hours expended by MG
reasonable and justified. The court also finds the 1.9 hours expended by JN
reasonable and justified. As to services provided by Scott Shapses (SS), the
court finds much of the time unreasonable and excessive. Between January 18 and
January 31, 2023, SS spent 26.5 hours—more than three full-time days—drafting
the motion to compel and supporting declaration. While factually detailed, the
motion is not complex. It consists of 23 pages with six pages of legal analysis
related to discovery. Of the time claimed by SS, the court reduces 10.5 hours
of the 26.5 claimed for drafting the motion and .2 hours for time expended on
1/11 for an email duplicating the efforts of JN.
 
Given the reasonable billing rates of the attorneys,
the court finds monetary sanctions in the amount of $941 warranted for
services performed by Respondents’ attorneys in January 2023. The court finds reasonable
2.5 hours billed by MG at $254 per hour; 1.9 hours billed by JN at $218 per
hour; and 16.5 hours billed by SS at $218 per hour.
 
As to February 2023 billings, the court finds the following reductions in
attorneys’ fees sought warranted: 9.1 of the 13.5 hours claimed for services of
MG, all of the hours claimed (.8) by SS, all of the hours claimed (.3) by MJ. 
 
As to MG, the court makes the following reductions:
9.1 hours of the 11.1 hours claimed by MG for services related to revisions to
the motion for terminating sanctions (2/1/23, 2/3/23, 2/6/2023, 2/9/2023 and
2/10/2023). As noted earlier, the motion consists of 20 pages with only six
pages of legal argument. The court found 16 hours expended by SS and an hour of
revisions by MG in January 2023 reasonable. The court finds two additional
hours for revisions reasonable to the motion reasonable.
 
As to SS, the court finds .8 hours for additional
revisions to the motion on 2/1/23 unreasonable given the motion and the two
full days permitted for drafting the motion.
 
As to MJ, the court finds .3 hours to converse with MG
about strategy duplicative and unnecessary.
 
Given the reasonable billing rates of the attorneys,
the court finds monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,687.20 warranted
for services performed by Respondents’ attorneys in February 2023. The court
finds reasonable 4.4 hours billed by MG at $254 per hour and 7.2 hours billed
by JN at $218 per hour.
 
As to March 2023 billings, the court finds the following reductions in
attorneys’ fees sought warranted: 7.5 hours of the 11.6 claimed for services of
MG, all of the hours claimed (.3) for services of MJ, .5 of the 4.6 hours
claimed for services of JN, all of the hours claimed (.7) for services of SS.
 
As to MG, the court makes the following reductions: 4.0
of the 5.0 hours claimed on 3/1/23 for revising the brief for which the court
has allowed 16 hours for its preparation by SS; .3 hours claimed on 3/2/23 and
.1 hours claimed on 3/3/23 for “coordination” as unreasonable or administrative
in nature; and 3.1 of the 4.6 hours claimed to attend the hearing on the motion
(and other block billed services).
 
As to JN, the court reduces by the .5 hours claimed on
3/7/23 for research and strategy for the motion. Such services were duplicative
of those provided by MG.
 
As to SS, the court finds .1 hours claimed for
“debriefing” and .6 hours to review the tentative decision unreasonable and
unnecessary. As SS did not argue the motion, his review of the tentative
decision was duplicative.
 
Given the reasonable billing rates of the attorneys,
the court finds monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,935.20 warranted
for services performed by Respondents’ attorneys in March 2023. The court finds
reasonable 4.1 hours billed by MG at $254 per hour and 4.1 hours billed by JN
at $218 per hour.
 
Based on the foregoing, the court sets the amount of
sanctions awarded at $6,376.40 as and for discovery sanctions based on
Petitioner’s misuse of the discovery process. As noted earlier, the court previously found monetary sanctions should
be awarded against Petitioner in favor of Respondents on March 8, 2023. The
court merely left open the appropriate amount of those sanctions.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
February 28, 2024                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


