  Case Number:  20STCV38882    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  30 EVAN MCNIEL vs NORTHWEST INDUSTRIAL CENTER, LLCTENTATIVEBenchmark Insurance’s motion for leave to intervene is GRANTED.Benchmark Insurance is ordered to file the proposed complaint-in-intervention attached as Exhibit A to the declaration of counsel as required under Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (e) with the Court within 10 days of this order.Moving party to give notice. DiscussionThe Court finds that Proposed Intervenor Benchmark Insurance has satisfied the filing requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (c) by filing a noticed motion and declaration setting forth the grounds for intervention as well as a copy of its proposed complaint in intervention. (Matthews Decl. ¶ 4; Exh. A.)Benchmark Insurance seeks to intervene in the action under Labor Code sections 3852 and 3853 as an insurer of Plaintiff’s employer, with a right of subrogation. Benchmark Insurance notes that pursuant to Plaintiff’s workers’ compensation insurance policy, it has been obligated to pay workers’ compensation benefits to Plaintiff following the injuries alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint. (Id., ¶ 4.)The Court finds that Benchmark Insurance is entitled to intervene under Code of Civil Procedure section 387. First, the Court finds that Benchmark Insurance’s motion is timely because Labor Code section 3853 allows a nonparty to join as a party plaintiff “at any time before trial on the facts.” Second, the Court finds that Labor Code sections 3852 and 3853 grant Benchmark Insurance the right to intervene under Code of Civil Procedure section 387 because Benchmark Insurance has a right of subrogation as the insurer of Plaintiff’s employer and has incurred an obligation to continue paying workers’ compensation benefits to Plaintiff pursuant to Plaintiff’s insurance policy. (Lab. Code § 3852; see also Burum, 30 Cal.2d at 580-581.) Benchmark Insurance may file a complaint-in-intervention to recover for the “total amount of compensation” paid to Plaintiff and related damages. (Lab. Code. § 3852.) Accordingly, the Court finds that Benchmark Insurance has sufficiently claimed an interest relating to the disposition of the action for purposes of intervention.ConclusionBased on the foregoing, Benchmark Insurance’s motion for leave to intervene is GRANTED.