 Case Number:  22STCV26865    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  30 KATHERINE ANN WALLS vs USC PUBLIC SAFETY, et al.TENTATIVEDefendant’s motions to compel responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and request for production of documents are DENIED as MOOT.Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.Legal StandardCompel InterrogatoriesIf a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) If a party to whom the interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the party to whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905–906.)Compel RPDsWhere there has been no timely response to a demand for the production of documents, the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(a).) Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.SanctionsSanctions are mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).)DiscussionOn August 8, 2023, Defendant served Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents, Sets One, on Plaintiff. (Jordan Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. A.) Responses to these discovery requests were due on or before September 9, 2023. (Id., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff failed to serve responses by the due date. (Id., ¶ 6.)In opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel states that responses with verifications have now been served, and argues that the motions are moot.In reply, Defendant argues that the issue of sanctions is not moot.As verified responses have been served, the motions are moot.However, the request for sanctions cannot be granted. Code of Civil Procedure 2023.040 states: “A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought.” Defendant’s motion fails to identify who it seeks sanctions against in the notice of motion. Thus, the request for sanctions is denied for inadequate notice.ConclusionAccordingly, Defendant’s motions to compel responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and request for production of documents are DENIED as MOOT.Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.