 Case Number:  23VECV03301    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV03301 RELIABLE PERMIT
V WAYPOINT
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Waypoint Permits, LLC, Ben Lopez
and Nancy Lopez’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED in Part
and OVERRULED in Part.  The Demurrer is
OVERRULED as to the first, fifth, and eighth causes of action and SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the third, fourth, sixth, and seventh causes of
action.
Introduction 
Defendants Waypoint Permits, LLC
(Waypoint), Ben Lopez (Ben [the court means no disrespect using first names
here] and Nancy Lopez (Nancy) demurred to Plaintiff Reliable Permit Solutions,
LLC’s (Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC).  The demurrer placed into issue the first
cause of action (COA) for misappropriation of trade secrets (Civ. Code, sec.
3426 et seq.) ; the third COA for constructive fraud; the fourth COA for
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage; the fifth COA for
breach of fiduciary duty; the sixth COA for conversion; the seventh COA for
intentional interference with contract; and the request for damages and
punitive damages in the eighth COA for violation of the Unfair Competition Law
(UCL).  
Discussion 
Defendants argued that the first
and third through seventh COAs insufficiently alleged supportive facts.  Defendant argued that the claims are
preempted by the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (CUTSA) (Civ. Code, secs.
3426.7(b).) [Defendants’ Notice correctly asserted preemption under CUTSA but
then incorrectly cited to BPC 17200. The mistaken citation caused
confusion.  However, the body of the
P&A then argued CUTSA preemption and clarified the confusion.]  “At the same time, sec. 3462.7 implicitly
preempts alternative civil remedies based on trade secret
misappropriation.”  (K.C. Multimedia,
Inc. v. Bank of America Technology & Operations, Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 939, 954 (K.C. Multimedia).) 
Preemption does not affect, in relevant part, “(1) contractual remedies,
whether or not based upon misappropriation of a trade secret, (2) other civil
remedies that are not based upon misappropriation of a trade secret”  (Id.) 
Determining whether a claim is based on a trade secret misappropriation
is an issue of fact.  (K.C. Multimedia,
Inc., at p. 954.)  Misappropriation is
defined, in relevant part, as “…use of a trade secret of another without
express or implied consent by a person who: (A) used improper means to acquire
knowledge of the trade secret; or (B) At the time of disclosure or use, knew or
had reason to know that his or her knowledge of the trade secret was: (i)
Derived from or through a person who had utilized improper means to acquire it;
(ii) Acquired under circumstances giving rise to a duty to maintain its secrecy
or limit its use; or (iii) Derived from or through a person who owed a duty to
the person seeking relief to maintain its secrecy or limit its use.”  (Civ. Code, sec. 3426.1(b).)  
Plaintiff’s first COA expressly
alleges a CUSTA violation.  Plaintiff
alleged that Defendants, while employed by Plaintiff, took Plaintiff’s Client
List and their Computerized Entry System (CES) without Plaintiff’s consent and
used it to form their own company, Waypoint. 
(FAC pars. 11-12, 15, 22, 28-35.) 
Because Plaintiff’s first COA alleges a CUSTA violation, it is illogical
that CUSTA would work to preempt itself. 
Defendant’s preemption argument against the first COA is unpersuasive.
The demurrer to the first COA is
OVERRULED.
As to the third COA for
constructive fraud, Plaintiff alleged that Defendants concealed and failed to
disclose their intent to open a competing business using Plaintiff’s property
and clientele.  (FAC par. 51.)  The COA is expressly grounded in the
concealment/failure to disclose Defendants’ opening of a competing business
through the use of Plaintiff’s trade secrets. 
Because the COA is grounded in the use of the trade secret, the COA is
preempted by CUSTA.  Plaintiff’s argument
to distinguish the fraud in opening Waypoint from the use of the trade secret
is unavailing because the fraud relies upon both events – the opening of
Waypoint and the misappropriation.  
The demurrer to the third COA is
SUSTAINED.  
The fourth COA for interference
with prospective economic advantage alleged that Defendant surreptitiously
stole Plaintiff’s “proprietary information (the CES and Client List) and then
used their misappropriation to siphon [Plaintiff’s] clients and contracts.”
(FAC par. 58)  Again, the COA is grounded
on the misappropriation of a trade secret. 
Because the COA is grounded on the use of the trade secret, the COA is
preempted by CUSTA.  
Plaintiff’s argument that the COA
sufficiently pleads facts to support each element of the COA is unavailing
because it does not address the issue of preemption.  Further, Plaintiff’s argument that the COA is
pled in the alternative is also unavailing because the K.C. Multimedia Inc.
case held that alternative COA pleading is implicitly preempted.  Plaintiff’s argument is unpersuasive.
The demurrer to the fourth COA is
SUSTAINED.
The fifth COA for breach of
fiduciary duty alleges two separate claims. 
The first claim is grounded on the duty of loyalty and the violation of
the duty by misappropriating Plaintiff’s trade secrets.  (FAC pars. 68-71.)  Because this first part of the COA is
grounded in the misappropriation of trade secrets, there is good cause to hold
that the matter is preempted.  However,
the COA also alleges a second claim based upon a duty of loyalty.  Plaintiff alleged that Defendants violated
their duty by sabotaging Plaintiff’s reputation; providing bad customer
service; failing to carry out services; or performing the services poorly.  (FAC par. 75.)  This second claim does not involve the
misappropriation of trade secrets. 
Because the facts alleged do not involve the misappropriation of trade
secrets, the second part of the COA is not preempted.  Because a viable claim exists within the COA,
the demurrer cannot be sustained. 
Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of causes of action, where some
valid claim is alleged.  A demurrer must
dispose of an entire COA to be sustained. (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  Since
the preemption argument is inapplicable to the second claim of the COA, the
preemption argument cannot be grounds to sustain the demurrer.
The demurrer to the fifth COA is
OVERRULED.  
The sixth COA for conversion
alleged that Defendants “wrongfully assumed and exercised control” over
Plaintiff’s property by “copying the CES and the information retained in the
Client List” and using it to start Waypoint. 
(FAC pars.82- 83.)  This COA is
expressly grounded in the misappropriation of trade secrets.  Because the COA alleges facts to base the
claim on the misappropriation of trade secrets, the sixth COA is preempted.
Plaintiff’s argument that the COA
sufficiently pleads facts to support each element of the COA is unavailing
because it does not address the issue of preemption.  Further, Plaintiff’s argument that the COA is
pled in the alternative is also unavailing because the K.C. Multimedia Inc.
case held that alternative COA pleading is implicitly preempted.  Plaintiff’s argument is unpersuasive.
The demurrer to the sixth COA is
SUSTAINED.
The seventh COA for interference
with a contract alleged that Defendants “engaged in the surreptitious
misappropriation and/or conversion of [Plaintiff’s] proprietary information
(the CES and Client List) and then leveraged that information to promise Mr.
[Jared] Avina higher income as a result of all Defendants’, but specifically
Waypoint’s ability to siphon [Plaintiff’s] clients and contracts.”  (FAC par. 90.)  Although a cursory review of the claim would
show that the COA is based upon interference with an employment contract with
Mr. Avina, the allegation included a claim that Defendant “leveraged” or used
the misappropriated trade secret to lure Mr. Avina away from Plaintiff’s
employ.  Because the misappropriated trade
secret was used to lure Mr. Avina to breach his employment contract, the
misconduct come from the same nucleus of facts as the trade secret claim and
thus the COA is preempted.
The demurrer to the seventh COA
is SUSTAINED.
The eight COA for UCL expressly
alleged that “Defendants’ conduct as alleged herein constitutes unfair
competition”.  (FAC par. 97.)  As reviewed above, there are two separate claims
– the misappropriation of the trade secrets and the disparagement of
Plaintiff’s business.  Because the
allegation can be construed to include the disparagement of Plaintiff’s
business, the UCL claim alleged facts separate from the misappropriation.  Because misappropriation is not the only
claim alleged in the UCL COA, preemption is not sufficiently supported.  The preemption argument is not persuasive
because it does not dispose of the entire eighth COA.
Defendants’ demurrer also argued
that the damages and/or punitive damages alleged in the eighth COA are
insufficiently pled.  However, as
reviewed above, a part of a COA is insufficient to sustain a demurrer.  Further, arguments as to improper remedies is
not grounds for a demurrer but should have been raised in a motion to
strike.  The argument as to the eighth
COA’s alleged improper remedies cannot be grounds to sustain the demurrer.
The demurrer as to the eighth COA
is OVERRULED.
It is Plaintiff’s burden to
present facts to show that the pleading defects identified are curable.  Plaintiff’s opposition failed to present any
new facts or argument to show that the pleading defect can be cured.  Any request for leave to amend is DENIED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.