 Case Number:  23SMCV02051    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  I This is the continuation of defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration.  At the last hearing, the
court requested further briefing as to whether arbitration was proper where the
only claim alleged was a PAGA claim—that is, the named plaintiff did not seek
any personal recovery for the alleged wage and hour violations.   
The court is convinced that case law requires that
plaintiff’s standing be arbitrated.  (Viking
River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana
(2022) ___ U.S. ___, 142 S.Ct. 1906; Adolph
v. Uber Technologies (2023) 14
Cal.5th 1104.)  In fact, in Adolph, the plaintiff’s second amended complaint (like this one) alleged only
a PAGA claim.  The problem plaintiff has
is that although there is no obligation for a PAGA plaintiff to seek personal
damages, to have standing to assert a PAGA claim as a representative the named
plaintiff must have been “aggrieved” by the wage and hour violations
alleged.  Earlier California cases held
that courts could not “split” the claims and force arbitration of the
individual piece, but the United States Supreme Court saw it differently in Viking Rivers, holding that the arbitration agreement was binding and that the
individual employee had to arbitrate the individual side of the claim,
overruling the earlier California authority. 
The Viking River Court went further and suggested that under
those circumstances, the individual might lose the right to pursue the PAGA
action, but our Supreme Court concluded that the Viking River Court erred
in its application of California law (which it can do because the California
Supreme Court is the final word on California law—trumping even the United
States Supreme Court).  In Adolph, our Supreme Court concluded that standing under PAGA was not affected
by enforcement of an agreement to adjudicate plaintiff’s individual claim by
arbitration.  And that governs here.  While plaintiff is not seeking a personal
recovery for the wage and hour violations he alleges, he is still alleging—as
he must—that he did suffer by those violations and that he is an “aggrieved
employee.”  Whether or not he is
aggrieved is a question he agreed to arbitrate, and under Viking River the court must enforce that decision. 
Were the court writing on a clean slate, the court might well come out
differently.  But the slate is anything
but clean here—having been written upon by both the United States Supreme Court
and the California Supreme Court.  This
court is a mere trial court; it will (of course) abide the teaching of higher
authority.  Accordingly, the fact that
plaintiff seeks no individual recovery is no bar to the motion.
The second issue is
whether defendant has waived the arbitration or the arbitration agreement is
unconscionable.  After all, even under
the FAA, arbitration agreements are subject to the same contractual defenses as
are other contracts. 
The court finds no
waiver here.  While it is true defendant
waited nine months to bring the motion, time alone is not the test.  The test is whether defendant did anything
inconsistent with enforcing the agreement or whether there would be prejudice
by enforcement due to the delay.  Thus,
if defendant had demurred, that could be inconsistent with a theory that the
merits should be arbitrated.  Similarly,
if defendant had propounded discovery that would not be allowed in arbitration,
that might well be a waiver.  But nothing
like that happened here.  There was a
delay, but no prejudice.  As such, there
is no waiver. 
As to
unconscionability, to make out that defense a plaintiff must show procedural
and substantive unconscionability.  The
stronger the showing on one prong, the less strong the showing need be on the
other.  The court finds plaintiff has met
the procedural prong.  This was
essentially an adhesion contract. 
Plaintiff had no bargaining power here. 
Plaintiff was presented with a take-it-or-leave-it contract with no
ability to negotiate.  That establishes
at least minimal procedural unconscionability. 
The court is aware of plaintiff’s other arguments—such as that DocuSign
skips right to the part of a contract where a signature or initial is
required.  But nothing in DocuSign
precludes a party from reviewing the entire agreement, and plaintiff had the
opportunity to do so here.  Nor is the
arbitration clause so prolix that plaintiff could not understand what it
meant.  In short, there is enough to meet
the prong, but substantive unconscionability must still be shown and not to
only a trivial extent.  Plaintiff raises
a host of arguments he claims make the contract substantively improper.  But the court is unpersuaded.  The closest argument is a clause in which the
defendant agrees to pay all of the costs of the arbitration if defendant
initiates the arbitration proceeding or if plaintiff’s claim is less than
$300,000.  Presumably, if plaintiff
initiates the claim and it is for over $300,000, the defendant does not agree
(through that clause) to the arbitration costs beyond what would otherwise be
required.  But the JAMS rules—to which
the arbitration agreement expressly refers—states that in an employment related
case the only fee that the employee will be required to pay is the initial JAMS
case management fee (which is similar to the court’s filing fee).  (JAMS Employment Arbitration Rule
31(c).)  Thus the JAMS rule would limit
plaintiff’s arbitration costs even if the amount plaintiff claimed was over
$300,000.  Further, in the instant case,
plaintiff’s actual award (were plaintiff seeking it) would not be anywhere near
$300,000, or at least that is how it seems. 
Defendant contends that plaintiff’s recovery (were plaintiff seeking it)
would be under $20,000.  That is
consistent with plaintiff’s view as alleged in the complaint, in which he
claims that his individual recovery would not exceed $75,000 (thus avoiding
potential federal jurisdiction).  For
both of those reasons, the court does not view the contract as substantively
unconscionable, and thus that objection fails. 
Therefore, the motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.
The second part of
the motion is defendant’s request that the court action be stayed pending
arbitration.  Plaintiff opposes that
request and asks that the arbitration and the PAGA claim go forward together.  The court agrees with the defense.  It makes sense to the court to adjudicate
plaintiff’s standing by way of arbitration first.  If plaintiff lacks standing, then that will
be binding here and the PAGA claim will be dismissed.  If, on the other hand, plaintiff has
standing, he may then litigate the PAGA claims. 
(Rocha v. U-Haul Co. of
California (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th
65, cited with approval in Adolph, supra, 14 Cal.5th at pp. 1123-1124.)  The court sees no reason to depart from that
procedure here.  Therefore, the
proceedings in this court are STAYED PENDING THE OUTCOME OF ARBITRATION.  The court will set a status conference re:
arbitration in approximately 270 days to make sure that the arbitration is
proceeding apace.