  Case Number:  21STCV17582    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  I This is an unopposed motion for terminating sanctions
against defendant.  On November 22, 2023,
the court granted a motion to compel defendant’s deposition and pay
sanctions.  Defendant nonetheless still
refuses to appear for his deposition. 
Plaintiff asserts that defendant (who became self-represented after the
court granted his attorney’s motion to withdraw) has simply stopped doing anything
regarding this case.  And that would
appear to be true.  Given that view, the
court agrees with plaintiff that the court can issue order after order, but
nothing will change.  Defendant will
continue to ignore his discovery obligations and will continue to refuse to be
deposed or otherwise respond to discovery and will continue to refuse to be
deposed.  Defendant has that right (kind
of), but it is essentially the same as the right to take a default.  In other words, a party being sued has the
right to accept the suit, take a default, and have judgment entered, thereby
eliminating the time and expense of mounting a defense.  But the consequence of that decision is (of
course) the default.  That seems to be
the choice defendant here has made.  
The court notes that it would have felt differently had
there been any form of opposition to the motion.  Any indication that defendant planned to
participate in the case and follow the court’s orders would have resulted in a
lesser sanction.  But the failure to
oppose the motion speaks volumes.
The motion is, therefore, GRANTED.  The answer is STRICKEN.  The court directs plaintiff not to seek a
default for 15 days after notice of this order is served.  If, during that period, defendant moves to
reinstate the answer, the court will consider that motion.  After all, the goal is to get defendant to
start fulfilling his obligations in this case, not to get a quick default.  But if defendant does nothing during that
time, plaintiff should seek a default to the extent it is proper to do so.  What the court means by that is that the
jurisdictional maximum judgment is likely $25,001.  That is because the complaint (properly)
lists no specific damage amount and it appears that no statement of damages has
been filed or served.  If plaintiff wants
more than that, plaintiff will need to file and serve a statement of damages
before taking a default.  If plaintiff
does so, plaintiff should wait 15 days after filing and serving the statement
of damages before seeking default.  If
defendant does nothing, plaintiff may seek a default and if default is entered,
then plaintiff may seek a default judgment consistent with the statement of
damages and the injury suffered.