  Case Number:  21STCV45313    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
4-19-24 
Case
#21STCV45313
Trial
Date: 9-23-24
 
INJUNCTION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Adaptive Camless Technology, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, Regents of the University of California
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Preliminary Injunction
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Adaptive Camless Technology, LLC (ACT) was formed by Dr. Peter Sinsheimer,
former director of the UCLA Sustainable Technology and Policy Program.
Plaintiff alleges Dr. TC Tsao, and Dr. Mitchell Spearrinm, currently
engineering professors at University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), also
participated as “founders,” though both faculty members deny any such business
relationship.
 
ACT
itself formed as a result of an “invention report,” for a jointly developed
“adaptive camless technology” to a UCLA run program identified as the
Technology Development Group (TDG), and the filing of three patent applications.
On December 19, 2019, ACT entered into an agreement with Defendant, Regents of
the University of California (Regents), whereby the parties agreed both ACT and
Regents exclusively owned the license to the technology, with ACT retaining
discretion for “the use, sell, offer for sale, import, license, provide/lease
and otherwise dispose of” of the technology. The “Exclusive License” was
conditioned on certain milestones for ACT, including certain levels of outside
investment. 
 
ACT
met its first milestone, but contends Covid-19 disruptions disrupted and
delayed later milestones. The parties agreed to two six month extensions.
Notwithstanding the second extension to December 31, 2021, ACT alleges Regents
issued a September 7, 2021, “default letter” claiming a milestone violation due
to the failure to reach said level of investment by December 31, 2020 (the date
prior to the purported 12-month extension). Notwithstanding, Regents
represented an extension until November 7, 2021. After further exchange,
Regents represented termination of the agreement on December 20, 2021. 
 
On
December 13, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Declaratory Relief, and
Anticipatory Breach of Contract. On December 17, 2021, the court issued a
temporary restraining order enjoining Regents from terminating the license. On
March 1, 2022, the court issued a preliminary injunction for 60 days, whereby
Sinsheimer was allowed to invest $313,080 towards the project in order to meet
milestone 5.2a. The court also ordered Plaintiff to post a $500 bond. 
 
On
March 1, 2021, Regents issued a “Second Default Letter” alleging new and
different milestone failures regarding “Commercially Reasonable Efforts” to
develop licensed products, and prototype design and build requirements. ACT
responded on April 16, 2022, noting both the 60-day injunction as well as
factual responses to the milestone default claims. 
 
On
May 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed its first amended complaint for Declaratory
Relief and Anticipatory Breach of Contract. Defendant answered the first
amended complaint on September 14, 2023.
 
On
February 14, 2024, the court granted the temporary restraining order enjoining
the termination of any license pending hearing on the motion for preliminary
injunction. 
 
RULING: Granted.
Plaintiff Adaptive Camless
Technology, LLC (ACT) moves for a preliminary
injunction against Defendant, Regents of the University of California
(Regents), from terminating the exclusive development
license agreement. Following the second notice of default upon the expiration
of the first preliminary injunction, the parties subsequently entered into a
standstill agreement. This agreement lapsed in February 2024. [Declaration of
Robert Loewy.] The motion comes following the temporary restraining order
issued on February 14, 2024, based on the February 15, 2024, intended
termination date from Regents. 
 
Plaintiff moves for relief to
preserve the status quo pending adjudication of the license agreement on the
merits. Plaintiff maintains no default under the terms occurred, and
significant harm will occur if Regents remain allowed to cancel the agreement
prior to resolution of the underpinning legal disputes. Regents in opposition focuses
on the “commercially reasonable efforts” section of the License Agreement.
Regents contend that after nearly 52 months (4.5 years) of efforts, ACT
continues to provide no engagement in research, development, manufacturing,
marketing, or sale of any licensed product utilizing the subject technology.
Regents deny any and all agreement for the use of UCLA faculty and students,
and insist the agreement required use of outside facilities. ACT in reply challenges
the argument of Regents as seeking to rewrite the terms and understanding of
the agreement. ACT again reiterates irreparable harm if injunctive relief is
not granted.
 
In
ruling on a motion for preliminary injunction, the court first considers both
the likelihood of prevailing on the merits and irreparable harm. (Millennium Rock Mortg., Inc. v. T.D. Service
Co. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 804, 812.) “An evaluation of the relative harm
to the parties upon the granting or denial of a preliminary injunction requires
consideration of: ‘(1) the inadequacy of any other remedy; (2) the degree of
irreparable injury the denial of the injunction will cause; (3) the necessity
to preserve the status quo; [and] (4) the degree of adverse effect on the
public interest or interests of third parties the granting of the injunction
will cause.’” (Vo v. City of Garden Grove
(2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 425, 435.) “‘[T]he more likely it is that plaintiffs
will ultimately prevail, the less severe must be the harm that they allege will
occur if the injunction does not issue .... [I]t is the mix of these factors
that guides the trial court in its exercise of discretion.’” (Right Site Coalition v. Los Angeles Unified
School Dist. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 336, 342.) “The ultimate questions on a
motion for a preliminary injunction are (1) whether the plaintiff is 'likely to
suffer greater injury from a denial of the injunction than the defendants are
likely to suffer from its grant,’ and (2) whether there is ‘a reasonable
probability that the plaintiffs will prevail on the merits’” (Huong Que, Inc. v. Luu (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 400, 408. Procedurally, an application for a preliminary
injunction, must be based upon sufficient evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., §527 subd. (a); Bank of America v. Williams (1948) 89
Cal.App.2d 21, 29.)
 
“[T]he general
rule is that an injunction is prohibitory if it requires a
person to refrain from a particular act and mandatory if it
compels performance of an affirmative act that changes the position of the
parties.” (Davenport v. Blue Cross of California (1997)
52 Cal.App.4th 435, 446.)
“An injunction designed to preserve the status quo as between
the parties and to restrain illegal conduct is prohibitory,
not mandatory, and does not require heightened appellate scrutiny.” (Oiye v. Fox (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th
1036, 1048.) “The granting of a mandatory
injunction pending trial is not permitted except in extreme cases where the
right thereto is clearly established.” (Teachers Ins. & Annuity Assn. v. Furlotti (1999) 70
Cal.App.4th 1487, 1493.) 
 
Probability of Success on the Merits
The action and instant motion appear driven by shareholder Sinsheimer, and
opposed, at least in part by fellow founders, TC Tsao and Spearrin. With this
context, the court considers the agreement.
 
It remains undisputed that ACT met
the first fundraising milestone when it complied with the March 1, 2022, preliminary
injunction requiring an additional $313,080 investment. The dispute therefore
requires interpretation of the “commercially reasonable efforts” clause
regarding use of labor outside of UCLA. 
 
The unredacted portion of the
License Agreement requires development of a prototype by December 31, 2021, a
demonstrated working prototype by December 31, 2022, and completed initial
performance testing of said licensed working prototype by September 30, 2023.
[Declaration of Peter Sinsheimer, ¶ 18, Ex. 9: License Agreement, 5.2(B-D).] Due
to Covid-19 impacts, the parties also engaged in extensions of the agreement
timelines. [Sinsheimer Decl., ¶ 23, Ex. 14.]
 
“B. By December 31, 2022, complete design of prototype
Licensed Product.
C. By December 31, 2023, build and demonstrate operation of
a working prototype Licensed Product. 
D. By September 30, 2024, complete initial performance
testing of a prototype Licensed Product, simulating engine use for baseload,
peak, and backup power generation applications. 
E. By March 31, 2025, obtain two customer letters of
commitment to purchase Licensed Products. 
F. By September 30, 2025, execute a vendor agreement with a
manufacturing partner for the production of a Licensed Products that is an
Other Engine Products. 
G. By March 31, 2026, complete a customer purchase order (a
First Commercial Sale) for a Licensed Product that is an Other Engine Product. 
H. By March 31, 2027, deliver a functioning Licensed Product
that is an Other Engine Product to a customer. 
I. By December 31, 2028, build and test a Licensed Product
that is a Transportation Product.”
 
The later extensions regarding executed vendor agreements,
et al., are not before the court for purposes of the subject motion but
provided for context. 
 
The crux of the dispute arises from the interpretation of
the development clause. Notwithstanding the default notice from Regents linking
the commercial development milestone to offsite activities [Sinsheimer Decl., ¶¶ 24-25, Ex. 15], neither party
cites to any unredacted language regarding mandatory offsite development during
the developmental phase of the technology, or the exclusion of UCLA controlled
facilities, faculty or student involvement. The notice of said condition only
first apparently appears in the December 13, 2018, e-mail from Edward Beres
regarding use of university resources for private development. [Declaration of
Edward Bares, ¶ 4, Ex. 2.] A second notice referencing on-campus development
was also presented on May 5, 2021. [Id., Ex. 3.]
 
ACT represents that any and all
development was intended to occur with UCLA employees and students utilizing
UCLA provided facilities. [Declaration of Peter Sinsheimer.] Regents rely
on “University policy,” which only allows for utilization of the University’s
resources undertaken on behalf of the University itself, rather than a private
entity. [Declaration of Carolyn Chang, ¶¶ 4-5, Ex. 3-4.] Regents cite to the
integration clause with the License Agreement as a means of seeking to block
out any extrinsic agreements, but also lack any citation in the agreement incorporating
“University policy.” Regents also reference section 5.1 of the agreement, which
defines “commercially reasonable efforts,” as ongoing efforts for the
development a market potential product. The term specifically excludes halted
efforts towards developments for a period of greater than 24 months. Regents maintain no product development occurred outside of
UCLA over a 24-month period at the time of the March 1, 2022, notice. ACT
vaguely maintains off-premises work continues or perhaps will occur. 
 
In addition to the lack of terms regarding developmental
work location, both sides offer challenges to the introduction of outside
understandings, while both in fact relying on beneficial rules or inferences in
their favor. The arguments of the parties provide
minimal legal citation.
 
“‘A contract must be so interpreted as to give effect to the
mutual intention of the parties as it existed at the time of contracting,
so far as the same is ascertainable and lawful.’ (Civ. Code, § 1636.) ‘The
language of a contract is to govern its interpretation, if the language is
clear and explicit, and does not involve an absurdity.’ (Civ. Code, § 1638.)
‘When a contract is reduced to writing, the intention of the parties is to be
ascertained from the writing alone, if possible; subject, however, to the other
provisions of this Title.” (Civ. Code, § 1639.) “The whole of a contract is to
be taken together, so as to give effect to every part, if reasonably
practicable, each clause helping to interpret the other.’ (Civ. Code, § 1641.)
‘A contract must receive such an interpretation as will make it lawful,
operative, definite, reasonable, and capable of being carried into effect, if
it can be done without violating the intention of the parties.’ (Civ. Code, §
1643.) ‘The words of a contract are to be understood in their ordinary and
popular sense, rather than according to their strict legal meaning; unless used
by the parties in a technical sense, or unless a special meaning is given to
them by usage, in which case the latter must be followed.’ (Civ. Code, § 1644.)
‘However broad may be the terms of a contract, it extends only to those things
concerning which it appears that the parties intended to contract.’ (Civ. Code,
§ 1648.) ‘Repugnancy in a contract must be reconciled, if possible, by such an
interpretation as will give some effect to the repugnant clauses, subordinate
to the general intent and purpose of the whole contract.’ (Civ. Code, § 1652.)
‘Stipulations which are necessary to make a contract reasonable, or conformable
to usage, are implied, in respect to matters concerning which the contract
manifests no contrary intention.’ (Civ. Code, § 1655.)” (Siligo v. Castellucci (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 873, 880–881.) 
 
“The fundamental goal of
contractual interpretation is to give effect to the mutual intention of the
parties. (Civ.Code, § 1636.) If contractual language is clear and explicit, it
governs. (Id., § 1638.) On the other hand, ‘[i]f the terms of a promise
are in any respect ambiguous or uncertain, it must be interpreted in the sense
in which the promisor believed, at the time of making it, that the promisee
understood it.’” (Bank of the West v. Superior
Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1254, 1264–1265.) The
parol evidence rule “provides that when parties enter an integrated written
agreement, extrinsic evidence may not be relied upon to alter or add to the
terms of the writing. (Citation.) ‘An integrated agreement is a writing or writings
constituting a final expression of one or more terms of an agreement.’” (Riverisland Cold Storage, Inc. v. Fresno-Madera Production Credit
Assn. (2013) 55 Cal.4th 1169, 1174.) 
 
In addition to the documented reasons in the notices of
default, Regents also seek to establish its limited relationship or even
arguable disassociation with UCLA resources from ACT via declarations of
faculty. The declaration of Tsao denies any actual business relationship with
ACT and maintains any and all work done on the subject technology was on behalf
of UCLA. Spearrin also denies any affiliation with the ACT entity. The court
accepts the unchallenged declarations as indicative of the lack of any individual
business relationships between the individual professors and ACT but finds the
declarations in no way materially impacts the interpretation of the licensing
agreement.
 
The court agrees with the understanding of Sinsheimer that the purpose of the licensing agreement was
to encourage commercial production utilizing UCLA developed technology. In
looking at the plain language of the unredacted portions of the agreement, Regents
acknowledge certain patented technology “made in course of research at UCLA.” The
licensing agreements form with third party entities for the apparent purpose of
monetizing patented technology incorporated into future developed products. The
technology itself is not necessarily economically viable on its own, but when
utilized in a finished product, conveys value to the Regents in the form of
license payments. Regents explicitly acknowledge “patent rights” in Appendix A,
which ostensibly identifies subject patented technology utilized or potentially
available pursuant to the licensing agreement. Thus, the admitted continued research
participation of UCLA faculty and students familiar with the subject patented
technology, which may include exploring means for further development or
incorporation into potential products, remains consistent with Regents’
ownership of said patents provided in the license agreement. 
 
While it remains acknowledged and
undisputed that UCLA disallows university resources for development of purely
commercial products owned by an outside entity, Sinsheimer understood said rule
as not applying to the research process underpinning the development of said
product prototype for purposes of the manufacture of an eventually commercially
viable product. How and whether said patents lead to the development of
a manufactured, marketable camless product for use in intended applications,
and at what point the product is exclusively owned by ACT with licensing fees
paid to Regents for use of said incorporated patented technology lies at the
core of the disputed agreement. 
 
It remains undisputed any
commercially available manufactured items for sale to third party customers
would be developed off premises. At the time of the instant motion, no
functional manufacturing prototype appears to exist. The deadline for said
product and offsite manufacturing in fact remains outstanding for later dates,
as addressed in the revised development milestone extensions. [Reply
Declaration of Peter Sinsheimer.] Meanwhile, it remains possible that certain
deadlines lapsed (e.g. a designed and built prototype by December 31, 2023),
but said potential missed deadline was not part of any notice of default.
 
Thus, the parties seek guidance on
an issue regarding the meaning of the development process as presented in the
actual license agreement. Given the integration clause and challenge to any
parol evidence regarding the intention of the parties, the court remains
limited to interpretation of the contract. The court finds Sinsheimer’s
understanding of the agreement reasonable within the language and apparent
intent of Regents to monetize patent technology developed in the course of
university research. Further improvements, testing, etc. associated with the
eventual development of an off-site manufactured commercially viable product
remains an allowable activity by UCLA faculty and staff barring an amendment or
novation of the license agreement clarifying University policy on the
development process. How said research is conducted and by who, however,
remains within the control of UCLA and Regents. The court in no way interprets
the agreement as to the rights and obligations of the parties in the execution
of the agreement, or otherwise addresses the other looming deadlines for
product milestones leading to intended offsite manufacture. 
 
The court therefore finds the
terms of the contract, as presented in the subject motion, support a finding of
a probability of success on the merits. The court finds no breach of the
agreement allowing for termination on the basis of the violation of the University’s
policy for purposes of the subject motion. Joint research may continue, with
the intention of the development of a working prototype, but the court in no
way forecasts or offers any advisory opinion on other potential developmental
milestone disputes.
 
Irreparable Harm
ACT contends Cancellation of the agreement
will significantly disrupt any fundraising thereby allowing further development
of products. Regents counter that the subject action presents nothing more than
a claim otherwise resolved by monetary damages. Regents will suffer from
further delays in its own efforts to develop the technology. 
 
“‘The
granting or denial of a preliminary injunction does not amount to an
adjudication of the ultimate rights in controversy. It merely determines that
the court, balancing the respective equities of the parties, concludes that,
pending a trial on the merits, the defendant should or that he should not be
restrained from exercising the right claimed by him.’ (Citations.) The general purpose of such an injunction
is the preservation of the status quo until a final determination of the merits
of the action. (Citations.) Thus, the court examines all of the material before
it in order to consider ‘whether a greater injury will result to the defendant
from granting the injunction than to the plaintiff from refusing it; * * *’” (Continental Baking Co. v. Katz (1968) 68 Cal.2d 512, 528.) “[A] principal objective of a
preliminary injunction ‘is to minimize the harm which an erroneous interim decision
may cause,’ and thus a court faced with the question whether to grant a
preliminary injunction cannot ignore the possibility that its initial
assessment of the merits, prior to a full adjudication, may turn out to be in
error.” (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 561.)
 
The limited legal arguments and
conflicts in interpretation of the underlying licensing agreement favor
preservation of the status quo pending further adjudication on the merits.
While any monetary value for a successfully developed and marketed product can
certainly be readily determined, the court agrees with ACT that disruption of
activities prior to adjudication on the merits may cause harms to business
relations developed by ACT, which are not readily overcome simply by monetary
compensation. 
 
Balance of Equities
The balance of equities also
favors ACT pending adjudication of the action based on circumstances regarding
the terms of the agreement and disruption to ACT on uncertain grounds. Given
the September trial date, and ongoing history of the parties’ prior voluntary
efforts, preservation of the status quo for an additional five plus months
insufficiently demonstrates material prejudice to Regents. The court also finds
the ongoing right to attempt to development pending further adjudication of the
claim, without premature disruption based on unresolved legal issues,
constitutes a valid consideration. Lost research and development time on a
technology that may also be progress in competing labs and/or universities
serves neither party well. 
 
The motion for preliminary
injunction is therefore granted. The court orders Regents enjoined from termination
of the agreement based on utilization of school resources pending trial on the
merits. In granting this preliminary injunction, the court only addresses the
operative agreement within the operative timeline. Any delays on the trial and
potential lapses of deadlines are not considered. The court also specifically
declines to consider any arguments regarding potential future enforcement based
on any University policy rules, as seen applicable. The court in no way
otherwise orders any form of mandatory relief, such as requiring Regents to
provide access to resources or facilities. The motion lacks sufficient legal
address regarding the validity of the policies (other than a reference to the
later presentation of the claim in the default notice), and the court will NOT
consider any such issue. Any change in conduct by Regents, however, may lead to
new claims against Regents, and further delay the trial date. The court advises
the parties to continue with meet and confer efforts.
 
Trial remains set for September 23, 2024.
 
ACT to give notice.
 