 Case Number:  23STCP02324    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  34 Defendant Paul S. Chao’s
Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default and Default Judgment is GRANTED. A penalty
in the amount of $1,000 is payable to Plaintiff within 30 days pursuant to
section 473(c)(1)(A).
 
Background
 
            On
July 5, 2023, Plaintiff Dai Yongzheng (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendant Paul S. Chao (“Defendant”) on causes of action for conversion, breach
of fiduciary duty, and breach of duty of good faith and fair dealing pursuant
to Corporations Code section 17704.08, subdivision (d).  
            
On December 29, 2023 and
January 2, 2024, the court issued Orders for Publication in this matter.
  
On April 19, 2024, at the
request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office entered default on
Defendant.  
 
On May 20, 2024, the court
granted Plaintiff’s Request for Default Judgment. 
 
On October 18, 2024,
Defendant filed this Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default and Default Judgment.
On October 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to Defendant’s motion. No
reply has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“The court may, upon any
terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application
for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading
proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted,
and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months,
after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . . No
affidavit or declaration of merits shall be required of the moving party.
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client,
and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default
judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds
that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
            Section
473(b) provides for two distinct types of relief. “Under the discretionary
relief provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect,” the court has discretion to allow relief from a “judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against” a party or his or her
attorney. Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a
showing by attorney declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect,” the court shall vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered.” (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 615–616.)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant moves the court for relief
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). (Motion, at
p. 2.) Specifically, Defendant moves the court to set aside the default and
default judgment entered against him due to Defendant’s counsel mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect under the
mandatory relief provision of section 473(b). (Ibid.) 
 
            Defendant’s
counsel, Dana Delma (“Counsel”), declares that Counsel was to serve and file an
answer to Plaintiff’s complaint by April 11, 2024, as agreed upon with
Plaintiff’s counsel on March 28, 2024. (Declaration of Dana Delma (“Delma Decl.”),
¶ 4.) During those two weeks, Counsel became ill but nevertheless finalized an
answer which Counsel attached to her declaration. (Id., ¶ 5.) Counsel
instructed her assistant to serve and file the answer. (Id., ¶ 6.)
However, due to a misunderstanding and miscommunication, the answer was not
filed nor served. (Ibid.) It was not until mid-May of 2024 that Counsel
realized that the answer had not been filed or served. (Ibid.)
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant engaged in bad faith behavior to
intentionally avoid the service of process. (Opp., at p. 3.) As such, Plaintiff
contends that Plaintiff deserves reasonable compensation for the legal fees and
costs incurred from preparing the documents related to the Entry of Default and
Default Judgment against Defendant in the amount of $5,000.00. (Ibid.) Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant avoided service when the registered service
provider attempted to personally serve Defendant in his residence located at
1832 S. Fifth Ave., Unit E, Monrovia, CA 91016 on July 18, 2023. (Id.,
at p. 4.) As such, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s failure to file and serve
an answer was not solely caused by error of Defendant’s counsel. (Ibid.)

 
            No
reply has been filed. 
 
            The
court finds that the present motion is timely. Additionally, Defendant’s counsel
has submitted a declaration attesting to her mistake in failing to file the answer
to Plaintiff’s complaint. The dismissal was a direct result of Counsel’s error
granting Defendant mandatory relief under section 473.(b). As all statutory
requirements to set aside default and vacate the default judgment against
Defendant are satisfied, Defendant’s motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Paul S. Chao’s Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default and Default Judgment
is GRANTED. The court further imposes a penalty in the amount of $1,000 payable
to Plaintiff within 30 days pursuant to section 473(c)(1)(A).