 Case Number:  24STCV10370    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  34 Defendants James C. Chou, CJ Max Investments LLC, and Helios Enterprises
LLC’s Demurrer to Plaintiff Steven Li’s First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED as
to the fourth cause of action, and SUSTAINED as to the third and eighth causes
of action. Pursuant to Plaintiff’s representation, Plaintiff is ordered to
dismiss Cause of Action No. 5 within 5 days. The court previously OVERRULED the
demurrer to Causes of Action Nos. 1-2 and 9.
Background
Plaintiff Steven Li, aka Jianjun Qiao
(“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:  
 
Plaintiff
and Defendants James C. Chou (“Chou”), CJ Max Investments LLC, and Helious
Enterprises LLC (collectively “Defendants”) entered into a written
Investment Return Agreement (the “Agreement”) on November 18, 2012, wherein and
whereby Plaintiff agreed to invest the sum of Six Million Dollars ($6,0000,000)
(the “Investment”) in exchange for the return of that Investment on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Agreement. The Agreement provided for an end
term on January 10, 2022. 
 
On April 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint, asserting the following causes of action against Defendants and Does
1-100: 
 
1.              
Breach of Written
Contract;  
2.              
Declaratory Relief; 
3.              
Unjust
Enrichment;  
4.              
Accounting;  
5.              
On Open Book
Account;  
6.              
On Account Stated;  
7.              
For Money Advanced; 
8.              
Negligence; and  
9.              
Breach
of Fiduciary Duty 
 
On
August 26, 2024, the court: (1) overruled Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s
complaint as to the first, second, and ninth causes of action; (2) sustained
with leave to amend as to the third through fifth, and eighth causes of action;
and (3) sustained without leave to amend as to the sixth and seventh causes of
action. 
 
On
September 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes
of action for:
 
1.              
Breach of Written Contract;
2.              
Declaratory Relief;
3.              
Unjust Enrichment; 
4.              
Accounting; 
5.              
Open Book Account;
6.              
Omitted;
7.              
Omitted;
8.              
Negligence; and, 
9.              
Breach of Fiduciary Duty. 
 
On
October 23, 2024, Defendants filed this Demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC. On November
13, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to Defendants’ Demurrer. On November
19, 2024, Defendants filed a reply. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            “The
party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by
demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or
more of” various grounds listed in statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)
 
            A
demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or is
uncertain.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).) 
 
            When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer
tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.)
As such, the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or
implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
            Where
a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC
(2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable
possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation
Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245). 
 
Discussion[1]
            Defendants
demur, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and
(f), to all causes of action in Plaintiff’s FAC, on the basis that they each
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and are
uncertain.[2] 
 
            As
an initial matter, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s FAC cannot move forward
based on the allegation that the Agreement is illegal. (Demurrer, at pp. 12-13.)
The court will again OVERRULE the demurrer
on the basis that this argument is premature as it concerns matters beyond the
face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.) Additionally, Defendants did not submit a
proper request for judicial notice. 
 
Uncertainty 
 
            A demurrer on grounds of uncertainty
will not be sustained unless the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  (Koury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.  (Ibid.)
 
            The court finds that Plaintiff’s FAC
is not so uncertain that Defendants cannot reasonably respond. Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges that his causes of action are based on a breach of
contract claim. Any remaining issues can be clarified through discovery. 
 
            Thus, Defendants’ demurrer on this
basis is OVERRULED. 
 
Third Cause of Action (i.e. Unjust Enrichment)
 
“Unjust enrichment is not a cause of action, however, or even a remedy,
but rather [] a general principle, underlying various legal doctrines and remedies[][.]
It is synonymous with restitution. [][.] Unjust enrichment has also been
characterized as describing [] the result of a failure to make
restitution[]”  (McBride v. Boughton
(2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 387 [citation omitted].) It is a common law
obligation implied by law based on the equities of a particular case and not on
any contractual obligation.  (Id., at pp. 388-89.) It can be
applied to provide relief in a breach of contract case when there are
allegations that the contract was entered into through fraud or is
unenforceable. (Id., at p. 388.)
 
Defendants contend that the court deemed unjust enrichment as a principal
rather than a cause of action in its previous ruling sustaining Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s third cause of action with leave to amend. (Demurrer,
at pp. 14-15.) Thus, Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot plead a cause of
action under unjust enrichment in his FAC. (Id., at p. 15.) Defendants
also argue that even if the court considered unjust enrichment as a cause of
action, Plaintiff’s FAC fails to plead any of the requisite elements even after
framing it as a quasi-contract claim. (Ibid.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the FAC alleges a cause of action
for restitution based upon a quasi-contract as an alternative to the breach of
contract claim. (Opp., at p. 9.) Plaintiff contends that since Defendants claim
that the Agreement is void and unenforceable, Plaintiff pleads this alternative
count in the event that the Agreement is actually found void. (Ibid.)  
 
In reply, Defendants continue to argue that Plaintiff only pled
inappropriate contentions and conclusions in the FAC without any additional
specific facts to support this cause of action. (Reply, at p. 6.) 
 
The court notes that its previous ruling highlighted the split authority
found regarding whether unjust enrichment is a cause of action or a principle
of law. (Court Order dated August 26, 2024, at p. 3, footnote no. 2.) The court
sustained Defendants’ demurrer with leave to amend as it had found that the
complaint did not allege sufficient facts which would entitle Plaintiff to
equitable relief and not merely because the court did not consider unjust
enrichment as a cause of action. (Id., at p. 4.) 
 
Here, it is important to note that courts have construed unjust
enrichment claims as being causes of action for quasi-contract seeking
restitution. (Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 221, 231; City of Oakland v. Oakland Raiders (2022) 83
Cal.App.5th 458, 477 (a claim based on unjust enrichment may also be called
“quasi-contract” or “quantum meruit.”).) Generally, “unjust enrichment does not
lie where… express binding agreements exist and define the parties’ rights.” (Cal.
Medical Ass'n v. Aetna U. S. Healthcare of Cal. (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 151,
172.) However, restitution may be awarded in lieu of breach of contract damages
when the parties had an express contract, but it … is unenforceable or
ineffective for some reason.” (McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 379, 388.) 
 
Plaintiff’s FAC alleges that Defendants were unjustly enriched by receiving
and retaining Plaintiff's Investment. (FAC, ¶¶ 41-42.) However, Plaintiff does
not allege any facts sufficient to allege that a benefit was conferred upon
Defendants due to their fraudulent conduct. (Nibbi Bros. v. Home Fed. Sav.
& Loan Ass'n (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1415, 1422 (for enrichment to be
unjust, a benefit ordinarily must have been conferred by mistake, fraud,
coercion or request, and not officiously.)) Plaintiff is merely alleging this
cause of action in case its main claim for breach of contract fails. As such,
the FAC fails to allege sufficient facts which would entitle Plaintiff to
equitable relief. Only Defendants claim that the Agreement was procured by
fraud. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action (i.e. Accounting)
 
“A cause of action for an accounting requires a showing that a
relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an
accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be
ascertained by an accounting.” (Teselle
v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.) 
 
The FAC alleges that a fiduciary and contractual relationship exists
between the parties that requires accounting. (FAC, ¶ 49.) Plaintiff also
alleges that a balance is due and can only be ascertained by an accounting. (Id.,
¶ 50.) Thus, Plaintiff  “demands an accounting
of the use of Plaintiff’s funds to determine the exact amount of money due to
Plaintiff.” (Id., ¶ 51.)
 
As the court assumes the truth of Plaintiff’s allegations when reviewing
Defendants’ demurrer, the court finds that Plaintiff sufficiently pled its
cause of action for accounting. 
 
 Defendants’ demurrer to the Fourth
Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action (i.e. Open Book Account)
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff agrees to
dismiss his fifth cause of action for a claim on an open book account. (Opp.,
at p. 11.) As such, the court refrains from ruling on the matter. 
 
Eighth Cause of Action (i.e. Negligence)
 
The elements for a negligence claim are: 
(1) legal duty owed to plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of duty;
(3) causation; and (4) damage to plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318; Ladd v. County
of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.)
 
Plaintiff’s FAC alleges that even if the Agreement is enforceable or not,
“Defendants assumed the duty to manage [the] Investment with care, skill,
reasonable expedience, and faithfulness.” (FAC, ¶ 67.) The court notes that it
had previously warned Plaintiff that “[t]o the extent that the court allows
Plaintiff to amend his Complaint and allege the specific elements of
Negligence, Plaintiff should be mindful not to merely restate a duty that was
established through the contractual relationship as detailed in the
Agreement[]” as it would be duplicative of Plaintiff’s allegations for breach
of contract. (Court Order dated August 26, 2024, at p. 5.) Although Plaintiff
explicitly alleges that Defendants owed a duty to Plaintiff notwithstanding the
Agreement, Plaintiff’s alleged duty directly stems from the Agreement.
Plaintiff fails to allege a duty independent from the duty alleged in his first
cause of action to plead its negligence claim. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants James C. Chou, CJ Max Investments LLC, and Helios Enterprises
LLC’s Demurrer to Plaintiff Steven Li’s First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED as
to the fourth cause of action, and SUSTAINED as to the third and eighth causes
of action. Pursuant to Plaintiff’s representation, Plaintiff is ordered to
dismiss Cause of Action No. 5 within 5 days.
 
The court will inquire at the hearing whether
leave to amend should be granted as to the third and eighth causes of action.


