  Case Number:  20STCV06425    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



GERASIM HAYRAPETYAN,
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
RYOBI
  TECHOLOGIES, INC., et al.,  
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 20STCV06425
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
  13, 2023



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
On February
14, 2020, Plaintiff Gerasim Hayrapetyan (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Ryobi Technologies, Inc.; One World Technologies, Inc.; Techtronic
Industries, Co., Ltd.; Techtronic Industries, North America, Inc.; Tasia
Hayrapetyan; and Does 1 to 60 arising from injuries that Plaintiff allegedly
sustained using a 10-inch Sliding Miter Saw, TSS100LI (the “Subject Saw”). The
complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) products liability; and (2) general
negligence. The complaint prays for compensatory damages according to proof and
does not seek punitive damages. 
On November
24, 2021, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to amend the complaint to include
a prayer for punitive damages. On December 23, 2021, the Court issued a minute
order as to Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend. The Court’s minute order
states that: (1) the Court’s tentative ruling was posted online and in open
court for the parties to review; (2) the matter was not called for hearing; and
(3) there were no appearances and no submissions by or for either side. (December
23, 2021 Minute Order.) The Court placed the hearing on Plaintiff’s motion for
leave to amend off calendar and indicated that notice was not required. 
On August 1,
2023, Defendants Ryobi Technologies, Inc., One World Technologies, Inc., and
Techtronic Industries North America, Inc. (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion
for an order granting summary adjudication in its favor against Plaintiff on
Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. The motion is brought on the grounds
that Plaintiff makes a claim for punitive damages in his amended complaint. 
As explained
below, however, despite Moving Defendants contention that the Court granted Plaintiff
leave to amend the complaint, there is no record in the court file indicating
leave to amend was granted. Moreover, even if leave to amend was granted, an
amended complaint was not filed to become the operative pleading in this
action. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
“A party may move for summary
adjudication as to . . . one or more claims for damages . . . if the party
contends that . . . there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in
Section 3294 of the Civil Code.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(f)(1).) “Motions for
summary adjudication are procedurally identical to motions for summary
judgment.” (Dunn v. County of Santa Barbara (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1281,
1290.) “Summary adjudication is warranted only if the motion completely
disposes of . . . a claim for damages.” (Ibid.) A motion for summary
adjudication must be granted “if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.” (Ibid.) 
 “On
a motion for summary [adjudication], the issues are framed by the pleadings
since it is those allegations to which the motion must respond.” (Scolinos
v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 635, 640.) “Summary [adjudication]
proceedings usually are limited to the issues framed by the pleadings.” (Jones
v. Awad (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1211.) The pleadings “set the
boundaries of the issues to be resolved at summary [adjudication].” (Jacobs
v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438,
444.) Only issues raised in the pleadings are a proper subject for summary
adjudication. (Hilton K. v. Greenbaum (2006) 144
Cal.App.4th 1406, 1412.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
The Court finds that Moving Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication is moot as there is no amended complaint on
file in this action. While Moving Defendants contend that Plaintiff was given
leave to amend the complaint, the court file in this action indicates
otherwise. The Court placed the hearing on Plaintiff’s motion for leave to
amend off-calendar. The Court neither conducted a hearing on Plaintiff’s motion
for leave to amend, ruled on such motion, nor entered an order granting
Plaintiff leave to amend. Moreover, based on a review of the court file, Plaintiff
has not filed an amended complaint. Plaintiff has also not filed a renewed
motion for leave to amend the complaint. The complaint is still the operative
pleading in this action. Given the fact that the complaint does not seek
punitive damages, Moving Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is directed
at a non-existent pleading. Under Hilton K. v. Greenbaum, supra, 44
Cal.App.4th 1406, 1412, Moving Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is improper. 
VI.     CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, Moving Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is improper
and is therefore DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
Moving parties to give notice.  
Dated
this 13th day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at alhdept3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 
 