  Case Number:  22CMCV00327    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  A 
22CMCV00327
 Mildred Arevalo Herrera v. Luis Enrique Martinez Orellana
Thursday,
 March 7, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER TAKING OFF CALENDAR PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION FOR ORDER COMPELLING JOINDER OF PERSON WITH INTEREST IN SUBJECT PROPERTY
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The
complaint alleges that the parties have been domestic partners since April 2003
until June 10, 2021. The parties acquired real property together, however, only
Defendant’s name was on title. The parties had an oral agreement to share all
property acquired equally. Plaintiff alleges claims for breach of express
contract, breach of implied-in-fact contract, declaratory relief, partition,
and promissory estoppel. 
      Plaintiff
seeks an order to join Jose Miguel Calvillo and Olga L. Mercado as defendants
in  this action because Defendant sold
the property to the interested parties without permission of the court and for
less than fair market value to avoid this action. 
      The
Court’s file does not reflect that an opposition has been filed. 
 
II.     
DISCUSSION
      While
Plaintiff served the proposed new defendants with the motion, the proof of
service filed on February 26, 2024, does not indicate that Defendant Orellana
was served with the motion.
      The
motion is also defective as Plaintiff misapplies the joinder statutes. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 389, et seq.) An objection to the complaint based on a
failure to join necessary parties is a defect raised by the defendant by
demurrer. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10 subd. (d).) If Plaintiff wishes to add new defendants
and assert new theories of relief, Plaintiff’s remedy is a motion for leave to
file an amended complaint pursuant to Code Civil Procedure, section 473 as Defendant
answered the complaint on October 6, 2022. Otherwise, Plaintiff could have
amended the complaint as a matter of right, before an answer is filed. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 472).
 
III.   
CONCLUSION
      Based on these procedural defects, the motion is TAKEN OFF
CALENDAR.  