 Case Number:  23CMCV01412    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  A 23CMCV01412
 Rose ML, Inc. v. Air Distribution USA, Inc., et al.
Thursday,
March 7, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING THE
HEARING ON CROSS-COMPLAINANT’S REQUEST FOR A PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION 
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The
complaint alleges that Plaintiff ROSE ML (“ROSE”) agreed to serve as a
non-exclusive distributor of tobacco products purchased from Defendant, Air
Distribution, USA, Inc. (“AIR”) pursuant to a written contract. AIR allegedly
breached the agreement by selling product to other non-direct buying customers
at a lower price than what ROSE paid for the product. ROSE alleges claims for
breach of contract, fraud, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing.     
       On
October 20, 2023, the Court issued a right to attach order in favor of
Cross-Complainant Air as well as an order for issuance of a writ of attachment
against the property of Haddadin in the amount of $3,158,685.65, including
interests in real property, cash, accounts receivable, chattel, and inventory
among other assets. 
       On
February 20, 2024, the court granted Cross-Complainant AIR’S ex parte
application for a temporary injunction and specially set this hearing for an
order to show cause why a preliminary injunction should not issue. 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Cross-Complainant
AIR filed its supplemental brief supporting its request for an order enjoining
Cross-Defendants, Sal Haddadin (“Haddadin”), Rose ML, Inc. (“ROSE”), Alfa
Distribution (“ALFA”), and Corona Wholesale, Inc (“CORONA), from transferring,
selling, or otherwise diverting assets during the pendency of this action,
including cash held in Cross-defendant’s bank account and any of AIR’s product.

       AIR
argues that during Haddadin’s debtor examination, Haddadin admitted he is the
sole shareholder and CEO of Cross-defendant ROSE, and non-parties ALFA and
CORONA. Haddadin transferred products to ALFA and used ALFA to sell products to
another buyer contrary to the provisions of the distribution agreement.
Haddadin used his companies to hide, conceal, and transfer assets without
regard to AIR’s rights. 
       The
court’s file does not reflect that an opposition was filed by March 1, 2024, as
ordered. However, an opposition appears to have been served on AIR, who filed a
reply. Without a filed opposition, the court will treat this motion as
unopposed. 
 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       The
purpose of a preliminary injunction is to preserve the status quo pending a
decision on the merits. (MaJor
v. Miraverde Homeowners Assn. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 618, 623.) A cause
of action must exist before injunctive relief may be granted. (Id.)
 If a complaint fails to state a cause of
action, an order granting a preliminary injunction must be reversed. (Id.)
 
       In
determining whether or not to grant a preliminary injunction, the court looks
to two factors, including “(1) the likelihood that the plaintiff will prevail
on the merits, and (2) the relative balance of harms that is likely to result
from the granting or denial of interim injunctive relief.” (White
v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 554.) The factors are interrelated;
“the greater the … showing on one, the less must be shown on the other to
support an injunction.” (Dodge,
Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th
1414, 1420.) 
       As the
moving party, Cross-Complainant must demonstrate at least a reasonable
probability of success on the merits. (IT
Corp. v. County of Imperial (1983) 35 Cal.3d 63, 73–74.) The second
factor to be established is the occurrence of irreparable harm before a final
judgment could be entered. (Savage
v. Trammell Crow Co. (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 1562, 1571.) Irreparable
harm may exist if the plaintiff can show that “pecuniary compensation would not
afford adequate relief.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 526 subd. (a)(4).)
IV.   
DISCUSSION
       The FAXC adequately alleges claims for
breach of contract, common counts, and breach of personal guaranty based on a
written distribution agreement wherein AIR, a wholesale importer and
distributor of tobacco products, sold products to ROSE, who breached the
contract by failing to pay for goods totaling $3,158.685.65. (FAXC, ¶22 .) The
contract prohibited ROSE from sub-distributing or selling the products to any
person or entity. (FAXC ¶ 17.) Haddadin allegedly breached his obligation to
personally guarantee ROSE’s debts. (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 40-42.)
       Cross-Complainants also adequately allege
a claim for fraudulent conveyance based on the allegation that Haddadin
transferred product to ALFA and Corona for sale, as the latter two
Cross-Defendants did not buy product from AIR. (FAXC) ¶ 52.)
       Cross-Complainant
has not established the probability of prevailing on the merits because the
transcript of the debtor’s examination taken on February 23, 2024, is not ready
and the examination has not been completed because of the court reporter’s
sudden illness. (David Hershorin decl., ¶ 6.) The continuation of the
examination will take place on April 9, 2024, in Department A. The court
ordered Haddadin and Rose to also produce documents at that time. (Id.)
 Counsel’s summation of what occurred at
the examination is not admissible evidence. 
       The
only evidence submitted is the Declaration of Robert Maneson, sales manager for
AIR, who conduct a site inspection of ROSE’s warehouse in Corona, and discovered
that ROSE had 62 pallets of AIR’s tobacco products valued at over $3,300,000.00
(Robert Maneson Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) 
V.     
CONCLUSION
       As the
examination and transcript have not yet been completed, and which is material
to support AIR’s request for a preliminary injunction, the Court orders this
hearing continued to Click or tap here to enter text. at
8:30 a.m. in Department A of the Compton Courthouse. Cross-Complainant is
ordered to file a digital copy of the official transcripts with eCourt upon the
transcript’s completion. The temporary restraining order previously issued
remains in full force and effect. 