 Case Number:  23CMCV00949    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  A 
23CMCV00949
 Jose Librado Venegas Lira, et al. v. General Motors, LLC
Thursday, March
 7, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER OVERRULING DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO STRIKE THE CLAIM FOR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The first amended complaint alleges that
Defendant, General Motors, LLC (“GM” or “Defendant”) issued a written warranty
in connection with Plaintiffs’ purchase of a 2019 Chevrolet Silverado. The vehicle
allegedly developed transmission and other defects, which GM failed to disclose
or remedy. Plaintiffs allege three claims for violations under the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”) and a fourth cause of action for fraudulent
inducement and concealment.)
II.      ARGUMENTS
      GM demurrers to the fourth cause of action
on grounds Plaintiffs did not allege direct dealings with GM that would give
rise to a duty to disclose. The claim is not alleged with specificity. The
parties have not resolved their differences despite efforts to meet and confer.
      In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the
specificity ordinarily required in alleging a claim for fraudulent
misrepresentation does not apply to a claim for concealment. The alleged facts
adequately support the claim. 
      In reply, GM argues that Plaintiffs’
opposition establishes their failure to allege facts supporting GM’s alleged duty
to disclose.  Plaintiffs did not meet the
heightened standards for alleging a fraud claim.
III.    LEGAL
STANDARDS
      A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law and raises
only questions of law. (Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.) The court must assume the truth of (1) the properly
pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from
those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th
634, 638.)
      Plaintiff
must allege facts sufficient to establish every element of each cause of
action. (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service
(2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e); (Zelig
v. County of Los Angeles (2002)
27 Cal.4th 1112, 1126.) The Plaintiff is required to allege facts "with
reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint
the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of action.” (Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) Whether the Plaintiff will be able to prove the
pleaded facts is irrelevant. (Stevens
v. Superior Court (1986)
180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)
      A
demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.” Uncertainty
exists where a complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing, they do not
sufficiently apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet. (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10 subd.
(f).)
IV.    DISCUSSION
      Plaintiffs allege that GM intentionally
concealed and failed to disclose facts relating to the transmission defects (FAC,
¶¶ 130-131.) GM had exclusive knowledge of this information which it obtained
from its internal reports, customer complaints, and technical service bulletins
all of which GM failed to make available, and which Defendant actively
concealed. (FAC, ¶ 135.)  GM allegedly
induced Plaintiffs to buy the vehicle by marketing the vehicle as having
“world-class performance” and improved fuel efficiency, among other
representations. (FAC, ¶ 145-146.) Plaintiffs interacted with GM’s sales
representatives and reviewed materials distributed by GM concerning its
vehicles prior to Plaintiffs’ purchase of the vehicle. (FAC, ¶ 147.)       
      The elements of a fraud claim based on
concealment are: “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose
the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed
or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the
plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did
if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–311.) 
      There are “four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.” (Id.
at 311.) If a fiduciary relationship does not exist, but the latter three
circumstances are present, plaintiff must still show “the existence of some
other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant from which a duty to
disclose can arise.” (Id. at 311.) 
      Contrary to GM’s argument, Plaintiffs
adequately alleged that GM concealed material facts with respect to its transmission
as previously outlined. 
      GM’s contention that Plaintiffs must
allege “direct contact” or a “transactional relationship” with GM lacks merit.  A duty to disclose may arise as a result of a
transaction between the parties. However, the transaction "must
necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant;
it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large." (Bigler-Engler
at 312 [noting that the duty of a manufacturer to warn consumers of a
product’s hazards and faults applies in the context of strict products
liability actions but does not apply in a suit for intentional
misrepresentation.].)
      As previously noted, GM’s direct contact
with Plaintiffs allegedly arose from the materials distributed by GM which
Plaintiffs reviewed concerning the vehicle’s safety and performance as well as
from Plaintiffs’ interaction with GM’s sales representatives. (FAC, ¶ 147.)  Plaintiffs allege that the authorized
dealership that sold Plaintiffs the vehicle is an agent and representative of
GM. (FAC, ¶ 4-5.) Plaintiffs allege they inquired with the dealership’s
personnel about prior transmission issues, but GM’s authorized representatives stated
that no such defects existed at the time. (FAC, ¶ 
      Plaintiffs cite Dhital
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828,[1]
on which the Court relies for persuasive value given the case is pending review
by the California Supreme Court although it has not been depublished. (Cal
Rules of Court, Rule 8.1115 (e)(1).) Dhital determined that the
allegations were sufficient to support the existence of a buyer-seller
relationship between the plaintiff and the manufacturer in support of the claim
for fraudulent concealment since “Plaintiffs alleged that they bought the car
from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty,
and that Nissan's authorized dealerships are [the manufacturer’s] agents for
purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light of these
allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim is barred on the ground there
was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose known defects." (Dhital.
at 844.) 
      Fraud claims are subject to strict
requirements of particularity in pleading which necessitate pleading facts
showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered." (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)  However, the specificity rule is intended to
apply to affirmative misrepresentations and not to concealment. (Alfaro
v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009)
171 Cal. App.4th 1356.)
 
V.   CONCLUSION

      Based on the foregoing, demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint is overruled. GM shall file an answer
within 10 days. 
 

 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION
TO STRIKE
I.       
ARGUMENTS
      GM
separately moves to strike the prayer for punitive damages on grounds Plaintiffs
did not allege facts showing that Defendants acted with malice, fraud, or
oppression to warrant recovery of such damages. The fraudulent concealment
claim is defective and cannot serve as a predicate to support recovery of
punitive damages.
      In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the fraudulent concealment is not defective
as alleged and supports recovery of punitive damages.  
      In
reply, GM argues that Plaintiffs did not allege what specific
misrepresentations were made and whether the person making the representation
was an agent of GM. GM is not liable for the independent negligence of a
dealership employee or third-party entity.  
II.   LEGAL STANDARDS
      The
court may, upon motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems
proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of the pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the Court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436 subd (a)-(b)). Grounds for the motion to
strike are limited to matters that appear on the face of the pleading or on any
matter which the court shall or may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437).
III.   
DISCUSSION
      Plaintiffs
may recover exemplary damages if they establish “by clear and convincing
evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (a)). The predicate acts to support a claim for
punitive damages must be intended to cause injury or must constitute
“malicious” or “oppressive” conduct as defined by statute. “Malice” is defined
as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff
or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
(Civ.
Code, § 3294 subd. (c)(1); College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
8 Cal.4th 704, 725 ["malice involves awareness of dangerous consequences and a
willful and deliberate failure to avoid them"]). "Oppression" is
defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust
hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (a) subd. (c)(2)). 
      Absent
an intent to injure the plaintiff, the conduct must be “despicable” which is
defined as “base, vile, or contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. at 725.) Plaintiffs must demonstrate that “the defendant acted in such an
outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he knowingly
disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others." (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 90). 
      As
explained in the order overruling GM’s demurrer, the claim for fraudulent
concealment is well stated and provides the predicate acts necessary to recover
punitive damages based on intentional concealment. Plaintiffs also allege that
all acts of corporate employees were authorized by or ratified by an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporate employer. (FAC, ¶ 24.)
      GM
cites Mel
Clayton Ford v. Ford Motor Co. (2002)
104 Cal.App.4th 46, 49 for
the proposition that “in California, an automaker is not liable for the
independent negligence of a dealership employee or a third-party entity with no
relationship to GM.” (Reply, 3:12-14.) The case is inapposite because at issue
was the manufacturer’s duty to defend and indemnify a dealership for a product
liability claim asserted by a consumer. Moreover, Plaintiffs allege that the
dealership was an agent and representative of GM under the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”). (FAC, ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs allege that the dealership
personnel, as GM’s agents and representatives, told Plaintiffs that no transmission
defects existed in response to Plaintiffs direct inquiry. (FAC, ¶ 5.)
      Relying
on Avalon
Painting Co. v. Alert Lumber Co. (1965)
234 Cal.App.2d 178, GM also
contends that representations by dealership employees are not representations
of an agent of GM. (Reply, 2:16-22.) That case is equally distinguishable in
that the case involved omitted material allegations in an amended pleading that
called into question whether an agency relationship existed as between a paint
seller and a paint manufacturer. 
      Here,
Plaintiffs’ contentions are not based solely in part on the relationship
between the dealer and GM since Plaintiffs also allege that GM had prior
knowledge of the transmission issues yet prepared materials touting the
vehicle’s performance, which were contrary to what GM allegedly knew from its
internal information and investigation. 
V.     
CONCLUSION
      Based
on the foregoing, GM’s motion to strike is DENIED. GM is ordered to answer
within 10 days. 
 


