  Case Number:  22PSCV00430    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  K 1.         Defendant LVGEM Hotel Corporation’s
Motion for Preliminary Injunction is DENIED.
2.         Plaintiffs Zia Abhari’s and Amir Shamloo’s
Motion to Vacate a Null and Void
Disposition Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure Section 473(d) is DENIED.
Background[1]  
Plaintiffs Zia Abhari (“Abhari”) and Amir Shamloo
(“Shamloo”) (collectively, the “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
On
May 2, 2020, Gordes Hospitality, Inc. (“Gordes”), through Ganyu Huang aka Gary Huang (“Huang”), and Shamloo, with Abhari serving as a silent partner, entered into an
“Asset Purchase Agreement” and a “Security Agreement” with Gordes for the transfer of ownership of
Hamilton’s Steakhouse (“Hamilton”) from Gordes, as seller, to Plaintiffs, as
buyers. On June 18, 2020, LVGEM Hotel Corporation (“LVGEM”), through Huang, and Shamloo, with Abhari
serving as a silent partner of Shamloo, entered into a “Lease Agreement” for the lease of the property upon which Hamilton
is located. Gordes, LVGEM and Huang have refused to transfer the existing
liquor license for Hamilton to Plaintiffs, failed to provide Plaintiffs with
the insurance information and have undertaken efforts to deprive Plaintiffs of
their real estate leasehold possessory interest in the premises upon which the
Hamilton is located. 
On January 30, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed two “Amendment[s] to Complaint,”
wherein Jing Qiu Kwok (“Kwok”) was named in lieu of Doe 1 and Winsome CPA, Inc. (“Winsome”) was named in lieu of
Doe 2.
On May 3, 2023, the Court
sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the First Amended Complaint with leave to
amend.
On June 1, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended
Complaint, asserting causes of action against Gordes, LVGEM, Huang, Kwok,
Winsome, Marshall Brubacher (“Brubacher”), Mundell Odlum & Haws LLP
(“MO&H”), and Does 5-100 for:
1.                 
Breach of the
“Asset Purchase Agreement” Contract
2.                 
Breach of the
“Security Agreement” Contract
3.                 
Breach of the
“Lease Agreement” Contract
4.                 
Tortious
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to the “Asset
Purchase Agreement” Contract
5.                 
Tortious
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to the
“Security Agreement” Contract
6.                 
Tortious
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing as to the “Lease
Agreement” Contract
7.                 
Fraud in the
Inducement of Forming at Least the “Asset Purchase Agreement” Contract
8.                 
Negligent
Misrepresentation 
9.                 
Inducing Breach
of Contract
10.             
Fraud by False
Promise
On June 16, 2023, an “Order Granting in Part Defendants
Gordes Hospitality Inc. and LVGEM Hotel Corporation’s Application for Temporary
Restraining Order Re: Preliminary Injunction” was filed.
On August 28, 2023, the court sustained, without leave to
amend, the demurrer to the fourth, fifth, sixth, and tenth causes of action. The
court also granted Gordes’, LVGEM’s and Huang’s motion to strike as to the
request for punitive damages.
A Case Management Conference is set for September 29, 2023.
1.         Motion
for Preliminary Injunction
Legal Standard
“An injunction is a writ or order
requiring a person to refrain from a particular act. It may be granted by the
court in which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof; and when granted
by a judge, it may be enforced as an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
525.).)  
“While the statute seems to limit
that definition to prohibitory injunctions, an injunction may also be
mandatory, i.e., may compel the performance of an affirmative act. In short, an
injunction may be more completely defined as a writ or order commanding a
person either to perform or refrain from performing a particular act.” (McDowell v. Watson (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th
1155, 1160.)
“The purpose of a preliminary
injunction is to preserve the status quo pending final resolution upon a trial.”
(Grothe v. Cortlandt Corp. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1313, 1316.)
“Status quo has been defined to mean the last actual peaceable, uncontested
status which preceded the pending controversy.” (Voorhies v. Greene
(1983) 139 Cal.App.3d 989, 995 [quotations and citation
omitted].)
“[T]rial courts should evaluate two interrelated factors
when deciding whether or not to issue a preliminary injunction. The first is
the likelihood that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits at trial. The
second is the interim harm that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the
injunction were denied as compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to
suffer if the preliminary injunction were issued.” (IT Corp. v. County of Imperial (1983) 35 Cal.3d 63, 69-70.) “The trial court’s determination
must be guided by a ‘mix’ of the potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the
greater the plaintiff’s showing on one, the less must be shown on the other to
support an injunction.” (Butt v. State of
California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678.) “Generally, weighing these factors
lies within the broad discretion of the superior court.” (County of Kern v. T.C.E.F., Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 301, 315.)
With that said, “[t]he judicial
resistance to injunctive relief increases when the attempt is made to compel
the doing of affirmative acts. A preliminary mandatory injunction is rarely
granted. . .” (Board of Supervisors v. McMahon (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d
286, 295 [quotations and citation omitted; emphasis added].) A
mandatory injunction “is not permitted except in extreme cases where the right thereto is clearly
established and it appears that irreparable injury will flow from its refusal.” (Id.)
Discussion
Gordes and LVGEM
seek a preliminary injunction: (1) ordering Plaintiffs to vacate Hamilton, (2)
restraining Plaintiffs from entering Hamilton and interfering with Hamilton’s
operations in any way and (3) ordering Plaintiffs to turn over all information
relating to Gordes’ accounts, including the sales tax, utilities and merchant
bank accounts.
Request for Judicial Notice
The court grants Gordes and LVGEM’s Request for Judicial Notice.
Merits
The relief LVGEM and Gordes seek is
mandatory in character, in that they are seeking to compel affirmative acts
that change the status quo; namely, that Plaintiffs vacate Hamilton and turn
over certain financial information. LVGEM and Gordes, however, have not
established that the right to an injunction is “clearly established.” LVGEM and
Gordes concede that they intend to “obtain a new tenant for the [Hamilton]” if
the instant motion is granted. (Tong Additional Decl., ¶ 6). Additionally,
LVGEM’s and Gordes’ proposed order includes the following language: “The Court
hereby issues a Preliminary Injunction, pursuant to which: . . . b. LVGEM shall
regain control over the Restaurant premises.” (Emphasis added). This is
clearly a change of status quo. LVGEM’s and Gordes’ request for issuance of a
preliminary injunction is denied.
2.         Motion to Vacate
Discussion
Plaintiffs move the
court to “vacate the null and void disposition” of the court’s ruling on the
demurrer and motion to strike brought by Gordes, LVGEM and Huang.
Plaintiffs
essentially disagree with the court’s tentative ruling posted in advance of the
August 3, 2023 hearing as to the above demurrer and motion to strike. The court
took the demurrer and motion to strike under submission on that date. The
instant motion was filed on August 9, 2023, well before the court issued its
August 28, 2023 “Ruling on Submitted Matter.”
Plaintiffs’ motion
is summarily denied as legally unsupported. Plaintiff fails to provide the
court with any statutory or other legal authority which would enable a party to
challenge a court’s tentative ruling.


