  Case Number:  19STCV27214    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
WS Communities, LLC,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV27214




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Law Offices of Hollenbeck & Cardoso, LLP, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January 9, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Amend Judgment to Add
Judgment Debtor;
Motion for Turn Over Order
Moving Party: Plaintiff WS Communities, LLC
Responding Party: Defendants Linda T. Hollenbeck, Tania
Cardoso and Law Offices of Hollenbeck & Cardoso, LLP
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO AMEND JUDGMENT IS
GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR TURNOVER ORDER
IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
A. Motion to Amend Judgment to Add
Judgment Debtor
 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 187 grants every court the power and authority to carry
its jurisdiction into effect. (Highland Springs Conf. & Training Ctr. v.
City of Banning (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 267, 280.) This includes the
authority to amend a judgment to add an alter ego of an original judgment
debtor, making the additional judgment debtor liable on the judgment. (Toho–Towa
Co., Ltd. v. Morgan Creek Productions, Inc. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1096,
1106.) Amending a judgment to add an alter ego of an original judgment debtor “
‘is an equitable procedure based on the theory that the court is not amending
the judgment to add a new defendant but is merely inserting the correct name of
the real defendant.’ ” (McClellan v. Northridge Park Townhome Owners Assn.
(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 746, 752.)
“The ability
under section 187 to amend a judgment to add a defendant, thereby imposing
liability on the new defendant without trial, requires both (1) that the new
party be the alter ego of the old party and (2) that the new party had
controlled the litigation, thereby having had the opportunity to litigate, in
order to satisfy due process concerns.” (Toho, supra, 217 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1106.) “A court may also disregard the corporate form in order to hold one corporation
liable for the debts of another affiliated corporation when the latter is so
organized and controlled, and its affairs are so conducted, as to make it
merely an instrumentality, agency, conduit, or adjunct of another corporation.”
(Id. at p. 1107 [internal quotations omitted].)
 
Plaintiff moves
to add HC Law APC as a judgment debtor. Plaintiff previously obtained a
judgment against Law Offices of Hollenbeck & Cardoso LLP (LOHC)
in the amount of $834,368.40. The parties stipulated that Defendants would pay
Plaintiff $10,000.00 per month plus 100% of LOHC’s monthly gross receipts in
excess of $150,000.00 until the judgment is satisfied.
 
Plaintiff now asserts that Defendants have
failed to consistently make the required payments. Plaintiff represents that HC
Law is merely a continuation of LOHC after LOHC could no longer practice due to
Defendant Hollenbeck’s temporary suspension from the practice of law. No
agreement exists between LOHC and HC Law concerning the terms and conditions by
which HC Law succeeded to LOHC’s business. (Judgment Debtor Transcript,
44:24-45:10.) Ms. Cardoso simply contacted LOHC’s clients and requested that
they sign substitutions of attorney substituting HC Law for LOHC (TR,
45:21-47:17.), and HC Law thereafter retained for itself all sums paid by
LOHC’s former clients. (TR, 51:20-52:6; 56:6-58:2.) In doing so, neither Ms.
Cardoso nor HC Law made any arrangements to see LOHC’s creditors, including WS,
would be paid when HC Law succeeded to LOHC’s business. Since succeeding to
LOHC’s business, HC Law has used the office address (¶10 of Wolf Decl. and
Exhibits “G” and “H” thereto.) and phone numbers previously used by LOHC. (TR,
41:23-25.)
 
In opposition, Defendants assert that HC Law is
not a continuation of LOHC because Defendant Hollenbeck owned the majority
shares of LOHC and now Defendant Cardoso owns the majority of HC Law.
Defendants also argue that the amendment should not be granted because
Defendants are making consistent payments on the judgment. Defendants admit
that HC Law has made payments on the settlement on behalf of Defendants.
 
The Court finds amendment appropriate. LOHC is a
continuation of HC Law and already has been making settlement payments. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.
 
B. Motion for Turnover Order
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 708.510, a judgment
creditor may apply to the court for an order requiring the judgment debtor to
assign to the creditor or a receiver appointed under Code of Civil Procedure §
708.610, et seq., all or part of the debtor's right to a payment due or to become
due, whether or not the right is conditioned on future developments. (Code Civ,
Proc., § 708.510(a); see, e.g., Philippine Export and Foreign Loan Guarantee
Corp. v. Chuidian (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1058, 1098-1099.) The statute
provides the creditor a procedure for reaching certain types of property that
cannot be reached by levy under a writ of execution. It also provides the
creditor an optional method for reaching assignable types of property that are
subject to levy, such as accounts receivable, general intangibles, judgments,
and instruments.
 
Section 708.510, subdivision (a) provides that the
assignment order procedure is applicable to, but not limited to, the following
types of payments: (1) Federal wages not subject to withholding under an
earnings withholding order; (2) Rents, commissions, and royalties; (3) Payments
due from a patent or copyright; (4) The loan value of an insurance policy.
 
Plaintiff seeks a turnover order against HC Law:
 
(i) Commanding HC Law to pay and deliver to WS, until the judgment
entered in this action might be satisfied, with interest, in full, all sums it
might collect or receive, as and when collected or received, provided, however,
HC Law will not, in any calendar month, be obligated to pay WS more than the
greater of (x) $10,000.00 and (y) 100% of its monthly gross receipts in excess
of $150,000.00; 
 
(ii) Commanding HC Law to provide WS with such financial, bank and other
records on a monthly basis as are reasonably necessary for WS to confirm HC Law
has paid to it all of the sums owing under paragraph (i), above; and, 
 
(iii) Should HC Law fail to comply with the orders set out in paragraphs
(i) and (ii), above, or either of them, that, a receiver be appointed for HC
Law to collect and pay the aforesaid sums to WS.
 
Plaintiff asserts that this order is necessary
to collect the judgment from newly added debtor HC Law. The terms of the order
are the same as the settlement agreement with Defendants, including LOHC. In
opposition, Defendants argue the motion should be denied because HC Law and
LOHC are separate entities.
 
The Court finds good cause for the turnover
order. HC Law has been added as a judgment creditor and the order mirrors the payment
obligations of the settlement between all parties. Plaintiff’s motion is
GRANTED.


 