 Case Number:  23STCV05549    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Clare Weber, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV05549




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Board of Trustees of the California State University, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: January 9, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Bifurcate
Moving Party: Defendants Board of Trustees of the
California State University, Jake Zhu and Tomás Morales 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Clare Weber and Anissa
Rogers
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO BIFURCATE IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving
papers, opposition, and reply.  
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 598 allows a party to seek an order
before trial ‘that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the
trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case,’ where ‘the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby ….’” (Estate of Young (2008)
160 Cal. App. 4th 62, 90.)
 
Defendants move to bifurcate trial
between the two Plaintiffs in this action. Defendants assert that the
employment claims of each Plaintiff involve different facts, different
supervisors, and different campuses. Defendants argue that one trial would be
unduly confusing to the jury and prejudicial to Defendants. In opposition,
Plaintiffs argue the motion should be denied because Plaintiffs have brought
this lawsuit together to conserve resources and consolidate witnesses.
Plaintiffs represent that Plaintiffs will use many of the same witnesses, including
experts, and evidence and that both Plaintiffs claims support each other’s
theories that Defendants engaged in a pattern and practice of discrimination. 
 
Although both Plaintiffs allege gender
discrimination and harassment, each presents a different factual scenario. Weber’s
case arises from the alleged acts of Defendant Morales, while Rogers’ claims
are based on alleged acts of Defendant Zhu. The alleged acts of the two
defendants took place at separate times, on separate campuses, with separate
underlying facts. Trying the two cases together creates the risk of undue
prejudice to Defendants, by potentially conflating the two scenarios, and allowing
inflammatory evidence concerning one Plaintiff’s case to color the jury’s perception
of the other Plaintiff’s case.
 
The Court has balanced these concerns with
Plaintiffs’ interest in streamlining the trial, and that some witnesses’
testimony is applicable to both cases. The Court also recognizes that certain “me-too”
evidence about one Plaintiff’s situation may be admissible in the other
Plaintiff’s case. But trying the two cases together, even though they are based
on different factual allegations, would preclude a full analysis under the law
as to what evidence concerning one Plaintiff is admissible in the other
Plaintiff’s case; by definition, the jury would hear all the evidence about
both Plaintiffs at once. It also would preclude the Court from deciding whether
“me-too” evidence involving other individuals may be admissible as to only one Plaintiff.
That Plaintiffs made the strategic choice to bring both cases in the same complaint
does not bind the Court to try both cases together. Here, the risk of undue
prejudice to Defendants outweighs Plaintiffs’ interests in trying both cases
together. 
 
The Court finds that the interests of
justice require bifurcating the trials of each Plaintiff. Defendants’ motion is
GRANTED.


 



Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Clare Weber, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV05549




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Board of Trustees of the California State University, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: January 9, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Leave to Amend
Moving Party: Plaintiffs Clare Weber and Anissa
Rogers 
Responding Party: Defendants Board of Trustees of the
California State University, Jake Zhu and Tomás Morales
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF'S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND
IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFFS TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving
papers, opposition, and reply.  
 
The Court may allow, in furtherance of justice,
and “upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding
in other particulars….”  (CCP §
473(a)(1).)  A motion to amend a pleading
before trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies (1)
the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (CRC Rule 3.1324(b).)
It is not an abuse of discretion of the court
to grant the motion unless there is a “showing that actual unfairness or
obvious prejudice has resulted from the allowance of such an amendment”.  (Posz v. Burchell (1962) 209
Cal.App.2d 324, 334.)  “Counsel on the
firing line in an actual trial must be prepared for surprises, including
requests for amendments of pleading.”  (Ibid.)  Absent a showing of prejudice, delay alone is
insufficient grounds for denial.  (See
Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal. App. 3d 558, 564–65.)
Plaintiffs move for leave to file a first
amended complaint to expressly restate
adverse employment actions taken by Defendant CSU against Plaintiff Dr. Weber
(failure to promote and termination), which are already alleged in multiple
other sections of the original Complaint, into her third cause of action for
gender discrimination. Plaintiffs assert that this amendment is a minor
clarification that does not add new facts or causes of action. Plaintiffs
comply with CRC Rule 3.1324(b).
In opposition, Defendants argue Plaintiffs have unreasonably delayed in seeking
amendment and that the amendment substantially changes the claims asserted.
The
Court will allow amendment. The amendment does not add new facts or claims;
Defendants will suffer no prejudice. 
Plaintiffs’
motion is GRANTED.


 