 Case Number:  24STCV21046    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Periodic Holdings,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV21046




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Megan McMurray, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January 9, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Preliminary Injunction
Moving Party: Plaintiff Periodic Holdings
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY
INJUNCTION IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email
the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers
and reply. No opposition has been received.
 
In deciding whether to issue a preliminary
injunction, the court looks to two factors: “(1) the likelihood that the
Petitioner will prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative balance of harms
that is likely to result from the granting or denial of interim injunctive
relief.” (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 553-54.) The factors are
interrelated, with a greater showing on one permitting a lesser showing on the
other. (Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003)
105 Cal.App.4th 1414, 1420.)
 
Plaintiff moves for a preliminary
injunction restraining defendant McMurray, and their agents,
servants, and employees, from any of the following actions during the pendency
of this action: 
a. Transferring any right, title, or interest in or to the Shares of
WPFH (“the Shares”), whether they are restricted or unrestricted, in paper
certificate or electronic or book entry form, 
 
b. Depositing or allowing to be deposited the Shares in a Brokerage
account, savings account, or any type of account or financial entity capable of
holding the Shares; 
 
c. Issuing any new certificate of ownership or title to the Shares;
 
d. Voiding, destroying, selling, junking, moving or in any way disposing
of the Shares;
 
Plaintiff asserts that it gave Defendant McMurray over $35 million in
shares in WPF Holdings as investment into a medical start-up. Plaintiff
represents that Defendant has not performed any of the services or work
promised in exchange for the investment and has refused to return the
investment. Plaintiff argues that severe prejudice will result if Defendant is
allowed to sell or transfer these shares during this action. Defendant does not
oppose this motion to show otherwise. 
 
The Court finds good cause for a preliminary injunction. The motion is GRANTED.
 