 Case Number:  22STCV30042    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
The
motion to continue trial is GRANTED.
Background
This arises from
a dog bite incident that occurred on August 3, 2021, between Plaintiffs Sebastian
I. Forbes, a minor through his Guardian Ad Litem Joshua Chad Forbes, Lincoln
Forbes, a minor through his Guardian Ad Litem Joshua Chad Forbes, Joshua Chad
Forbes and Andrea Forbes (“Plaintiffs”) and Defendants City of South Pasadena and National Association of Town
Watch.  Plaintiff filed this
action on September 14, 2022, asserting causes of action for (1) Strict
Liability, Negligent Hiring, Training, Supervision and Retention, (3) General
Negligence, and (4) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
 
Defendant City of South Pasadena
(“Defendant”) filed this Motion to Continue Trial on November 9, 2023. Plaintiff
filed his opposition on November 27, 2023. Defendant filed his reply on
December 1, 2023.
Trial is set for March 13, 2024.
Legal
Standard
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12,
18.) 
Each request for
a continuance must be considered on its own merits according to California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of
good cause include: 
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice; 
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case; 
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or 
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).) 
 
California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be
analyzed when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is
present. A court considers factors such as: 
“(1) The proximity of the trial date; 
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; 
(3) The length of the continuance requested; 
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance; 
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial; 
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance;

(10) Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and 
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.” 
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(d).)
 
 
Discussion
Here, Defendant moves to continue trial as Defendants
have filed their motion to conduct examinations of plaintiffs, set to be heard
February 20, 2024, only a few days before the cut-off for discovery motions
before the trial date. (Declaration of Katrina J. Valencia, ¶ 20.) Defendant’s counsel provides a
history of requesting the examinations from Plaintiff’s counsel, and the
ultimate disagreement of as to the testing proposed by Plaintiff’s counsel. (Id.,
¶ 13.)
Plaintiffs argue Defendant was not diligent
in seeking an order from the Court to perform a psychological examination
(Opposition, 2:23-25.) Plaintiffs further state that they are owed preference
under California Code of Civil Procedure section 36(b) as this is a civil
action to recover damages, Plaintiff Sebastian is under the age of 14, and has
a substantial interest in the case as a whole. (Opposition, 4:1-5.) Plaintiffs’
counsel provided a copy of Plaintiff Sebastian’s birth certificate supporting
his is under the age of 14. (Exh. 5) 
Defendant
replies that it did not delay in seeking a motion to compel mental
examinations, that Plaintiffs’ counsel refused on October 19, 2023. (Reply, 3:9-10.)
Further, Defendant did not receive medical records of Plaintiffs until August
2023, and only received Plaintiff Sebastian’s psychological records on October
10, 2023. (Reply, 3:21-24.) Defendant points out Plaintiffs have filed a motion
for trial preference, which is set to be heard on March 13, 2024, and that it
is improper to raise in the opposition to this motion. (Reply, 5:7-10.)
The Court finds that Defendants have
established good cause for continuing trial as Defendant’s motion to compel
mental examinations is not to be heard until days before the discovery cut-off
deadline. 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the motion.
With regard to Plaintiff’s reference to a
trial preference, Plaintiff must seek such a preference by noticed motion, not
in response to a motion to continue.  The
Court expresses no views on the merits of any such motion.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS
the motion to continue trial. Trial is continued to late June 2024.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date. 
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.
 