 Case Number:  22STCV04910    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
The
motion to continue trial is GRANTED.
Background
This arises from
a slip and fall incident that occurred on April 18, 2021, between Plaintiff Charles
Turner (“Plaintiff”) and Defendants City of Los
Angeles and Los Angeles World Airports (“Defendants”).  Plaintiff filed this action on February 8,
2022, asserting causes of action for (1) General Negligence and (2) Premise
Liability against Defendants. 
 
Defendants filed this Motion to Continue
Trial on November 8, 2023. Plaintiff filed his opposition on November 27, 2023.
Defendant filed his reply on December 1, 2023.
Trial is set for February 8, 2024.
Legal
Standard
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12,
18.) 
Each request for
a continuance must be considered on its own merits according to California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of
good cause include: 
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice; 
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case; 
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or 
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).) 
 
California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be
analyzed when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is
present. A court considers factors such as: 
“(1) The proximity of the trial date; 
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; 
(3) The length of the continuance requested; 
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance; 
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial; 
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance;

(10) Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and 
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).)
 “The
motion [for summary judgment] shall be heard no later than 30 days before the
date of trial, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise. The filing of
the motion shall not extend the time within which a party must otherwise file a
responsive pleading.” (CCP § 437c(a)(3).)
Discussion
Here, Defendants move to continue trial as Defendants
have filed their motion for summary judgment on October 26, 2023, but the
earliest availability the Court calendar had was January 8, 2025. (Declaration
of David You, ¶
6, 11.) Defendants’ counsel
gives a history of requesting the continuance from Plaintiff’s counsel, discovering
there was available date to move up the hearing, but by the time agreement was
made, the hearing date was no longer available. (Id., ¶ 12-18.)
Plaintiff argues Defendants were not diligent
in their filing of the motion for summary judgment, but are amenable to a
specially set date for a motion before March 2024. (Opposition, 3:8-9.)
Plaintiff further states this is the second trial continuance, as a previous
one was processed by signed stipulation. (Opposition, 6:23-25.) Plaintiff also
states justice for the Plaintiff will be delayed by the continuance.
(Opposition, 7:13-14.) 
Plaintiff asserts Defendants have delayed in
filing their motion for summary judgment, as Defendants took deposition of Plaintiff
and Plaintiff's wife in May 2023, received the transcript in June 2023, yet did
not file a motion for summary judgment until October 26, 2023. (Declaration of
Natalee Fisher, ¶ 6.) Plaintiff reiterated Defendants’ counsel history of attempting
to schedule the motion to February 5, 2024, but by the time it was agreed to,
the motion hearing was no longer available. (Id., ¶ 8-11.)
Defendants
reply that Plaintiff has not specifically stated a way he would be impacted by
the delay, just that justice would be delayed. (Reply, 5:20-21.) 
The Court finds that Defendants have
established good cause for continuing trial as Defendants have timely filed a
motion for summary judgment, Defendants have a right to have the motion heard, the
motion must be heard at least 30 days before the trial date, and the earliest
available hearing date was January 8, 2025. This date is currently after the trial
date of February 8, 2024.
The Court does not have available capacity to
advance the hearing date to March 2024, as Plaintiff requests.
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the motion.
 
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS
the motion to continue trial. Trial is continued to late March 2025.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date. 
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.
 