 Case Number:  21STCV45947    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
The
motion to continue trial is GRANTED.
Background
This arises from
a dog bite incident that occurred on December 19, 2019, between Plaintiff James
Cody Williams (“Plaintiff”) and Defendants Colloff, Fishman & Britt
Casting, Inc, 4322 Wilshire, LLC, Jamison Properties, Inc., Jamison Services,
Inc., Anya Colloff, and Does 1 to 100.  Plaintiff
filed this action on December 16, 2021, asserting causes of action for (1)
General Negligence, (2) Premise Liability, and (3) Strict Liability against
Defendants. 
 
Plaintiff filed this Motion to Continue Trial
on November 15, 2023. Defendants Anya Colloff and Colloff, Fishman & Britt
Casting, Inc., (“Defendants”) filed their opposition on November 28, 2023.
Plaintiff filed his reply on December 1, 2023.
Trial is set for January 11, 2024.
Legal
Standard
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12,
18.) 
Each request for
a continuance must be considered on its own merits according to California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of
good cause include: 
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice; 
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case; 
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or 
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).) 
 
California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be
analyzed when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is
present. A court considers factors such as: 
“(1) The proximity of the trial date; 
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; 
(3) The length of the continuance requested; 
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance; 
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial; 
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance;

(10) Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and 
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).)
 
 
Discussion
Plaintiff moves to continue trial, arguing
that Defendants have caused discovery delay and prejudiced Plaintiff to
properly prepare for trial. (Declaration of Gary Minevich, ¶ 5, 6.) Further, depositions are still
currently underway. (Id., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff stated Defendants have failed to produce all discovery
items, and that Plaintiff needs more time to depose potential witness and
receive crucial video evidence. (Id., ¶ 9, 10.) Plaintiff also
asserts Defendants’ counsel has agreed to the continuance. (Id., ¶ 13.)
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed to
engage in the Court order mandatory settlement conference. (Declaration of
Katherine A. Taikian, ¶ 5-7.) Defendants also contend they have provided substantive
responses to written discovery and all documents in Defendants’ possession,
custody and/or control. (Id.,
¶ 11-13.) Defendants state the video evidence is not in Defendants’
possession, that it has been requested, but Defendants are still waiting to
receive it. (Id., ¶
14.) Defendants lastly state Defendant Anya Colloff and Plaintiff are the only
persons with personal knowledge of the incident; both have been deposed. (Id., ¶ 15.)
Defendants
state the trial has been continued once by stipulation and that Plaintiff has
not provided good cause for continuing it again. (Opposition, 5:13-16.)
Plaintiff
replies that he had furnished dates for the Mandatory Settlement Conference.
(Reply, 2:2-4.) Plaintiff also states other witnesses have been unavailable for
deposition, one citing childbirth for the delay. (Reply, 4:3-4.) The video
evidence has yet to be attained as well. (Reply, 4:10-13.) 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
established good cause for continuing trial as Plaintiff is still waiting on
evidence from Defendants, the video. This is in line with California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332(c)(6), in that Plaintiff contends he has not had the
requested video made available to him yet despite his efforts to request it. Defendants
have acknowledged that the video exists and is outside of their control, but
have requested the video such, since the video could be discoverable, and
Plaintiff contends it is a vital piece of discovery, Plaintiff has established
good cause to continue the trial date. Further, the trial has only been
continued once.
This extension would also give the parties
the opportunity to participate in the Mandatory Settlement Conference as
ordered by this Court on February 24, 2023.
Therefore, the Court GRANTS the motion and
continues the trial date for approximately 90 days.
Counsel for all parties are admonished to
treat the new trial date as firm. If either party contends that any other
party, or any third party witness, is being dilatory with providing testimony,
documents, or other information, counsel is advised to serve appropriate formal
notices and/or subpoenas and, if needed, file any appropriate motion to compel.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS
the motion to continue trial. Trial is continued to mid April 2024.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date. 
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.