

 
             This action arises from an employment dispute.
Plaintiff Daryl G. Crouse (Plaintiff or Crouse) alleges he was discriminated against
and ultimately terminated from his position as an attorney at Defendant
eAccidents, APC (Defendant or eAccidents) based on his religion and for reporting
Defendant Avi E. Muhtar’s harassing behavior. 
 
On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a Complaint for (1.) wrongful termination, (2.) retaliation under Labor Code section
1102.5, (3.) religious discrimination, (4.) failure to pay wages and
commissions under Labor Code section 201 and 202, and (5.) waiting time penalties
under Labor Code section 203. 
 
On November 2, 2023,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant eAccidents filed a Cross-Complaint for (1.) breach
of contract, (2.) breach of duty of loyalty, (3.) trespass, and (4.) trespass
to chattels. 
 
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant
Crouse filed a demurrer to the Cross-Complaint. Cross-Complainant eAccidents filed
an opposition to the demurrer.
 
            The demurrer
is sustained as to all causes of action with leave to amend.  
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Discussion

 
Cross-Defendant demurs to the first
through fourth causes of action on the grounds that each cause of action fails
to state a claim. 
 
First Cause
of Action for Breach of Contract:
 
Cross-Defendant
Crouse demurs to the first cause of action for breach of contract on the
grounds it fails to state a claim.
 
To
state a claim for breach of contract, a plaintiff must allege sufficient facts
to establish: (1) a contract between the parties; (2) plaintiff’s performance
or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach; and (4) damages to
plaintiff from the breach. (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York
Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) 
 
The
Cross-Complaint alleges Crouse began working for eAccidents on November 21,
2022, pursuant to a written agreement. (XC ¶ 6.) “Pursuant to the terms of the
Agreement alleged above, Crouse was required to work as a full-time employee
and was compensated as such.” (XC ¶ 11.) The Cross-Complaint further alleges
that “Crouse was operating an unaffiliated business out of the eAccidents
office during normal work hours, during the time Crouse was supposed to be
employed and working “full-time” on behalf of eAccidents.” (XC ¶ 8.)
 
Cross-Defendant
argues the Cross-Complaint fails to allege any specific contractual obligations
that were breached or how the breach occurred. 
 
The
demurrer is well taken. 
 
“If the action is based on alleged breach of a written
contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a
copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.”
(Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) Cross-Complainant
did not set forth the contract terms, the full written agreement or
the specific provisions that Crouse allegedly breached. Specifically,
the contract provision that Crouse was to work “full-time” is too vague to
demonstrate a breach of contract under the circumstances.
 
The
demurrer to the breach of contract cause of action is sustained with leave to
amend.
 
Second Cause of
Action for Breach of Duty of Loyalty:
 
            Cross-Defendant Crouse demurs to the
second cause of action on the grounds it fails to state a claim.
 
            “The
elements of a cause of action for breach of a duty of loyalty, by analogy to a
claim for breach of fiduciary duty, are as follows: (1) the existence of a
relationship giving rise to a duty of loyalty; (2) one or more breaches of that
duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Huong Que, Inc. v.
Luu (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 400, 410.)
 
            The Cross-Complaint alleges that Crouse
breached his duty of undivided loyalty owed to eAccidents by “conducting his
own business at the office of eAccidents while purportedly working full-time
for eAccidents and not completing all the work he could have for eAccidents in
a timely fashion.” (XC ¶¶ 18-19.) 
 
            Cross-Defendant argues that Cross-Complaint
contains no facts identifying what this business was or how it constituted a
breach; that is, there are no allegations that Cross-Defendant was operating a
competitive business, acting on behalf of competitors, misappropriating trade
secrets, soliciting clients, or otherwise engaging in disloyal conduct.
 
            The opposition, citing 29 Cal. Jur.
3d Employer and Employee section 32, argues that an employee must serve their
employer during working hours. (29 Cal. Jur. 3d Employer and Employee § 32 [“It
is the employee's duty to serve one's employer faithfully during working
hours.”] [citing Charles T. Powner
Co. v. Smith (1928) 91
Cal.App. 101, 102].)[1]
 
            The demurrer is well taken. Cross-Complainant
cites no case authority suggesting that an employee’s expending time on other projects
is a breach of duty of loyalty ­as opposed a potential breach of
contract. Rather, to show a breach of loyalty, Cross-Complainant is required to
allege facts showing the nature of the work conflicts with the interests of his
employer, i.e., is disloyal. (See e.g.,
Paramount Mfg. Co. v. Mohan (1961) 196 Cal.App.2d 372, 377.) 
 
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
Third Cause of
Action for Trespass:
 
            Cross-Defendant Crouse demurs to the
third cause of action on the grounds it fails to state a claim.
 
            “
‘Trespass is an unlawful interference with possession of property.’ [Citation.]
The elements of trespass are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or control of the
property; (2) the defendant's intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto
the property; (3) lack of permission for the entry or acts in excess of
permission; (4) harm; and (5) the defendant's conduct was a substantial factor
in causing the harm.” (Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc.
(2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 261–262.) 
 
            To
bring a claim for trespass, entry must be without permission and an unlawful
interference with that right of possession of property. (Cobb v. City of
Stockton (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 65, 73; Staples v. Hoefke (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 1397, 1406.)
 
            The Cross-Complaint alleges that “Crouse
was only authorized to be present at eAccidents’ office to conduct the business
of eAccidents. eAccidents did not give Crouse permission to conduct business
for himself or some other entity on the premises of eAccidents.” (XC ¶ 23.) 
 
            These allegations fail to show that
Crouse’s presence on the property interfered with eAccident’s possession of the
property.  The demurrer to the third
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.


Fourth Cause of
Action for Trespass to Chattels:
 
            Cross-Defendant Crouse demurs to the
fourth cause of action on the grounds it fails to state a claim.
 
            “
‘Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another.’
[Citation.] Proof of conversion requires a showing of ownership or right to
possession of the property at the time of the conversion, the defendant's
conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights, and resulting
damages.” (Avidor v. Sutter's Place, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1439,
1452.) The tort of trespass to chattels, “[d]ubbed by Prosser the ‘little
brother of conversion,’ ... allows recovery for interferences with possession
of personal property ‘not sufficiently important to be classed as conversion,
and so to compel the defendant to pay the full value of the thing with which he
has interfered.’ ” (Intel Corp. v. Hamidi (2003) 30 Cal.4th 1342, 1350.)
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges “eAccidents
had the right to possession of the office equipment used by Crouse while
working at eAccidents. Crouse was not authorized conduct business for himself
or some other entity using eAccidents’ office equipment.” (XC ¶¶ 27-28.) 
 
            “[T]he
trespass to chattels tort ... may not, in California, be proved without
evidence of an injury to the plaintiff's personal property or legal interest
therein.” (Intel Corp. v. Hamidi (2003) 30 Cal.4th 1342, 1348.) “In
modern American law generally, ‘[t]respass [to chattels] remains as an
occasional remedy for minor interferences, resulting in some damage, but
not sufficiently serious or sufficiently important to amount to the greater
tort’ of conversion.” (Id. at 1351.) “[I]njury to the personal property
or the possessor's interest in it is an element of the action ....” (Id.
at 1352.)
 
            Here,
this cause of action fails to state claim  because
it fails to allege damage to Cross-Complainant’s personal property. The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer
to the Cross-Complaint is sustained with leave to amend as to all causes of
action. Cross-Complainant shall have leave to amend. The first amended
Cross-Complaint shall be served and filed on or before March 5, 2024.
 


