

 
            In this
unfortunate imposition on the Court’s resources, the Complaint alleges that
Defendant Fari Bari Nejadpour (Defendant Nejadpour) “instigated an extremely
minor confrontation by cornering, trapping, detaining and threatening” Plaintiff
Larry M. Bakman (Plaintiff Bakman) and “forcing a cellular telephone” into Plaintiff’s
face and recording Plaintiff's voice without his permission in an attempt to
falsely claim that Defendant was a victim in this confrontation. The Complaint
alleges claims for (1.) false light, (2.) assault, (3.) false imprisonment, and
(4.) intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
            On
June 13, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Nejadpour filed a Cross-Complaint for
(1.) assault, (2.) battery, and (3.) negligence. 
 
On July 12, 2023, Cross-Defendant
Bakman moved to strike portions of the Cross-Complaint. Cross-Complainant Nejadpour filed an opposition. 
 
            The Motion
to Strike is granted in part and denied in part.
 
            Cross-Complainant Nejadpour’s frivolous request
for judicial notice of Items Nos. 1-7 is denied. 
 
Legal Standard for
Motions to Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant”
matters include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Cross-Defendant
Bakman moves to strike several allegations in the Cross-Complaint.
Specifically, Cross-Defendant seeks to strike the following allegations:
 
1.     Page 2, line 13: “... violent
spousal abuser...” 
2.    
Page 2, line 16: “Bakman has admitted to making false claims
to advantage himself in civil cases.”
3.    
Page 2, line 17: “Bakman has admitted to threatening
criminal charges to obtain an advantage in a civil dispute.”
4.    
Page 2, line 18: “...frivolous...”
 
Cross-Defendant
Bakman moves to strike these allegations on the grounds that they are irrelevant
to the causes of action in this matter.
 
In
opposition, Cross-Complainant Nejadpour argues the allegations
are relevant to show the context of the altercation. Nejadpour’s position has
not been carefully thought through.
 
            Only
the allegation that the ex parte application was “frivolous” (No. 4) is remotely
relevant to the underlying altercation (XC ¶ 9.), although Nejadpour’s
characterization of the description as “menacing, harassing, and threatening”
is risible. (Nejadpour’s request for judicial notice is frivolous; to say so is
not harassment.) The remaining allegations (Nos. 1-3) are irrelevant and may be
properly stricken. 
 
Conclusion
            
The motion
to strike is granted as to items 1, 2, and 3 (found in Cross-Complaint p. 2,
lines 13, 16, and 17).  The motion is
otherwise denied.  Cross-Complainant Nejadpour shall not have leave to amend. 