  Case Number:  19NWCV00577    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  C HERNANDEZ v. KIA
MOTORS AMERICA, INC.
CASE NO.: 19NWCV00577
HEARING:  December 10,
2024 @ 9:30 a.m.
JUDGE: Raul A. Sahagun
 
#1
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendant’s Motion to
Tax Costs is GRANTED, in part, in the amount of $5,982.41. Plaintiff is
therefore awarded costs in the total amount of $14,118.51.
 
Defendant to give
notice. 
 
Background
 
This is a lemon law action. On July 19, 2019, Plaintiff
Emelin Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Kia Motors America,
Inc (“Defendant”). On September 3, 2021, Plaintiff filed the Second Amended
Complaint (SAC). The SAC alleges Plaintiff purchased a 2017 Kia Optima LX from
Defendant. The SAC alleges the vehicle had a defective transmission and engine,
and that Defendant failed to repair and repurchase the vehicle in violation of
the express warranties. 
 
On August 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Settlement.
On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Memorandum of Costs, which seeks $20,100.92
without attorney’s fees. The Motion for Attorney’s Fees is currently pending. 
 
Defendant now moves to tax costs. Defendant seeks to strike
all costs sought, or in the alternative, to tax costs in the sum of $15,901.28,
leaving a balance of $4,199.64.
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5, subdivision (a) sets
forth the items allowable as costs while Section 1033.5, subdivision (b)
details the items that are not allowable as costs. “If the items appearing in a
cost bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to
tax costs to show that they were not reasonable or necessary. On the other
hand, if the items are properly objected to, they are put in issue and the
burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs. Whether a cost item was
reasonably necessary to the litigation presents a question of fact for the
trial court and its decision is reviewed for abuse of discretion.” (Acosta
v. SI Corp. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1370, 1380.) Costs must be both
“reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely
convenient or beneficial to its preparation,” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1033.5 subd. (c)(1)),
and reasonable in amount. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1033.5, subd. (c)(2).) 
 
Generally, the burden on a motion to tax costs depends upon
whether the costs appear proper. “If the items appear to be proper charges the
verified memorandum is prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses and
services therein listed were necessarily incurred by the [prevailing party],
and the burden of showing that an item is not properly chargeable or is
unreasonable is upon the objecting party.” (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 111, 131.) “The court's first determination, therefore, is whether
the statute expressly allows the particular item, and whether it appears proper
on its face. If so, the burden is on the objecting party to show them to be
unnecessary or unreasonable.” (Ibid.) 
 
Discussion
 
          Applicability
of Code of Civil Procedure section 1033, subdivision (a) 
 
The Court initially discusses Defendant’s argument that the
Memorandum of Costs should be stricken in its entirety because the settlement
of $31,000.00 could have been recovered in a limited case under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1033, subdivision (a).
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1033, subdivision (a) states
the following: 
 
“Costs or any
portion of claimed costs shall be as determined by the court in its
discretion in a case other than a limited civil case in accordance
with Section 1034 where the prevailing party recovers a judgment that
could have been rendered in a limited civil case.”
 
(Code Civ.
Proc. § 1033, subd. (a).)
 
Plaintiff argues that Civil Code
section 1794, subdivision (d) requires the Court to award reasonably incurred
costs and expenses, and that Code of Civil Procedure section 1033, subdivision
(a) does not apply. Plaintiff argues that even if section 1033, subdivision (a)
was applicable, courts have held that a trial court should award costs to a
plaintiff who recovers less than the jurisdictional amount for an unlimited
civil case when he or she reasonably and in good faith initiated the action
believing that the ultimate recovery would exceed the jurisdictional limit,
citing Chavez v. City of Los Angeles, (2010) 47 Cal. 4th 970, 987.
Plaintiff reasonably believed that based on the evidence, Plaintiff could
recover an award over $25,000 when she filed the case in 2019. (Oliva Decl., ¶ 3.)
A statutory repurchase of the vehicle would have been in the amount of
$30,473.17. (Oliva Decl., ¶ 4.) Recovery of civil penalty damages would have
been $60,946.34, and Plaintiff could have recovered registration payments and prejudgment
interest had this case proceeded to trial. (Olivia Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.) All of these
damages were requested in the prayer of the Complaint. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1033, subdivision (a), the Court is not required to decline fees
and costs to a party who files action as an unlimited civil case but ultimately
recovers an amount that could have been recovered in limited civil case; it
merely gives judge discretion to do so if the judge finds denial is
appropriate. (See Cruz v. Fusion Buffet, Inc (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 221,
231-32.) (Italics added.)
 
The Court initially notes that the
jurisdictional amount for a limited civil case was statutorily changed to
amounts exceeding $35,000 in 2024—prior to this change, the amount was $25,000.
(See Code Civ. Proc. § 85, subd. (a).) Plaintiff thus must have reasonably
believed she could recover over the previous amount of $25,000 when the
Complaint was filed in 2019. The Court finds that Plaintiff was reasonable in
filing the action as an unlimited civil case based on her belief at the time. (Olivia
Decl., ¶¶ 3-7.) The Court thus exercises its discretion in allowing Plaintiff
to seek costs despite Code of Civil Procedure section 1033, subdivision (a).
 
Applicability
of Civil Code section 1794 subdivision (d) and Item 16 
“Other Costs” 
 
As noted in the foregoing legal
standard, motions to tax costs are generally governed by Code of Civil
Procedure section 1033.5. Defendant argues Plaintiff cannot recover costs for
postage, printing, and transportation expenses listed under Item 16 as “other”
expenses because these types of costs are disallowed under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1033.5. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Civil Code
section 1794 subdivision (d) applies instead, which allows for a much broader
scope of recovery for prevailing plaintiffs in a Song-Beverly
action. Plaintiff argues that these “other” costs are recoverable as
“costs and expenses” under Civil Code section 1794 subdivision (d). Plaintiffs
cite Jensen v. BMW (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112 to support this contention.

 
Civil Code section 1794
subdivision (d) provides the following:
 
“If the buyer
prevails in an action under this section, the buyer shall be allowed by the
court to recover as part of the judgment a sum equal to the aggregate amount of
costs and expenses, including attorney’s fees based on actual time expended,
determined by the court to have been reasonably incurred by the buyer in
connection with the commencement and prosecution of such action.” 
 
(Civ. Code § 1794, subd.
(d).)  
 
The Court finds that the Jensen
court did not endorse as broad an interpretation as Plaintiff’s claim. In Jensen,
“[t]he sole issue is whether the plaintiff was entitled to expert witness fees
under section 1794, subdivision (d)” as an “expense” rather than a “cost.” (Jensen
v. BMW (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 137.) The trial court had disallowed
expert witness fees on the ground that they are not provided for in Code of
Civil Procedure section 1033.5. (Ibid.) The Court of Appeal noted that
section 1033.5, which defines items allowable as “costs,” expressly precludes
recovery of “[f]ees of experts not ordered by the court. . .except when
expressly authorized by law.” (Ibid.; See Code Civ. Proc. 1033.5, subd.
(b)(1).) The Court found that the Legislature intended the word “expenses” to
cover items not included in the definitions of costs. (Ibid.) The Court
then turn to the legislative history to determine the scope of the term
“expenses”. (Ibid.) According to an analysis by the Assembly Committee
on Labor, Employment, and Consumer Affairs, “costs and expenses” was
added to Civil Code section 1794, subdivision (d) because “[i]ndigent consumers
are often discouraged from seeking legal redress due to court costs. The
addition of awards of ‘costs and expenses’ by the court to the consumer to
cover such out-of-pocket expenses as filing fees, expert witness fees,
marshall’s fees, etc., should open the litigation process to everyone.” (Ibid.)
(Italics added.) Based on this legislative history, the Jensen court
determined that “the Legislature exercised its power to permit the recovery of
expert witness fees by prevailing buyers under the Act.” (Ibid.) Therefore,
under Jensen, Civil Code section 1794, subdivision (d) does not allow
entitle Plaintiff to any cost and expense reasonably incurred.
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to cite
any other authorities to show that costs for postage, printing, and
transportation expenses sought are also expressly authorized by statute or that
any court has interpreted Civil Code section 1794, subdivision (d) to provide
for these costs. Accordingly, the Court finds that Code of Civil Procedure
section 1033.5 bars recovery of “other” costs for postage, printing, and
non-deposition transportation expenses. (See Code Civ. Proc. 1033.5, subd.
(b)(3); see also Ladas v. California State Auto. Assn., supra, 19
Cal.App.4th at 775-76 [“Routine expenses for local travel by attorneys or other
firm employees are not reasonably necessary to the conduct of
litigation.”].)  
 
As to the other costs under Item
16, for CourtCall and LA Court Connect reservations, hearing transcripts,
mediation, and “expert costs for attendance at vehicle inspection,” Defendant
argues they should be taxed. (See Memorandum of Costs, Attachment 16a.) Although,
Defendant provides no specific reasons for why these costs should be taxed. Plaintiff
has neither provided reasons to justify the costs other than citing Civil Code
section 1794 subdivision (d). The Court finds that the costs for the
reservations, non-court ordered hearing transcripts, mediation are not
recoverable under Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5. The Court further
finds the expert costs were not ordered by the court and not substantiated
under section 8(b) of the Memorandum of Costs. The Court thus taxes all “other”
costs under Item 16, in the amount of $5,982.41.
          
Item 1 “Filing and Motion Fees”
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff is only entitled to $460.52 for
filing the Complaint and $12.57 for filing the notice of settlement. Defendant
argues the remaining $2,782.18 in sought fees are unrecoverable because the
motions and oppositions were unnecessary. Defendant identifies the following
unnecessary motions and oppositions: 1) Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendant’s
Demurrer, which was sustained, 2) Plaintiff’s Motions for Leave to Amend, which
were unnecessary because Plaintiff filed a proper Complaint, 3) Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel deposition of a person most qualified (PMQ), which was denied
as untimely, 4) Plaintiff’s earlier Motion to Compel deposition of a person
most qualified (PMQ) was withdrawn, 5) Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Motions, 6)
Plaintiff’s Motions in Limine, which were never heard, 5) various courtesy copy
and service charges.
 
Plaintiff argues Defendant cites no authority in support of
its argument. Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s Demurrer and refusal to
stipulate to a leave to amend required Plaintiff to file an opposition and a
Motion for Leave to Amend. As to the Motions to Compel PMQ, Defendant withheld
the witness, forcing Plaintiff to file the Motion. Plaintiff withdrew the
earlier version of the Motion to Compel based on Defendant’s agreement to
produce the witness for deposition after the Motion was filed. As to the
ex parte motions, Plaintiff had to file the motions due to Defendant’s
obstruction of discovery. Defendant did not oppose the ex parte motions. As to
the Motions in Limine, they were necessarily filed in December 2020 on the
statutory deadline in connection with the first trial date of December 30, 2020.
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has provided ample
justification for its filing and motion fees. Defendant has not provided
authority that the Court should tax costs purely based on the fact Plaintiff
was unsuccessful on some of the motions. The Court finds that Plaintiff is
entitled to costs for such motions where they were filed in good faith, but
unsuccessful. (See Rozanova v. Uribe (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 392, 400 (affirming
trial court’s decision to award costs for unsuccessful motions that were filed
“in good faith.”).) The Court thus denies the motion to tax costs for  Item 1 “Filing and Motion Fees.”
 
Items 4 “Deposition Costs” and 5
“Service of Process” Costs
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff is not entitled to recover
the costs of taking eight unnecessary depositions and serving unnecessary
deposition subpoenas in the amount of $10,003.74. Defendant concedes that
Plaintiff should recover costs for service of the Complaint, but not for
service of the deposition subpoenas. Defendant argues Plaintiff could have
served the deposition subpoenas Defendant electronically, avoiding the costs. 
 
Plaintiff argues that three deponents were the Persons Most
Qualified and custodian of records for each of the three repairing facilities,
and the four other deponents were technicians that performed repair at one of
the three repairing facilities. (Olivia Decl., ¶¶ 8-10.) The deponents
testified about the repairs performed on the Subject Vehicle and authenticated
the records from each of the dealerships. 
Thus, each deposition was relevant for the case where Plaintiff alleged
that Defendant and its dealership had failed to conform the Subject Vehicle to
warranty within a reasonable number of repair attempts. Plaintiff argues that
as non-parties, the deponents were required to have the deposition subpoenas
served on them personally, unless they consented to being represented by
Defendant’s counsel beforehand. Thus, Plaintiff served the initial subpoenas to
the deponents, and once Defendant’s representation of the deponents was
confirmed, Plaintiff served the deponents electronically. 
 
The Court finds deposition costs and service of process
costs are allowable under Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5, subdivisions
(a)(3)-(4). Defendant points to no authority to support their argument that
these deposition costs were not “reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation.” The Court thus denies the motion to tax costs for Items 4
“Deposition Costs” and 5 “Service of Process” costs. 