 Case Number:  24NWCV00247    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  C HERNANDEZ v.  BECHTOLD,
ET AL.
CASE NO.: 24NWCV00247
HEARING:  December 10,
2024 @ 10:30 a.m.
JUDGE: Raul A Sahagun
 
#8
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendants Kyler Jade
Bechtold and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints’ Motion to Strike
is GRANTED. 
 
Defendants to give
notice. 
 
Background
 
This is a motor vehicle negligence action. On January 23,
2024, Plaintiff Mario Alberto Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Kyler Jade Bechtold, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, California
Los Angeles Mission, and Does 1 to 50. The Complaint alleges that on May 4,
2022, Defendant Bechtold made an illegal U-turn and collided into Plaintiff’s
vehicle, causing injury and property damage. The Complaint alleges the
Defendant Bechtold acted in the scope of his employment with Defendants The
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints and California Los Angeles Mission
(“Employer Defendants”). The Complaint alleges Employer Defendants negligently
hired Defendant Bechtold. The Complaint alleges the following against of
action: 1) Negligence, 2) Negligence Per Se, 3) Statutory Liability, and 4)
Punitive Damages.
 
Defendants Kyler Jade Bechtold and The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-Day Saints (erroneously sued as The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-Day Saints and California Los Angeles Mission) (collectively,
“Defendants”) now move to strike the fourth cause of action for punitive
damages (paragraphs 47 to 70) and paragraphs in the prayer for relief seeking
punitive damages (paragraph C, line 22) and attorney’s fees (paragraph F, line
25).
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 436 permits trial courts to
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in a
pleading:  
 
 “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper:  
 (a)¿Strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 

 (b)¿Strike out all or any part of any pleading
not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
an order of the court.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436.)  
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Parties must meet and confer “in
person or by telephone” before filing a motion to strike. (Code of Civ. Proc. §
435.5(a).) Defense counsel attempted to call Plaintiff’s counsel, but they were
unable to speak. (Magwood Decl., ¶ 2(a).) Defense counsel asked the office
assistant or paralegal to have Plaintiff’s counsel call back. (Ibid.) After not
receiving a call back, Defense counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and
confer correspondence on February 22, 2024. (Magwood Decl., ¶ 2(b); Exh. A.)
Defense counsel did not receive a response from Plaintiff’s counsel thereafter.
(Magwood Decl., ¶ 3.) The Court finds the meet and confer requirement has not
been met, but in the interests of judicial efficiency, the Court will continue
to hear the merits of the Motion. 
 
Discussion
 
          Punitive
Damages
 
Defendants argue that the Complaint lacks factual
allegations supporting a finding of malice, oppression, or fraud to support
their prayer for punitive damages. The Complaint merely contains allegations
that Defendants’ actions were carried out “recklessly, intentionally,
carelessly, and maliciously,” and were conducted in conscious disregard for the
rights and safety of others, but provides no specific allegations in support of
these conclusions. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that there is a less strict
pleading standard for a motion to strike punitive damages. Only allegations of
fraud require a heightened pleading standard, and here, the punitive damages
claim is not based on fraud. Plaintiff argues the Complaint alleges sufficient
facts to support a prayer for punitive damages. Particularly, the Complaint
alleges Defendant Bechtold consciously disregarded dangerous and probably
consequences when he made an illegal U-turn onto oncoming traffic. (Compl., ¶¶
57-63.) Further, Employer Defendants made the conscious decision to ignore the
unfitness of its drivers despite the high likelihood of the probable dangerous
consequences of causing harm to Plaintiff and the public. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
is entitled to reasonable inferences based on the allegations.
 
In reply, Defendants argue that the only factual allegations
of Defendant Bechtold’s conduct—negligently operating the subject vehicle while
“driving at an unsafe speed and making an illegal U-turn directly in front of
Plaintiff”—at most demonstrate mere negligence.
 
“‘In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive
damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general
punitive damage statute, Civil Code section 3294.’ [Citation.]” (Today IV’s
Inc. v. Los Angeles County MTA (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) Civil
Code section 3294 provides that on a non-contract cause of action, a plaintiff
may recover punitive damages when they prove “by clear and convincing evidence
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code
§ 3294, subd. (a).) In a negligence action, plaintiffs must allege facts
in the complaint demonstrating malice—conclusory allegations that simply
characterize defendant's conduct as “malicious” are insufficient and subject to
motion to strike. (See Smith v. Sup.Ct. (Bucher) (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th
1033, 1036, 1042 (finding, in a legal malpractice claim, plaintiff’s conclusory
allegations that attorneys' conduct was “intentional, knowing, malicious,
fraudulent, false and deceitful” and action in “conscious and knowing disregard
of the interest and rights of plaintiff” were deficient as a matter of law to
show entitlement to punitive damages).)
 
The Court finds the Complaint contains conclusory allegations
of malice and oppression, which are insufficient to support a punitive damages
award. A complaint must plead facts demonstrating malice or oppression, as
opposed to characterizing allegations as malicious or oppressive. (See Smith,
supra, 10 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1036, 1042.) While the Court agrees with Plaintiff
that reasonable inferences made be made from the facts pled in evaluating a
complaint, the Court finds such inferences may not be made to support a
punitive damages claim. The Court thus grants the Motion to Strike the fourth
cause of action for punitive damages and the prayer for punitive damages. 
 
          Attorney’s
Fees
 
Defendants argue that attorney’s fees are not recoverable
unless provided for by contract, statute, or law. Defendants argue there is no
contract between Plaintiff and Defendants. The Complaint identifies no statute
authorizing recovery of attorney’s fees. Plaintiff does not address the issue
of attorney’s fees in the opposition. Defendants reiterate their argument in
reply.
 
“Except as attorney’s fees are specifically provided for by
statute, the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at
law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties; but parties
to actions or proceedings are entitled to their costs, as hereinafter
provided.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1021.) “Generally, it is clear, attorneys'
fees are not recoverable in personal injury or wrongful death actions.” (Krouse
v. Graham (1977) 19 Cal. 3d 59, 81.) 
 
The Court finds attorney’s fees are unsupported by any
statute or contract between the parties. Thus, attorney’s fees should be
stricken from the prayer in the Complaint. 