 Case Number:  23NWCV03539    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  C THEE AGULA INC., ET AL. v. RONAK PATEL, ET AL.
CASE NO.: 23NWCV03539
HEARINGS:  December 10,
2024 @ 10:30 a.m.
JUDGE: Raul A. Sahagun
 
#6
TENTATIVE ORDERS
 
Defendant Patel’s
Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion
for Order Conditionally Directing Clerk to File Entry of Default and Enter
Defaults Nunc Pro Tunc is DENIED.
 
Defendant Ronak Patel
to give notice. 
 
Background
 
This is a legal malpractice action. On November 1, 2023, Plaintiffs
Thee Aguila Inc. and Rocio Rosales (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against
Defendants Ronak Patel, the Law Practice of Ronak Patel, and Does 1 to 50. On
November 6, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the First Amended Complaint (FAC). The FAC alleges
Patel negligently represented Plaintiffs in a previous lawsuit, leading to an
unfavorable judgment. The FAC alleges the following causes of action: 1)
Negligence (by client), 2) Breach of Contract (1) (by client), 3) Breach of
Contract (2) (by client), 4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty (by payor), 5) Conversion
(by payor), 6) Money Had and Received (by all Plaintiffs), 7) Conversion, 8)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty (by client), 9) Unlawful Business Practices under
Business and Professions Code § 17203 (Violation of California Rules of
Professional Conduct, Rule 1.16(e)(1)) (by client), 10) Accounting (by payor),
11) Unlawful Business Practices under Business and Professions Code § 17203
(Violation of California Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 1.15(d)(4) (by
payor), and 12) Accounting (by client).
 
On February 13, 2024, defaults were entered against
Defendants Ronak Patel and Law Practice of Ronak Patel. 
 
Defendant Ronak Patel (“Patel”) now moves to set aside the
entered defaults under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (d) and
requests an order that the deadline for his responsive pleading shall be nine
calendar days from the date of the Court’s order. Plaintiffs concurrently move
for an order conditionally directing clerk to file entry of default and enter
defaults nunc pro tunc. The Court will address both motions. 
 
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (d) states
the following:
 
The court may, upon
motion of the injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in
its judgment or orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order
directed, and may, on motion of either party after notice to the other party,
set aside any void judgment or order.
 
Discussion
 
Defendant Patel’s
Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default
 
Patel moves to set aside the entered defaults against
himself and the Law Offices of Ronak Patel under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (d). Initially, Patel notes that the Law Offices of
Ronak Patel is Patel’s business name and is not a legally separate entity—thus,
he seeks to set aside both entered defaults. (Patel Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs
served Patel with the FAC on December 22, 2023, and thus, the deadline to file
a responsive pleading was January 22, 2024. (Patel Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) On January
22, 2024, Patel filed a Declaration of Demurring or Moving Party in Support of
Automatic Extension under Code of Civil Procedure sections 430.41 and 435.5
(“Extension Declaration”). (Patel Decl., ¶ 8; Exh. 1.) Patel argues that the
new deadline for his responsive pleading was extended to February 21, 2024, and
thus, when default was entered on February 13, 2024, Patel still had 9 days to
file a responsive pleading. (Patel Decl., ¶ 9.) Patel thus argues that the entered
defaults are void and should be set aside as clerical error.
 
Plaintiffs argue that the defaults should not be set aside. Plaintiffs
argue that Patel’s Extension Declaration was insufficient such that there was
no automatic 30-day extension. Civil Code of Procedure sections 430.41(a)(2)
and 435.5(a)(2) (governing demurrers and motions to strike) require that the
declaration explain the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer at
least 5 days prior to the due date of the responsive pleading. The Extension
Declaration states that Patel expected Plaintiffs’ counsel would agree to
provide a 15-day extension under California Rules of Court 3.110, and that
Patel “waited to meet and confer until I was more ready to discuss the issues
meaningfully.” Further, Plaintiffs argue the Extension Declaration’s statements
that Patel attempted to meet and confer regarding a demurrer or motion to
strike prior to the January 22, 2024 responsive pleading due date are false. Plaintiffs’
counsel was never contacted by either Patel or the Law Offices of Ronak Patel
regarding filing a demurrer or motion to strike prior to January 22, 2024.
(Wenyao Decl., ¶ 3-4.) Neither did either Defendant ask Plaintiffs’ counsel to
provide an extension of time to file a responsive pleading at any time. (Wenyao
Decl., ¶ 9.) Lastly, Plaintiffs argue the issue of the legal status of the Law
Offices of Ronak Patel should be determined when default judgment is entered
against both Defendants.
 
In reply, Patel argues that the facts support finding of a
clerical error that warrants setting aside the entered defaults. Further,
Plaintiffs’ opposition is essentially a motion for sanctions for improperly
certified documents, which cannot be heard at this juncture. Patel argues that
Plaintiffs should be estopped from arguing that there was no 30-day extension
where they attempted to refile requests for defaults on March 3, 2024,
essentially admitted there was an extension. (See Plaintiffs’ Motion.)
 
“Section 473, subdivision (d), authorizes the trial court to
“set aside any void judgment or order” upon a noticed motion. [Citations.] The
motion may be made at any time. [Citations.] It is immaterial how the
invalidity is called to the court's attention. [Citations.] A prematurely
entered default is invalid, and any judgment entered after an invalid default
is also invalid. . . A default may be entered only after the
defendant has been served with a summons and has failed to answer or
file other responsive papers within the time prescribed in the summons, or such
further time as may be allowed.” (Schwab v. Southern California Gas Co.
(2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1320; see also Code Civ. Proc. § 585, subds.
(a)-(c), (e).) 
 
The Court finds that the defaults were prematurely entered. The
Extension Declaration states that Patel reasonably expected Plaintiffs to
stipulate to a 15-day extension under California Rules of Court, rule 3.110.
(Patel Decl., ¶ 8; Exh. 1.) The Declaration states that, because Plaintiffs’
counsel “has either refused to respond or has not had time to respond to my
request for the extension,” Patel was “not able to engage in a good faith meet
and confer effort regarding my contemplated demurrer and motion to strike.” (Ibid.)
The Court acknowledges that Plaintiffs contest the truth of the Declaration—Plaintiffs
assert that Patel did not reach out regarding a potential demurrer or motion to
strike, or regarding an extension to file a responsive pleading. (Wenyao Decl.,
¶¶ 3-4, 9.) Without determining the credibility of the Declaration, the Court
finds that, the  Declaration was timely
filed on the last day to file a responsive pleading. Patel was thus entitled to
an automatic 30-day extension under Code of Civil Procedure sections 430.41 and
435.5. The defaults were thus prematurely entered and should be vacated as
void. 
 
Therefore, the Court grants Defendant Patel’s Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default.
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Order Conditionally Directing
Clerk to File Entry of Default and Enter Defaults Nunc Pro Tunc
 
Plaintiffs request relief in the event the Court sets aside
the entered defaults against Defendants. Plaintiffs argue that on Sunday, March
3, 2024, Plaintiffs submitted another set of requests for entered defaults against
Ronak Patel and The Law Practice of Ronak Patel to the clerk for electronic
filing with payment. (Shatford IV Decl., ¶¶ 3-5; Exhs. A-C.) The clerk rejected
both documents and did not enter any defaults. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs filed
the requests in the event that Patel’s declaration provided him a 30-day
extension to file a responsive pleading. Plaintiffs waited until after the
30-day extension deadline on February 20, 2024, to file the new requests for the
entered defaults. 
 
In opposition, Patel argues a nunc pro tunc order is a
mechanism in which the Court corrects a mistake in the record that was
improperly recorded. Such mechanism cannot be used to correct was actually
happened (i.e., the clerk rejected the March 3, 2024 requests for entry
of default). A nunc pro tunc order would be unjust under these circumstances
where Plaintiffs have waited 6 months to seek relief. Further, if Plaintiffs
disagreed with the clerk’s rejection of the requests, Plaintiffs were required
to apply for ex parte relief under LASC Local Rules, rule 3.200—Plaintiffs
failed to do so. Patel suggests the Court should order sua sponte appropriate
sanctions.
 
In reply, Plaintiffs argue that LASC Local Rules, rule 3.200
does not bar this Motion. The rule merely states that a party “may apply for ex
parte relief” (LASC Local Rules, rule 3.200.) Patel is not prejudiced by this
error, and the court has inherent authority to order documents filed nunc pro
tunc regardless of the rule. Patel has not met his burden in showing why a nunc
pro tunc order would result in injustice. Lastly, Plaintiffs argue the request
for sanctions is procedurally improper. 
 
“[A] nunc pro tunc order is generally limited to correcting
clerical errors; ‘a nunc pro tunc order cannot declare that something was done
which was not done.’” 
(People v. Borja (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 481, 485.)
 
The Court finds that an issuance of a pro nunc tunc order to
instate the rejected requests for defaults of entry is unwarranted. There was
no clerical error here. According to the Notice of Court Rejection of
Electronic Filing, the requests for were rejected by the clerk because default
was previously entered on February 12, 2024. (Shatford IV Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. C.) Plaintiffs
are not entitled to a pro nunc tunc order merely because they filed the
requests and paid the fee. The requests were properly rejected, and the Court
may not rewrite what has already been done. 
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiffs’ Motion for Order
Conditionally Directing Clerk to File Entry of Default and Enter Defaults Nunc
Pro Tunc.