

Hearing Date:             September
23, 2024    
Case Name:                Lisa Whitman v. Lisa de Morales, et al.
Case No.:                    24STCV14312
Motion:                       Motion to Disqualify
Counsel Scott Whitman
Moving Parties:          Defendants/Cross-Complainants Thomas K. Britt and Lisa de
Moraes (erroneously sued as Lisa de Morales) 

Responding Party:      Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Lisa Whitman


 

Tentative Ruling:      The
motion to disqualify counsel Scott Whitman is denied. 
 

 
This is an action between neighbors who
share a common boundary in the rear of their properties. Plaintiff Lisa Whitman
(Plaintiff) accuses neighbors Lisa de Moraes (de Moraes) and Thomas K. Britt
(Britt) (collectively, Defendants) of assaulting her after her husband, Scott
L. Whitman (Whitman), painted a fence that Plaintiff alleges separates the
parties’ properties. 
 
On June 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Complaint for (1.) assault, (2.) false imprisonment, and (3.) intentional
infliction of emotional distress.
 
On June 30, 2024, Defendants filed a
Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff and Whitman for (1.) assault, (2.) trespass,
(3.) trespass, (4.) private nuisance, (5.) nuisance per se, (6.) declaratory
relief, (7.) elder abuse, and (8.) intentional infliction of emotional distress.
The Cross-Complaint alleges that Whitman did not have Defendants’ authorization
or permission to paint the fence, which they claim belongs to them alone
because it sits on their property.
 
On August 5, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant motion to disqualify Whitman as Plaintiff’s counsel. On September
10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion. On September 16, 2024,
Defendants filed their reply. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“A judge’s authority
to disqualify an attorney has its origins in the inherent power of every court
in the furtherance of justice to control the conduct of ministerial officers
and other persons in pending judicial proceedings.”¿(Neal v. Health Net,
Inc.¿(2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 831, 840;¿Code Civ. Proc., § 128,¿subd.
(a)(5).)¿This power, which is ‘“inherent in every court”’
[citation], authorizes a trial court in either a civil or a criminal case to
discharge an attorney who has a conflict of interest.” (People v. Noriega (2010)
48 Cal.4th 517, 524.)
 
“‘Disqualification motions
implicate several important interests, among them are the clients’ right to
counsel of their choice, the attorney’s interest in representing a client, the
financial burden of replacing a disqualified attorney, and tactical abuse that
may underlie the motion. [Citations.]” (Sundholm v. Hollywood Foreign Press
Association (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 1330, 1340.) 
 
Discussion 
            
Defendants move to disqualify
Plaintiff’s counsel Whitman, arguing that even with Plaintiff’s consent,
Whitman should not be allowed to represent Plaintiff in this proceeding because
Whitman is Plaintiff’s spouse, a cross-defendant, and a material witness to the
allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the Court should not disqualify Whitman as her
counsel of record because, among other things, (1) Plaintiff gave Whitman
informed consent to represent her in this case; (2) Whitman’s testimony as a
witness will be limited to uncontested facts (i.e., Whitman will stipulate to
Defendants’ second cause of action for trespass since he admits he painted the
fence at issue); and (3) Plaintiff has a strong interest in being represented
by counsel of her choice and engaging new counsel would impose a financial
burden on Plaintiff. 
 
            In reply,
Defendants contend, among other things, that (1) Plaintiff’s argument that the
real property issues in this case are uncontested is untrue; (2) Defendants
have text messages showing that Whitman has personal knowledge about the
assault incident alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint; and (3) Plaintiff’s claim
that hiring a new attorney would be costly is false because by admitting that
Plaintiff hired Whitman on a contingency fee basis, Plaintiff has incurred no
costs so far. 
 
The advocate-witness rule
 
            Rule 3.7
of the California Rules of Professional Conduct (Rule 3.7) prohibits a lawyer
from “act[ing] as an advocate in a trial in which the lawyer is likely to be a
witness unless: ¶ (1) the lawyer’s testimony relates to an uncontested issue or
matter; ¶ (2) the lawyer’s testimony relates to the nature and value of legal
services rendered in the case; or (3) the lawyer has obtained informed
written consent from the client.” (Emphasis added.)
 
            “Comment
3 to Rule 3.7, … clarifies that the informed-consent exception is not absolute:
‘Notwithstanding a client’s informed written consent, courts retain discretion
to take action, up to and including disqualification of a lawyer who seeks to
both testify and serve as an advocate, to protect the trier of fact from being
misled or the opposing party from being prejudiced.’” (Geringer v. Blue
Rider Finance (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 813, 821–822 (Geringer).)
 
“The court’s discretion to disqualify
a likely advocate-witness notwithstanding client consent—the exception to the
exception—has been judicially interpreted to be permissible only upon ‘a
convincing demonstration of detriment to the opponent or injury to the
integrity of the judicial process.’ [Citations.]” (Geringer, supra,
94 Cal.App.5th at p. 822 [emphasis added].) “‘[T]he trial court can disqualify
counsel only where it is confronted with manifest interests which it must
protect from palpable prejudice.’ [Citations.]” (Ibid.; see Maxwell
v. Superior Court (1982) 30 Cal.3d 606, 619, disapproved on other grounds in
People v. Doolin (2009) 45 Cal.4th 390, fn. 9 [“the State Bar has
concluded that a fully informed client’s right to chosen counsel outweighs
potential conflict or threat to trial integrity posed by counsel’s appearance
as witness” (italics removed)]; Smith, Smith & Kring v. Superior Court
(1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 573, 580 [“‘fact that the client has consented
to the dual capacity must be given great weight’”].)
 
“‘In exercising its discretion to
disqualify counsel under the advocate-witness rule, a court must consider: (1)
“ ‘ “whether counsel’s testimony is, in fact, genuinely needed” ’ ”; (2) “the
possibility [opposing] counsel is using the motion to disqualify for purely
tactical reasons”; and (3) “the combined effects of the strong interest parties
have in representation by counsel of their choice, and in avoiding the
duplicate expense and time-consuming effort involved in replacing counsel
already familiar with the case.” [Citation.]” (Geringer, supra,
94 Cal.App.5th at p. 822, quoting Doe v. Yim (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 573,
583-584.) 
 
“‘[T]he trial court, when balancing
the several competing interests, should resolve the close case in favor of the
client’s right to representation by an attorney of his or her choice.’
[Citation.]” (Geringer, supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at p. 826.)
 
“To reiterate, the general rule is
that an attorney may serve as both advocate and witness, testifying at trial
concerning disputed issues, if the client has provided its informed written
consent. Disqualification of counsel when consent has been given must be
based on a convincing showing of prejudice to the opposing party or the
potential for palpable injury to the judicial process.” (Geringer, supra,
94 Cal.App.5th at p. 822 [emphasis added].)
 
Defendants fail to offer evidence to
overcome Rule 3.7’s exception, much less a convincing showing. The first
factor, whether counsel’s testimony is genuinely needed, has not been shown.
Defendants offer no evidence of the testimony they expect Whitman will offer, and
thus cannot show that it is genuinely needed. 
They also fail to show how such testimony would prejudice them or mislead
the finder of fact.  
 
Defendants’ failure to offer evidence
is fatal to their motion. (Geringer, supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at
p. 826 [disqualification “must be based on adequate factual record…not
conclusory allegations”]; Smith, Smith, supra, 60 Cal.App.4th
at p. 581 [disqualification vacated; “no declaration to demonstrate …how any
testimony would be adverse to the integrity of the judicial process”]; Lopez
v. Lopez (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 412, 425 [party seeking
disqualification failed to challenge representation that attorney’s testimony
would not concern underlying dispute, or to attempt, through discovery, to
discern substance of testimony].) Defendants argue “justice and fairness
require that Scott Whitman be disqualified as counsel ….” But to justify
disqualification, a “convincing” showing “must be based on an adequate
factual record, not overarching statements of policy or conclusory allegations
by the party seeking disqualification.” (Geringer, supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at p. 826.) The Court is
precluded from disqualifying Whitman on such a “limited factual record.” (Lopez,
supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 425.)  This first factor weighs against
disqualification.  
 
The second factor, whether disqualification
is sought “for purely tactical reasons,” lacks evidence either way.   
 
The third factor
(i.e., “the combined effects of the strong interest parties have in
representation by counsel of their choice, and in avoiding the duplicate
expense and time-consuming effort involved in replacing counsel already
familiar with the case”) also weighs against disqualification. Whitman is
undoubtedly familiar with the case, and it will cost less for Plaintiff to
retain her husband as counsel than to hire a third party. The fact that
Plaintiff hired Whitman on a contingency fee basis does not warrant a different
conclusion. After all, the third factor does not ask the Court to only consider
Plaintiff’s interest in avoiding the “duplicate expense” of hiring counsel. It
also requires the Court to look at Plaintiff’s interest in retaining Whitman as
counsel and the time-consuming effort that will be involved in replacing him.  
 
Scope of disqualification
 
The motion to disqualify also fails
because it seeks Whitman’s immediate and total disqualification not only for
trial, but for all purposes.  Rule 3.7
does not expressly address pretrial representation.  Nevertheless, the rule has been interpreted
to encompass “a pretrial evidentiary hearing at which counsel is likely to
testify.” (Doe v. Yim, supra, 55 Cal.App.5th at p. 583.)
Beyond testifying in court and participating in depositions, Rule 3.7 does not
preclude disqualification in other pretrial activities. (Id. at pp.
585-586.) In Doe v. Yim, disqualification from other pretrial activities
was affirmed not based on Rule 3.7, but on a finding of potential misuse of
confidential information. (Id. at p. 586.) Here, Defendants cannot
contend that Whitman acquired confidential information from them in a manner
akin to the spousal relationship in Doe v. Yim.
 
In Lopez, supra, the trial
court was found to have abused its discretion by disqualifying the attorney
from all phases of litigation without recognizing that Rule 3.7 limits disqualification
to advocacy “in a trial.” (Lopez, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p.
425.) In that case, the trial court erroneously “extended the advocate-witness
rule to all pretrial activities, including behind-the-scene activities
unlikely to pose any risk of fact finder confusion, such as preparing a witness
list or motion in limine.” (Ibid.) The Court of Appeal concluded that
because the attorney’s “categorical disqualification from all pretrial
activities was not supported by Rule 3.7’s text,” the trial court abused its
discretion. (Id. at pp. 425-426.) 
Accordingly, the unjustified scope of Defendants’ motion is a further
reason it must be denied.
 
            Defendants
have failed to offer evidence to overcome the exception in Rule 3.7 for the
client’s informed written consent to her attorney being a potential witness at
trial. Defendants have also failed to offer any legal justification for extending
disqualification to all pretrial activities. 
Accordingly, the motion to disqualify Whitman from serving as
Plaintiff’s counsel in this matter is denied.
 
Conclusion
 
The motion to disqualify counsel
Scott Whitman is denied.
 