

Hearing Date:             September 23, 2024                
Case Name:                 Lawrence Ambrosio v. Lithia
Motors, Inc., et al.
Case
No.:                    24STCV01887
Motion:                       Demurrer
and Motion to Strike
Moving
Party:             Defendants Lithia Motors,
Inc. and DCH Torrance Imports, Inc.

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Lawrence Ambrosio


 
Tentative
Ruling:      Defendants Lithia Motors,
Inc. and DCH Torrance Imports, Inc.’s Demurrer to the first and third causes of
action of the First Amended Complaint is sustained without leave to amend. The
Motion to Strike is granted. 

 

 
Factual and procedural background
 
Plaintiff Lawrence Ambrosio
(Plaintiff) is employed as a sale associate at DCH Torrance Imports Inc. (DCH).
The case stems from allegations that Plaintiff’s supervisor, General Sales
Manager Zarin Haroon (Haroon), committed sexual misconduct by inappropriately
touching Plaintiff, sliding his hand across Plaintiff’s chest from one nipple
to the other. (FAC, ¶22.) Plaintiff alleges he was disgusted but did not want
to create a scene. (FAC, ¶23.) Another incident occurred when Plaintiff
returned from vacation where Plaintiff alleges Haroon embarrassed him before a
group of employees shouting “Lawrence! C’mon are you still stuck in Japan? Are
you back yet? I need your head in the game.” (FAC, ¶24.) A final incident
involved Haroon telling Plaintiff “I have a photo of you in my office. On the
bottom it says in large bold letters: ‘Missing Persons’. We are going to have a
talk tomorrow.” Plaintiff alleges he thought he would be disciplined, but the
meeting never occurred. (FAC, 25.)      
 
Plaintiff filed suit against his
employers, Defendants Lithia Motors, Inc. (Lithia) and DCH (collectively
Defendants) for (1) discrimination based on sexual orientation, (2) sexual
harassment in violation of FEHA, (3) retaliation in violation of FEHA, (4)
failure to prevent discrimination, harassment and retaliation in violation of
FEHA, (5) unpaid meal  periods, (6)
failure to pay overtime, (7) violation of Labor Code sections 226 and 1174, and
(8) unfair business practices. 
 
            On
April 8, 2024, Defendants demurred and moved to strike the initial Complaint.
On May 14, 2024, the Court sustained the demurrer as to the first and third
causes of action with leave to amend, overruled the demurrer as to the fourth
cause of action, and granted the motion to strike. 
 
On June 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the First Amended Complaint (FAC), which asserts eight causes of action.
Defendants demur to the first and third causes of action – FEHA claims for
discrimination and retaliation – and move to strike the request for punitive
damages. Plaintiff opposed both motions; Defendants replied to each. 
 
Meet and Confer
 
“Before filing a demurrer…the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a); see also
Code Civ. Proc. §435.5 (imposing similar requirements for a motion to strike).)
Defendants state the parties conferred telephonically on June 13, 2024 but were
unable to come to an agreement. Nonetheless, the requirements of Code Civ.
Proc. §§430.41(a) and 435.5 are satisfied, the Court now turns its attention to
the demurrer and motion to strike. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
            Concurrently
filed with their demurrer and motion to strike, Defendants file a request for
judicial notice to each, requesting the following be judicially noticed:
 
1.    
Plaintiff’s initial Complaint filed on January 24, 2024
2.    
The Court’s tentative ruling on the demurrer and motion
to strike to the initial Complaint
3.    
The operative FAC filed on June 4, 2024
 
The request for judicial notice is granted. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Demurrer  
 
Legal Standard
 
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer
can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading
under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury
Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court
may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or
documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of
ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true,
but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2
Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
First Cause of Action for Discrimination Based on Sexual
Orientation 
 
            The amended
complaint fails to cure the defects of the previous pleading.
 
To allege a cause of action for
discrimination based on sexual orientation, the plaintiff
must provide evidence that (1) he was a member of a
protected class, (2) he was qualified for the
position he sought or was performing competently in the
position he held, (3) he suffered an
adverse employment action, and (4) some other circumstance
suggests discriminatory motive.
(Slatkin v. University of Redlands (2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 1147, 1158.)
 
            Defendants
do not contest that Plaintiff was a member of a protected class nor whether he
was performing competently in the position he held. Rather, Defendants argue
Plaintiff fails to demonstrate the third element, that he suffered an adverse
employment action, because Plaintiff is still employed with DCH. (FAC ¶ 14.) Plaintiff
contends that an adverse employment action is one that materially affects the
compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, citing Bradley
v. Swedish Health Services (W.D. Wash. 2023) 2023 WL 8879121.  That legal description is accurate, but the
FAC fails to make clear how the terms, conditions or privileges of Plaintiff’s
employment changed after the alleged inappropriate touching by Haroon. Plaintiff
fails to allege that he was demoted or transferred, given more or fewer
responsibilities, or lost pay, hours, or seniority because of his sexual orientation.
Plaintiff contends that if he is subjected to this type of behavior, Plaintiff
loses privacy rights which affects the terms of his employment. However, he
alleges no facts that such misconduct is now part of the conditions of his
employment.
 
Moreover, the FAC fails to allege
facts evincing discriminatory motive. Plaintiff identifies as a heterosexual
male in the FAC. (FAC ¶ 12.) Plaintiff points out Haroon is non-heterosexual,
and contends Haroon’s touch was for sexual gratification, and to ridicule or
sexually emasculate Plaintiff as a heterosexual male. (Opposition Papers,
6:1-7.) However, the FAC contains no facts supporting this assertion and the
Court can analogize to Guthrey v. State of California (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 1108 (Guthrey). In Guthrey a male
correctional counselor filed a gender-based discrimination claim against the
state and his female supervisor. After summary judgment was appealed, the Court
of Appeal held that although the female supervisor’s conduct towards the
plaintiff was aggressive, the mere fact that the supervisor was female does not
give rise to the inference that her conduct was motivated by a desire to
discriminate on the basis of gender. (Guthrey, supra, at 1118.) Here,
just because Haroon identifies as non-heterosexual does not give rise to the
inference that Haroon’s alleged misconduct was motivated by a desire to
discriminate on the basis of Plaintiff’s sexual orientation. Accordingly, the
demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained.      
 
Third Cause of Action for Retaliation in Violation of
FEHA:
 
To prevail on any
retaliation-related cause of action, plaintiff must plead and prove that
(1) the employee engaged in a protected activity, (2) there
was an adverse employment action
following the protected activity, and (3) there is a causal
connection between the two. (Flait v.
North American Watch Corp. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 467,
476.) “In California, an employee seeking recovery on a theory of unlawful
discrimination or retaliation must demonstrate that he or she has been
subjected to an adverse employment action that materially affects the terms, conditions,
or privileges of employment, rather than simply that the employee has been
subjected to an adverse action or treatment that reasonably would deter an employee
from engaging in the protected activity.” (St. Myers v. Dignity Health
(2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 301, 318.) 
 
            As discussed
above, the FAC fails to allege any adverse employment action. The FAC also
fails to plead what protected activity Plaintiff engaged in that would have
triggered an adverse employment action. The FAC alleges no action taken by
Plaintiff that gives a causal connection to the alleged sexual misconduct by
Haroon, nor the subsequent alleged incidents when Plaintiff returned from
vacation (FAC ¶ 24) or the holiday party (FAC ¶ 25). Without engaging in
protected activity, a cause of action for retaliation in violation of FEHA
fails. The demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained. 
 
 
Motion to Strike  
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc.
§436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. (CCP § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike
are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not
been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc. §436.) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. §437.)
 
A motion to strike any pleading must be filed “within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading”—e.g., 30 days after service of the complaint or
cross-complaint unless extended by court order or stipulation. [Code
Civ. Proc. §435(b)(1)]. This does not
affect the court's power to strike sua sponte. Courts are specifically
authorized to strike a pleading upon a motion or at any time in the court's
discretion. (Code Civ. Proc.
§436) The Court notes that motions to strike punitive damages may be granted,
where the alleged facts do not support conclusions of malice, fraud or
oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central Calif., Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
 
Analysis
 
            Upon moving
to strike the request for punitive damages from the FAC, Defendants argue the
FAC’s allegations that Haroon was a managing agent are insufficient. The prior
motion to strike was granted on these grounds, however, Plaintiff has added
additional information regarding Haroon in the FAC, contending Haroon is in
fact a managing agent. (FAC, ¶22.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that because
Haroon had authority of the sales, finance, and internet sales departments, in
addition to having influence over the hiring and firing of employees, that
Haroon is in fact a managing agent. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
argument stems from Wilson v. Southern California Edison Co. (2015) 234
Cal.App.4th 123 (“Wilson”), where the Court of Appeal noted
the following:
 
When the defendant is a corporation,
“[a]n award of punitive damages against a corporation ... must rest on the
malice of the corporation's employees. But the law does not impute every
employee's malice to the corporation.” Instead, the oppression, fraud, or
malice must be perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation “‘[M]anaging agent’ ...
include[s] only those corporate employees who exercise substantial independent
authority and judgment in their corporate decision-making so that their
decisions ultimately determine corporate policy.”
 
(Wilson, supra, at p. 164. Cleaned up, internal
citations omitted.)
 
            Therefore,
for punitive damages to be properly alleged, either (1) Haroon’s action must
have been ratified by an officer, director, or managing agent, or (2) Haroon
was an officer, director, or managing agent. The FAC alleges the latter,
however Plaintiff provides no facts demonstrating Haroon’s decisions ultimately
affected corporate policy. The FAC alleges that Haroon managed different
departments and had influence over day-to-day activities, including influencing
the hiring and terminating of employees. However, without more Wilson
would not consider Haroon to be a “managing agent”. Therefore, the motion to
strike is granted.    
 
Leave to amend the Complaint 
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any
reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]. As there is
no reasonable possibility of successful amendment, leave to amend as to the
first and third causes of action is denied.  
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Lithia Motors, Inc. and
DCH Torrance Imports, Inc.’s Demurrer to the first and third causes of action
of the First Amended Complaint is sustained without leave to amend. Defendants’
Motion to Strike is granted. 