 Case Number:  24NWCV00022    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  C ZHOIE PEREZ v. SANDRA NGAYAN, et al. 
CASE NO.:  24NWCV00022
HEARING:   6/12/24 @ 9:30 A.M.
 
#5
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants Sandra Ngayan and Francisco Alejandro
Ngayan’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint is OVERRULED as to
the First and Sixth Causes of Action and SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend
as to the Second, Third, Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action.   
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
The motion is unopposed as of June 7, 2024. 
 
Background
 
On
October 28, 2023, Plaintiff Zhoie Perez (“Plaintiff”) went to the home of Defendant
Sandra Ngayan (“Sandra”) and her son Francisco
Alejandro Ngayan (“Francisco”), affixed a body camera, and started
filming. (FAC ¶¶ 12-13.) Sandra saw Plaintiff, and Plaintiff told Sandra that Plaintiff
was Francisco’s friend from work and that Francisco was expecting Plaintiff.
(FAC ¶ 14.) Sandra called Francisco by telephone. (FAC ¶ 15.) When they reached
Francisco, Plaintiff accused Francisco of assaulting Plaintiff with a two-liter
bottle of Sprite. (FAC ¶ 16.) Francisco told Sandra to call the police. (FAC ¶
16.) 
 
The
police apprehended Plaintiff shortly after and told Plaintiff that Plaintiff
was arrested for making criminal threats. (FAC ¶ 18.) Francisco had told the
police that Plaintiff had threatened to kill and rape his mother and daughter.
(FAC ¶ 18.) 
 
Plaintiff
was injured during the arrest process. (FAC ¶ 18.) Plaintiff posted $10,000 in
bail and further incurred $742 to retrieve her vehicle from police storage and
arrange a rideshare back to her home. (FAC ¶ 18.) 
 
Plaintiff
now alleges that Defendants acted with “intent to injure and threaten
Plaintiff.” (FAC ¶ 19.) Further, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants acted with
animus towards Plaintiff’s identity as a transgender woman of color. (FAC ¶
23.) Plaintiff sues for the following causes of action in the first amended
complaint: 
 
1)    Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress
2)    Negligence
3)    Violation of Civil Code
section 51.7 
4)    Violation of Civil Code
section 52.1
5)    Violation of the Unruh
Act
6)    False Imprisonment. 
 
Defendants demur to all six causes of action
because they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action. 
Legal Standard
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30,
subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The purpose
of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising
questions of law.”  (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)  The court
“treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . .”  (Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525 (Berkley).)  “In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 452; see also Stevens v. Super.
Ct. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) 
“When a court evaluates a complaint, the plaintiff is entitled to
reasonable inferences from the facts pled.” 
(Duval v. Board of Trustees
(2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 902, 906.)  
 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendants satisfied
the meet-and-confer requirements. (Decl. Muradyan, ¶ 3, Ex. A; Code. Civ.
Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a).) 

 
First Cause of Action –
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Pleading
intentional infliction of emotional distress requires the following: “(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and (3) the defendant's
extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the severe
emotional distress.”  (Crouch v.
Trinity Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1007.)
 
The
conduct must be so extreme as to be beyond all bounds of decency tolerated by
society. (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.) Mere
indignities, insults, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, and the like are
not enough. (Id. at 1051.) Whether the alleged conduct is outrageous is
usually a question of fact. (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th
652, 672.) To avoid demurrer, Plaintiff must allege such acts with great
specificity. (Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th
144, 160-161.) 
 
Defendants
demur on the grounds that Plaintiff’s complaint does not demonstrate any degree
of extreme or outrageous conduct. Defendants also demur on the grounds that
there is no causal connection between Plaintiff’s alleged emotional distress
and Defendants’ actions. 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants told false stories to the police which resulted in her
arrest. (FAC ¶ 27.) Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants told Plaintiff and
Defendant’s mutual employer about Plaintiff’s arrest and the false statements.
(FAC ¶ 27.) These statements have damaged her reputation and her emotional
wellbeing. (FAC ¶¶ 27-29.) They have also injured Plaintiff. (FAC ¶ 32.) 
 
Taking
the allegations as true, the Court determines that Plaintiff has sufficiently
stated a cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  
 
The
demurrer as to the First Cause of Action is OVERRULED.  
 
Second
Cause of Action – Negligence 
 
To state a claim
for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the following elements: (1) “the
existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) 
 
Defendants
demur on the grounds that Plaintiff does not allege facts to support that
Defendants failed to use ordinary or reasonable care and instead, vaguely
states the alleged duty. 
 
Plaintiff alleges the following: “Defendants, and
each of them, failed to use ordinary or reasonable care in their interactions
with Plaintiff and negligently caused the Plaintiff to be falsely imprisoned,
defamed and abused as alleged herein.” (FAC ¶ 38.) 
 
The Court agrees with Defendants that the duty attributed
to them in the Complaint is vague, and the conduct which breached the duty is
uncertain.  
 
The demurrer as to the Second Cause of Action is
SUSTAINED.  
 
Third Cause of Action – Violation of Civil Code section 51.7 
 
To plead a violation of
Civil Code section 51.7, Plaintiff must allege the following: (1) Defendant threatened, or committed, violent acts against plaintiff or
plaintiff’s property; (2) a motivating reason for that conduct was defendant’s
perception of plaintiff's defined characteristic (e.g., sex, race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, disability, medical condition, marital
status or sexual orientation); (3) plaintiff was harmed;  and (4) defendant's conduct was a substantial
factor in causing that harm. (Austin B. v. Escondido Union School Dist.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 881.)
 
Defendants demur on the grounds that Plaintiff did
not show that Defendants’ actions were motivated by their perception of
Plaintiff’s protected characteristics; there are no facts describing where the
alleged knowledge was coming from; Plaintiff failed to show that Defendants
committed or threatened to commit violent acts against Plaintiff; and Plaintiff
failed to plead enough facts showing that the harm she suffered was because of
Defendants’ actions. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that she is a transgender woman
of color. (FAC ¶ 46.) She was the subject of harassment, discrimination,
threats of violence, intimidation by threat of violence and violence by
Defendants. (FAC ¶ 46.) Such acts were committed against Plaintiff based upon
her actual and/or perceived sex, gender, sexual orientation, race, and/or
color. (FAC ¶ 46.) Plaintiff also alleges that she suffered injuries because of
Defendants’ conduct. (FAC ¶ 49.) 
 
However, there are no facts alleged in the
Complaint tending to show Defendants threatened or committed violent acts
against Plaintiff, or Defendants were motivated by their perception of
Plaintiff as a transgender woman.  
   
The demurrer as to the Third Cause of Action is
SUSTAINED.  
 
Fourth Cause of Action – Violation of Civil Code
section 52.1
 
To plead a violation of Civil Code section 52.1, Plaintiff
needs to allege the following: (1) the defendant interfered with or attempted to interfere with the
plaintiff’s rights, which are protected by law, by threatening or committing
violent acts; (2) the plaintiff reasonably believed that if he or she exercised
his or her rights the defendant would commit violence against him or her or his
or her property, or the defendant injured the plaintiff or his or her property
to prevent him or her from exercising his or her rights or retaliated against
the plaintiff for having exercised his or her rights; (3) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (4) the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the
plaintiff’s harm. (Civ. Code, § 52.1; Austin B. v.
Escondido Union School Dist., supra, 149 Cal.App.4th at p.
882.)
 
Defendants demur on the
grounds that Defendants did not act with any intent to threaten, intimidate, or
coerce Plaintiff or force Plaintiff to relinquish her constitutional, state, or
statutory rights; Plaintiff did not plead enough facts to ascertain the
constitutional, state, or statutory right she claims was violated; Plaintiff
failed to plead facts to support that Francisco took any actions to prevent her
from exercising some rights that are not described in the complaint; and there
is no indication or suggestion that Defendants acted improperly or in fact
acted in any manner that can possibly be described as “threats, coercion.” 
 
Plaintiff alleges the
following: “Plaintiff was the subject of harassment, discrimination, threats of
violence, intimidation by threat of violence and violence itself by Defendants…”
(FAC ¶ 56.) “The Defendants, …, indeed did interfere – through threats, intimidation,
coercion, and violence – with Plaintiffs exercise and enjoyment of her rights
secured by the Constitution and laws of the United States and the Constitution
and laws of the State of California.” (FAC ¶ 57.) 
 
Here, the Complaint does not
allege any acts of threats or violence by Defendants.  The gravamen of the Complaint involves
Defendants’ false report to police.  The
Complaint only alleges threats and violence by Defendants in a conclusory
fashion.
 
The demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action is
SUSTAINED.  
 
Fifth Cause of Action – Violation of Unruh Act
 
The elements of a
claim for violation of the Unruh Civil
Rights Act are the following: (1) defendant is a business establishment; (2)
defendant intentionally denied plaintiff accommodations, advantages,
privileges, facilities, or services; (3) defendant was motivated to do so based
on its perception that plaintiff belonged to a statutorily defined group; (4)
plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in
causing plaintiff’s harm. (See Civ. Code, § 51; In re Cox (1970)
3 Cal.3d 205, 216.) 
 
Here, the claim fails because
Plaintiff does not allege Defendants operate a business establishment.  
 
The demurrer as to the Fifth
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.   
 
Sixth Cause of Action – False
Imprisonment 
 
A person is liable for false imprisonment if he or she
“authorizes, encourages,
directs, or assists an officer to do an unlawful act, or
procures an unlawful arrest,
without process or participates in the unlawful arrest . . ..” (Du
Lac v. Perma
Trans Products, Inc. (1980) 103 Cal.App.3d 937, 941.) Where a defendant “knowingly
[gives] the police false or materially incomplete information, of a character
that could be expected to stimulate an arrest” . . . “such conduct can be a
basis for imposing liability for false imprisonment.” (Id. at p. 942.)
 
Defendants demur on the
grounds that they did not give false statements to the police. They also argue
that they did not rely on fraud, force, or duress in their actions. They
further argue that Plaintiff does not provide any factual basis that
Defendants’ representations were false or otherwise improper. Defendants also
demur on the grounds that they did not involuntarily confine Plaintiff,
Plaintiff’s arrest occurred outside of their residence, and neither Defendant
had anything to do with it but calling the police. 
 
Plaintiff alleges the
following: “After Law Enforcement arrived on the scene pursuant to Defendants
911 call, Defendants intentionally reported, and/or pointed out to law
enforcement officers, knowingly, falsely, and without cause, that the
Plaintiff’s actions were in violation of law when in fact they were not.
Specifically, based on information and belief, Defendants made false
allegations against Plaintiff that she had made criminal threats when they
knew, in fact, that Plaintiff had not. Plaintiff had the entire incident
audio/video recorded to prove this claim was made maliciously. Defendants made
false allegations against Plaintiff that she had, without cause, criminally,
threatened the Defendants to a felonious level, when they knew the Plaintiff
had not done so.” (FAC ¶ 81.)
 
Based on the above, the Court
finds that Plaintiff adequately pleaded false imprisonment. Contrary to what
Defendants assert, Plaintiff does not need to provide any factual basis that
their representations were false or otherwise improper. Also, Plaintiff does
not need to allege that Defendants acted fraudulently, forcibly, or with
duress. In addition, Plaintiff does not need to plead that Defendants
themselves involuntarily confined Plaintiff. It is also not relevant that
Plaintiff’s arrest occurred outside their residence and that neither Defendant
had anything to do with it but call the police. 
 
The demurrer to the Sixth Cause
of Action is OVERRULED. 