  Case Number:  22STCV15837    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Plaintiff On Point Builders, Inc.’s Motion To Compel Defendant Las Palmas
Silver, LLC’s Further Responses To Form Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff On
Point Builders, Inc.’s Motion To Compel Defendant Las Palmas Silver, LLC’s
Further Responses To Special Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff On Point
Builders, Inc.’s Motion To Compel Defendant Las Palmas Silver, LLC’s Further
Responses To Request For Production Of Documents, Set One. Plaintiff On Point
Builders, Inc.’s Motion To Deem Requests For Admissions As Admitted Or,
Alternatively, To Compel Defendant Las Palmas Silver, LLC’s Further Responses
To Request For Admission, Set One.
Background
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant ON POINT BUILDERS, INC. (“On
Point”) bring this case against Defendant and Cross-Complainant LAS PALMAS
SILVER, LLC (“Las Palmas”) and Defendant DAVID PARTIEL for claims arising out
of Defendants’ alleged failure to pay for Plaintiff’s work on a construction
project. 
Now under consideration are On Point’s four discovery
motions requesting from Las Palmas further responses to form interrogatories, special
interrogatories, and document requests, and for an order deeming admitted
requests for admission. On Point also seeks monetary sanctions for the four
motions. In its opposition briefs, Las Palmas contends that the motions are moot
because Las Palmas served further responses to the discovery requests on
3/26/24 and that the requested sanctions are unwarranted.
Analysis
After filing the motions to compel, the parties held
an IDC with the Court. At the IDC held on 2/6/24, counsel for Las Palmas agreed
to serve further responses to the four sets of discovery by 3/1/24. See
Pham Decl., ISO Motions to Compel, ¶ 3, Ex. B. Las Palmas did not serve further
responses by 3/1/24. Las Palmas served further responses nearly four weeks
later, the day before the deadline for filing opposition to the motions. Id.,
¶ 4, Exs. C-F. The further responses were not verified until 3/28/24, which is tantamount
to no responses. Appleton v. Superior Court (1998) 206 Cal.App.3d 632,
636. This means that at the time Las Palmas filed its opposition briefs, it had
not served verified, further responses.
On Point acknowledges in its reply briefs that Las Palmas
has now served verified, further responses. On Point has not had an opportunity
to review the further responses to determine if they are sufficient. On Point contends
that the Court should still order further responses without objections and
impose a reduced amount of sanctions against Las Palmas. 
Where respondents serve untimely discovery responses
after parties have filed motions to compel responses, courts have broad
discretion as to ruling, including: 1) denying the motion as moot, in whole or
part, where valid responses without objections have resolved the motion; 2)
awarding requested sanctions; 3) allowing moving party to take the motion off
calendar; 4)  considering the motion as
voluntarily narrowed in scope; 5) compelling responses without objection, where
no legally valid responses have been provided, as to some, or all,
interrogatories; 6) treating the motion as one to compel further responses, and
ruling accordingly, with, or without, a separate statement; 7) ordering the
parties to meet and confer; 8) ordering moving party to file a separate
statement; or, 9) ordering the motion off calendar while requiring the
propounding party to file a motion to compel further responses. Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc., v. Klugman
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 409. 
Here, the Court exercises its discretion to order the
motions off-calendar without prejudice for On Point to file any proper motions
to compel further responses after first participating in another IDC to resolve
any issues regarding the further responses served by Las Palmas. 
The Court also exercises its discretion to impose
sanctions against Las Palmas, pursuant to CRC 3.1348(a). The purpose of the IDC
process is to avoid costly and unnecessary discovery motion practice. Counsel
for Las Palmas acknowledged at the 2/6/24 IDC that Las Palmas’s initial
objection-only responses were deficient and needed to be supplemented. He
agreed to serve further responses by 3/1/24, which was already five months
after Las Palmas had served its initial, deficient responses. The Court expected
that Las Palmas would live up to its agreement, thus avoiding further motion
practice on On Point’s discovery requests. But Las Palmas missed that deadline
by nearly a month and only served responses on the eve of its opposition deadline.
Las Palmas has no explanation for once again delaying in complying with its
discovery obligations. This delay meant that On Point did not have time to
review the responses and determine their sufficiency before the deadline for
filing reply briefs. 
The bottom line is that Las Palmas’s inexcusable delay
in complying with its discovery obligations has only served to increase the
costs of this litigation. The Court determines that a reasonable amount of sanctions
for this misuse of the discovery process is $6,037.50, reflecting 17.5 hours of
attorney time to prepare the motions, participate in the IDC, and prepare the
reply briefs. The sanctions are to be paid by Las Palmas and/or its attorney
within 30 days of this order.
 