 Case Number:  22STCV31603    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to compel the compliance with deposition subpoena
of Jennie Levin filed by Defendant Numark Transportation, Inc.
 
Tentative
The motion is denied without prejudice.
Background
On September 27,
2022, Angel Contreras (“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint in this action against
Mario Lua, Numark Transportation, Inc. (“Numark”), and Does 1 through 25,
asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence
arising out of an accident occurring on February 17, 2022, on the 710 Freeway
near Washington Boulevard in Commerce.  At
the time of filing, Plaintiff was represented by counsel of record Jennie
Levin.
On April 20,
2023, Plaintiff filed a substitution of counsel, with David R. Lira replacing
Jennie Levin.
Defendants Numark
and Mario Lua (collectively, “Defendants”) filed their answers on July 21,
2023, and January 16, 2024.
On November 28,
2023, Numark noticed the deposition of Plaintiff’s former counsel of record
Jennie Levin.  (Mathis Decl., ¶ 6.)  Numark asserts that it seeks to take the
deposition of Ms. Levin because she, on behalf of Plaintiff, entered into an
oral settlement agreement with Defendants in October 2022, shortly after the
complaint was filed.  (Id., ¶ 2.)
On February 21,
2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for a protective order to preclude Numark from
taking the deposition of Ms. Levin.  The hearing
on that motion is set for April 29, 2024.
On February 29, 2024,
Numark filed this motion to compel the deposition of Ms. Levin.  The hearing on the motion was set for March
22, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on March 11, and Numark filed a reply on
March 15.
 
Legal Standard
“Any party may
obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any person,
including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
The process by which a party may obtain discovery from a
person who is not a party to the action is through a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd.
(b).)  Personal service of the deposition
subpoena on the non-party is required. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (b).)
“A deposition subpoena may command any of the following: (a) Only
the attendance and testimony of the deponent …. (b) Only the production of
business records for copying …. (c) The attendance and the testimony of
the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.020.)
“If a deponent on whom a deposition subpoena has been served fails
to attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as a witness, the court may
impose on the deponent the sanctions described in Section 2020.240 [contempt
and an action for civil damages under section 1992].” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.440, subd. (b).)
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (a).)  “This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after
the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., subd. (b).)
“If the
court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery,
it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the
resumption of the deposition.  (Id., subd. (i).)
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (Id., subd. (j).)  
In Chapter 7 of the Civil
Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the
discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.”  Where a
party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may
impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Except as specifically modified by the
Civil Discovery Act, the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure sections 1985
through 1997 apply to deposition subpoenas. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.030.)¿ 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides: “If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a), states, in relevant part, that in connection with an order
directing compliance with a subpoena, quashing it, or modifying it, “the court
may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification.”¿ 
A motion to compel a nonparty to answer
questions or produce documents “must be personally served on the nonparty
deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or
electronic service.”  (Cal. R. Ct., rule
3.1346.)
Discussion
Numark moves for
an order compelling nonparty Jennie Levin to appear
and testify at her deposition.  Numark
has not, however, served the nonparty witness with a deposition subpoena.  (Mathis Decl., ¶¶ 9-10 & Exh. H.)  This is a mandatory requirement.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (b).)
In addition, there
is no evidence that Numark has personally served Ms. Levin with the motion
papers.  This is also a mandatory requirement.  (Cal. R. Ct.,
rule 3.1346.)  The
Court cannot order a nonparty to attend a deposition (or take any other action)
without evidence that the nonparty had notice and the opportunity to be heard.
Accordingly, the
motion to compel is denied, without prejudice, on procedural grounds.  
Numark’s request
for sanctions is denied.  The request as
to Ms. Levin is denied as she has not been served with this motion (or the
deposition subpoena).  The request as to
Plaintiff and his counsel of record is denied as Numark does not provide any
basis to impose sanctions on Plaintiff or his counsel of record for the alleged
failure of a nonparty witness to attend a deposition for which not subpoena was
served.
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is denied.  The
motion to compel the deposition is denied on procedural grounds, not
substantive grounds, and the Court does not find that the motion was made in bad
faith.
The Court
expresses no view as to whether this ruling renders moot, or does not render
moot, the motion for a protective order set for hearing on April 29, 2024.
Conclusion
The Court denies the motion to compel without
prejudice.
The Court denies both parties’ requests for
sanctions.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.