 Case Number:  23TRCV00457    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to Compel Arbitration and Request for StayThe court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papersRULINGThe motion is GRANTED. The action is stayed pending resolution of the arbitration proceedings.BACKGROUNDOn February 16, 2023, plaintiff Blanca Cadenas De Garcia filed a complaint against defendants Hudson Insurance Company (“Hudson”) and Redondo Automotive, LLC, dba Redondo Mitsubishi (“Redondo Automotive”) arising from her purchase of a used 2009 Cadillac CTS on October 25, 2022. The Complaint alleges the following causes of action: (1) intentional misrepresentation; (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3) violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200; (4) bond claim; and (50 violation of consumer legal remedies act.On March 20, 2023, defendant Hudson filed its answer to the complaint.On March 21, 2023, Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed defendant Redondo Automotive from the complaint. On the same day, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint, substituting in Malty Automotive, Inc. for Doe 1.On October 13, 2023, defendant Malty Automotive, Inc., dba Redondo Mitsubishi (“Malty Automotive”) filed the instant motion to compel arbitration and request for stay. On November 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed a limited opposition. On November 20, 2023, defendant Malty Automotive filed its reply.LEGAL STANDARDWhen seeking to compel arbitration of a plaintiff’s claims, the defendant must allege the existence of an agreement to arbitrate. (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) The burden then shifts to the plaintiff to prove the falsity of the agreement. (Ibid.) After the Court determines that an agreement to arbitrate exists, it then considers objections to its enforceability. (Ibid.) The Court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless the defendant has waived the right to compel arbitration or if there are grounds to revoke the arbitration agreement. (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)DISCUSSIONDefendant Malty Automotive requests an order compelling binding arbitration and to stay the proceedings.A. Existence of an Agreement to Arbitrate“[T]he petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) “If the party opposing the petition raises a defense to enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory defense of waiver or revocation [citation]—that party bears the burden of producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.” (Ibid.)In support of its burden, defendant Malty Automotive submits evidence of the Retail Installment Sale Contract (“RISC”) between it and Plaintiff in connection with her purchase of the subject vehicle on October 25, 2022, which contains an arbitration provision. (Motion at pg. 3; Malty Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1 at pg. 5.) The arbitration provision states in pertinent part:Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, any allegation of waiver of rights under this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action…The arbitrator may not preside over a consolidated, representative, class, collective, injunctive, or private attorney general action. (Emphasis added.)The arbitration provision includes both substantive and procedural protections for both sides and was signed by both parties to the contract.Based on this evidence, the Court finds that defendant Malty Automotive has met its burden in showing that an arbitration agreement exists between it and Plaintiff. Furthermore, as indicated in the 2019 agreement, the FAA is the governing law. (Ibid.; Rodriguez v. American Technologies, Inc., (2006) 136 Cal. App. 4th 110, 1117.)Plaintiff does not dispute that an arbitration agreement exists for the sale at issue in this litigation; accordingly, the court finds an agreement to arbitration exists between the parties.B. Enforceability of Arbitration AgreementPlaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement is unenforceable under McGill v. Citi bank, NA. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 945 because Plaintiff seeks public injunctive relief. (Opposition at pg. 1.) Defendant asserts that, even if McGill limits the enforceability of the arbitration agreement, the court should excise the claim which is not subject to arbitration and order the parties to arbitration for the balance of the claims.In her Fifth Cause of Action, plaintiff seeks “to obtain an injunction against [Defendant] which enjoins [Defendant] from continuing to make false and misleading statements to consumers regarding the sale of motor vehicles.” (Compl. ¶82.)1 Within the arbitrationagreement itself, the parties agreed not to have the arbitrator make decisions when an injunction is being sought. (Malty Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1 at pg. 5.) “Arbitration under the FAA is a matter of consent, not coercion, and parties may limit by contract the issues that they will arbitrate.” (McGill v. Citibank, N.A., supra, 2 Cal.5th at 966.) “[C]ase law establishes that a stay of proceedings as to any inarbitrable claims is appropriate until arbitration of any arbitrable claims is concluded.” (Id.) Here, the agreement between the parties clearly provides that “[t]he arbitrator may not preside over a[n]…injunctive…action.” (Malty Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1 at pg. 5.) However, injunctive relief is sought only as to one of the five causes of action alleged in plaintiff’s complaint. Therefore, the court finds that the parties agreed to arbitrate the each of plaintiff’s cause of action, but for the request for injunctive relief.Based on the foregoing, the motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The action is stayed until such time as all claims for money damages have been resolved by arbitration.Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.