  Case Number:  24AVCV01213    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a lemon law action.
Plaintiff Terrance J. Turner (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on or about August 04,
2020, he entered into a warranty contract with Defendant FCA US, LLC
(“Defendant”), regarding a 2020 Ram 1500, VIN: 1C6SRFFT7LN348590 (the “Subject
Vehicle”), which was manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant. Plaintiff
further alleges that the warranty contract contained various warranties,
including but not limited to, the bumper-bumper warranty, powertrain warranty,
emission warranty, etc.; defects and nonconformities to the warranty manifested
themselves within the applicable express warranty period, including but not
limited to, engine defects, transmission defects, electrical defects; among
other defects and non-conformities; and such defects and nonconformities
substantially impaired the use, value, or safety of the Subject Vehicle. Plaintiff
presents that Defendant has not fixed the underlying defects and has failed to
either promptly replace the subject vehicle or promptly make restitution.
 
On September 26, 2024, Plaintiff
filed his Complaint alleging five causes of action for: (1) Violation of
Subdivision (d) of Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2; (2) Violation of Subdivision (b) of
Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2; (3) Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Cal. Civ. Code
§ 1793.2; (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability (Cal. Civ. Code
§§ 1791.1, 1794, 1795.5); and (5) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment.
 
On November 26, 2024, Defendant
filed this Demurrer.
 
On December 17, 2024, Plaintiff
filed his Opposition,
 
On December 23, 2024, Defendant
filed its Reply.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.
App. 4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable,
plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on
the demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003)
31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
-----¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Meet and Confer Requirement– Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and
435.5.) It appears from Samantha M. Geraghty (“Geeraghty”)’s declaration that
the requirement has been met. (See Decl. Geraghty¿at ¶ 5.)  
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Defendant
demurs to two causes of action: (1) The Third Cause of Action (Violation of
Subdivision (a)(3) of Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2), and (2) the Fifth Cause of
Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment).
 
i.       Third
Cause of Action (Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2)
 
Defendant presents that the Third
Cause of Action states only generalized recitations of Cal. Civ. Code and
improper conclusions of law That is, Defendant argues that the Complaint only
gives notice of the applicable Cal. Civ. Code section and not what Defendant
purportedly did to violate the section.
 
Plaintiff argues that he has
alleged repairs were attempted on the Subject Vehicle, and these repairs were
unsuccessful. (See Opp. 4:16-17.) Plaintiff presents that Defendant is the only
one that has access to the records in question and that further detail can be
worked out in discovery. Plaintiff believes that the pleadings contain enough
specificity to put Defendant on notice as to the claim and the general type of
literature and/or replacement parts that were not provided.
 
In Reply, Defendant reiterates that
Plaintiff has not alleged facts to constitute a viable action as Plaintiff is
simply parro9ting the language of the statute. Defendant highlights that
Plaintiff’s Opposition concedes that Plaintiff has failed to allege any
particular facts as Plaintiff contends that FCA has those facts in its
possession. Defendant argues that Plaintiff seeks to circumvent the required
pleading standards for this cause of action. 
 
Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2 reads, in
relevant part:
 
Every manufacturer
of consumer goods sold in this state and for which the manufacturer has made an
express warranty shall:
 
[. . .]
 
Make available to
authorized service and repair facilities sufficient service literature and
replacement parts to effect repairs during the express warranty period.
 
(Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2(a)(3).)
 
The Complaint states, in relevant
part: 
 
In violation of
Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3), Defendant FCA failed to make
available to its authorized service and repair facilities sufficient service
literature and replacement parts to effect repairs during the express warranty
period. Plaintiff has been damaged by Defendant FCA's failure to comply with
its obligations pursuant to Civil Code section 1793.2(a)(3), and therefore
brings this Cause of Action pursuant to Civil Code section 1794.
 
Defendant FCA's
failure to comply with its obligations under Civil Code section 1793.2,
subdivision (a)(3) was willful, in that Defendant FCA knew of its obligation to
provide literature and replacement parts sufficient to allow its repair
facilities to effect repairs during the warranty period, yet Defendant FCA
failed to take any action to correct its failure to comply with the law.
Accordingly, Plaintiff is entitled to a civil penalty of two times Plaintiff’s
actual damages, pursuant to Civil Code section 1794(c).
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 50-51.) 
 
"[S]tatutory causes of
action must be pleaded with particularity." (Covenant Care, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.) Here, Plaintiff has not alleged
facts related to the Subject Vehicle’s repair history other than, “Although
Plaintiff presented the Vehicle to Defendant FCA's representative in this
state, Defendant FCA and its representative failed to commence the service or
repairs within a reasonable time and failed to service or repair the Vehicle so
as to conform to the applicable warranties within 30 days, in violation of
Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (b). Plaintiff did not extend the time
for completion of repairs beyond the 30-day requirement.” (Complaint ¶ 45.) The
Third Cause of Action contains only conclusory allegations with virtually no
facts at all to support the claims alleged. (See Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto
Superstores California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234, 1247-1248). As a result,
there is no factual basis alleged for Plaintiff's claim that he was
"damaged by Defendant's failure to comply with its obligations pursuant to
Civil Code section 1793.2(a)(3)." (Complaint ¶ 50.)
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
ii.     Fifth
Cause of Action Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment)
 
Defendant argues that the Fifth
Cause of Action is not pled with the requisite particularity as it contains no
allegations concerning the content of the omitted facts, Plaintiff’s
justifiable or actual reliance, and noneconomic damages. Defendant further
argues that there is no transactional relationship between the parties as
Defendant did not sell the car to Plaintiff and, as such, there is no duty to
disclose. Defendant cites to Mel Clayton Ford v. Ford Motor Co. (2002)
104 Cal.App.4th 46, 56 (“Mel Clayton Ford”) and presents that Mel
Clayton Ford holds that automakers re not vicariously liable for the
independent wrongs of a dealership. Defendant further presents that Plaintiff
has not alleged the required ratification by a corporate entity as Plaintiff’s
Complaint lacks any allegations regarding how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the representations were made, and, in the case of a corporate
defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who made the
representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the representation was made. Defendant
further presents that Plaintiff has failed to allege what information was
concealed, that the economic loss rule bars Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment
claim, that there was no duty of the rights and obligations assumed under the
express limited warranty, the purported injury was contemplated by the parties
when the warranty was provided, and Plaintiff’s claim seeks tort recovery for a
breach of contract duty.
 
Plaintiff argues that in cases
claiming fraud through non-disclosure, it is not practical to allege facts
showing how, when and by what means something did not happen; the pleadings
must set forth the substance of the statements at issue, that the particularity
requirement of fraud is relaxed when it is apparent from the allegations that
the defendant necessarily possesses knowledge of the facts. Plaintiff contends
that the Fifth Cause of Action is sufficiently poled under Dhital v. Nissan
N. Am., Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828 (“Dhital”). Plaintiff further
argues that a transactional relationship is not required in this action and
directs the parties and the Court to Bader v. Johnson & Johnson
(2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1094, 1132 (“Bader”). Plaintiff presents that the
engine defect is a material fact, that it poses safety risks, and that the
defect arose during the warranty period. Plaintiff argues that his claim is not
barred by the economic loss rule and the Rattagan v. Uber Technologies,
Inc., (2024) 17 Cal.5th 1 (“Rattagan”) test does not apply. 
 
In Reply, Defendant presents that
Plaintiff has conceded that each element in a fraud cause of action must be pleaded
with specificity and argues that Plaintiff’s Complaint fails in this respect.
Specifically, Defendant argues: (1) Plaintiff’s own citation to Dhital
is self-defeating as Plaintiff relies on the conclusory contention that the
facts are within Defendant’s knowledge; (2) there is no fiduciary or
transactional relationship between the parties; (3) Plaintiff’s Opposition
fails to address the pleading requirements of factual specificity such as a
factual basis for establishing duty; (4) Plaintiff has failed to distinguish Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157; (5) Rattagan
bars Plaintiff’s fraud by omission claim; (6) Plaintiff’s fraud claim arises
exclusively from a breach of the warranty contract; and (7) Plaintiff’s
reliance on Dhital is misplaced as Plaintiff does not allege any legal
agency between Defendant and the unidentified selling dealership.
 
First, the Court notes that Dhital
is pending review. The California Supreme Court has issued an opinion reading: 
 
The request for
judicial notice is granted
 
The petition for
review is granted. Further action in this matter is deferred pending
consideration and disposition of a related issue in Rattagan v. Uber Tech.
Inc., S272113  (see Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 8.512(d)(2)), or pending further order of the court. Submission of
additional briefing, pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 8.520, is
deferred pending further order of the court.
 
The request for an
order directing depublication of the opinion is denied.
 
(Dhital v. Nissan N. Am., Inc.
(2023) 304 Cal.Rptr.3d 82.)
 
The Dhital holding may be
cited only for persuasive value. (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
8.1115(e)(1).)  
 
Rattagan is mentioned by name and
highlighted as a related issue.
 
Further, the Court
emphasizes that Dhital states: “Plaintiffs alleged that they
bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car
with an express warranty, and that Nissan’s authorized dealerships are
its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers.” (Dhital,
supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at 844 [emphasis added].) Here, unlike Dhital,
Plaintiff’s Complaint has no discussion regarding an authorized dealership for
the sale of the Subject Vehicle. Regarding how Plaintiff attained the vehicle,
Plaintiff alleges only that he “entered into a warranty contract with
[Defendant] regarding a 2020 Ram 1500, vehicle identification
number 1C6SRFFT7LN348590 (hereafter "Vehicle"), which was
manufactured and/or distributed by Defendant FCA.” (Complaint ¶ 9.) Further,
Plaintiff only references Defendant’s agents in the capacity of repairs. (See
Complaint ¶¶ 39, 41, 45, 48.) References are unclear as to “FCA’s sales
representatives” as FCA is a manufacturer and not a dealer and the Complaint
includes discussion of non-FCA sales representatives. (See Complaint ¶ 63 and
compare with Complaint ¶¶ 22-23.) Thus, as alleged, there is no
transactional relationship between the parties. 
Rattagan addresses
exceptions to the economic loss rule. Specifically, Rattagan goes provides a
further analysis than Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004)
34 Cal.4th 979 (“Robinson”) which held that only fraud claims based on
affirmative misrepresentations and only when the tortious conduct exposed a
plaintiff to risk of liability for personal damages independent of the
plaintiff‘s economic losses creates an exception to the economic loss rule. Rattagan
provides, in relevant part:
 
Can a plaintiff
assert an independent claim of fraudulent concealment in the performance of a
contract? The answer to this question is also yes. A plaintiff may assert a
tort claim for fraudulent concealment based on conduct occurring in the course
of a contractual relationship, if the elements of the cause of action can be
established independently of the parties‘ contractual rights and obligations
and the tortious  conduct exposes the
plaintiff to a risk of harm beyond the reasonable contemplation of the parties
when they entered into the agreement.
 
Within the context
of the broader independent tort principles previously summarized (see
discussion at pp. 26–27, ante), our answer encapsulates steps one and
three of the required analysis: (1) a court must ascertain the full scope of
the parties' contractual agreement; and (3) the court must determine whether
the plaintiff can establish all elements of the tort independent of the rights
and duties assumed by the parties under the contract. Step two is satisfied
here because, as discussed post, the independent tort duty to refrain from
engaging in fraudulent conduct is well established by statute and common law.
 
(Rattagan, supra,
17 Cal.5th 1, 38.) 
 
Plaintiff concedes that the
warranty at issue is a contract. (See Complaint ¶ 9.) As such, Rattagan
is applicable to the instant action. 
 
Plaintiff has included the
warranty at issue which reads, in relevant part: 
 
The Basic Limited
Warranty covers the cost of all parts and labor needed to repair any item on
your vehicle when it left the manufacturing plant that is defective in
material, workmanship or factory preparation. There is no list of covered parts
since the only exceptions are the items listed in “section 2.1 C”. These
warranty repairs or adjustments, including all parts and labor connected with
them, will be made by an authorized dealer at no charge, using new or
remanufactured parts.
 
(Complaint, Exh. A.) 
 
This Court’s analysis needs only
discuss the first element. The warranty contract does not arise independently
of the parties’ contractual rights and obligations and, as such, Plaintiff’s
claim is barred by the economic loss rule. 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Fifth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
-----
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy¿(1976),
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under California law leave to amend is liberally
granted, “leave to amend should not be granted where, in all probability,
amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co.
(1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial court does not abuse its
discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the
facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it
is probable from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts
to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution
Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.)¿¿¿ 
 
Here, the claims are such that (1) the
Fifth Cause of Action may not be rectified due to the Rattagan holding,
and (2) the Third Cause of Action has a possibility of successful amendment as
its deficiency lies within unpled allegations. 
 
Accordingly, the Court allows leave to
amend as to the Third Cause of Action only. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant FCA US, LLC’s Demurrer
is SUSTAINED. 
 
Leave to Amend is given as to the Third Cause of
Action (Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2) only.
Plaintiff Terrance J. Turner is to file an amended pleading within 30 days of
this Court Order.