 Case Number:  22STCV36104    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV36104




MOTIONS:  


Application
  to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Tracey Iraca and Kevin Iraca 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 15, 2022, Plaintiffs Tracey Iraca and Kevin Iraca
(“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint for alleged injuries inflicted at a public
event.
 
On October 13, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant application to admit
Cynthia A. Satter as Counsel Pro Hac Vice (“Satter”).  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
California Rules of Court, Rule
9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may
apply to appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a
verified application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the
application and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case
and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of
a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of
California, and is not employed or regularly engaged in substantial business,
professional, or other activities, in the State of California. An active licensee of the State Bar
of California must also be associated as attorney of record. 
 
“A person desiring to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in a superior court must file with the court a verified application
together with proof of service by mail in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the application and of the notice of
hearing of the application on all parties who have appeared in the cause and on
the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office. The notice of hearing
must be given at the time prescribed in Code of Civil Procedure section 1005
unless the court has prescribed a shorter period.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
9.40(c).) 
 
The application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence
and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted
to practice and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member in
good standing in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in
which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice
in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and
whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number
of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record
in the local action.  
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Applications
to appear as counsel pro hac vice must contain the facts specified in California
Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d). Satter’s verified application contains the
following information: 
 

Office and residence address
     (Satter Decl. ¶¶3–4.) 


The courts to which she has
     been admitted: New Jersey, New Hampshire, United States District Court of
     New Hampshire, United States District Court for the District of New
     Jersey, and First Circuit Court of Appeals (Id. ¶ 5.) 


Evidence that she is a member
     in good standing in New Jersey and New Hampshire (Id., ¶ 5–6.) 


Evidence she is not suspended
     or disbarred in any state (Id., ¶ 7.) 


Satter declares she has not
     applied to appear pro hac vice in the preceding two years in any
     California action (Id., ¶ 8.) 

6.     
Name, address, and phone number of Craig A. Bealer, the
California attorney representing Plaintiffs in this action. (Id. ¶ 9;
Bealer Decl. ¶ 1.) 
 
Satter is not a resident of California. (Satter Decl. ¶ 4.) Satter
also declares she is not employed in California, or regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or
other activities, in the State of California. (Id.) The Application was
uploaded and served upon the State Bar of California on October 13, 2023.
(Bealer Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. A.) The exhibit shows that Plaintiffs paid the $50 fee.
 
Plaintiffs filed
this application on October 13, 2023. However, on October 23, 2023, The
Myelodysplastic Syndromes Foundation, Inc. filed an answer to City of Los
Angeles’ cross-complaint in this case.  Plaintiffs
have not served this party. Thus, all parties who have appeared in the action
have not yet been served. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ application for Cynthia A. Satter to appear as
counsel pro hac vice is continued to February 8, 2024 at 1:30 p.m.
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling to all parties
by January 25, 2024 and file a proof of service of such. 
 