 Case Number:  22STCV23697    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV23697




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Responses to Interrogatories, Set One, Special
  Interrogatories, Set One, and Admissions, Set One
(2)  
  Compel Request for Production of Documents, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants
  Joe Angle Ramos and Jans Enterprise Corporation




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Orlando Garcia Ramos and Mario Valenzuela Granillo 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendants Joe Angle Ramos and
Jans Enterprise Corporation (“Defendants”) move to compel Plaintiffs Orlando
Garcia Ramos and Mario Valenzuela Granillo (“Plaintiffs”) to serve full and
complete answers to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set
One, Admissions, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One. Defendants seek
monetary sanctions. Plaintiffs oppose and Defendants reply.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Requests
for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Deem
Admitted
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to
respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party
relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently
served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to
respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court “shall”
grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that
the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,
before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for
admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
Where
a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory
that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendants represent that they served Form Interrogatories, Set
One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, Admissions, and Request for Production
of Documents, Set One on Plaintiffs on January 24, 2023. (Dailo Decl. ¶ 1, Exh.
A.) Responses were due February 25, 2023. (Id. ¶ 2.) Since then, no responses have
been served. (Id. ¶ 4.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs state that Plaintiff Orlando Garcia Ramos
has since passed away. Counsel is working to file a substitution of successor
in interest no later than February 2, 2024. (Opp., 2.) As for Plaintiff Mario
Valenzuela Granillo, Plaintiff’s counsel states there has been a breakdown in
the attorney client relationship and is willing to provide further details in
an in-camera hearing. Plaintiffs ask the Court not to award sanctions given
this information. 
Though
Defendants did not attach copies of the discovery propounded on Plaintiffs,
Plaintiffs do not dispute that the discovery was served.[1] Instead,
Plaintiffs ask the Court to permit additional time to provide responses. 
 
            In reply, Defendants verify that
Plaintiff Orlando Garcia Ramos died on May 13, 2023. 
 
            Given the death of Plaintiff Orlando
Garcia Ramos, the motions to compel responses by him are denied as moot. 
 
            However, Plaintiff Mario Valenzuela
Granillo has still failed to provide responses. Therefore, because responses
have not been served, the motions to compel Form Interrogatories, Set One,
Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production of Documents, Set
One are granted.[2] The
motion to compel responses to Admissions, Set One is denied because Defendants
fail to cite a code section that permits such a motion. 
 
Defendants also
requests $487.00 in monetary sanctions for each motion (2 total) against Plaintiffs,
representing an hourly rate of $122.00 plus the $60 filing fee. 
 
Plaintiffs argue sanctions should not be imposed because the death of
Ramos and the breakdown in relationship with Granillo demonstrates there was no
misuse of the discovery process. The Court declines to award sanctions against
Ramos given that the motion to compel is moot. 
 
However, the
Court finds sanctions are warranted for Plaintiff Mario
Valenzuela Granillo
since he has failed to timely respond. However, the amount requested is
excessive due to the type of motions at issue. Therefore, the Court awards
sanctions in the amount of $486.00 (1.5 hours of attorney time to file the
motion and reply, and appear at hearing, plus the $60 filing fee, for each of
the two motions).        
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiff Mario Valenzuela
Granillo’s responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories,
Set One, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. Plaintiff Mario
Valenzuela Granillo shall
provide verified responses, without objection, within 20 days.
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff Mario
Valenzuela Granillo’s response to Admissions, Set One.
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motions to compel Plaintiff Orlando
Garcia Ramos’ responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Admissions, and Request for Production of Documents,
Set One, as moot. 
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff Mario
Valenzuela Granillo, in the reduced amount of $486.00. Said monetary
sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendants within 30 days of the date
of this order.
 
Defendants shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 


