  Case Number:  21STCV29817    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV29817




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Western Freight Carrier, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Non-party
  Hitzke & Ferran LLP



 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 12, 2021, Plaintiffs Henry
Leslie and Tamarra Williams (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Gerardo
Rendon Venegas, Western Freight Carrier, Inc., and Does 1 to 50 for injuries
resulting from a motor vehicle accident. 
 
On November 30, 2023, the Court granted
Defendant Western Freight Carrier, Inc. (“Defendant”) leave to
amend its answer to allege a purported settlement between Plaintiffs and
itself. 
 
On December 28, 2023, Defendant filed the
instant motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena served on non-party
Hitzke & Ferran LLP, Plaintiff’s former counsel. Defendant does not seek
sanctions. Hitzke & Ferran LLP (“Hitzke”) opposes and
Defendant replies. 
 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored information,
and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A service of a deposition subpoena shall be affected a
sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a
reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and,
where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the
place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ “Any person
may serve the subpoena by personal delivery of a copy of it as follows: . . . If
the deponent is an organization, to any officer, director, custodian of records,
or to any agent or employee authorized by the organization to accept service of
a subpoena.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.220(b)(2).) 
 
Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective to
require a deponent who is a resident of California to: personally appear and
testify, if the subpoena so specifies; to produce any specified documents; and
to appear at a court session if the subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.220, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
A deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena may be
punished for contempt without the necessity of a prior order of the court
directing compliance by the witness.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)¿A motion
to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena must be made within 60 days
after completion of the deposition record, the date objections are served, or
the date specified for production, and be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd., (b); Board of Registered
Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (Johnson & Johnson) (2021) 59 CA5th 1011,
1032-1033.) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.” 
  
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a) states, in relevant part, “. . . in making an order pursuant to
motion made . . . under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification . . . .” 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
            Defendant’s counsel declares that
after the production deadline, she mailed letters to Hitzke. (Mathis Decl. ¶
13, Exh. D.) No responses were received. Therefore, it appears Defendant made a
good faith effort to resolve the issue. (Code
Civ. Proc., §2025.480, subd., (b).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On August 17, 2023, Defendant
served Hitzke with a deposition subpoena. (Mathis Decl. ¶¶ 10, 12, Exh. C.) The
subpoena date of production was August 31, 2023, meaning this motion was due October
30, 2023.[1]
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(b).) The motion is
untimely because it was filed on December 28, 2023. “A nonparty must comply (or
not) with the subpoena on the date specified for production. If a party is not
satisfied with the nonparty's compliance, the party has 60 days in which to
meet and confer with the nonparty. These meet and confer efforts do not affect
the mandatory 60-day deadline. The meet and confer process is part of the
60-day period in which to file a motion; it does not extend it. If the party is
still unsatisfied with the nonparty's compliance with any portion of the
subpoena at the end of this period (because, for example, the nonparty still
has not produced the requested documents), the party may file a motion to
compel.” (Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior Court
of Orange County (2021)
59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1034–35.) The sixty-day deadline is mandatory. (See
Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, 136 [directing
the trial court to deny a motion to compel compliance for failing to abide by
the 60-day deadline, citing Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1408–1410].) 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the motion to compel compliance with the
deposition subpoena on procedural grounds.
 
            Defendant shall give notice of the
Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
 
 
 


