 Case Number:  23STUD11910    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



HANIA MOGHADDAM c/o VISTA BASTIAN ESTATES L.P.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
ERIKA SILVA, an individual, et al.,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          23STUD11910
  (related to
                           24STCV10316)
 Hearing Date:   October
  31, 2024
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Unseal
  Stipulated Judgment



 
I. Background
On September 12, 2023, Plaintiff
Hania Moghaddam c/o Vista Bastian Estates, LP (Moghaddam) filed an unlawful
detainer complaint against Defendants Erika Silva, Humberto Alfaro, Jessica
Alfaro, Kenya Alfaro, David Alfaro, and Rylee Alfaro (the Tenants) for
violating a lease agreement for premises located at 1823 W. 12th Street, Los
Angeles, CA, 90006 (the Subject Property. 
On December 15, 2023, the parties signed
a Stipulated Judgment which included a Section 1542 waiver in which the parties
agreed to waive the right to sue other parties for all claims related to the
subject property.
On September 19, 2024, Moghaddam
filed the instant motion to unseal the Stipulated Judgment, contending that the
Tenants breached the terms of the Judgment in filing case number 24STCV10316. 
Defendants have not filed an
opposition, despite a facially valid proof of service to counsel of record in
the 24STCV10316 matter attached to the motion.
 
II. Motion
A.   
Legal Standard
Pursuant to CRC, rule 2.550 (c), unless confidentiality is
required by law, court records are presumed to be open.¿Subject¿to certain
exceptions, a court record must not be filed under seal without a court order.
(Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.¿(2014) 231 Cal.App.4th
471, 486.) 
A party requesting that a record be filed under seal must
file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. (CRC, rule
2.551 (b).) The motion or application¿must¿be accompanied by a memorandum and
a¿declaration containing facts sufficient¿to justify the sealing. (Ibid.)
In order for records to be sealed, a trial court must hold a hearing and
expressly find that: (1) there exists an overriding
interest supporting closure and/or sealing; (2) there is a substantial
probability that the interest will be prejudiced absent closure and/or sealing;
(3) the proposed closure and/or sealing is narrowly tailored to serve the
overriding interest; and (4) there is no¿less restrictive means of achieving
the overriding interest.¿(Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior
Court¿(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th¿1273, 1279.)¿Since court records are public
records, the burden rests on the party seeking to deny public access to those
records to establish compelling reasons why and to what extent these records
should be made private. (Mary R. v. B. & R. Corp. (1983) 149
Cal.App.3d 308, 317.) 
¿           A party or member of the public may move, apply, or
petition, or the court on its own motion may move, to unseal a record.¿(CRC,
rule 2.551(h)(2).)¿ Notice of any motion, application, or petition to unseal
must be filed and served on all parties in the case. (Ibid.)¿The motion,
application, or petition and any opposition, reply, and supporting documents
must be filed in a public redacted version and a sealed complete version if
necessary to comply with CRC, rule 2.551(c).¿(Ibid.) 
In determining whether to unseal a record, the court must
consider the matters addressed in CRC, rule 2.550(c)-(e). (CRC, rule
2.551(h)(4).)¿The order unsealing a record must state whether the record is
unsealed entirely or in part.¿(CRC, rule 2.551(h)(5).) If the court's order
unseals only part of the record or unseals the record only as to certain
persons, the order must specify the particular records that are unsealed, the
particular persons who may have access to the record, or both. (Ibid.)
If, in addition to the records in the envelope, container, or secure electronic
file, the court has previously ordered the sealing order, the register of
actions, or any other court records relating to the case to be sealed, the
unsealing order must state whether these additional records are unsealed. (Ibid.) 
B. Analysis
Moghaddam argues that the
Stipulated Judgment should be unsealed because the Tenants breached the terms of
the 1542 waiver in the Judgment by filing another lawsuit against Moghaddam, case
number 24STCV10316, which relates to the Subject Property. (Antony Decl. ¶ 5).  Moghaddam argues that the Judgment should be
unsealed, so she can ask the Court to enforce the Judgment under California
Code of Civil Procedure Section 664.6.
Additionally, Moghaddam states that
the Tenants are claiming that the 1542 waiver is invalid because they only
speak and read in Spanish and the Judgment terms were in English. (Antony Decl.
¶ 4). However, Moghaddam contends that the Tenants were afforded a Spanish
interpreter to review the terms before signing and were represented by counsel,
and thus the Judgment should be unsealed so that Moghaddam can defend herself
in case number 24STCV10316. 
Here, Moghaddam would be
substantially prejudiced if the portions of the Judgment that are relevant to her
defense remain sealed, and the Judgment could not be enforced. It is undisputed
that the parties entered into the Stipulated Judgment, that it contained a 1542
waiver, and that the Tenants have filed a subsequent suit alleging habitability
concerns of the same Subject Property. The Judgment also provides that if the
Tenants fail to comply with the Judgment, Moghaddam can seek to have the
Judgment unsealed. The Tenants have not opposed the motion, and thus have
offered no overriding interest in maintaining the status quo or offered any
evidence to rebut Moghaddam’s evidence that they have violated the terms of the
Stipulated Judgment. 
Thus, the motion to unseal the
Stipulated Judgment is GRANTED.
III. Conclusion
Hania Moghaddam c/o Vista Bastian
Estates, LP’s Motion to Unseal the Stipulated Judgment is GRANTED. 