 Case Number:  21STCV20203    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  YVETTE ORTIZ, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  WESTFIELD, LLC, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV20203  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 13, 2023  I. Background On May 28, 2021, Plaintiff Yvette Ortiz (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Westfield, LLC and Alicia Williams for injuries Plaintiff allegedly sustained when she slipped and fell on water near the door of the restroom on June 9, 2019. On July 5, 2022, Plaintiff filed an amendment to complaint naming Nationwide Janitorial Services, Inc. as Doe 1.  On November 15, 2023, Defendants Culver City Mall, LLC, erroneously sued as Westfield, LLC, and Nationwide Janitorial Services, Inc. (“Defendants”) filed the instant motion requesting the Court to continue the trial date and all related dates to in order for Defendants’ motions to be heard prior to the February 13, 2024 discovery cut-off date.  As of November 30, 2023, the motion is unopposed.   II. Legal Standard Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.  (See generally, CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)  Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)  III. Discussion Here, Defendants aver a continuance is necessary because the parties need more time to complete discovery. Defendants contend there are issues of a second deposition of Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s medical examination in California. Consequently, Defendants filed discovery motions and the available hearing dates for the motions were on February 2, 2024 and February 23, 2024. Based on the current trial date of March 11, 2024, the last day to hear the discovery motions, except those related to expert witnesses, is February 26, 2024. Defendants aver the hearing dates are after the discovery cut-off date of February 13, 2024.  This is the third request for a trial continuance, and no parties oppose the motion. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds good cause to continue the trial date to allow the parties sufficient time to resolve discovery disputes and for Defendants’ motions to be heard prior to the trial date. Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to continue trial is GRANTED.   The March 11, 2024 trial date is continued to ______________ at 8:30 a.m. in Department 31 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  The February 26, 2024 Final Status Conference is continued to _______________ at 10:00 a.m. in Department 31.  All discovery and expert cutoff dates are continued to reflect the new trial date.    Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 12th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   