 Case Number:  22STCV03568    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MARBELLA VILLA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  200 PINE AVENUE, LLC, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV03568  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 13, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff, Marbella Villa filed this action against Defendants 200 Pine Avenue, LLC (“200 Pine”) and Automac Parking, Inc. (“Automac”) for damages arising from a slip and fall on water near the hallway and/or stairwell area of 200 Pine Ave., Long Beach, CA 90802 on February 17, 2020. Plaintiff sets forth two causes of action for general negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff filed amendments to complaint naming Octopus Japanese Cuisine, Inc. as Doe 1, Octopus Restaurant Long Beach, Inc. (“Octopus Restaurant”) as Doe 2, and Riverrock Real Estate Group, Inc. (“Riverrock”) as Doe 3. 200 Pine filed its first amended cross-complaint (“FACC”) against Octopus Restaurant, Automac, and Roes 1 to 200 for breach of contract (additional insurance), express indemnity, partial indemnity on a comparative fault basis, implied indemnity, comparative contribution, total equitable indemnity, apportionment, and declaratory relief.  Automac filed its cross-complaint against 200 Pine, RiverRock, Octopus Restaurant, and Whelan Security of California, Inc. dba Garda World Security Services (Foe 1), ABM Janitorial (Foe 2) and Foes 3 through 100 for implied indemnity, express indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. Automac then dismissed its second cause of action for express indemnity against RiverRock only.  At this time, 200 Pine and RiverRock (collectively, “Moving Parties”) move for summary adjudication solely on the issue of duty to defend against Octopus Restaurant and Automac.  Octopus Restaurant opposes the motion. Automac did not file any opposition.  Moving Parties filed a reply.  II. Procedural Issue Code Civ. Proc. §437c (f)(1) provides: “A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”   Preliminary, the Court notes that Moving Parties’ Notice of the motion is defective because although they identify it is on the “issue of duty”, they do not specify on what pleading they are moving for summary adjudication on. Defendants may seek summary adjudication of issues of duty without seeking to resolve an entire cause of action. (Public Utilities Com. v. Sup. Ct. (2010) 181 Cal. App. 4th 364, 380.) In Public Utilities Com.(“PUC”), the meaning of subdivision (f)(1) in adjudicating the issue of duty was tied to Plaintiff’s allegations against PUC for negligence, wherein duty is an element to the cause of action. Here, neither 200 Pine nor RiverRock specify in the Notice of the motion upon what cause of action or defense they are basing the “issue of duty” upon for the Court to adjudicate.  Notwithstanding this procedural defect, the reply appears to address this by referring to 200 Pine and RiverRock’s cross-complaints. However, of the Moving Parties, only 200 Pine filed a FACC against Octopus Restaurant and Automac. The Court is unable to locate any cross-complaint filed by RiverRock.  Therefore, despite the failure to specifically identify which cause of action this motion for summary adjudication is premised upon, in the exercise of judicial economy, the Court will consider the motion only as it pertains to 200 Pine and any allegations contained in the FACC regarding the duty to defend. (See Gonzales v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 189 Cal. App. 3d 1542, 1546 [A court cannot adjudicate any issue except those precisely stated in the notice.].) Because there is no basis for RiverRock’s motion for summary adjudication, the Court will not consider any arguments related to this defendant.   III. Summary of Arguments Moving Argument 200 Pine argues it is entitled to summary adjudication on the issue of duty because of the Restaurant Lease agreement (“Lease”) signed by Octopus Restaurant, and the indemnity clause of the Parking Facility Management Agreement (“Parking Agreement”) signed by Automac.  200 Pine owns and operates a mixed use commercial and office building at Pine/Broadway in Long Beach, California, and RiverRock manages the property. Plaintiff slipped and fell on a pool of water in the parking garage hallway, which moving parties argue came from leaking pipes from Octopus Restaurant. Octopus operated a restaurant on the property under the Lease signed with 200 Pine, and Automac operated the parking facility on the property under the Parking Agreement with 200 Pine. 200 Pine contends Octopus Restaurant and Automac are obligated to indemnify moving parties as a matter of law as a result of Plaintiff’s incident.   Opposing Argument – Octopus Restaurant Octopus Restaurant argues there are no allegations or facts that trigger the indemnity clause in the Lease between it and 200 Pine because Octopus Restaurant did not breach the terms of the contract and has no obligations to indemnify 200 Pine for injuries Plaintiff sustained in the common area. Instead, Octopus Restaurant argues 200 Pine, as the landlord, breached the Lease by failing to maintain the plumbing and sewage.   Opposing Argument – Automac No opposition was received from Automac.  Reply Argument  200 Pine contends that the duty to defend immediately arose upon the parties’ tender of Plaintiff’s claim, and that any dispute over actual liability is irrelevant. It argues that the standard between to indemnify versus to defend are different, and that the Lease provides for a duty to defend.   IV. Evidentiary Objections and Request for Judicial Notice 200 Pine submits three evidentiary objections to Octopus Restaurant’s evidence. The objections are overruled. Octopus Restaurant requests the Court take judicial notice of Plaintiff’s complaint, 200 Pine’s Cross-Complaint, Plaintiff’s amendment to the complaint naming Octopus Restaurant as Doe 2 and RiverRock as Doe 3. The requests are granted.  As to the requests pertaining to Moving Parties’ Notice of Motion and Motion For Summary Adjudication and Notice of Rescheduled Hearing, judicial notice of the moving papers and those related to the instant motion is unnecessary.  V. Legal Standard Burdens on Summary Judgment/Adjudication Summary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.”  (Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)   The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66, [A] defendant may simply show the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus, rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation), a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)  Thus, a moving defendant has two means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute: “The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  (Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.) Until the moving defendant has discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) A party may move for summary adjudication as follows:  A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.  (CCP § 437c(f)(1).) Thus, “Summary adjudication motions are restricted to an entire cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for punitive damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Travelers Indemnity Co. v. Maryland Casualty Co. (1996) 41 Cal.App.1538, 1542 [disagreed with on different grounds in by Sentry Select Ins. Co. v. Fidelity & Guaranty Ins. Co. (2009) 46 Cal.4th 204].)  Contractual Duty to Defend A plaintiff may seek summary adjudication on the existence or nonexistence of a contractual duty, but there is no statutory basis for an order summarily adjudicating that a party breached a duty. (Paramount Petroleum Corp. v. Superior Ct. (2014) 227 Cal. App. 4th 226.) If, under facts and circumstances of given case, court finds it appropriate to determine existence or nonexistence of duty in nature of contractual obligation, it may properly do so by ruling on that issue presented by motion for summary adjudication; “an issue of duty” as used in summary adjudication rule is not limited to negligence causes of action. (Linden Partners v. Wilshire Linden Assocs. (1998) 62 Cal. App. 4th 508.) Moving parties rely on Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal. 4th 541, arguing that the duty to defend arises on tender of defense. “The insurer's duty to defend is broader than its duty to indemnify. The latter duty runs only to claims that are actually covered by the policy, while the duty to defend extends to claims that are merely potentially covered.” (Id. at 547.) Generally, the duty to defend arises in the context of insurance coverage cases. Crawford addressed the issue of a contractual duty to defend in a noninsurance context, based on the particular provisions of a residential construction subcontract obligating the subcontractor to indemnify the developer-builder of a project for plaintiffs’ alleged construction defects arising from the subcontractor’s negligence.  In Crawford, the subcontractor Weather Shield promised to developer JMP: (1) “to indemnify and save [JMP] harmless against all claims for damages ... loss, ... and/or theft ... growing out of the execution of [Weather Shield's] work,” and (2) “at [its] own expense to defend any suit or action brought against [JMP] founded upon the claim of such damage[,] ... loss or theft.” (Italics original to citation.) JMP’s cross-complaint alleged Weather Shield owed JMP duties of indemnity and defense against the homeowners’ complaints, and sought declaratory relief with respect to the alleged indemnity and defense rights. The issue was weather the contract “to defend any suit or action” against a developer “founded upon” any claim “growing out of the execution of the work” required the subcontractor to provide a defense to a suit against the developer, even if the subcontractor was found to not be negligent. The California Supreme Court held that the pertinent terms of Weather Shield’s subcontract with JMP, “even if strictly construed in Weather Shield's favor, these provisions expressly, and unambiguously, obligated Weather Shield to defend, from the outset, any suit against JMP insofar as that suit was “founded upon” claims alleging damage or loss arising from Weather Shield's negligent role in the Huntington Beach residential project.” (Id. at 553.) (Emphasis original.) Moving parties argue that the Restaurant Lease and Parking Agreement is similar to Crawford because the contracts with Octopus and Automac include a duty to defend regardless of any factual disputes of whether or not there was any negligence on the part of Octopus or Automac. Here, Plaintiff alleges that she walked near the hallway and/or near the stairwell area within the premises located at or near 200 Pine Ave., Long Beach, CA 90802, and that she stepped on water and/or similar substance on the floor causing her to slip and fall. Plaintiff alleges that defendants caused or permitted structures and/or components and/or other parts of the building to be and remain wet and otherwise deficient. (Compl. at p. 4.)  In this case, there are two relevant contracts: (1) the Lease between Octopus Restaurant and 200 Pine, and (2) the Parking Agreement between Automac and 200 Pine. The Court will address each contract separately.  The Lease  As framed by 200 Pine’s FACC, the First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract-Additional Insurance Against Octopus Restaurant alleges that paragraph 10.1.1 of the Lease included an obligation to defend and indemnify 200 Pine, and that the Lease at 5.8, defines “Trash Enclosure Area” as an area over which Octopus Restaurant is responsible, including the need to secure insurance on such area. (FACC. at ¶¶ 9-10.) Further, 200 Pine’s FACC alleges Octopus Restaurant breached its duty to defend 200Pine against Plaintiff’s claims that she slipped and fell on water originating from damaged pipes. (FACC ¶ 14.) It is undisputed that on November 17, 2009, the predecessor in interest of Octopus Restaurant (formerly, Octopus Japanese Cuisine, Inc.) and 200 Pine signed the Restaurant Lease. On January 28, 2010, the Lease was assigned from Octopus Japanese Cuisine, Inc., to Octopus Restaurant, and 200 Pine accepted that assignment.  Parties have the freedom to allocate responsibilities as they see fit, and hence, may agree that the promisor's indemnity and/or defense obligations will apply only if the promisor was negligent, or, conversely, even if the promisor was not negligent. (Crawford, supra, 44 Cal. 4th at 551.) Unless the parties have indicated a special meaning, the contract's words are to be understood in their ordinary and popular sense. (Id. at 552.) Generally, ambiguities in an insurance policy case are construed against the insurer who drafted the policy, whereas in noninsurance contexts, it is the indemnitee who often has the superior bargaining power, and thus the language must be clear and explicit, and will be construed strictly against the indemnitee. (Ibid.) “For example, it has been said that if one seeks, in a noninsurance agreement, to be indemnified for his or her own active negligence, or regardless of the indemnitor's fault—protections beyond those afforded by the doctrines of implied or equitable indemnity—language on the point must be particularly clear and explicit, and will be construed strictly against the indemnitee. [Citations].”  (Ibid.) In the context of 200 Pine’s argument that the Lease provides the duty to defend arose regardless of any negligent act by Octopus, the “Indemnification and Waiver” states, in pertinent part:  “10.1.1 Landlord, and its partners and subpartners, and their respective officers, agents, property managers, servants, employees, and independent contractors (collectively, "Landlord Parties") shall not be liable and Tenant hereby waives all claims against them for any damage to any property or any injury to any person in or about the Premises (including the Patio Area, Trash Enclosure Area and Storage Area), the Building or the Real Property by or from any cause whatsoever (including without limiting the foregoing, rain or water leakage of any character from the roof, windows, walls, basement, pipes, plumbing works or appliances, the Building or the Real Property not being in good condition or repair, gas, fire, oil, electricity or theft), except to the extent caused by or arising from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Landlord or its agents, employees or contractors. Tenant shall protect, indemnify and hold the Landlord Parties harmless from and against any and all loss, claims, liabilities and/or costs, including, without limitation, court costs and attorneys' fees (collectively, "Claims") incurred by reason of (i) any damage to any property (including but not limited to property of any Landlord Party) or any injury (including but not limited to death) to any person occurring in, on or about the Premises (including the Patio Area, Trash Enclosure Area and Storage Area), the Building or the Real Property to the extent that such injury or damage shall be caused by or arise from any actual or alleged act, neglect, fault, or omission by or of Tenant, its agents, servants, employees, invitees, or visitors to meet any standards imposed by any duty with respect to the injury or damage, (ii) the conduct or management of any work or thing whatsoever done by the Tenant in or about the Premises or from transactions of the Tenant concerning the Premises (including the Patio Area, Trash Enclosure Area and Storage Area), (iii) Tenant's failure to comply with any and all governmental laws, ordinances and regulations applicable to the condition or use of the Premises (including the Patio Area, Trash Enclosure Area and Storage Area) or its occupancy, or (iv) any breach or default on the part of Tenant in the a performance of any covenant or agreement on the part of the Tenant to be performed pursuant to this Lease.” (Emphasis added.)  10.1.2 Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10.1.1 above to the contrary, the assumption of risk and release by Tenant set forth above, and Tenant's indemnity of Landlord set forth above, shall not apply to: (i) any Claims to the extent resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Landlord or any of the Landlord Parties and not insured or required to be insured by Tenant under this Lease (collectively, the "Excluded Claims"); or (ii) any loss of or damage to Landlord's property to the extent Landlord has waived such loss or damage pursuant to Section 10.4 below. In addition, Landlord shall indemnify, defend, protect and hold Tenant harmless from all such Excluded Claims, except for (a) any loss or damage to Tenant's property to the extent Tenant has waived such loss or damage pursuant to Section 10.4 below, and (b) any lost profits, loss of business or other consequential damages.  In this noninsurance context, wherein the contract must be construed strictly against the indemnitee, 200 Pine does meet its prima facie moving burden that the “Indemnification and Waiver,” or any other provisions of the Lease, clearly and explicitly imposed upon Octopus Restaurant a duty to defend without any conditions. As 200 Pine argues, a duty to defend and a duty to indemnify are two different standards, and that the duty to defend is broader than the duty to indemnify. In contrast to the subcontract provision of Crawford, which had, “at [its] own expense to defend any suit or action brought against [JMP] founded upon the claim of such damage[,] ... loss or theft”, here, the Lease provides in relevant part that Octopus Restaurant “shall protect, indemnify and hold the Landlord Parties harmless from and against any and all loss, claims, liabilities ...incurred by reason of...any injury....to any person occurring in, on or about the Premises...to the extent that such injury or damage shall be caused by or arise from any actual or alleged act, neglect, fault, or omission by or of Tenant” (emphasis added).  The language clearly provides indemnification language by way of the “protect, indemnify and hold harmless” clause. CCP § 2778 provides the default interpretation of a contract of indemnity, unless a contrary intention is otherwise indicated. In terms of the subdivisions touching on the indemnitor’s obligations with respect to the indemnitee’s defense against third party claims, the statute provides in relevant part:  3. An indemnity against claims, or demands, or liability, expressly, or in other equivalent terms, embraces the costs of defense against such claims, demands, or liability incurred in good faith, and in the exercise of a reasonable discretion;  4. The person indemnifying is bound, on request of the person indemnified, to defend actions or proceedings brought against the latter in respect to the matters embraced by the indemnity, but the person indemnified has the right to conduct such defenses, if he chooses to do so;  5. If, after request, the person indemnifying neglects to defend the person indemnified, a recovery against the latter suffered by him in good faith, is conclusive in his favor against the former;  6. If the person indemnifying, whether he is a principal or a surety in the agreement, has not reasonable notice of the action or proceeding against the person indemnified, or is not allowed to control its defense, judgment against the latter is only presumptive evidence against the former;   (CCP § 2778, subd. 3-6.) “By virtue of these statutory provisions, the case law has long confirmed that, unless the parties' agreement expressly provides otherwise, a contractual indemnitor has the obligation, upon proper tender by the indemnitee, to accept and assume the indemnitee's active defense against claims encompassed by the indemnity provision.” (Crawford, supra, 44 Cal. 4th at 555.)  Following the principles outlined in Crawford and CCP § 2778, and absent language manifesting otherwise in Octopus Restaurant’s opposition to the motion, 200 Pine’s motion for summary adjudication on the issue of duty to defend in relation to Octopus Restaurant is GRANTED.   The Parking Agreement On May 1, 2013, 200 Pine (Owner) and Automac (Contractor) entered into the Parking Agreement for the purposes of Automac providing 200 Pine parking management and operation. The Parking Agreement, Section VII. Insurance, provides in relevant part:  “Contractor shall defend, indemnify and hold Owner harmless from and against any and all actions, costs, claims, losses, expenses and/or damages, sustained by Owner attributable to the recklessness, carelessness or negligence of Contractor or any of its agents, servants or employees from any cause, including, without limitation by specification, property damage and/or injury or death of any person or persons. Owner shall defend, indemnify and hold Contractor harmless from and against any and all actions, costs, claims, losses, expenses and/or damages sustained by Contractor attributable to the recklessness, carelessness or negligence of Owner or any of its servants or employees fromm any cause, including, without limitation by specification, property damage and/or injury or death to any person or persons. It is agreed that any actions, costs, claims, losses, expenses, and/or damages resulting from design or structural faults or defects, or arising out of a breach of security are the responsibility of the Owner.” Here, there is an express mutual language between Automac and 200 Pine to defend each other for any and all actions sustained by each other attributable to recklessness, carelessness or negligence. This contract defines “Owner” specifically as only 200 Pine. As an aside, RiverRock is notably not a party to the Parking Agreement, nor does the Parking Agreement identify any agent of 200 Pine for RiverRock’s possible inclusion. Plaintiff alleges both 200 Pine and Automac were negligent in the underlying tort action.  However, the Court reviewed 200 Pine’s FACC, and there is no cause of action alleging Automac had any duty to defend 200 Pine. Therefore, on these grounds, Automac’s motion for summary adjudication on Automac’s duty to defend is DENIED without prejudice.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 12th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   