 Case Number:  22NWCV00532    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  C T.M. v. WHITTIER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV00532
HEARING: 
09/05/24
 
#4
 
    
I.       
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Requests for Production of Documents is GRANTED. 
 
   
II.       
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Special Interrogatories is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
This
sexual assault action was filed by Plaintiff T.M. on June 28, 2022, and stems
from conduct that allegedly occurred more than 18 years ago. Plaintiff alleges
that she was sexually abused by her 8th grade math teacher, Jason
Kreuger, in 2005, while she was a student at Walter Dexter Middle School, in
the Whittier City School District (“District”). (Complaint ¶¶3, 5, 31).
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges two causes of action against the District: (1)
Negligence; (2) Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision. 
 
In
separately filed Motions, Plaintiff moves to compel the District’s further
responses to the following discovery: 
 
·       
RPD (set two) No. 37. ALL DOCUMENTS RELATING TO a
class list for PLAINTIFF’S class during the RELEVANT TIME PERIOD. 
·       
RPD (set two) No. 38. A class list for PLAINTIFF’S
class during the RELEVANT TIME PERIOD. 
·       
SI (set two) No. 65. IDENTIFY all of PLAINTIFF’S
classmates during the RELEVANT TIME PERIOD. (For the purpose of these
Interrogatories, the term “IDENITFY” when referring to an individual,
corporation, or other entity shall mean to set forth the name and telephone
number and if a corporation or other entity, its principal place of business,
or if an individual, present or last known home address, his or her job title
or titles, by whom employed and address of the place of employment. 
 
For
purposes of the discovery at issue, the “relevant time period” is defined as
January 1, 2004 – December 31, 2008. 
 
“On receipt
of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A state of
compliance with the demand is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response
is without merit or too general.” (CCP §2031.310(a).) 
A motion to
compel further responses to a request for production “shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand.” (CCP §2031.310(b).) 
 
“If the propounding party, on receipt of a
response to interrogatories, deems that (1) an answer to a particular
interrogatory is…incomplete…or (3) an objection to an interrogatory is without
merit or too general, that party may move for an order compelling further
response.” (CCP §2030.300(a).)
 
The
District opposes both Motions in order to ensure privacy protections of its
students, as well as to ensure compliance with the Family Educational Rights
and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) and the California Educational Code. Moreover the
District argues that Plaintiff improperly seeks the identities and contact
information of all students over a four-year period that attended any of
Plaintiff’s classes at the subject school, when Plaintiff only attended the
school for a single year. 
 
Plaintiff
maintains that the need to discover the identities of her classmates is
essential because “potential witnesses are essential for Plaintiff’s case in
chief because they witnessed the perpetrator—Defendant’s employee – repeatedly
kiss and fondle Plaintiff. At her deposition taken on June 1, 2023, Plaintiff
testified that her math teacher kissed her on the lips in the class in the
presence of approximately 33 students around ten times. (See Supp. Niman Decl.,
Exhibit 4 (Plaintiff’s Transcript, pp 135-138.) Plaintiff further testified
that her math teacher also touched her breasts and vaginal area in the
classroom in the presence of other students. (Id.).” (Reply RPD 2:7-13.) 
 
“[P]arties
may conduct discovery ‘regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant
to the subject matter involved in the pending action… if the matter either is
itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.’”  (Perlan
Therapeutics, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1351 (fn. 12.) 
 
“[T]here is
a general public interest in ‘facilitating the ascertainment of truth in
connection with legal proceedings’ and in obtaining just results in
litigation….” (Tien v. Sup. Ct. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 528, 539.) “If
these public interests in disclosure of private information are found to be
‘compelling,’ the individual’s right of privacy must give way and disclosure
will be required.” (Id.) In each case, the Court must balance the right
of privacy against the need for disclosure. (Britt v. Sup. Ct. (1978) 20
Cal.3d 844, 855.) 
 
Education
Code §49077 provides that “[i]information concerning a student shall be
furnished in compliance with a court order or a lawfully issued subpoena. The
school district shall make a reasonable effort to notify the parent or legal
guardian and the pupil in advance of compliance with a lawfully issued subpoena
and, in the case of compliance with a court order, if lawfully possible within
the requirements of the order.” 
 
Here, Plaintiff
alleges that she was sexually molested by her math teacher in the classroom and
in the presence of other students.  Given
the seriousness of Plaintiff’s allegations, the Court finds that the public
interest in disclosure outweighs the privacy interests of third parties. 
 
However,
the Court also finds that the Requests and SI, as phrased, are impermissibly overbroad.
Plaintiff only attended the school for one year. Plaintiff has not established
the relevance of documents or information that go beyond the scope of the one
year that Plaintiff attended the school. 
 
Therefore,
the Motions are GRANTED in part. 
 
The
District is ORDERED to produce the documents and further responses
responsive to the Requests for Production and Special Interrogatories at issue,
limited to the one year that Plaintiff was a student at the school. Production
may be delayed to allow for compliance with Education Code §49077 requiring the
District to notify the third parties and any applicable parents (where minors
are concerned), and compliance with CCP §1985.3. Production of documents and
further responses need not occur prior to thirty days of the Court’s issuance
of this Order, but in no event shall production occur any later than 90 days
from the date of the Court’s issuance of this Order. 
 
On
its own motion, the Court ORDERS
that a protective order should be entered to govern the disclosure of
implicated documents produced or that are to be produced throughout the course
of discovery. (CCP §2031.060(b).) Therefore, it is ORDERED that documents to be produced by the District in response
to RPD (set two) nos. 37 and 38; and SI (set two) No. 65, which contain
confidential information are “Protected Documents.” The Protected Documents and
the information contained therein shall be treated by all parties as
confidential. Except upon the prior written consent of the District, or upon
further order of this Court, the Protected Documents or information contained
therein may be shown, disseminated, or disclosed only to: the parties of this
litigation and/or their counsel of record in this case; or employees of counsel
or of associated counsel who assist in the preparation of this case; or experts
and consultants retained by the parties to this litigation.