Here is the YAML summary of the Judge's tentative ruling:

```
Case Number: 20STCV40739
Plaintiff's Name: Rodolfo Zarate Blanco
Defendant's Name: Kirstie Lee Walker, AT&T Corporation, Pacific Bell Telephone Company
People-Names: Officer Inzunza, Raymond Feldman, John C. Ye
Company-Names: AT&T Corporation, Pacific Bell Telephone Company, Law Offices of John C. Ye, APLC
Places: 
Dates: October 23, 2020, April 8, 2024, April 30, 2024, May 6, 2024, May 9, 2024, May 13, 2024
Events: Motion for Discovery Sanctions, Opposition, Reply, Deposition of Officer Inzunza
Money: $1,925.00
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks terminating sanctions against Defendants for violating the statutory protective order re deposition of Officer Inzunza.
Facts: Plaintiff served a motion for protective order staying the noticed deposition of Officer Inzunza, but Defendants refused to provide video access or move the deposition. Defendants re-noticed the deposition and Plaintiff objected.
Disputes: Plaintiff argues Defendants engaged in deliberate and egregious discovery misconduct, while Defendants argue Plaintiff's counsel is trying to prejudice the defense.
Acts: Plaintiff served a motion for protective order, which was opposed by Defendants.
Agreements: None mentioned in the document.
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure Section 2023.030, Code of Civil Procedure Section 2025.410, Code of Civil Procedure Section 2025.420, Code of Civil Procedure Section 128.5
Statutes: California Rules of Court
Roles: Plaintiff (Rodolfo Zarate Blanco), Defendant (Kirstie Lee Walker, AT&T Corporation, Pacific Bell Telephone Company), Judge (unsigned)
Significant Statements:
* The court finds that discovery sanctions against Defendant are not warranted.
* The court grants Defendants' request for monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,925.00 against Plaintiff's counsel, Raymond Feldman and/or Law Offices of John C. Ye, APLC.
```

Here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in English text:

This tentative ruling denies Plaintiff Rodolfo Zarate Blanco's Motion for Discovery Sanctions. The court finds that the Plaintiff's allegations of discovery misconduct are unfounded and that the Defendant's actions do not rise to the level of deliberate and egregious misconduct. Instead, the court grants the Defendant's request for monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,925.00 against Plaintiff's counsel, Raymond Feldman and/or Law Offices of John C. Ye, APLC.