  Case Number:  20STCV40739    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  T The court
considered the moving papers, opposition and reply and issues its tentative ruling.
BACKGROUND
            On October 23, 2020, Plaintiff Rodolfo
Zarate Blanco (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint for Defendants Kirstie Lee
Walker; AT&T Corporation; KIRSTIE LEE WALKER; AT&T CORPORATION; PACIFIC
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY; and DOES 1 to 10, asserting a sole cause of action for
Motor Vehicle. 
            On
April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Discovery Sanctions. On
April 30, 2024, Defendants Pacific Bell Telephone Company and Kirstie Lee
Walker (“Defendants”) filed an opposition. On May 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure Section 2023.030, states in pertinent part:
“To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery
method or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any
affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may
impose…[monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating] sanctions against anyone
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process….” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030, subds. (a)-(d).) “Misuses of the discovery process include, but are
not limited to…(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery…(g) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2023.010.) 
“Nevertheless, absent unusual circumstances, such as repeated and
egregious discovery abuses, two facts are generally prerequisite to the
imposition of a nonmonetary sanction. There must be a failure to comply with a
court order and the failure must be willful.” (Lee v. Lee (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 1553, 1559.) “Even where nonmonetary sanctions are called for, they
‘”…’ should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which
is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied
discovery.’ [Citations] ‘”…[¶] The sanctions the court may impose are such as
are suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the
objects of the discovery he seeks, but the court may not impose sanctions which
are designed not to accomplish the objects of discovery but to impose
punishment.’”’ [Citations.]” (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124
Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) 
“A trial court has broad discretion when imposing a discovery
sanction.” (Lee, supra, 175 Cal.App.4th at 1559.) “In exercising this
discretion [for nonmonetary sanctions], a variety of factors may be relevant,
including, 1) the time which has elapsed since [the discovery requests] were
served, 2) whether the party served was previously given a voluntary extension
of time, 3) the number of [the discovery requests] propounded, 4) whether the
unanswered questions sought information which was difficult to obtain, 5)
whether the answers supplied were evasive and incomplete, 6) the number of
questions which remained unanswered, 7) whether the questions which remained
unanswered are material to a particular claim or defense, 8) whether the
answering party has acted in good faith, and with reasonable diligence, 9) the
existence of prior orders compelling discovery and the answering party’s
response thereto, 10) whether the party was unable to comply with the previous
order of the court, 11) whether an order allowing more time to answer would
enable the answering party to supply the necessary information, and 12) whether
a sanction short of dismissal or default would be appropriate to the
dereliction.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 796-97.)
 DISCUSSION
             Plaintiff
moves for terminating sanctions against Defendants Pacific Bell
Telephone Company and Kirstie Lee Walker (“Defendants”) for violating the
statutory protective order re deposition of Officer Inzunza. Alternatively,
Plaintiff seeks issue and monetary sanctions. 
            Plaintiff
argues he served a motion for protective order staying the noticed deposition
of Officer Inzunza set for April 29, 2024 at 1:30 PM because it conflicted with
the court’s hearing on Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Production and Defendants
refused to give him video access or move the deposition. Furthermore, Plaintiff
contends after serving the motion for a protective order staying the
deposition, Defendants served an amended notice of deposition for the same day
but an earlier time and still failing to provide him with video access.
Moreover, Plaintiff contends he objected to the amended notice and engaged in
meet and confer efforts to have Defendants withdraw the deposition notice but
they refused. Similarly, Plaintiff asserts he attempted to meet and confer
prior to bringing the instant motion to no avail. As such, Plaintiff argues by
disregarding the service of the motion for protective order and refusing to meet
and confer to withdraw the amended notice, Defendants and their counsel have
engaged in deliberate and egregious discovery misconduct under Slesinger v.
Disney (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 736. Additionally, Plaintiff argues no lesser
sanction will deter Defendants’ and their counsel’s misconduct. Alternatively,
Plaintiff asserts if the court believes a lesser sanction should be imposed,
then it should be an issue sanction because the deposition of Officer Inzuna
appears solely to gather evidence on the causation issue given that Defendant
have already filed an admission of negligence and have obtained their own
protective order to bar testimony other than for sobriety and causation of
claimed injuries. Specifically, Plaintiff seeks an issue sanction establishing
that Plaintiff’s claimed injuries were caused by the negligence of Defendant.
Lastly, Plaintiff argues a monetary sanction should also be imposed regardless
of whether a terminating or issue sanction is imposed because it is appropriate
given Defendants’ new misconduct. 
            In
opposition, Defendants argue Officer Inzunza’s deposition has already been
re-noticed for May 9, 2024 at 10:00 AM with a videoconference option to
accommodate Plaintiff’s counsel. Furthermore, Defendants contend Plaintiff’s
counsel provide no statutory or case law to support his claim that Defendants
are prohibited from re-noticing the deposition of Officer Inzunza. In fact,
Defendants argue a motion for protective order pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.420 does not prohibit setting a deposition and does not
stay a deposition. Defendants also argue Plaintiff’s counsel knows the
discovery cutoff deadline is May 10, 2024 and is in bad faith trying to
prejudice the defense and improperly prevent the deposition of Officer Inzunza.
Moreover, Defendants contend they suspect that Plaintiff was not actually in
the vehicle at the time of the incident as he claims, so the deposition of
Officer Inzunza is needed for this reason. Thus, Defendants contend there has
been no conduct by them warranting sanctions. Last, Defendants request monetary
sanctions be imposed against Plaintiff for $1,925.00 for having to oppose this
present motion per Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5, which states that
“[a] trial court may order a party, the party’s attorney, or both, to pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by another party as a
result of actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely
intended to cause unnecessary delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (a).)
            In
reply, Plaintiff argues Defendants misrepresent the law about the statutory
stay they twice violated that arose from him serving notice of motion for
protective order regarding the second notice of deposition of Officer Inzunza.
Plaintiff further contends the moving papers of the motion for protective order
asked that the deposition be barred under Code of ivil Procedure section
2025.420, subdivision (b)(1). Plaintiff also reiterates that Defendants’ entire
purpose for taking the deposition of Officer Inzunza is ill-founded. Finally,
Plaintiff argues Defendants’ claim is unhinged that there should be no
discovery sanctions for their repeated violation of the statutory stay and for
engaging in tactics designed to make it impossible for Plaintiff’s counsel to
attend the deposition that necessitated the serving of the motion for
protective order. 
            The
court finds that discovery sanctions against Defendant are not warranted. In Slesinger
v. Disney (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 736, the court held that “When a
plaintiff's deliberate and egregious misconduct in the course of the litigation
renders any sanction short of dismissal inadequate to protect the fairness of
the trial, California courts necessarily have the power to preserve their
integrity by dismissing the action.” (Slesinger v. Disney (2007) 155
Cal.App.4th 736, 762 (Slesinger).) This case is inapposite because it
involved a party engaging in criminal trespass, theft of confidentiality
documents of the other party, and alteration of evidence with the intent to
mislead the court, which amounted to deliberate and egregious misconduct
warranting terminating sanctions within the court’s inherent discretionary
power. The purported misconduct in this case involves re-noticing a deposition
after a motion for protective order was filed and allegedly refusing to provide
Plaintiff video access to said noticed deposition. Such alleged misconduct does
rise to the level of deliberate and egregious as set forth in the Slesinger
case. Furthermore, Code of Civil Procedure 2025.410, subdivision (c) states in
pertinent part, “a party may also move for an order staying the taking of the
deposition and quashing the deposition notice. This motion shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. The taking of the
deposition is stayed pending the determination of this motion.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c).) Thereafter, “[t]he court, for good cause shown,
may make any…protective order…[with] one or more of the following
directions…(1) [t]hat the deposition not be taken at all.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.420, subd. (b)(1).) The cited code sections do not provide for an
automatic stay of a deposition merely because a motion for protective order has
been filed. Plaintiff also fails to cite to any case law or other statutory
authority supporting that assertion. In support of their request for sanctions, Defendants have shown that
the deposition of Officer Inzunza is sought for a proper purpose, which is to
determine whether or not Plaintiff was actually in the vehicle at the time of
the subject accident in preparation of their defense at trial. By contrast,
Plaintiff has not shown that this motion has any merit and does not establish that it was not not brought for
an improper purpose. 

Based on the foregoing, the court DENIES Plaintiff Rodolfo Zarate
Blanco’s Motion for Discovery Sanctions.  The court GRANTS Defendants' request for
monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,925.00 against Plaintiff’s counsel,
Raymond Feldman and/or Law Offices of John C. Ye, APLC.  Sanctions to be paid within 30 days of
Defendant giving notice.  Defendant to give
notice.
IT IS SO ORDERED.