 Case Number:  22STCV08792    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Reopen Discovery The court
considered the moving and opposition papers. No reply has been filed as of May
8, 2024. The Court hereby issues its tentative ruling:
BACKGROUND
On March 11, 2022,
Plaintiff Laura Klein-Del Rosario (“Plaintiff”) commenced this personal injury
action against Defendants Redondo Beach Unified School District (“School
District”) and City of Redondo Beach (“City”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
based on a trip and fall.  On May 16, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint against Defendants
alleging a cause of action for premises liability.  On October 11,
2022, City filed a Cross-Complaint against School District for negligence,
indemnity, and comparative contribution, and declaratory relief.  On April 8, 2024,
Plaintiff’s ex parte application to continue trial was granted. Trial is
currently set for June 11, 2024. All deadlines remain related to the previous
April 10, 2024 trial date, except the deposition of Plaintiff’s expert which
attached to the new trial date.  On April 12, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the instant motion to reopen discovery. Defendant School
District opposes.
LEGAL STANDARD
            Except as otherwise provided, any
party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings
on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or
before the 15th day, before the date initially set for trial of the
action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).) On motion of any party,
the court may grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a
motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to
reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set. This motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating a good faith effort
at informal resolution. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).)
The court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the
leave requested, including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity and the
reasons for the discovery, (2) the diligence or lack of diligence of the party
seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons
that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard
earlier, (3) any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the
discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or
otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party, and (4) the length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).)
 DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
moves to reopen discovery to depose Defendant School District’s experts.
Plaintiff contends that she was unable to timely notice the deposition of
Defendant’s experts due to Defendant’s error in service of the Designation of
Experts pleading on March 15, 2024. Plaintiff’s counsel noticed this error
after looking at the file more closely, and reached out to defense counsel on
April 8, 2024, as counsel thought their assistant was served and had handled
the scheduling of the depositions. On April 10, 2024, defense counsel stated
that they were under no obligation to provide dates for its experts’
depositions based on the ex parte ruling earlier that week. Thus, Plaintiff is
currently unable to depose Defendant’s experts, causing severe and undue
prejudice to Plaintiff.
            In
opposition, Defendant School District argues that Plaintiff has known of the Defendant’s
retained experts since July 2023. (Spearman Decl., ¶3.) Further, there have
already been 2 stipulations to continue trial. (Id. at ¶¶4-5) As
Plaintiff’s counsel has known of the identity of Defendant’s experts for at
least 8 months, Plaintiff has no reasonable excuse for why they did not pursue
the depositions of the Defendant’s experts.
            While
Defendant School District did provide a designation in July 2023, trial was
then continued twice, and another expert designation was served on March 15,
2024. Plaintiff’s counsel reasonably believed that their assistant was also
served with the designations and was handling the scheduling of depositions as
the assistant normally does. Upon noticing that the legal assistant was not
served and no depositions were scheduled, Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to
remedy this and schedule the depositions less than a month later on April 8,
2024. Counsel’s actions appear reasonable, and the lack of ability to depose
Defenant’s experts would greatly prejudice Plaintiff. Defendant does not assert
any prejudice to them from the reopening of discovery or assert that trial
would need to be delayed again. 
Based on the foregoing, the motion is
GRANTED. Discovery is reopened only as to the depositions of Defendant School
District’s experts.