  Case Number:  20STCV43191    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Dariush G. Adli, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV43191




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Skypanels, Inc., et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: February 26, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
Moving Party: Defendants/Cross-Complainants Ali
Salomi and Chadwick Tyner
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Dariush G. Adli and Adli
Law Group, Inc.
 
T/R:      CROSS-COMPLAINANTS' MOTION TO SET ASIDE
DISMISSAL IS GRANTED.
 
CROSS-COMPLAINANTS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
CCP § 473(b) provides, in pertinent
part, “[t]he court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his
or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.”
 
Cross-Complainants move to set aside
dismissal entered by the Court on January 4, 2024 for failure to prosecute.
Cross-Complainants assert that their counsel inadvertently failed to appear on
January 4, 2024 due to technical issues. Cross-Complainants also assert that Cross-Defendants/Plaintiffs
made misrepresentations to the Court regarding Plaintiffs’ bankruptcy
proceedings. 
 
In opposition, Cross-Defendants assert
the cross-complaint lacks merit because Cross-Complainants agreed to accept
payment for their claims in Plaintiff Adli Law’s bankruptcy case. Cross-Complainants
dispute this in reply and argue that any amount recovered in bankruptcy can be
used as an offset against a judgment here.
 
The Court finds good cause to vacate
the dismissal. Dismissal was entered in part due to the mistake of Cross-Complainants'
counsel. The Court cannot determine from this motion whether the claims of
Cross-Complainants against one or more of the Cross-Defendants have been
addressed in the bankruptcy proceedings and, if so, whether that bars
Cross-Complainants from proceeding in this Court. If Cross- Defendants wish to
pursue that argument they should make a proper motion and include relevant
documents from the bankruptcy proceedings, so the Court may resolve the issues
with full briefing and a clear record.
 
Cross-Complainants' motion to set aside
dismissal is GRANTED.
 
 
 
 