  Case Number:  24SMCV01240    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  I This is an unopposed demurrer brought by the Bank of New
York.  The court had thought the matter
moot because the docket reflects that the demurring party was dismissed, but
the actual request for dismissal does not name Bank of New York and it is the
document that counts; not the docket entry.
 
This action is one to unwind a non-judicial foreclosure and
sale.  Plaintiff alleges constructive
fraud, negligence, slander of title, and violations of the Home Owner’s Bill of
Rights (HBOR).  Bank of New York
demurs.  The underlying alleged facts are
that plaintiff took out a loan for $712,000 and the loan was secured with MERS
as the beneficiary, however, its rights were transferred to the Bank of New
York (BONY).  There was a deed of trust
recorded in 2011.  By 2015, plaintiff was
delinquent on the loan and a notice of default and election to sell was
recorded on June 18, 2015, and again on February 13, 2019, but both were
rescinded and the loan was reinstated. 
On February 5, 2019, Peak was substituted in as the foreclosure trustee,
and the substitution was recorded. 
Plaintiff was again allegedly delinquent and the default was
noticed.  The loan was $22,069 in arrears
as of November 15, 2019.  Plaintiff did
not cure and a notice of sale was recorded in 2020 and again in 2022.  Plaintiff started deeding the property to
others, who thereby became partial owners. 
Finally, on February 12, 2024, a new notice of trustee’s sale was
executed with a date of March 21, 2024. 
On April 4, 2024, the deed was executed. 
The property sold for less than the date.  Plaintiff, through this action seeks to
challenge the sale.
 
As to the first cause of action, the demurrer is
sustained.  The court cannot tell what
BONY did specifically that constitutes fraud. 
There are allegations against other defendants, but none against BONY or
that specify BONY’s misconduct.  Fraud
must be pled with particularity, and the first cause of action lacks the
requisite particularity.
 
As to the second cause of action, a violation of the UCL,
the court again agrees with BONY. 
Plaintiff alleges a laundry list of purportedly wrongful acts, but
again, the court cannot ascertain what BONY did specifically that was unfair,
unlawful, or fraudulent under the act. 
That is not to say that plaintiff cannot or could not so allege; it is
just that the “lump them all together” pleading style is not sufficient.
 
The third and fourth causes of action go to the HBOR.  Again, BONY’s conduct is not separated
out.  Plaintiff needs to say what it is
that BONY did that violated the act, not what various defendants did an lump
them together.  If plaintiff wants to
allege that they all acted in concert with one another, plaintiff can allege
that.  If plaintiff wants to allege that
some were agents of others, plaintiff can allege that.  But right now, it is too general and
generic.  If plaintiff wants to allege
that plaintiff is not yet sure what specific role each defendant had, that is
permissible as well, but plaintiff needs to be as specific as plaintiff can be
with the knowledge plaintiff has been able to amass since the complaint was
filed back in March.
 
As to the fifth cause of action, negligence, the court is
unsure what duties BONY had to plaintiff other than those set forth in the
various contracts or through statutes like the HBOR, which are already
pled.  If such is the case, then
negligence will not lie.  Negligent
breach of contract is not a tort.
 
As to intentional infliction of emotional distress, the
allegation is that the various defendants, including BONY, knew that they were
acting improperly and in a way to strip plaintiff of plaintiff’s home.  But plaintiff does not have any allegations
that are more specific as to BONY in this regard.  Defects in the sale will not qualify as
sufficiently outrageous, but there could be other conduct that would qualify.  For plaintiff to prevail, plaintiff must set
forth BONY’s conduct that was sufficiently outrageous to justify the tort.
 
As to the seventh cause of action—slander of title—BONY
makes a good point that all of its actions were privileged.  That does not mean that they are immune from
tort, but it does mean that filing notices and the like is not slander of
title.  That cause of action fails.
 
As to the eighth cause of action—quiet title—it is alleged
against all defendants, but at present it is not clear that BONY is claiming an
interest in the property.  The court is
inclined to resolve the doubt in plaintiff’s favor at this time, since the
cause of action generally is broader than BONY and if BONY truly disclaims any
interest in the property then this cause of action does no mischief against
BONY.  The real problem, though, is that
plaintiff has not alleged tender.  To
obtain title here, plaintiff must allege that it tendered the full amount of
the debt to the lender, but that the tender was improperly rejected.  (Lona v. Citibank, N.A. (2011) 202
Cal.App.4th 89.)  Absent such a tender,
plaintiff cannot obtain title here or set aside the sale.
 
The ninth cause of action is declaratory relief.  Absent some other surviving cause of action,
this one fails as well.  
 
The tenth cause of action is fraud by concealment.  The alleged concealment is that the loans
were securitized.  The court does not
believe that this is sufficient. 
Plaintiff’s duties under the loan were clear and unambiguous.  The court is not sure that the lender has
more of a duty to disclose an intent to securitize the loan (by which plaintiff
means sell the loan to more than one loan buyer) so long as plaintiff’s duties
remain unaltered.  While the court agrees
that the economic loss rule does not itself bar a fraud by concealment cause of
action, that does not obviate the need for there to be material concealment and
a corresponding duty to speak, which plaintiff has not adequately alleged.
 
In
short, the demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  Plaintiff has 30 days’ leave to amend.  Defendant will have the time allowed by law
to respond to the amended complaint.  The
court reminds plaintiff that this will be plaintiff’s third attempt to allege
the causes of action adequately.  Leave
might well not be granted again.

