  Case Number:  23CHCV00319    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  F49 LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F49
 

JANUARY 3,
2025
 

MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23CHCV00319

 
Motion
filed: 8/8/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Andriy Ishuninov 
RESPONDING PARTY: None.
NOTICE: OK.¿¿¿ 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order granting Defendant Andriy Ishuninov’s Motion to Strike to Plaintiffs’ First
Amended Complaint filed on July 18, 2024. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The Motion
to Strike is GRANTED.
 
ANALYSIS
 
This action arises from an alleged breach of a residential lease
agreement by Defendant’s failure to provide conditions necessary for human
habitation. (FAC ¶ 16.)
 
On February 3, 2023, Plaintiffs Michele Temm (“Michele”) and Peyton
Temm, a minor, through her guardian ad litem Michele (“Peyton”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) initiated the action by filing a Complaint against Defendant
Andriy Ishuninov (“Ishuninov” or “Defendant”). The Complaint alleged six causes
of action: (1) Breach of Contract/Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment/Warranty of
Habitability, (2) Tortious Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability, (3)
Negligence, (4) Private Nuisance, (5) Violation of Unfair Business Practices,
and (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
 
On July 18, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”), rendering moot the demurrer and motion to strike, filed by
Defendant on May 29, 2024. The FAC asserts five causes of action against
Defendant and Does 1 through 20: (1) Breach of Contract/Covenant of Quiet
Enjoyment/Warranty of Habitability, (2) Tortious Breach of the Implied Warranty
of Habitability, (3) Negligence, (4) Private Nuisance, and (5) Violation of
Unfair Business Practices.
 
On August 8, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to Strike (the
“Motion”), seeking to strike portions of the FAC related to allegations and
requests for relief for punitive damages. 
 
No Opposition or Reply papers have been received by the Court. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The court
may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant,
false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with
laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on
the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437.)
 
A. Motion to Strike
 
            Defendant
moves to strike the following portions of the FAC as they pertain to
allegations and prayer for relief for punitive damages:
 
1.     
Paragraph
42:
“[T]he Defendants’ conduct was, based on information and belief, willful and intentional, done
with oppression and malice against Plaintiffs, and undertaken with a conscious
disregard to plaintiffs’ rights.” (FAC, p. 8:14-16.)
 
2.     
Paragraph
43:
“The Defendants’
conduct under these
circumstances is despicable and such behavior warrants the imposition of
punitive damages in a sum appropriate to punish the Defendants
and to deter future similar misconduct.” (FAC, p. 8:17-19.)
 
3.     
Paragraph
52:
“Defendants’ conduct described above was willful, wanton, intentional, despicable,
malicious, and initiated with malice and with the intent to knowingly take
advantage of, oppress, and injure Plaintiffs. Defendants at all times acted
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights of safety of Plaintiffs. Defendants
were at all times aware that there was a high probability that their
intentional and/or negligent failure to repair and maintain the Subject
Property would injure Plaintiffs and cause them personal injury, emotional
distress, and property damage. Plaintiffs are therefore entitled to an award of
punitive and exemplary damages under and pursuant to Civil Code, Section 3294
and Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890.”
(FAC, p. 10:8-16.)
 
4.     
Paragraph
66:
“The Defendants’ conduct warrants an award of punitive damages because the
Defendants’ actions were willful, malicious and oppressive. The Defendants knew
that dangerous
conditions existed on the Subject Property, had the financial ability to fix
the conditions, but did nothing to repair and remediate the dangerous
conditions, despite their legal obligation to do so. Further, Plaintiffs are
informed, believe and thereon allege that Defendants sought to punish the
Plaintiffs for seeking redress about the physical condition of the Subject
Property. The conduct of the Defendants under these circumstances was
despicable and carried out with willful and conscious disregard of the rights
and safety of Plaintiffs, which behavior warrants the imposition of punitive
damages in a sum appropriate to punish the Defendants and to deter future
similar misconduct.” (FAC,
p. 12:7-16.)
 
5.     
Prayer
for Relief No. 4: “For
exemplary and punitive damages according to proof[.]” (FAC, p. 14:13.)
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs’ allegations are
conclusory and fail to present specific facts sufficient to support a claim of
punitive damages under California law.
 
(1)    Punitive Damages
 
Punitive
damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct
rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level
which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’ [Citation.]” (Lackner v.
North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)
 
“Malice” is
conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) of Civil Code
as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”
 
“As amended to
include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294] plainly indicates that
absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a
‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The additional
component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College Hospital Inc. v.
Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) The statute’s reference to
despicable conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage
awards.” (Ibid.) Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base,
contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down
upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as
‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli
v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) Further,
“[t]here must be evidence that defendant acted with knowledge of the probable
dangerous consequences to plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to
avoid these consequences.” (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor
Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155.)
 
A motion to
strike punitive damages is properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a
prima facie claim for punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is
guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent.
California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Mere negligence, even
gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive
damages. (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank (1975) 50
Cal.App.3d 949, 958.)
 
Defendant contends
that the FAC contains no allegations of “fraud.” Additionally, while the FAC
includes allegations of malice and oppression, Defendant argues that these claims
are speculative and conclusory, lacking specific factual support to
substantiate the punitive damages claim. (Mot. at p. 8.)
 
The Court observes that “[in] ruling
on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a
motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their
truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) However, the court does not
assume the truth of conclusions of fact or law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Therefore, the
Court examines not only the specific portions of the FAC targeted by Defendant’s
Motion but also the factual allegations underlying the broader claim for general
damages.
 
The FAC
alleges that on or around November 29, 2020, Plaintiff Michele entered into a
written lease agreement with Defendant for the premises located at 24585 Town
Center Dr., Unit 4304, Santa Clarita, CA 91355 (the “Subject Property”). (FAC
¶¶ 4, 11.) On or around December 31, 2020, a water tank above the Subject
Property broke, causing major flooding in Plaintiffs’ unit. (Id. ¶ 19.)
Plaintiffs moved out of the Subject Property on January 7, 2021, after reaching
an agreement with Defendant to pay a reduced rental until the Subject Property
was repaired and remediated. (Id. ¶¶ 20, 21.) On February 3, 2021, Plaintiffs
returned to the Subject Property, believing that remediation was completed. (Id.
¶ 21.) However, on February 4, 2021, Plaintiffs woke up disoriented, vomiting,
and had diarrhea. Plaintiffs immediately vacated the Subject Property again and
relocated to a hotel. (Ibid.) Subsequently, Plaintiffs informed
Defendant that the issues remained unresolved and obtained a mold inspection
result confirming the presence of mold at the Subject Property on or around
February 10, 2021. (Id. ¶ 22.) 
 
The FAC
asserts that Defendant was aware of the uninhabitable conditions, had the means
to make repairs, and purposefully failed to remedy known issues such as mold,
and retaliated against Plaintiffs, resulting in Plaintiffs being ultimately
forced to vacate on or around March 3, 2021. (Id. ¶¶ 25, 26.) 
 
The Court has
reviewed the allegations of the FAC and concludes that it does not plead
ultimate facts that would establish malice or oppression. Notably, the FAC does
not allege that Defendant owns the unit above the Subject Property or had prior
knowledge of any preexisting conditions that caused the water damages. Even
assuming the truth of the allegation that Defendant failed to remediate the
Subject Property by March 3, 2021, the claims, when viewed in their entirety, do
not demonstrate "despicable" conduct with the intent to harm or a
willful and conscious disregard for Plaintiffs’ rights, as required to support
a claim for punitive damages under California Civil Code § 3294. 
 
Furthermore, Plaintiffs have not filed
an Opposition to the Motion, effectively waiving any responses to the issues
raised by Defendant.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS
the unopposed Motion to Strike.
 
B. Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend is generally available
when “the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer is reasonably
capable of cure . . . to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in
question.” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.) However, the burden of proving the existence of a
reasonable possibility to cure the defect by amendment is squarely on the
plaintiff. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs have failed to file an
Opposition or present any argument that the identified defects could be cured
with reasonable possibility through further amendment. Consequently, Plaintiffs
have not met their burden to justify leave to amend
 
Accordingly, the Motion is GRANTED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant Andriy Ishuninov’s Motion to Strike
portions of the First Amended Complaint is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.  
 
 