 Case Number:  24CHCV01544    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  F49  



Dept.
  F49




Date:
  1/2/25




Case
  Name: Arlene Aleman v. Providence Holy Cross Medical Center, Audley
  Osbourne, M.D., John Hawkins, M.D., Brian Lee, M.D., Andrew Behesnilian, M.D.,
  Henry Shih, M.D., and Does 1 to 20




Case
  No. 24CHCV01544



 
 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

JANUARY 2, 2025
 

DEMURRER 

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 24CHCV01544

 
Motion
filed: 10/22/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Providence Holy Cross
Medical Center
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Arlene Aleman 
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order sustaining Defendant Providence Holy Cross Medical Center’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The Demurrer
is OVERRULED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 25, 2024, Plaintiff Arlene Aleman (“Plaintiff” or
“Aleman”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Providence Holy Cross Medical
Center, Audley Osbourne, M.D. (“Osbourne”), Brandon Hawkins, M.D., Brian Lee,
M.D. (“Lee”), Andrew Behesnilian, M.D. (“Behesnilian”), Henry Shih, M.D. (“Shih”),
and Does 1 to 20, alleging two causes of action: (1) Medical Malpractice, and
(2) Medical Battery. On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff submitted a form amendment
to the Complaint, correcting the name of Defendant Brandon Hawkins, M.D. to
John Hawkins, M.D. (“Hawkins”). Subsequently, Defendant Lee filed his Answer to
the Complaint on October 9, 2024. 
 
On October 22, 2024, Defendant Providence Health System –
Southern California, d/b/a Providence Holy Cross Medical Center (sued and
served as Providence Holy Cross Medical Center) (“Providence”) filed the
instant Demurrer (the “Demurrer”). 
 
On November 19, 2024, the Court overruled a demurrer filed
by Defendants Osbourne and Behesnilian on October 17, 2024. Subsequently, on
December 18, 2024, Defendants Osbourne and Behesnilian filed their Answer to
the Complaint.
 
On December 11, 2024, Plaintiff Aleman filed an Opposition
to the Demurrer, and Providence replied on December 24, 2024. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds
for which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of
which the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of
a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions
of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) 
 
At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the
claim against them. (Semole v.
Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721 (Semole.)
“In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect,
its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “treat[s] the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law[.]” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525 (Berkley).) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
A.    Meet
and Confer
 
A party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person
or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) However, failure to meet and confer does not
constitute grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (a)(4).)
 
Here, Providence’s counsel, Megan P. Best (“Best”), stated
in her delcaration that on October 1, 2024, she sent a meet and confer letter
to Plaintiff’s counsel, Shirley Kenninger (“Kenninger”), outlining the grounds
for the Demurrer and requesting dismissal of the battery cause of action. (Best
Decl. ¶ 2.) On October 11, 2024, Best and Kenninger had a telephonic discussion
regarding the meet and confer letter. During the discussion, Kenninger requested
additional time to review the issues and granted Providence a one-week
extension, until October 21, 2024, to respond to Plaintiff’s Complaint. (Id.
¶ 3.) On October 21, 2024, Kenninger informed Best that the battery cause of
action would remain unchanged. (Ibid.)
 
Based on the above declaration, the Court finds that
Providence has satisfied the requirements for an in-person or telephonic meet
and confer, as mandated by the Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a).
 
B.     Second Cause of Action- Medical Battery
 
“There are three elements
to a claim
for medical battery
under a violation
of conditional consent:
the patient must show his consent was conditional; the doctor intentionally
violated the condition while providing treatment; and the patient suffered harm
as a result of the doctor's violation of the condition. [Citation.]” (Conte v. Girard Orthopedic Surgeons Medical Group, Inc.
(2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1260, 1269.) Further, “[w]here a doctor obtains
consent of the patient to perform one type of treatment and subsequently performs
a substantially different treatment for which consent was not obtained, there
is a clear case of battery.” (Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 239 (Cobbs).)
 
Providence contends that the Second Cause of Action is subject to demurrer
because Plaintiff has failed to plead sufficient facts to state the cause of
action. (Dem. at p. 4.) Specifically, Providence argues that the Demurrer
should be sustained on two grounds: (1) there are not any allegation regarding
Providence in the battery causes of action, and (2) the battery cause of action
merely duplicates the first cause of action for medical negligence.
 
The Court finds these arguments unpersuasive and will address each in
turn.
 
(1)   Providence’s Liability for Medical Battery 
 
“[A]
nurse or physician may be the servant of a hospital, thus requiring the
application of the doctrine of respondeat
superior even though they are
performing professional acts.” (Rice v. California Lutheran
Hospital (1945) 27 Cal.2d 296, 304.)
Under the doctrine of respondeat superior, employer may be vicariously
liable for employee's torts committed within scope of employment. (Perez v. Van
Groningen & Sons, Inc. (1986) 41 Cal.3d 962, 967; cf. Mayers
v. Litow (1957) 154 Cal.App.2d 413, 418 [hospital not
liable for acts of doctor who was an independent contractor].)

 
In California, courts assume that a physician appears to
be an agent of the hospital. (Whitlow v. Rideout Memorial Hospital
(2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 631, 637 (Whitlow).) Civil Code section 2295
provides: “[a]n
agent is one who represents another, called the principal, in dealings with
third persons.” Agency may be “either actual or ostensible.” (Civ. Code, §
2298.) Actual agency occurs “when the agent is really employed by the
principal.” (Civ. Code, § 2299.) Ostensible agency is found where “the
principal intentionally, or by want of ordinary care, causes a third person to
believe another to be his agent who is not really employed by him.” (Civ. Code,
§ 2300.) 
 
Here, Providence highlights the definition of medical battery, stating
that “battery is an intentional tort that occurs when a doctor performs a
procedure without obtaining any consent,” citing Saxena v. Goffney
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 316, 324. (Dem. at p. 5.) Providence further asserts, without
specificity, that Plaintiff has failed to allege any facts demonstrating that
Providence committed medical battery. (Ibid.) In its Reply, Providence reiterates
that “it is the duty of the physician ... to obtain the informed consent ...
[and] to disclose to patient material information ... There is no cause of
action for battery against Providence.” (Reply at p. 2.) Providence appears to argue
that, as an entity rather than a natural person, it does not practice medicine
and consequently, cannot be held liable for medical battery. 
 
In the Opposition, Plaintiff argues that Providence is liable for
Osbourne’s alleged medical battery due to the agency relationship between the
two defendants. (Opp’n. at p. 4.) Plaintiff asserts that Providence was the
ostensible agent of Defendant Osbourne, who allegedly committed medical battery.
(Opp’n. at p. 4.) Additionally, Plaintiff claims that Defendant Osbourne relied
on Providence to ensure the proper functioning of the equipment available to
the doctors. (Ibid.) 
 
The Court
notes that, in the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
Osbourne committed a medical battery when Osbourne went beyond the scope of
consent given him by the plaintiff, Arlene Aleman. (Compl. ¶ 14.) Plaintiff
further alleges that “Audley Osbourne MD, Brandon Hawkins MD, Brian Lee MD,
Andrew Behesnilian MD, Henry Shih MD, were the agents, servants or employees of defendant Providence
Holy Cross Medical Center.” (Id. ¶
5.)
 
As
observed in Whitlow,
it is reasonable for a patient to assume that a doctor is an agent of the
hospital. (Whitlow, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 637.)
Additionally, the Court finds that actual agency through employment, as defined
under Civil Code section 2299, is sufficiently alleged by Plaintiff’s assertion
that Defendant Osbourne and other doctors “were the agents, servants or
employee of defendant [Providence].” (Compl. ¶
5.) 
 
Conversely, Providence’s Demurrer and Reply fail to engage
with the legal analysis for potential liability under the doctrine of
respondeat superior, thereby neglecting to address and refute a viable
legal theory capable of withstanding its Demurrer. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds Providence’s argument unpersuasive. Under either actual or
ostensible agency theories, the Court concludes that Plaintiff has alleged ultimate facts sufficient to
apprise the Providence of the factual basis for the claim against them. (Semole,
supra, 28 Cal.App.3d at p. 721.)
 
Therefore, the Court OVERRULES the
Demurrer, rejecting Providence’s first basis as grounds to sustain it.
 
(2)  
Medical Battery Asserted as Duplicative
of Medical Malpractice Claim
 
As
noted in Providence’s Reply, in the seminal case of Cobbs, supra,
8 Cal.3d 229, the Supreme
Court delineated the distinctions between the two causes of action, stating:
 
 “The battery theory should be reserved
for those circumstances when a doctor performs an operation to which the
patient has not consented. When the patient gives permission to perform one
type of treatment and the doctor performs another, the requisite element of
deliberate intent to deviate from the consent given is present. However, when
the patient consents to certain treatment and the doctor performs that
treatment but an undisclosed inherent complication with a low probability
occurs, no intentional deviation from the consent given appears; rather, the
doctor in obtaining consent may have failed to meet his due care duty to
disclose pertinent information. In that situation the action should be pleaded
in negligence.” 
 
(Id. at pp. 240-241.)
 
In
Cobbs, the Supreme Court held the facts supported a medical negligence
case, reasoning that “[d]efendant performed the identical operation to which
plaintiff had consented. The spleen injury, development of the gastric ulcer,
gastrectomy and internal bleeding as a result of the premature absorption of a
suture, were all links in a chain of low probability events inherent in the
initial operation.” (Cobbs, supra, 8 Cal.3d at p. 241.)
 
However,
the Court distinguishes Cobbs. Here, Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he fact is the
Plaintiff consented to a medical procedure, on the condition that it was going
to be done with robotic equipment and the Defendant [Osbourne] proceeded to
attempt to remove the kidney stone a second time by placing another tube in the
Plaintiff while she was sedated. This occurred when the first attempted
procedure could not be completed due to the broken lens on the robotic
equipment. Defendant [Osbourne] knew that the robotic equipment could not be
used after he had attempted to use it only to discover the lens was broken so
he then proceeded to attempt to remove the stone by putting in another tube
which was unsuccessful.” (Id. ¶ 15.) “... Plaintiff was
harmed by these actions and Defendant Audley Osbourne MDs’ conduct was a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiff Arlene Aleman’s harm...” (Id. ¶
16.) 
 
When construing the allegation liberally and assuming the
facts as true, as required in reviewing a demurrer, the Court finds that the
allegations support a reasonable inference that Defendant Osbourne did not
perform the identical operation to which Plaintiff had consented. Plaintiff’s
consent was conditioned upon the functional use of the robotic equipment.
However, Defendant “[Osbourne] knew that the robotic equipment could not be
used after he had attempted to use it only to discover the lens was broken so
he then proceeded to attempt to remove the stone by putting in another tube
which was unsuccessful.” (Compl. ¶
15.) 
 
Furthermore,
the Court does not consider Providence’s incomplete argument that Plaintiff’s
alleged injury was “[an] undisclosed inherent complication with a low
probability,” which implicates a medical negligence cause of action. As
previously explained, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that Defendant
Osbourne did not perform the identical operation to which Plaintiff had
consented. Any disputes raised by Providence regarding the factual allegation or
its assertions of additional facts outside the scope of the Complaint are not
appropriate for consideration at this stage of the proceedings.
 
Therefore, the Court finds that
the above factual allegations illustrate an action that sounds in medical
battery. (See Berkey v. Anderson (1969) 1 Cal.App.3d 790 [the actual
procedure was more complicated than the procedure to which plaintiff had
previously consented]; Bang v. Charles T. Miller Hosp. (1958) 251 Minn.
427 [the actual procedural was a substantially different treatment when the
plaintiff consented to a prostate resection but was uninformed that the
procedure involved tying off his sperm ducts.])
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
allegations in the Complaint sufficiently state a cause of action for medical
battery against Defendant Providence under the doctrine of respondeat
superior.  The Court concludes that Providence
has failed to meet its required burden to show that the Second Cause of Action
is insufficiently stated.
 
            Therefore,
the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer on this ground.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant
Providence Health System – Southern California, d/b/a Providence Holy Cross
Medical Center’s Demurrer to the Complaint is
OVERRULED.
 
Defendant
Providence Health System – Southern California, d/b/a Providence Holy Cross
Medical Center is ordered to serve and file its
Answer to the Complaint within 30 days.
 
Moving
party to give notice.