 Case Number:  21STCV16804    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  57 RUILNG ON ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE
REGARDING REVISION TO EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS RULING AGAINST DEFENDANT COURTNEY
SEASHOLS
 
On October 26, 2023, the Court heard
Plaintiff Janice Clark’s unopposed motion for terminating sanctions against
Defendant Courtney Seashols, or, in the alternative, for an order imposing
evidentiary sanctions against Seashols.  
The asserted basis for Clark’s motion for terminating or, alternatively
evidentiary, sanctions, was Seashols’ s failure to comply with orders of this
Court, per Judge Steven Kleifield, in granting discovery motions filed by Clark
to provide further responses to certain forms of discovery that Clark had
propounded on Seashols.   At the hearing, the Court declined to enter
terminating sanctions, but it granted Clark’s motion to the extent that it
sought evidentiary sanctions.  
On December 8, 2023, the Court
entered an order regarding evidentiary sanctions based on the Court’s
disposition of the motion for terminating sanctions. The order the Court
entered was the proposed order that Clark’s counsel submitted.  Seashols, who was self-represented at the
time, opposed that proposed order.  Subsequently,
Seashols retained counsel, who, on her behalf, filed a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure Section 473 to vacate the evidentiary sanction order.  The Court denied Seashols’ s motion.  On its own motion, however, the Court set an
order to show cause on whether the evidentiary sanctions order should be
revised.  The Court took that step
because the Court was  concerned that the
evidentiary sanctions order swept too broadly in that it was not tethered to Seashols’s
failure to comply with Judge Kleifield’s orders directing Seashols to provide further
discovery responses.  Specifically, it appeared
to the Court that the evidentiary sanctions order went beyond what Judge
Kleifield had ordered by barring Seashols from introducing evidence at trial
that was not the subject of the discovery motions that led to Judge Kleifield’s
orders.  
In response to the Court’s order to
show cause, Seashols’s counsel prepared a proposed revised discovery sanction
order.  According to Seashols’s counsel, his
proposed revision narrowed the scope of the evidentiary sanctions order by
tying the prohibition on evidence that Seashols could introduce at trial to the
specific discovery requests to which Judge Kleifield had ordered Seashols to
provide further discovery responses and thus to the orders with which Seashols
failed to comply. 
Clark’s counsel submitted a counter
proposed revision to the evidentiary sanctions order, which, in redline, showed
the changes that Clark’s counsel is suggesting should be made to the proposed
revised order submitted by Seashols’s counsel.
The Court has reviewed the competing
proposed revised evidentiary sanctions orders. 
In the Court’s view, the proposed revised evidentiary sanctions order
submitted by Seashols’s counsel captures the specific violations of Judge
Kleifield’s orders on Clark’s discovery motions with which Seashols failed to
comply. 
Through a minute order issued on
January 3, 2023, Judge Kleifield  that
day ordered Seashols, per a motion that Clark filed on November 8, 2022,  to provide further responses to Request for
Admissions Numbers 4, 14, and 15.  Seashols
failed to comply with that order.  Through
a minute order issued on January 4, 2023, Judge Kleifield that day ordered
Seashols, per a motion that Clark filed on November 7, 2022, to provide further
responses to Form Interrogatories Numbers 2.3 and 2.6.  Seashols failed to comply with that order as
well.  
Clark’s motion for terminating
sanctions stated that Seashols also failed to comply with an order Judge
Kleifield issued via a minute order on December 15, 2022 to provide further
responses to Clark’s request for production of documents.   The
supposed issuance of such an order appears to be at the heart of the divergence
between the proposed revised evidentiary sanctions order that was submitted by
Clark’s counsel and the one submitted by Seashols’s counsel.
The problem is that this bench
officer has not located on the case docket a December 15, 2022 minute order regarding
a motion by Clark to compel further responses to production of documents.  Nor has the Court located a motion filed by Clark
seeking to compel further responses to requests for  production of documents, along with a supporting
separate statement.  The lone minute order
in the case for December 15, 2022 appears to refer to the motion to compel
further responses to form interrogatories filed on November 8, 2022, which, as
indicated above, was the subject of a January 4, 2023 minute order.  
To be sure, Clark’s counsel filed a
Notice of Ruling on December 20, 2022 that states that, at a hearing on
December 15, 2022, the Court granted Clark’s motion to compel further responses
to requests for production of documents.  But again, there is such motion on the docket
and, likewise, no corresponding separate statement.  The Court cannot give weight to a Notice of
Ruling about a motion and separate statement that never were filed in the first
place.
Clark’s counsel points out that
Seashols filed an opposition to a motion to compel further responses to
requests for production of documents and that Seashols has made no argument
that the Court did not hear and decide that motion.  All of that is true.  But the Court’s goal of determining the proper
scope of the evidentiary sanctions order for non-compliance with the Court’s
rulings on Clark’s discovery motions necessarily depends on what those motions
sought.   A discovery motion that was
never filed cannot be part of the predicate for an evidentiary sanctions order
for noncompliance with rulings on discovery motions.SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES


JANICE CLARK an individual,
 
Plaintiffs,
 
vs.
 
 
COURTNEY SEASHOLS, an individual,
 

                                                 
  Defendant.
 
 
 
 
 
 



Case
  No.:
  21STCV16804
Assigned to Hon. Michael
  C. Small
Department 57
   
 
REVISED
  ORDER IMPOSING EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS AGATINS DEFENDANT
 
    Filed:           May 4, 2021
   Trial Date:   May 6, 2024
 


             On
October 26, 2023, the Court heard Plaintiff Janice Clark’s unopposed motion for
terminating sanctions against Defendant Courtney Seashols, or, in the
alternative, for an order imposing evidentiary sanctions against Seashols.   The asserted basis for Clark’s motion for
terminating or, alternatively evidentiary, sanctions, was Seashols’ s failure
to comply with orders of this Court, per Judge Steven Kleifield, in granting
discovery motions filed by Clark to provide further responses to certain forms
of discovery that Clark had propounded on Seashols.   At the hearing, the Court declined to enter
terminating sanctions, but it granted Clark’s motion to the extent that it
sought evidentiary sanctions.  On
December 8, 2023, the Court entered an order regarding evidentiary sanctions
based on the Court’s disposition of the motion for terminating sanctions. The
order the Court entered was the proposed order that Clark’s counsel submitted.  Seashols, who was self-represented at the
time, opposed that proposed order. 
Subsequently, Seashols retained counsel, who, on her behalf, filed a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure Section 473 to vacate the evidentiary
sanction order.  The Court denied
Seashols’ s motion.  On its own motion,
however, the Court set an order to show cause (“OSC”) on whether the
evidentiary sanctions order should be revised. 
The Court took that step because the Court was concerned that the
evidentiary sanctions order swept too broadly in that it was not tethered to
Seashols’s failure to comply with Judge Kleifield’s orders directing Seashols
to provide further discovery responses. 
Specifically, it appeared to the Court that the evidentiary sanctions
order went beyond what Judge Kleifield had ordered by barring Seashols from
introducing evidence at trial that was not the subject of the discovery motions
that led to Judge Kleifield’s orders.  Having
considered the parties’ written submissions and oral argument in response to
the OSC, the Court is hereby issuing this revised evidentiary sanctions order
in connection with Plaintiff’s motion for terminating sanctions, or, alternatively,
evidentiary sanctions. 1. 
Plaintiff’s request for terminating sanctions is DENIED.2. Plaintiff’s request for
alternative relief pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. P. §2023.030(b), (c) is GRANTED
along the lines set forth below.3. Based on Defendant’s failure to
comply with the Court’s order requiring Defendant to provide further responses
to Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, the following facts shall be deemed
admitted by Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions (“RFA’s”) pursuant to Cal. Code
Civ. P. §2023.030(b):·      
RFA
No. 4:  “Between May 2018 and October 2018 a vast
majority of purchases made by Defendant were for “luxury” items like travel and
hotels, and expensive clothing and cosmetics.” ·      
RFA
No.14:  “Between February 2020 and September 2020,
Defendant’s then-boyfriend had been paying Defendant’s rent.”  ·      
RFA
No. 15:  “The proceeds from the $84,000 Loan were used
for attorney’s fees in Defendant’s divorce proceedings.”   4. The following RFA’s are not
deemed admitted.  ·      
RFA
Nos. 1, 2, 3, 5, 11, 16, and 17:
Defendant Seashols served verified responses denying these RFA’s and, thus, she
may present defenses based on these denials. ·      
RFA’s
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13:  These RFA’s are not deemed admitted and,
thus, Seashols may present defenses based on these denials5. 
Pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. P §2023.030(c), Defendant is prohibited from
introducing the testimony of any witness she did not identify in
discovery.  Defendant identified the
following 2 witnesses in her verified responses to Form Interrogatories, whom
she may call to testify at trial:              a. Plaintiff Janice Clark            b.
Defendant Courtney Seashols6. Pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. P
§2023.030(c), Defendant is prohibited from introducing any new documents sought
in Plaintiff’s request for production of documents that she did not produce to
Plaintiff.  Defendant produced the following
documents to Plaintiff in discovery. 
Defendant is permitted to introduce these documents at trial:1. December 26, 2019:
Residential Lease and other related documents for property 3150 Santa Maria
Rd., Topanga, CA 90290.   2. October 14, 2018: Email
from Janice Clark to Courtney Seashols regarding their current personal
relationship and situation. 3. February 7, 2020: Email
from Janice Clark to Courtney Seashols asking Seashols to sign Promissory Note
and attached Promissory Note. 4. May 27, 2022:  Email from Janice Clark to Courtney Seashols
regarding money borrowed and repayment. 5. November 13, 2022: Demand
Letter from Janice Clark to Courtney Seashols regarding repayment of loan from
proceeds of 595,000 shares of Dosist Stock and Irrevocable Letter of Direction6. September 6, 2020: Email
from Janice Clark to Courtney Seashols and Matt Seashols regarding encounter
that day and her right to see her grandchildren. 7. September 1, 2020 to
September 6, 2020: Email chain between Janice Clark and Country Seashols
regarding repayment of loan from security deposit and Dosist stocks. 8. July 29, 2020 to July 30,
2020: Email chain between Janice Clark and Courtney Seashols regarding
repayment of loan from security deposit and Dosist stocks. 9. May 15, 2020: Email from
Janice Clark to Courtney Seashols asking Seashols to sign Promissory Note.10. December 12, 2019: Email
from Janice Clark to Suzanne and Mike Seashols regarding Courtney Seashols’
daughter’s learning disabilities and Janice’s loan that she will pay to ensure
she goes to a better school. 11. November 11, 2018: Email
from Janice Clark to Courtney Seashols regarding a drafted email to send to
Matt Seashols requesting he pay for his daughter’s tutoring. 12. April 1, 2019 to April 5,
2019:  Email chain between Janice
Clark and Courtney Seashols regarding AMEX card and payments. 13. December 23, 2020: Email
chain between Janice Clark and Matt Seashols regarding Matt and Courtney
Seashols’ children. 14. December 1, 2020: Email
from Janice Clark to Courtney Seashols regarding Clark’s relationship with
Seashols’ children and the repayment of her debt. 15. March 16, 2018:
Forwarded Email from Janice Clark to Courtney Seashols regarding loan for
school tuition in the amount of $20,00016. January 3, 2020: Cashier
Check Purchase to Craig Derecat for amount of $47,320.00 17. December 31, 2019: Domestic
Wire Funds Debit Ernest Vojdani for amount of $7,118.2018. December 31, 2019: Wired
Funds Deposit from Janice Clark for amount of $84,000. 19. November 29, 2018:
Changes made to renter’s insurance policy regarding property 6771 Wandermere
Rd. Malibu, CA 90265-4135.20. October 25, 2018:   First National Insurance Company of America
Renter’s Policy Declarations and related documents regarding property 6771
Wandermere Rd. Malibu, CA 90265-4135.             7.  Defendant failed to comply with the Court’s order
directing Defendant to provide further response to Form Interrogatories Nos.
2.3 and 2.6. Pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. P §2023.030(c),  Defendant is prohibited from introducing any new
facts and defenses encompassed by Form Interrogatory Nos. 2.3 and 2.6. 
           8.  The
following defenses in Defendant’s Response to Form Interrogatories are not
prohibited: ·      
Failure
to State Claim ·      
Statute
of Limitations·      
Lack
of Standing·      
Ratification/Consent·      
No
Actual or Reasonable Reliance ·      
Lack
of Causation ·      
Economic
Loss Doctrine ·      
Conditions
Precedent·      
Estoppel
·      
Laches·      
Failure
to Mitigate Damages ·      
Waiver
·      
Unclean
Hands ·      
Accord
and Satisfaction ·      
Novation
·      
Right
to Assert Additional Affirmative Defenses 9.
Presentation at trial of the following matters asserted in Defendant’s
Responses to Form Interrogatories are not prohibited: ·      
“The
responding party’s investigation into this matter is continuing. The
propounding party may have committed insurance fraud in violation of Penal Code
§ 550.”·      
“Ms.
Seashols did not borrow any money from Plaintiff Clark in or about April 2016.
Ms. Seashols’ child was having trouble with reading, and Plaintiff Clark agreed
to pay for an intensive tutoring program run by Lindamood-Bell. Plaintiff Clark
never gave any money for the tutoring program to Ms. Seashols; she obtained a
loan from an educational funding company, and the educational lender paid
Lindamood-Bell directly. This was a gift from Plaintiff to her grandchild, not
a loan from Plaintiff to Ms. Seashols.”·      
“Ms.
Seashols did not ask Plaintiff to open up a new credit card account; she asked
to be added as an authorized user to Plaintiff’s existing credit card account.
Ms. Seashols paid the monthly charges through April 2019, and only ceased doing
so when Plaintiff submitted a fraudulent claim to Ms. Seashols’ insurance
company seeking reimbursement of the cost of personal property which, according
to Plaintiff, was stored at Ms. Seashols’ house when the house was destroyed in
a fire. In fact, the property was not stored at Ms. Seashols’ home, and the
claim was fraudulent. Ms. Seashols does not know the precise amount of the last
unpaid monthly statement.”·      
“Ms.
Seashols was going through an extremely contentious divorce and custody battle
at the time the loan was made, and her house had recently burned down in a
fire. Ms. Seashols was in need of money to care for herself and for her
children – that is why she asked Plaintiff for a loan. She does not recall
“pressuring” Plaintiff for the money. Ms. Seashols admits that the $84,000 is
still owed, because the condition precedent for repayment – Ms. Seashols’ sale
of stock in her ex-husband’s closely-held cannabis company – has not yet
occurred.”·      
“The
alleged breach of any alleged oral agreement to repay Lindamood-Bell was more
than two years prior to the filing of the Complaint, as were the alleged
breaches of oral agreements to repay Amex charges.”·      
“The
payment for the Lindamood-Bell reading program was a gift. The condition
precedent for repayment of the $84,000 loan – the sale of Ms. Seashols’ stock
in her ex-husband’s cannabis company – has not yet occurred.”·      
At
the time the $84,000 loan was made, Plaintiff was well aware that Ms. Seashols
was going through a difficult divorce and desperately needed money. To the extent
that Ms. Seashols was upset and complained about her financial fears and anxieties
to her mother, Plaintiff did not take those complaints literally.”·      
Plaintiff
submitted a fraudulent claim to Ms. Seashols’ insurance company seeking
reimbursement of the cost of personal property which, according to Plaintiff,
was stored at Ms. Seashols’ house when the house was destroyed in a fire. In
fact, the property was not stored at Ms. Seashols’ home, and the claim was
fraudulent. IT IS
SO ORDERED.   _________________________________ Judge Michael C. SmallMay
6, 2024
 