 Case Number:  21STCV37502    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  57 The Court is DENYING Plaintiff Zvi Sperling’s (“Zvi”) Motion
to Compel Defendant Jacob Sperling (“Jacob”) to Produce Documents Inadvertently
Claimed as Privileged.  
Zvi’s motion challenges Jacob’s claim of attorney-client
privilege and/or work product privilege as to 143 email communications, which
are listed on a privilege log that Jacob provided to Zvi, between and among
Jacob’s counsel and Jacob himself, plus his daughter and co-Defendant Naomi
Sperling (“Naomi”) and/or Jacob’s long-time accountant Samuel Levy (“Levy”).  Zvi contends in his motion that Jacob waived
any privilege as to these communications because of the inclusion of Naomi and/or
Levy on them. 
The Court disagrees. 
Zvi’s contention runs counter to Evidence Code Section 952’s protections
of attorney-client communications on which third parties are included.  Section 952 defines the phrase “confidential
communications between client and lawyer” to mean information transmitted between a client and his or her lawyer
in the course of that relationship and in confidence by a means which, so far
as the client is aware, discloses the information to no third persons other
than those who are present to further the interest of the client in the
consultation or those to whom disclosure is reasonably necessary for the
transmission of the information or the accomplishment of the purpose for which
the lawyer is consulted, and includes a legal opinion formed and the advice given by the lawyer in the course of that relationship."
Based
on the record before the Court, it is evident that the communications were
transmitted to Naomi and Levy in their roles as agents of Jacob’s.  The disclosure to them was reasonably necessary
for the transmission of the information between Jacob and his counsel or the
accomplishment of the purpose for which counsel was consulted. Zvi’s
own operative pleading in the case alleges that Naomi was Jacob’s agent for
purposes of the subject matter of Zvi’s suit against Jacob.  As to Levy, the record indicates that he was
included in the communications as Jacob’s agent for the purpose for which Jacob
consulted his counsel.  Nothing in what
Levy testified to in his deposition, or what documents produced in discovery as
to Levy’s role, supports Zvi’s contention that disclosure of the communications
to Levy vitiates any privilege in the communications that Jacob is claiming.  Jacob’s argument that disclosure of the
communications to Levy did not waive privilege is supported by United
States v. Kovel, 296 F.2d 918 (1961), which
addresses circumstances governing when attorney-client and work product
privileges are preserved notwithstanding transmittal of attorney-client
communications to a third-party, non-lawyer accountant. Whether the Kovel
standards are exactly on all fours here is not relevant.  What is relevant is that Levy participated in
the challenged communications as Jacob’s agent and to further Jacob’s interest
in obtaining advice from counsel.

Zvi has not
provided a sufficient basis for this Court to review in camera the communications
to assess the validity of Jacob’s claim of privilege, or to appoint a special
master to do so.   Conducting such a
review is generally prohibited by Evidence Code Section 915.  Those prohibitions fully apply here.