  Case Number:  20PSCV00396    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  K Plaintiffs Sukhdev Vasisht and Vansukh, Inc.’s Motion for
Order Granting Leave to File Third Amended Complaint is DENIED.
Background[1]  
Plaintiffs Sukhdev Vasisht (“Vasisht”)
and Vansukh, Inc. (“Vansukh” and collectively with Vasisht as “Plaintiffs”) allege
as follows:
Sometime in 2019,
Rajinder Adlakha (“Rajinder”) approached Vasisht about selling a commercial
property and a business located thereon to Plaintiff. Rajinder represented that
he was the owner of said commercial property on which he owned and operated a
laundromat and check cashing business and that a 7-Eleven franchisee was a
tenant of the other unit at the property. Rajinder also conveyed that he was
the operator and day-to-day manager of the laundromat and checking cashing
business and that said businesses had a strong cashflow. Rajinder showed Vasisht
a 2017 financial statement showing the business’s revenue and further
represented that (1) the property collected $6,000.00 in monthly rent from the
7-Eleven tenant and that a 10% increase would take effect on January 1, 2020;
(2) the laundromat and check cashing business paid $5,000.00 in monthly rent to
Rajinder and that (3) the business generated $142,000.00 in net profits per
year, as per a 2017 profit and loss statement provided by Rajinder to Vasisht. 
 
When Vasisht advised
that he did not have sufficient liquidity to make such a purchase, Rajinder told
Vasisht that the sale of the commercial property would qualify for an
SBA-backed purchase money loan and that he would be willing to carry a
promissory note on any leftover amount the SBA would not cover. Rajinder
introduced Vasisht to an agent, David Oak (“Oak”), to serve as a dual agent in
the sale. Vasisht then met with Andrew Chong (“Chong”),
a manager at Hanmi Bank (“Bank”), who directed Vasisht’s SBA loan submission. Vansukh
is also a guarantor on the loan. The day of loan signing, Oak presented a new
offer agreement to Vasisht as Reena Sona Adlakha (“Reena”) was the actual owner
of the property. 
 
After escrow closed,
Reena and Rajinder failed to sign supplemental contract documents, withdrew
rotation money, failed to pay the mortgage payments on Vasisht’s SBA loan and
abandoned the business prior to the business changeover. Vasisht also learned
that the property was damaged, that the rent increase from the 7-11 tenant
would not take effect until March 2021, that his SBA loan is subject to
voidance or cancellation because the property does not conform to SBA loan
eligibility requirements, that the business generates a fraction of the
revenues stated in the 2017 financial statement, that the 7-11 lease agreement
he received prior to the close of escrow was forged and that the check cashing
component of the business was actually a separate business owned by a corporate
entity known as “Adlakha & Adlakha, Inc.”
On July 27, 2020, Rajinder’s default was
entered. On August 21, 2020, Defendant United States Small Business
Administration (“USSBA”) filed a “Notice to State Court and Adverse Party of
Removal of Civil Action to United States District Court.” On September 10,
2020, an “Order Granting Defendant United States Small Business
Administration’s Motion to Dismiss” was filed, wherein USSBA was ordered
dismissed and the matter was remanded to state court.
On October 30, 2020, USSBA filed another
“Notice to State Court and Adverse Party of Removal of Civil Action to United
States District Court.” On February 22, 2021, an “Order Granting Defendant
United States Small Business Administration’s Motion to Dismiss” was filed,
wherein USSBA was ordered dismissed and the matter was remanded to state court.
On July 9, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) asserting causes of action against Bank, Rajinder, Reena
(individually and as trustee of the Pinewood Irrevocable Trust Dated April 7,
2018) (“Reena”), Chong, Adlakha & Adlakha and Does 1-100 for:
1.                 
Rescission—Civil
Code § 1689 [Bank]
2.                 
Cancellation
of Written Instrument—Civil Code § 3412 [Bank]
3.                 
Fraud—Concealment
[Bank and Chong]
4.                 
Fraud—Intentional
Misrepresentation of Fact [Bank and Chong]
5.                 
Negligent
Misrepresentation [Bank and Chong]
6.                 
Breach
of Contract [Bank]
7.                 
Tortious
Breach of Contract [Bank]
8.                 
Breach
of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing [Bank]
9.                 
Unfair
Competition—Business and Professions Code § 17200 [Bank and Chong]
10.             
Civil
Conspiracy [Bank and Chong]
11.             
Declaratory
Relief [Bank and Chong]
12.             
Negligence
[Bank and Chong]
13.             
Breach
of Fiduciary Duty [Bank and Chong]
14.             
Aiding
and Abetting Fraud—Intentional Misrepresentation of Fact [Bank and Chong]
15.             
Aiding
and Abetting Fraud—Concealment [Bank and Chong]
16.             
Aiding
and Abetting Fraud—Negligent Misrepresentation of Fact [Bank and Chong]
17.             
Aiding
and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty
On January 27, 2022, the court granted Rajinder’s and Reena’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration as to Vasisht
and ordered all other matters stayed pending completion of arbitration.
On April 1, 2022, Adlakha & Adlakha’s default was entered.
On January 17, 2023, counsel, with the consent of their clients,
agreed to terminate the prior order regarding arbitration and stipulated to
place this matter back on the court’s calendar; on that date, the court lifted
the stay on the case in its entirety.
On October 31, 2023,
the court sustained Bank’s demurrer to the first through sixteenth causes of
action and Chong’s demurrer to the third through fifth and ninth through
sixteenth causes of action in Plaintiffs’ SAC, without leave to amend.
The Final Status Conference is set for April 30, 2024. Trial is set for
May 14, 2023.
Legal Standard
“The court
may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a
party to amend any pleading…” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); and see §
576 [“Any judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the
furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the
amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference order”].)
“[T]he trial
court has wide discretion in allowing the amendment of any pleading.” (Bedolla v. Logan & Frazer (1975) 52
Cal.App.3d 118, 135.) “[I]t is irrelevant that new legal theories are
introduced as long as the proposed amendments relate to the same general set of
facts.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior
Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [quotation marks and citation
omitted].) “[E]ven if the proposed legal theory is a novel one, the preferable
practice would be to permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on the
pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.” (Id. [quotation marks and citation omitted].) With that said, “the
failure of a proposed amendment to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action or defense may support an order denying a motion to amend.” (California
Casualty Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280,
disapproved of on other grounds in Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines
Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390)
Courts must
apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at
any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial, when no prejudice is
shown to the adverse party. (Atkinson v.
Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) However, “even if a
good amendment is proposed in proper form, unwarranted delay in presenting it
may—of itself—be a valid reason for denial. . . denial may rest upon the
element of lack of diligence in offering the amendment
after knowledge of the facts, or the effect of the delay on the adverse party.”
(Roemer v. Retail Credit Co.
(1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 926, 940.)
Also, “[a] motion to amend a pleading before trial must: (1)
Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted,
if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations
are located; and (3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.” (Cal. Rules of Court (“CRC”), rule 3.1324,
subd. (a).)
Additionally, “[a] separate declaration must accompany the
motion and must specify: (1) The effect of the amendment; (2) Why the amendment
is necessary and proper; (3) When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and (4) The reasons why the request for amendment
was not made earlier.” (CRC Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)
Discussion
Plaintiffs move the court for an order granting them leave to file their
proposed Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”), which adds a cause of action for
third party beneficiary breach of contract against Bank, new defendants (i.e.,
Juhee Kim [“Kim”][2], Anna Chung [“Chung”][3],
Kirstin Alvarez [“Alvarez”][4],
Christina Ahn [“Ahn”][5]
and Hyun Soon Yi [“Yi”][6])
and makes certain additions/deletions as set forth in the “Appendix of Proposed
Changes.”
Evidentiary Objections
The court rules on Bank’s and Chong’s evidentiary objections to the
Declaration of Also A. Flores (“Flores”) as follows: Sustained in full.
Merits
The instant motion was filed on October 20,
2023, while Bank’s and Chong’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ SAC (heard on September
26, 2023) was under submission. Flores’s accompanying declaration fails to
comply with CRC Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b)(4); more specifically, he does not
address why, given the timing of the depositions of Chong and Kim (i.e., which
occurred on May 16, 2023 and June 13, 2023, respectively), Plaintiffs waited
until after the September 26, 2023 hearing on Chong’s and Bank’s demurrer to the
SAC (and while the matter was under submission) to file the instant motion.
Further, while Flores asserts that Plaintiffs
learned during the aforesaid depositions that Bank and Chong concealed certain
alleged facts from Plaintiffs, Flores has failed to attach transcripts of the
aforesaid depositions to his moving declaration. Plaintiffs cannot seek to
remedy this deficiency in their reply papers. In particular, Plaintiffs have
failed to demonstrate that their proposal to add Kim, Chung, Alvarez, Ahn and Yi
is appropriate; indeed, with respect to these individuals, Flores attests that
he somehow “ascertained” during Kim’s deposition that they “were aware of
material facts that were withheld from Vasisht.” (Flores Decl., ¶ 11).
Regardless, on October 31, 2023, the court
sustained Bank’s demurrer to the first through sixteenth causes of action and
Chong’s demurrer to the third through fifth and ninth through sixteenth causes
of action in Plaintiffs’ SAC, without leave to amend; significantly,
with respect to the third through fifth causes of action (i.e., for
Fraud—Concealment, Fraud—Intentional Misrepresentation of Fact and Negligent
Misrepresentation, respectively), the court noted that:
At the hearing, Plaintiff sought to add
additional allegations of wrongdoing 
by the Bank and Chong, including, inter
alia, the following:
 
(1)              
Bank employee Chong had access to report with ‘correct’
square footage;
(2)              
Bank employee Kim in possession of UCC filing indicating
a different 
owner;
(3)              
Bank in possession of a certified lease attached to title
report showing 
different percentage of Pronto Laundry square
footage;
(4)              
Bank in possession of environment review report
indicating different 
ownership;
(5)              
Bank in possession of credit report indicating that Bank
had false income 
amounts for commercial property purchased by
Plaintiffs.
 
None of the above-referenced allegations
indicate that the Bank or Chong 
fraudulently represented the nature of the
loan and the commercial property 
purchase. In fact, it appears Plaintiffs’
contention stems from their lack of due 
diligence. 
 
(October 31, 2023 Order, pp. 6-7.) 
The court, in fact, determined that Plaintiff should not be given leave
to amend any of his causes of action against Chong and Bank, stating:
            At the hearing, the
court pressed Plaintiffs’ counsel to proffer proof as to
why leave should be granted. The court was
hard pressed to find such proof. 
The Bank’s and Chong’s involvement did not
involve any misrepresentations 
to Plaintiffs and the crux of this case stems
from the alleged wrongdoing of the 
other non-bank defendants. To seek liability
as Plaintiff would suggest for 
turning a blind eye to the fraudulent sale of
the commercial property would
necessitate some involvement by the Bank and
Chong to participate in such a 
scheme. The allegations set forth fail to
meet the specificity requirements
and/or are incompatible with the causes of
action raised in the SAC.
 
(Id., p. 10).
It does not appear to the court that Plaintiff has proffered any proof
via the instant motion which was not proffered at the time of the hearing on
the demurrer. In any event, as Bank and Chong point out, it was Vasisht’s
obligation to warrant that the information he provided to Bank and the SBA was
accurate. (Ho Decl., Exh. 1, Exh. A, p. 5[7],
Exh. D, p. 14 [i.e., clause entitled “Occupancy”] and Exh. E). The court
remains unclear as to what damages Plaintiffs claim were sustained, inasmuch as
Plaintiffs did actually receive the SBA-backed loan.
The motion, then, is denied.


