


[1]              The motion was filed (and served
via email) on October 20, 2023 and set for hearing on November 15, 2023.
Although the motion was timely filed, it should have been served electronically
no later than October 19, 2023, based on Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1005,
subdivision (b) (i.e., “all moving and supporting papers shall be served and filed at
least 16 court days before the hearing.”) and 1010.6, subdivision (a)(3)(B)
(i.e., “[a]ny period of notice, or any right or duty to do any act or make any
response within any period or on a date certain after the service of the
document, which time period or date is prescribed by statute or rule of court,
shall be extended after service by electronic means by two court days. . .”).
Friday, November 10, 2023 is a court holiday and was thus excluded for purposes
of calculating notice. With that said, Bank and Chong have opposed the motion
on the merits: “[i]t is well settled that the appearance of a party at the
hearing of a motion and his or her opposition to the motion on its merits is a
waiver of any defects or irregularities in the notice of the motion.” (Tate
v. Superior Court (1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 925, 930.)


[2]              Plaintiffs allege Kim is a credit
analyst and site visitation officer at Bank and “was the loan officer directing
and overseeing the loan process.” (Proposed TAC, ¶¶ 9 and 33).


[3]              Plaintiffs allege Anna Chung is a
Vice President and Chief SBA Lending Officer at Bank. (Id., ¶ 10).


[4]              Plaintiffs allege Kristin Alvarez
is a Senior Vice President and banking manager at Bank. (Id., ¶ 12).


[5]              Plaintiffs allege Christina Ahn is
a credit analyst at Bank. (Id., ¶ 11).


[6]              Plaintiffs allege Hyun Soon Yi is a
Vice President and SBA closing officer at Bank. (Id., ¶ 11 [#2]).


[7]
The Business Loan Agreement dated November 26, 2019 between Vasisht and Bank
contains a clause entitled “Survival of Representations and Warranties,” which
reads: “Borrower understands and agrees that in making the Loan, Lender is
relying on all representations, warranties, and covenants made by Borrower in
this Agreement or in any certificate or other instrument delivered by Borrower
to Lender under this Agreement or the Related Documents. Borrower further
agrees that regardless of any investigation made by Lender, all such
representations, warranties and covenants will survive the making of the Loan
and delivery to Lender of the Related Documents, shall be continuing in nature,
and shall remain in full force and effect until such time as Borrower’s
indebtedness shall be paid in full, or until this Agreement shall be terminated
in the manner provided above, whichever is the last to occur.” (Emphasis
added). 

