  Case Number:  21STCV12444    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of
California 
County of Los Angeles 
Department 78 
 



 
encino newcastle homeowners
  association, 
Plaintiff, 
vs. 
del sol property management,
  inc., et
al., 
Defendants. 


Case No:
  21STCV12444

 



Hearing Date: November 7, 2024





 


 




[TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
  motion FOR CONSOLIDATION
 











Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Del Sol Property Management, Inc.’s Motion for
Consolidation is DENIED. 
I.         
BACKGROUND 
The instant action entitled Encino
Newcastle Homeowners Association v. Del Sol Property Management, Inc., et
al., LASC Case No. 21STCV12444 (the “Encino Action”) was initiated on April
1, 2021, by Plaintiff Encino Newcastle Homeowners Association (“Encino”). 
On September 22, 2021,
Encino filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants
Del Sol Property Management, Inc. (“Del Sol”), Lara Sinitsin (“Sinitsin”), and
Does 1 through 100, alleging that Encino hired Del Sol, owned and operated by
Sinitsin, as its property manager in January 2010. (FAC ¶ 11.) Encino alleges
that Defendants used their position to siphon money from Encino, convert its
property, enter into improper contracts and agreements, and have refused to
return Encino’s books and records. (FAC ¶¶ 12-13.) The FAC sets forth eight
causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4) Accounting; (5)
Conversion and Theft; (6) Fraud; (7) Specific Performance; and (8) Declaratory
Relief. 
On
September 28, 2022, Del Sol filed the operative Amended Verified
Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”) against Encino, Kourosh Yaghoobian (“Yaghoobian”), Giv
Bastanielahabadi, and Allen Tabibi (“Tabibi”) for breach of written contract
and inducing breach of contract, alleging that these cross-defendants intended
to take over The Board through unlawful means, made false allegations that Del
Sol and Sinitsin were stealing money from Encino, and unlawfully terminated Del
Sol’s contract with Encino. (FAXC ¶¶ 46-49, 69-83.) 
On
June 21, 2024, in Del Sol Property Management, Inc. v. HOA Management
Professionals Inc., LASC Case No. 24STCV15463 (the “Del Sol Action”), Del
Sol filed a Complaint against HOA Management Professionals, Inc. (“HMP”),
alleging two causes of action for failure to obey subpoenas. 
In
the Del Sol Action, Del Sol alleges the following: Between January 15, 2010,
and July 23, 2020, Del Sol and Sinitsin served as Encino’s professional
management company. (Compl. ¶ 6.) Beginning July 1, 2020, HMP replaced Del Sol
as Encino’s management company and assigned Jolene Elliot, who had a prior working
relationship with Tabibi, to serve as Encino’s manager. (Compl. ¶ 10.) On April
1, 2021, Encino filed the Encino Action and Del Sol countersued Encino and also
sued Yaghoobian and Tabibi for malicious interference with the contract.
(Compl. ¶¶ 11-12.) Del Sol discovered unlawful payments. (Compl. ¶ 23.) Del Sol
issued two subpoenas to HMP to confirm its suspicions about why Sinitsin was
replaced by Jolene Elliot. (Compl. ¶¶ 24-31.) Del Sol’s causes of action
against HMP are based on the failure to produce all emails and records described
in the respective subpoenas. (Compl. ¶¶ 37-45.) 
On
May 15, 2024, in the Encino Action, Del Sol filed a motion for OSC Re: Contempt
based on non-party HMP’s failure to produce business records pursuant to a
subpoena issued on December 29, 2023. 
On
May 28, 2024, in the Encino Action, non-party HMP filed a motion to quash the
December 29, 2023 deposition subpoena for production of business records issued
by Del Sol. 
On
July 26, 2024, the Court issued an order deeming as related the Encino Action
and the Del Sol Action. (07/26/24 Minute Order.) The Encino Action was deemed
the lead case. (07/26/24 Minute Order.) 
On
August 12, 2024, in the Encino Action, Del Sol filed and served the instant
motion for consolidation. Del Sol seeks an order consolidating the Del Sol
Action into the Encino Action. The motion is made on the grounds that both
actions involve common questions of law or fact. (Not. of Mot. at p. 2:22-24.) 
On
August 13, 2024, after hearing, the Court granted the motion to quash in part
and denied the motion for OSC Re: Contempt. (08/13/24 Minute Order.) 
On
October 25, 2024, Encino, Yaghoobian, and Tabibi (collectively, the “Opposing
Parties”) filed a joint opposition to the motion for consolidation, to which Del
Sol filed a reply on October 31, 2024. 
Jury
trial in the Encino Action is set to commence on April 28, 2025. There is no
trial date currently scheduled in the Del Sol Action, which is also currently
pending in this department. 
II.         
DISCUSSION 
Legal
Standard
“When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).) “Coordination of civil actions
sharing a common question of fact or law is appropriate if one judge hearing
all of the actions . . . will promote the ends of justice taking into account
whether the common question of fact or law is predominating and significant to
the litigation; the convenience of the parties, witnesses, and counsel; the
relative development of the actions and the work product of counsel; the
efficient utilization; the calendar of the courts; the disadvantages of
duplicative and inconsistent rulings, orders, or judgments; and, the likelihood
of settlement of the actions without further litigation should coordination be
denied.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 404.1.)  
There
are two types of consolidation. (Hamilton v. Asbestos Corp., Ltd. (2000)
22 Cal.4th 1127, 1147.) There is “a consolidation for purposes of trial only,
where the two actions remain otherwise separate; and a complete consolidation
or consolidation for all purposes, where the two actions are merged into a
single proceeding under one case number and result in only one verdict or set
of findings and one judgment.” (Ibid., citations omitted.)  
“The
purpose of consolidation is merely to promote trial convenience and economy by
avoiding duplication of procedure, particularly in the proof of issues common
to both actions.” (Estate of Baker (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d 471, 485,
citation omitted.) “A consolidation of actions does not affect the rights of
the parties.” (Ibid.) Consolidation does not require identical causes of
action in each case, absolute identity of the parties, or identical
allegations. (Ibid.) Where common issues are present in two cases then
consolidation is appropriate. (Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon Shield Claimants
Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978-79.)   
A
motion to consolidate “[i]s deemed a single motion for the purpose of
determining the appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and
other supporting papers must be filed only in the lowest numbered case.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.350(a)(2)(A).) Moreover, a motion to consolidate “[m]ust
be served on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented partes in all of
the cases sought to be consolidated.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.350(a)(2)(B).)  
Los
Angeles County Court Rules, Rule 3.3(g)(1) provides that “[c]ases may not be
consolidated unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate
two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in
different departments, have been related in a single department, or if the
cases were already assigned to that department.”  
Parties’
Positions
Del
Sol contends that consolidation is appropriate because both actions are
directly connected and that both actions present common questions of law or
fact. 
The
Opposing Parties contend that the actions rest on entirely distinct facts and
causes of action. The Opposing Parties further argue that there is a difference
in witnesses, evidence, and incidents that will delay any trial and confuse the
issues. The Opposing Parties assert that the Court has discretion to deny the
motion for consolidation. If consolidation is granted, the Opposing Parties
request that the Court should do so for discovery only and should determine
consolidation for purposes of trial at a later date. 
On
reply, Del Sol raises the following arguments: (1) common factual issues
justify consolidation; (2) judicial efficiency and economy support
consolidation; (3) consolidation will not confuse the jury; (4) there will be
adequate preparation time for both cases; and (5) California law supports
consolidation of related cases. 
Analysis
A.   
Evidence in Support of the Motion

Counsel
for Del Sol, Ilya Alekseyeff (“Alekseyeff”), provides a declaration in support
of the motion. Counsel relevantly declares that he intends to prove common
facts in both trials including, but not limited to, the fact that Del Sol
sought documents from HMP and HMP refused to provide such documents, which
sought to obtain information concerning payments to Yaghoobian and Tabibi. (Alekseyff
Decl., ¶ 4.) 
B.   
Evidence in Opposition to the Motion

In
opposition to the motion, counsel for the Opposing Parties, Saleem K. Erakat
(“Erakat”) provides a declaration. Mr. Erakat sets forth the causes of action
and relevant allegations of the operative pleadings in the Encino Action.
(Erakat Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) Mr. Erakat also sets forth the causes of action and the basis
for the Del Sol Action. (Erakat Decl. ¶ 11.) According to Mr. Erakat, the
actions rest on entirely distinct questions of law and fact. (Erakat Decl. ¶
16.) The witnesses, evidence, and incidents in the actions are also distinct.
(Erakat Decl. ¶ 19.) There is a significant risk of confusing the jury if the
actions are consolidated according to Mr. Erakat. (Erakat Decl. ¶ 20.) 
C.   
Consolidation is Inappropriate
The
Court finds that consolidation is not appropriate. Here, the Court initially
notes that the actions do not involve the same parties as non-party HMP is not
a party to the Encino Action. 
Further,
the Court finds that Del Sol’s attempts to cast the actions as involving common
issues of law and fact is not persuasive. The FAC concerns the allegations of
Del Sol and Sinitsin committing various wrongs against Encino. The FAXC in the
Encino Action concerns Yaghoobian and Tabibi taking wrongful actions to control
The Board, false allegations that Del Sol and Sinitsin were stealing money, and
the unlawful termination of Del Sol’s contract.
The
operative complaint in the Del Sol Action does reference the Encino Action and
alleges that unlawful payments were made by Encino to various parties,
including Yaghoobian and Tabibi. (Complaint ¶¶ 11-13.) However, the crux of the
Del Sol Action is that HMP failed to obey subpoenas issued by Del Sol. The
Encino Action and the Del Sol Action contain no overlapping causes of action.
Further, the operative complaint in the Del Sol Action only tangentially
references the Encino Action and does not allege any wrongful actions to
control The Board; any false allegations concerning Del Sol stealing money; or
the unlawful termination of Del Sol’s contract. The Court therefore fails to
see how the actions contain predominating overlapping issues of law or fact. Based
on the Court’s review of the various pleadings, the Encino Action and the Del
Sol Action do not arise from the same series of events. The Opposing Parties
have also presented evidence that the witnesses, evidence, and incidents are
distinct. Moreover, the Court believes that consolidation would confuse the
issues for the jury.
Conclusion
Accordingly,
the Motion for Consolidation is DENIED. 
Moving Party to give
notice. 
 
DATED:
November 7, 2024 
________________________________ 
Hon. Michelle C. Kim 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 