 Case Number:  23STCV12816    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 78
 



DIVINA VILLEDA, an individual; and CONSUELO “LUCY” GAMBOA, an
  individual              
 
                         Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
VILMA HOOD, an
  individual; JAN TARBLE, an
  individual; DEGA NALAYEH, an
  individual; RADOSTINA “TINA” VIDENOVA,
  an individual; SAN PASQUAL
  FIDUCIARY TRUST COMPANY, AS TRUSTEE OF THE JAN TARBLE TRUST, DATED SEPTEMBER
  25, 1992 AS AMENDED, a Trustee; FILIPINO AMERICAN PERSONAL HEALTH CARE
  SERVICES, LLC, a California company; and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,        
 
 
                     Defendant(s).

 

 
VILMA HOOD, an individual; 
 
                 
  Cross-Complainant, 
 
vs. 
 
FILIPINO AMERICAN PERSONAL HEALTH CARE SERVICES,
  LLC, and MARILOU FROST, an individual  
          
                Cross-Defendants. 


Case No.:
  23STCV12816


 




Hearing
  Date: November 7, 2024


 




 


 




[TENTATIVE] RULING
  RE: 
 
Plaintiffs Motion for a Trial continuance
 



 
 
Background
On June 23, 2023 Divina Villeda and Consuela
Gamboa (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint regarding several California Labor Code
violations. The Complaint was followed by a First Amended Complaint (FAC) which
alleged fourteen causes of action against Vilma Hood (Hood); Jan Tarble
(Tarble); Dega Nalayeh (Nalayeh); Radostina Videnova (Videnova); the San
Pasqual Fiduciary Trust Company, As Trustee of the Jan Tarble Trust, Dated
September 25, 1992 as Amended (SPF); and the Filipino American Personal Health
Care Services, LLC (FAPH). 
The motion now before the Court is
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Continue Trial (the Motion). Defendants Hood and Videnova
oppose the Motion; Plaintiffs file a reply. Trial is currently scheduled for
November 25, 2024.
Discussion
 
I.              
Motion
to Continue Trial
 
Legal Standard
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored,
the trial date may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without
limitation): 
(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;
(5) The
addition of a new party if:
          (A) The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
          (B) The other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party's involvement in the case;
(6) A
party's excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.
(Id.,
Rule 3.1332(c).)¿¿¿ 
The court may also consider the
following factors: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; (2) Whether there was
any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any
party; (3) The length of the continuance requested; (4) The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) The court's calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; (10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application.” (Cal. Rules of Court
3.1332(d).)¿¿ ¿

Analysis
 
          In
their moving papers, Plaintiffs assert several arguments to continue the
current trial date of November 25, 2024 for six months. The primary arguments
are: (1) the unavailability of Defendant Jan Tarble who died in May of 2024;
(2) the addition of a new defendant, the personal representative for the Estate
of Tarble; and (3) Plaintiffs’ excused inability obtain essential discovery. 
 
           After Defendant Tarble died during litigation
a stay was placed on the case as to Defendant Tarble. A probate matter was
later opened in June of 2024. On October 30, 2024, former Defendant SPF was
appointed as the personal representative for Defendant Tarble and her estate.
Plaintiffs argue that the personal representative must give notice to creditors
and Plaintiffs will have up to four months to file Creditor’s Claims. Then
Plaintiffs will file a motion to substitute SPF as the personal representative
of the Tarble Estate into the instant case. Plaintiffs argue this could take
six months or longer to complete. 
 
          Plaintiffs’
second argument is that good cause for a continuance exists if a new party has
not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial or other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery. This is
prejudicial to both Plaintiffs and the personal representative, as well as any
other party that may need to conduct discovery on the newly added party. Upon
opposition, Defendant Hood argues that the non-Tarble defendants – Hood,
Nalayeh, Videnova, and FAPH – would be prejudiced but fails to explain how
outside of Hood already being prepared to go to trial. As specific to Hood, the
delay may be undesirable, but it is not prejudicial. Defendant argues that the
delay was manufactured by Plaintiff and essentially that Plaintiff should not
be rewarded for seeking a trial continuance at the eleventh hour.
 
          Plaintiffs
also argue that their inability to obtain essential discovery is excused. The
Court agrees insofar as the delays that occurred within probate court,
specifically that the first hearing for Tarble’s Estate that occurred in July,
and the inadvertent failure to consider Plaintiffs’ objections at an August 29
hearing in probate court. A personal representative was not appointed until
October 30 after the resolution of Plaintiffs’ objections. Hood argues these
objections were meritless, however the objections occurred in probate court,
outside of this Court’s jurisdiction. Therefore, the Court will not comment on
the merits of the objections.
 
          Finally,
this Court’s calendar cannot accommodate the trial as currently scheduled.
 
          Taking
into account the death of Defendant Tarble, the delays that occurred in probate
court, the necessity of both Plaintiffs and the newly added personal
representative SPF to conduct discovery, and the Court’s calendar, the Court
agrees that a six-month continuance is in the interests of justice.  
          
 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion to
Continue Trial is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiffs
to give notice.
 
DATED:  November 7, 2024     
           ________________________________
Hon.
Michelle Kim 
Judge
of the Superior Court