Here is a YAML summary of the judge's tentative ruling:

```
Case Number: 21STCV19154
Plaintiff's Name: Richard Cabrera-Lara
Defendant's Name: Arbol Grading, Inc., Melt De La Paz Inc.
People-Names: Richard Cabrera-Lara, Jonathan A. Termechi, Miguel Mitchell
Company-Names: Arbol Grading, Inc., Melt De La Paz Inc., Cruz Concrete Stone, Inc., State Farm Fire and Casualty Company
Places: Beverly Hills, California, 2451 Summitridge Drive
Dates: May 12, 2020, May 20, 2021, April 15, 2022, June 24, 2022, July 29, 2022, September 7, 2022, September 9, 2022, October 6, 2022, July 1, 2024, July 11, 2024
Events: Construction project, injury, worker's compensation claim, lawsuit
Money: None
Intentions: Defendant Melt seeks summary judgment or summary adjudication, claiming that Plaintiff's cause of action is barred by the worker's compensation exclusivity rule
Facts: Plaintiff was working on a construction project when he was injured, allegedly while assisting an employee of Defendant Melt. Defendant Melt claims that Plaintiff was a special employee and therefore has no right to bring a tort action.
Disputes: Whether a special employment relationship existed between Plaintiff and Defendant Melt
Acts: Plaintiff filed a worker's compensation claim and then brought a lawsuit against Defendant Melt
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Workers' Compensation Act, Labor Code section 3601, Riley v. Southwest Marine, Inc.
Case Citations: Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp., Juge v. County of Sacramento, Code Civ. Proc. section 437c, Melendrez v. Ameron Internat. Corp., Gigax v. Ralston Purina Co., Kowalski v. Shell Oil Co., Collins v. Union Pacific Railroad Co., Riley v. Southwest Marine, Inc.
Statutes: Labor Code section 3601
Roles: Plaintiff, Defendant Melt, State Farm Fire and Casualty Company
Significant Statements: The Court finds that Defendant Melt has not met its burden to establish a special employment relationship and therefore the burden does not shift to Plaintiff or State Farm to show a triable issue of fact.
```

Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English:

The court has denied Defendant Melt's motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, claiming that Plaintiff's cause of action is barred by the worker's compensation exclusivity rule. The court found that Defendant Melt did not present sufficient evidence to establish a special employment relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant Melt, which would bar Plaintiff's tort action. The court also found that Plaintiff and State Farm presented evidence that could create a triable issue of fact, even if Defendant Melt had met its initial burden to show the existence of a special employment relationship.