 Case Number:  21STCV19154    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  B RICHARD CABRERA-LARA V. ARBOL
GRADING, INC., ET AL.
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/Summary adjudication
 
Date of Hearing:          July 16, 2024                           Trial
Date:       August 16, 2024
Department:               B                                              Case
No.:         21STCV19154
 
Moving Party:             Defendant
and Cross-Complaint Melt De La Paz Inc. (“Melt”)
Responding
Party:       Plaintiff
Richard Cabrera-Lara (“Plaintiff”) and Plaintiff-in-Intervention State Farm
Fire and Casualty Company (“State Farm”)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from Plaintiff Richard
Cabrera-Lara (“Plaintiff”) allegedly sustaining injuries while working on a construction
project on May 12, 2020 at 2451 Summitridge Drive, Beverly Hills, California. Plaintiff
alleges that he sustained injuries while assisting with the cleaning of a
heavy-duty drill.
 
On May 20, 2021, Plaintiff filed a
Complaint against Defendants Arbol Grading, Inc. dba Arbol Construction
(“Arbol”), Melt De La Paz, Inc. (“Melt”), Miguel Mitchell (“Mitchell”), and
Does 1 to 100, inclusive (collectively, the “Defendants”), alleging a single
cause of action for General Negligence. 
 
On April 15, 2022, State Farm Fire and
Casualty Company (“State Farm”) filed a Motion for Leave to File a Complaint-in-Intervention.

 
On June 24, 2022, Defendant Melt filed
its Answer to the Complaint. Also, on such date, Defendant Melt filed a
Cross-Complaint against Roes 1 through 10, inclusive, alleging causes of action
for: (1) Indemnity; (2) Contribution; and (3) Declaratory Relief. 
 
On July 29, 2022, Defendant Arbol filed
its Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On September 7, 2022, the Honorable
Audra Mori sitting in Department 31 at Spring Street Courthouse granted State
Farm’s Motion for Leave to Intervene. (09/07/22 Minute Order.)  
 
On September 9, 2022, State Farm filed
a Complaint-in-Intervention against Defendants Arbol, Melt, and Mitchell
alleging causes of action for: (1) General Negligence; and (2) Products
Liability.  
 
On September 22, 2022, Defendant Melt
filed its Answer to the Complaint-in-Intervention. 
 
On October 6, 2022, Defendant Arbol
filed its Answer to the Complaint-in-Intervention. 
 
On April 30, 2024, Defendant Melt filed
and served the instant Motion for Summary Judgment or, alternatively, Motion
for Summary Adjudication as to the Complaint (the “Motion”).[1]
The Motion is made on the grounds that Plaintiff’s cause of action against
Defendant Melt is barred the doctrine of worker’s compensation exclusivity.
Specifically, Defendant Melt argues that, because Plaintiff was a special
employee of Defendant Melt at the time of the alleged injury, Plaintiff’s sole
remedy is through the worker’s compensation scheme. 
 
If summary judgment cannot be granted,
Defendant Melt moves for summary adjudication on the sole issue that
Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligence is barred by the worker’s
compensation exclusivity rule. 
 
On July 1, 2024, State Farm filed an
opposition to the Motion. 
 
On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff also filed
an opposition to the Motion. 
 
On July 11, 2024, Defendant Melt filed
respective reply briefs as to the oppositions filed by Plaintiff and State
Farm.
 
Given that the oppositions make similar
and oftentimes overlapping arguments, the Court will address the respective
oppositions collectively. The Court, however, will address the evidence
presented by Plaintiff and State Farm separately where appropriate. 
 
Initially, the Court notes that
Defendant Melt only presents 10 undisputed material facts in support of the
Motion. State Farm does not dispute any of Defendant Melt’s undisputed material
facts.[2]
Plaintiff only disputes Defendant Melt’s UMF Nos. 3, 5, and 6.  
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The Motion
for Summary Judgment, or alternatively, Motion for Summary Adjudication (the
“Motion”) filed by Defendant Melt De La Paz Inc. is DENIED in its entirety. 
 
 
 
 
DISCUSSION
The function of a motion
for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether
an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and
to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67.) 
A cause of action has no
merit if “[o]ne or more of the elements of the cause of action cannot be
separately established, even if that element is separately pleaded.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(1).) A defendant has met its burden in showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the defendant “has shown that one or more
elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) Once the defendant has met its burden, “the
burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)

“As to each claim as
framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element,
or to establish a defense.” (Scalf v. D.
B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once the defendant
has met its burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25
Cal.4th 826, 849.)  
“The summary judgment
statute [is] not intended nor can it be used as a substitute for existing
methods in the trial of issues of fact.” (Travelers Indemn. Co. v. McIntosh (1952)
112 Cal.App.2d 177, 182.) The summary judgment “procedure is drastic and should
be used with caution.” (House v. Lala (1960) 180 Cal.App.2d 412, 415.)
“Any doubt in granting summary judgment should be exercised against the moving
party.” (Ibid.) Summary adjudication motions are procedurally identical
to summary judgment motions. (Dunn v. County of Santa Barbara (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1281, 1290.) 
 
Evidentiary Objections
The Court SUSTAINS
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objection number 1 to the declaration of Jonathan A.
Termechi, Esq. in support of the Motion. Defendant Melt is improperly using its
own interrogatory responses in support of the Motion. A party’s “own . . .
interrogatory responses . . . cannot itself serve as competent evidence to
create a genuine issue of material fact.” (Bayramoglu v. Nationstar Mortgage
LLC (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 726, 740.)   
Issue No.1: The Worker’s
Compensation Exclusivity Rule 
“California Workers’
Compensation Act . . . provides an employee’s exclusive remedy against his or
her employer for injuries arising out of and in the course of employment.” (Melendrez
v. Ameron Internat. Corp. (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 632, 638.) “Under the
worker’s compensation scheme, an employee’s remedy against an employer for a
work-related injury is—as a general rule—exclusively limited to the benefits
provided by statute.” (Gigax v. Ralston Purina Co. (1982) 136 Cal.App.3d
591, 597.) According to Labor Code section 3601 “[w]here the conditions of
compensation exist, the right to recover such compensation pursuant to the
provisions of this division is, except as provided in Section 3706 the
exclusive remedy for injury or death of an employee against the employer or
against any other employee of the employer acting within the scope of his
employment . . . .” (Ibid.) An employee, however, “retains the right to
pursue any common law remedies he may have against third party tortfeasors.” (Id.
at p. 598.) “The claim of an employee for compensation does not affect his
claim or right of action for all damages proximately resulting from such injury
or death against any person other than the employer . . . .” (Ibid.) “The
workers’ compensation laws were not designed to relieve one other than the
employer from any liability imposed by statute or by common law.” (Ibid.)

“Whether an employee’s
injury arose out of and in the course of [his] employment is generally a
question of fact to be determined in light of the circumstances of the
particular case.” (Melendrez, supra, 240 Cal.App.4th at p. 639,
citation omitted.) “When there is no dispute as to the facts, the question of
whether an injury was suffered in the course of employment is one of law . . .
.” (Ibid.) 
“A special employment
relationship arises when an employer lends an employee to another employer and relinquishes
to the borrowing employer all right of control over the employee’s activities.”
(Riley v. Southwest Marine, Inc. (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 1242, 1247.) “The
borrowed employee is held to have two employers—his original or general
employer and a second, the special employer.” (Id. at p. 1247-48.) “In
this dual employer situation, the employee is generally limited to a statutory
workers’ compensation remedy for injuries he receives in the course of his
employment with the special employer; he may not bring a separate tort action
against either employer.” (Id. at p. 1248.) 
Whether an employment
relationship existed is a question for the trier of fact “[w]here the evidence,
though not in conflict, permits conflicting inferences.” (Ibid.) “However,
if neither the evidence nor inferences are in conflict, then the question of
whether an employment relationship exists becomes a question of law which may
be resolved by summary judgment.” (Ibid.) 
“The determination of
whether a worker is a borrowed servant is accomplished by ascertaining who has
the power to control and direct the servants in the performance of their work,
distinguishing between authoritative direction and control, and mere suggestion
as to details or the necessary cooperation, where the work furnished is part of
a larger undertaking.” (Collins v. Union Pacific Railroad Co. (2012) 207
Cal.App.4th 867, 879.) 
“[W]here there is a dual
employment the workman is barred from an action for damages against either
employer.” (Kowalski v. Shell Oil Co. (1979) 23 Cal.3d 168, 175.) In
assessing the existence of a special employment relationship, “the primary
consideration is whether the employer has [t]he right to control and direct the
activities of the alleged employee or the manner and method in which the work
is performed, whether exercised or not.” (Id. at p. 175.) 
The following factors
are analyzed in determining whether a special employment relationship exists:
(1) whether the borrowing employer’s control over the employee and the work he
is performing extends beyond mere suggestion of details or cooperation; (2)
whether the employee is performing the special employer’s work; (3) whether
there was an agreement, understanding, or meeting of the minds between the
original and special employer; (4) whether the employee acquiesced in the new
work situation; (5) whether the original employer terminated his relationship
with the employee; (6) whether the special employer furnished the tools and
place for performance; (7) whether the new employment was over a considerable
length of time; (8) whether the borrowing employer had the right to fire the
employee; and (9) whether the borrowing employer had the obligation to pay the
employee. (Riley, supra, 203 Cal.App.3d at p. 1250.)  
Defendant Melt’s Evidence

Defendant Melt presents
the following undisputed material facts: Plaintiff generally alleges that, on
May 12, 2020, he was working on a home construction site at or near 2451
Summitridge Drive, Beverly Hills, California. (Defendant Melt’s Separate
Statement of Facts (DSSF) No. 1.) At the time of the subject incident, Plaintiff
was an ironworker apprentice for Cruz Concrete Stone, Inc. (“Cruz”), a masonry
and rebar contractor on the project. (DSSF No. 2.) Plaintiff was informed by
his supervisor at Cruz that he needed to assist an employee of Defendant Melt
named Miguel Mitchell (“Mitchell”), by measuring holes being drilled by
Defendant Melt using a large drill with an auger. (DSSF No. 4.) When replacing
the drill bit, the drill allegedly moved in an upward direction, which injured
Plaintiff’s fingers. (DSSF No. 7.) As a result of the subject incident,
Plaintiff filed a worker’s compensation claim with Cruz’s worker’s compensation
insurance. (DSSF No. 8.) On or about May 20, 2021, Plaintiff filed the instant
action against Defendant Melt, alleging one cause of action for general
negligence. (DSSF No. 9.) Based on his discovery responses, Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant Melt “carelessly, recklessly and negligently screened, hired,
employed, trained, supervised and monitored Defendant Mitchell” which left an
untrained, unsafe, unsupervised worker at the controls of a dangerous machine
working with Plaintiff and ultimately caused the subject incident. (DSSF No.
10.) 
Defendant Melt presents
evidence that Plaintiff accepted the request from his supervisor at Cruz to
assist Defendant Mitchell. (Termechi Decl., Ex. H at p. 163:12-21, 164:16-21,
and 165:18-19.)[3]
Defendant Melt presents evidence that while assisting Defendant Mitchell,
Plaintiff was asked to replace a drill bit. (Termechi Decl., Ex. E at Nos. 13,
15, 19, 21, and 27.) 
Analysis 
The Court finds that
Defendant Melt has not met its burden to establish that a special employment
relationship existed between Plaintiff and Defendant Melt, and therefore the
burden does not shift to Plaintiff or State Farm to show a triable issue of
fact. 
Defendant Melt presents
no evidence that it had the right to control and direct the activities of Plaintiff
or the manner and method in which Plaintiff’s work was performed. All the
evidence presented by Defendant Melt shows is that Plaintiff was asked by his
supervisor at Cruz to assist an employee of Defendant Melt by measuring holes
being drilled, and that Plaintiff was injured during such activity. 
Defendant Melt presents
no evidence as to whether: (1) it had control over Plaintiff’s work; (2)
Plaintiff was performing the work of Defendant Melt; (3) there was an agreement
between Cruz and Defendant Melt; (4) Cruz terminated its relationship with
Plaintiff; (5) Defendant Melt furnished any tools to Plaintiff; (6) Plaintiff
worked for or with Defendant Melt for a considerable period of time; (7)
Defendant Melt had the right to fire Plaintiff; and (8) Defendant Melt had any
obligation to pay Plaintiff. (Riley, supra, 203 Cal.App.3d 1242,
1250.) Defendant Melt has made a showing of neither the primary factor nor
secondary factors articulated in Riley, supra, 203 Cal.App.3d
1242, 1250.  
Summary judgment and
summary adjudication are therefore inappropriate. 
Even
if Defendant Melt had met its burden to show that there was a special
employment relationship, the Court would have found that both State Farm and
Plaintiff presented respective evidence to establish a triable issue of fact. 
 
State
Farm presented evidence that the Person Most Knowledgeable (PMK) at Defendant
Melt testified at deposition that: (1) Defendant Melt never employed Plaintiff;
(2) Defendant Melt never intended to hire Plaintiff even on a temporary basis;
(3) Plaintiff never served as an agent or employee of Defendant Melt in any
manner. (Salley Decl., ¶ 2; Ex. A at p. 91:25-92:21.) State Farm presented
evidence that a supervisor from Cruz told Plaintiff to go help with the
drilling machine. (Salley Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. B at p. 90:18-91:9.) 
 
Plaintiff
presented the following evidence: he was working for Cruz on the day of the
incident. (Upton Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. 1 at p. 28:18-21.) At the time of the
incident, Plaintiff received a paycheck from Cruz. (Upton Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. 1 at
p. 84:25-85:5.) Plaintiff was asked by a foreman from Cruz to measure holes
being drilled in the ground. (Upton Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. 1 at p. 90:21-24.)
Plaintiff’s supervisor from Cruz provided him with instructions on how to
measure. (Upton Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. 1 at p. 110:19-111:1 and 113:1-3.) There was no
agreement between Cruz and Defendant Melt for Defendant Melt to temporarily
hire one of Cruz’s employees. (Upton Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. 2 at p. 38:23-39:4.) Defendant
Melt never intended to hire Plaintiff even on a temporary basis and never
employed Plaintiff. (Upton Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. 2 at p. 91:25-92:6.) Plaintiff has
never served as an agent or employee of any kind for Defendant Melt. (Upton
Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. 2 at p. 92:14-18.) 
 
Thus,
even if Defendant Melt had met its initial burden to show the existence of a
special employment relationship, the Court would have found that both Plaintiff
and State Farm presented evidence to show the existence of a triable issue of
material fact. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the Motion
is DENIED in its entirety. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 


