 Case Number:  21STCV01327    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  B Mutiat Majekodunmi  V. Robert Hamamoto
 
MOTION To compel Compliance with DemanD for
inspection and production of vehicle and for an order imposing monetary
sanctions
 
Date of Hearing:         July 16, 2024                          Trial
Date:       October 8, 2024
Department:                B                                             Case
No.:        21STCV01327
 
Moving Party:             Defendant Robert HamaMoto
Responding
Party:      N/A
- Unopposed

 

BACKGROUND
             This case stems from an automobile collision.
On January 12, 2021, Mutiat Majekodunmi (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint alleging
that Robert Hamamoto (Defendant) drove so negligently as to cause a collision
with Plaintiff’s vehicle. The motion now before the Court is Defendant’s Motion
to Compel Compliance with Demand for Inspection and Production of the Vehicle
and for an Order Imposing Monetary Sanctions (the Motion). The Motion is
unopposed.  
 
Tentative Ruling
             Defendant’s Motion to Compel Compliance with
Demand for Inspection and Production of the Vehicle is GRANTED. The Court imposes monetary
sanctions on Plaintiff and grants them to Defendant in the amount of $455.34. Monetary sanctions and a mutually agreed upon date to produce the
vehicle are due within 30 days of this order.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard
            “If a party to whom a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a
timely response to it, the following rules shall apply: (a) The party to whom
the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any
objection to the demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection
for work product under Chapter 4…(b) The party making the demand may move for
an order compelling response to the demand. (c) Except as provided in
subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2031.300)
 
 
Analysis
             Attached to the moving papers Defendants
include the Declaration of Christopher Babadjanian (Babadjanian Decl.) which
states that the Demand for Inspection of Vehicle and Data Recorder was
propounded on May 3, 2024. (Babadjanian Decl., ¶2.) Inspection was scheduled
for June 4, 2024. No objection to the inspection demand was made, however,
Plaintiff did not show up for the agreed upon inspection date. (Babadjanian
Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) As Plaintiff provides no opposition to this Motion, and fails
to timely respond to the initial demand, the Motion is granted, and sanctions
are warranted. 
 
Sanctions
            Defense counsel
provides the following calculations:
·        
Counsel’s hourly rate is $160.17 per hour
·        
Counsel expended 2 hours on the instant Motion
·        
A legal assistant spent 1 hour on the instant Motion at a rate of $75 per
hour
·        
Counsel incurred a $60.00 filing fee
·        
Counsel requests in total $455.34
 
The Court finds the amount reasonable and, accordingly,
imposes monetary sanctions on Plaintiff and in the amount of $455.34.
 
 
CONCLUSION
             
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Compliance with Demand for Inspection and Production of the Vehicle is GRANTED.
The Court imposes
monetary sanctions on Plaintiff and grants them to Defendant in the amount of $455.34. Monetary sanctions and a mutually agreed upon date to produce the
vehicle are due within 30 days of this order. 
 
Moving party to give notice.