 Case Number:  20STCV28303    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  B Ander Sanders  V. Ralphs grocery company
 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT
 
Date of Hearing:         July 16, 2024                          Trial
Date: August 28, 2024   
Department:                B                                             Case
No.:  20STCV28303      
 
Moving Party:             Defendant Alpha Beta Company dba
Ralphs
Responding
Party:      Ander
Sanders

 

BACKGROUND
            On
July 27, 2020, Ander Sanders (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against the Alpha
Beta Company dba Ralphs (Ralphs) for two causes of action: negligence and
premises liability. This stems from a trip and fall suffered by Plaintiff in
the parking lot of a Ralphs after leaving the grocery store. (Complaint, ¶
GN-1.)       
 
             On December 28, 2023, Plaintiff substituted a
Doe for SB Vermont, LLC (SB Vermont). On April 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Request for Entry of Default against SB Vermont and default was entered the
same day. The motion now before the Court is Ralph’s Motion to Set Aside
Default as to SB Vermont (the Motion). The Court notes that the default entered
in this case was entered on April 18, 2024, solely against Defendant SB
Vermont, LLC. The Court has no record of an entry of default against Ralphs.
Plaintiff opposes the Motion; no reply has been filed.         
 
Tentative Ruling
             Ralph’s
Motion to Set Aside Default as to SB Vermont is DENIED.

 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard
            The governing statue here is
Code Civ. Proc. §473(b) which states: “The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”       
 
Analysis
             In their moving papers, Ralphs make three main
arguments, apparently on behalf of SB Vermont: (1) the default is based on SB
Vermont’s inadvertence, mistake, or excusable neglect, (2) service was
insufficient, and (3) the default judgment is procedurally defective. The Court
disagrees an all three counts, takes each in turn, and denies the Motion. 
 
            First, SB Vermont contends
that the inadvertence, mistake, or excusable neglect occurred after SB
Vermont’s then registered agent, CSC Global, informed SB Vermont that on March
14, 2024, the Amended Complaint had been filed by Plaintiff, but did not inform
SB Vermont it had been served. It is unclear to the Court how this constitutes
inadvertence, mistake, or excusable neglect because it was at this point that SB
Vermont became aware that the Amended Complaint included SB Vermont as a party
to the case.
 
            Second, SB Vermont contends
that service of the notice of default was insufficient. SB Vermont contends
that Ralphs was never served with a copy of the Request for Entry of Default,
however, Ralphs was not the defaulting party here. SB Vermont also contends
that service occurred at its business address rather than the address of their
agent of service. However, the statue that governs notice for default
judgments, Code Civ. Proc. §587, contains no such requirement as to serve
specifically on an agent of service. Code Civ. Proc. §587 only states that the
affidavit of mailing must show that the notice was mailed to the defendant’s
last known address. Here, the Request for Entry of Default states that it was
mailed to SB Vermont, LLC, 433 North Camden Dr., #800, Beverly Hills, CA 90210,
the business address for Defendant. Therefore, notice was sufficient. 
 
            Finally, Ralphs contends
that the default against SB Vermont is procedurally defective and cites to Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1800. However, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1800
governs default judgments, not entries of default. At this time Plaintiff has
made no request for a default judgment, solely entry of default.       
 
 
CONCLUSION
             Accordingly, Ralph’s Motion to Set Aside
Default as to SB Vermont Motion is DENIED. 