 Case Number:  24STCP00339    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  52 Petitioner StratCap Investments,
Inc.’s First Amended Petition for Approval of Transfer of Structured Settlement
Payment Rights 
Petitioner StratCap Investments, Inc. petitions for
approval of transfer of structured settlement rights by payee Lesly Contreras.  
Insurance Code section 10137 provides:
A transfer of structured settlement payment rights is void unless a court
reviews and approves the transfer and finds the following conditions are met:
(a) The transfer of the structured settlement payment rights is fair and
reasonable and in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the
welfare and support of his or her dependents.
(b) The transfer complies with the requirements of this article, will not
contravene other applicable law, and the court has reviewed and approved the
transfer as provided in Section 10139.5. 
Insurance Code section 10139.5(b) requires the court
to consider 15 enumerated factors in determining whether this transfer should
be approved.  After considering all
relevant factors and the totality of the circumstances, the court finds the
transfer is fair, reasonable, and in payee Lesly Contreras’s best interest. 
Express Written Findings
Insurance Code section 10139.5(a) requires the
court’s order of approval to include six “express written findings.”  The court hereby makes the following express
written findings as required under Insurance Code section 10139.5:
(1) The transfer is in the best interest of payee Contreras,
taking into account the welfare and support of the payee’s dependents.  Contreras intends to use the money as part of
a down payment on a home.  (Contreras
Decl., ¶ 11.)  She has no
dependents.  (Id., ¶ 8.)
(2) Payee Contreras has been advised in writing by
the transferee to seek independent professional advice regarding the transfer
and has either received that advice or knowingly waived, in writing, the
opportunity to receive the advice.  Contreras
signed an acknowledgment that she waived the right to that advice.  (Amended Petition, Ex. 6.) 
(3) The transferee has complied with the
notification requirements pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (f), the
transferee has provided the payee with a disclosure form that complies with
Section 10136, and the transfer agreement complies with Sections 10136 and
10138.
(4) The transfer does not contravene any applicable
statute or the order of any court or other government authority.
(5) Payee Contreras understands the terms of the
transfer agreement, including the terms set forth in the disclosure statement
required by Section 10136.
(6) Payee Contreras understands and does not wish to
exercise her right as payee to cancel the transfer agreement.
Disposition
The court hereby grants petitioner StratCap
Investments, Inc.’s petition for approval for transfer of payment rights.  The court hereby approves the proposed
“structured settlement annuity sale and assignment agreement” attached to the first
amended petition as Exhibit 2.