  Case Number:  23VECV02926    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  W MELISSA DENISE
MEJIA vs NADER FARSAR
 
MOTION OF DEFENDANT/CROSS-DEFENDANT
HOSSEIN AMIRI TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF DEFENDANT/CROSS-COMPLAINANT NADER FARSAR’S
CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Date of Hearing:        July
2, 2024                                        Trial Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV02926
 
Moving Party:             Defendant/Cross-Defendant
Hossein Amiri
Responding Party:     No
opposition. 
Meet and Confer:      Attempted.
(Rossi Decl. ¶¶6-8.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action involves a motor vehicle
collision. On July 6, 2023, Plaintiff Melissa Denise Mejia filed a complaint
against Defendant Nader Farsar for motor vehicle negligence. Plaintiff named
Hossein Amiri as Defendant Doe 1 and Uber Technologies, Inc. as Doe 2.
Plaintiff dismissed Uber Technologies on April 30, 2024. 
 
On October 24, 2023, Nader Farsar filed
a cross-complaint against Hossein Amiri for indemnity. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant/Cross-Defendant
Hossein Amiri’s Motion to Strike Portions of Defendant/Cross-Complainant Nader
Farsar’s Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant/Cross-Defendant
Hossein Amiri moves this court to strike portions of
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Nader Farsar’s Cross-Complaint including Paragraph
3 and Farsar’s request for attorney fees. Amiri makes the motion on the grounds
attorney fees are not allowed in the instant action. 
 
The court
may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to
strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has
not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (CCP § 437.) 
 
Cross-Defendant
Amiri argues the inclusion of attorney fees is improper matter as
Cross-Complainant Farsar has not provided any statutory or case law
establishing that he is entitled to attorney fees from Amiri nor does Farsar
identify any contractual or factual basis justifying attorney fees. Moreover,
Farsar’s claims are based on equitable indemnity and contribution, none of
which include a right to attorney fees. 
 
The court
agrees. Cross-Complainant Farsar has not established any grounds for a request
for attorney fees. These claims arise out of a motor vehicle collision and
indemnification/contribution. Accordingly, the court GRANTS Cross-Defendant
Amiri’s Motion to Strike. 