 Case Number:  23VECV03505    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  W BRUCE EDWARD ALTSCHULD v. KAIVAN
NOWNEJAD, et al. 
 
defendant’s demurrer to the second AMENDED complaint with
motion to strike 
 
Date
of Hearing:        July
2, 2024                                        Trial
Date:       N/A

Department:              W                                                         Case No.:        23VECV03505
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants Kaivan
Nownejad and Saturn New Generation LLC 
Responding
Party:     Plaintiffs Camille Altschuld and
Kaivan Nownejad 
Meet
and Confer:      Yes. (Cohanghadosh Decl.
¶¶5-7.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 20, 2024, Plaintiffs Bruce
Altschuld and Camille Altschuld filed a second amended complaint against
Defendants Kaivan Nownejad and Saturn New Generation LLC for Breach of Written
Lease Contract; Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; Breach of the Implied
Warranty of Habitability; Breach of Statutory Warranty of Habitability;
Negligence; Nuisance; Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; Violation
of California Civil Code §1942.4; Elder Abuse; Fraud; and Breach of Civil Code
§1950. Plaintiffs were tenants pursuant to a lease agreement with Defendant Saturn
New Generation, LLC. Plaintiff alleges Defendants breached the implied warranty
of habitability and committed other wrongful, tortious acts. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants Kaivan Nownejad and Saturn New Generation LLC’s
Demurrer to the Eighth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND;
OVERRULED as to the Ninth, Tenth and Eleventh Causes of Action. Defendants’
Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
discussion
 
Defendants Kaivan Nownejad and Saturn New Generation LLC demur to
the Second Amended Complaint on the grounds Plaintiffs have failed to allege
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Violation of Civil Code
section 1942.4, Elder Abuse, Fraud, and Breach of Statutory Requirement to
Return Security Deposit. 
 
Eighth Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the eighth cause of action for violation of
Civil Code section 1942.4 on the grounds that it fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain. 
 
A landlord violates Civil Code section 1942.4 if (1) the dwelling
lacks any affirmative standard characteristics listed in Civil Code section
1941.1, (2) the landlord has received a notice to abate from a public officer
after an inspection has taken place, (3) the conditions have not been abated
within 35 days of the notice being mailed, and (4) the conditions were not
caused by the tenants. If all four of these conditions are met, a landlord is
liable to the tenant for actual damages of not less than $100 and not more than
$5,000. (Civil Code §1942.4(b)(1).) “Actual damages” under the statute includes
damages for emotional distress suffered by tenants who claimed “embarrassment,
anger, fear, stress, helplessness, and frustration from unsanitary conditions
landlord failed to remedy.” (McNairy v. C.K Really, (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 1500, 1506.)
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ SAC still presents no facts that any
public housing official inspected the subject property and notified Defendants
to abate the nuisance or repair substandard conditions therein. Plaintiffs’ SAC
only states that Plaintiffs reported Defendants violations, which does not
allege facts necessary to support a claim under 1942.4. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue they have properly pled that
Defendants were notified that there was a demand to inspect the premises by a
government official, but that Defendants have refused to let the government
agent inspect the property. 
 
The court finds Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts sufficient
to support a claim for violation of Civil Code section 1942.4. An essential
element of this claim is that the landlord received written notice from
a public officer or employee responsible for enforcement of any housing law
informing Defendants they need to abate the nuisance or repair the
substandard condition. Although, as alleged, Defendants have refused to permit
the City of Los Angeles Building and Safety Department to access the premises,
this does not demonstrate that Defendants were made aware of the defects due to
the citations. This is a requirement under Civil Code section 1942.4.   The court does not understand how plaintiff
can amend this cause of action since one of the requisite elements is an
inspection by the City and a refusal to abate after an inspection has been
conducted.  Should the city in the future
send an inspector, issue an abatement order and defendant fail to abate,
plaintiff can seek leave to amend to add this cause of action back in.   
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED  WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Ninth Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the ninth cause of action for elder abuse on
the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action and is uncertain.
 
To constitute abuse and neglect within the meaning of the Elder
Abuse Act, thereby triggering the enhanced remedies available under the Act,
Plaintiff “must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that defendant is
guilty of something more than negligence; he or she must show reckless,
oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct,” with recklessness referring “to
a subjective state of culpability greater than simple negligence, which has
been described as a “deliberate disregard” of the “high degree of probability”
that an injury will occur,” and “[o]ppression, fraud and malice [involving]
intentional or conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious nature.” (Sababin
v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 88-89, quotation marks
omitted.)  
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ cause of action for Elder Abuse is
again not pled with the requisite specificity and is uncertain as it contains
no references to the statute violated. Defendants contend the allegations are
unspecified, vague, and uncertain, and they do not rise to a level to
sufficiently impute liability.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue their allegations are sufficient
and cite to paragraphs 60 and 63 of the complaint. 
 
The court agrees that plaintiff has stated facts that meet the
heightened standard of pleading or malicious conduct for elder abuse and
neglect. (See Covenant Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 790
[“statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity”].) Plaintiffs
point to many instances including Defendants smelling a gas leak yet doing
nothing about it, Defendants knowledge of ants in the pantry during hot days
yet failed to call any exterminator, and Defendants knew that the attic had
mold that was festering the whole house. Plaintiff alleges that this conduct
was reckless and it would appear to meet the definition of “deliberate
disregard” that injury was likely to occur to plaintiff, in particular with
respect to allegations of a gas leak and mold infestation.   
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the ninth cause of action is
OVERRULED.  
 
Tenth Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the tenth cause of action for fraud on the
grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
and is uncertain.
 
To establish a fraud cause of action, Plaintiff must allege (1)
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to defraud or to induce
reliance, (4) justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage. (See Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.) 
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ SAC stated that Defendants’ conduct
is fraudulent because of various representations. However, Plaintiffs have
again failed to allege specific facts versus conclusory statements and
assumptions. Plaintiffs make no mention of what representations were made by
Defendants. In addition, Plaintiffs’ fraud claim is not pled with the requisite
specificity. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the cause of action is pled only
against individual Defendant Nownejad and specifically states in paragraph 65,
prior to signing, Nownejad made representations to Plaintiff including that the
house was habitable. 
 
The court finds the allegations are sufficient for the purposes of
a demurrer. Plaintiffs allege Defendant Nownejad made the representations prior
to signing the lease and exactly what those misrepresentations were and that
Plaintiffs relied on Defendant Nownejad’s representations.  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the tenth cause of action is
OVERRULED. 
 
Eleventh Cause of Action 
 
Defendants demur to the eleventh cause of action for Breach of
Statutory Requirement to Return the Security Deposit on the grounds that it
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is
uncertain.
 
Civil Code section 1950.5 provides a statutory cause of action
against a landlord who does not return a security deposit to a tenant. (Civ.
Code § 1950.5.) Civil Code section 1950.5 subdivision (g)(1) states “No later than
21 calendar days after the tenant has vacated the premises… the landlord shall
furnish the tenant, by personal delivery or by first-class mail, postage
prepaid, a copy of an itemized statement indicating the basis for, and the
amount of, any security received and the disposition of the security, and shall
return any remaining portion of the security to the tenant.” A landlord may
claim an amount of the security deposit for amounts that are reasonably
necessary for the purposes of: (1) The compensation of a landlord for a
tenant’s default in the payment of rent; (2) The repair of damages to the
premises, exclusive of ordinary wear and tear, caused by the tenant or by a
guest or licensee of the tenant; (3) The cleaning of the premises upon
termination of the tenancy necessary to return the unit to the same level of
cleanliness it was in at the inception of the tenancy; (4) To remedy future
defaults by the tenant in any obligation under the rental agreement to restore,
replace, or return personal property or appurtenances, exclusive of ordinary
wear and tear, if the security deposit is authorized to be applied thereto by
the rental agreement. (Civ. Code § 1950.5, subds. (b), (e).) 
 
Defendants argue California contains no such cause of action for
Breach of Statutory Requirement to return the security deposit. In addition,
Plaintiffs’ claim is not pled with the requisite specificity and contains no
references to the statute violated. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue they are not required to name the
exact statute under which they are bringing an action and have sufficiently
alleged the elements required for a violation of Civil Code section 1950.5. 
 
The court agrees the allegations are sufficient to support a claim
under violation of Civil Code section 1950.5. Although not explicitly
referenced in the eleventh cause of action, the caption of the complaint
discloses this cause of action is for violation of Section 1950.5. When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿ (Wilson
v. Transit Authority of City of Sacramento (1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716,
720-21.)¿
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the eleventh cause of action is
OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants seek to strike portions of Plaintiffs’ SAC on the
grounds that the SAC fails to state sufficient facts to sustain its allegations
for punitive damages and attorney’s fees as against Defendants. 
 
While the parties agree that Plaintiff Bruce Altschuld cannot
recover attorney fees, the parties dispute whether his wife can. Plaintiff
Bruce Altschuld is acting as attorney for his wife, Plaintiff Camille
Altschuld. At this stage, Plaintiff Camille Altschuld can pray for attorney
fees. However, whether or not she may actually incur any attorney fees may be
determined by a motion for attorney fees at the appropriate time. 
 
Next, Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ punitive damage claims against
Defendants must be stricken pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, Section 436
(a), (b). When read as a whole, Plaintiffs’ SAC alleges in vague and general
terms that Defendants kept the subject property in an uninhabitable condition;
however, there are not enough facts stating how the property was uninhabitable.
Moreover, the SAC in conclusory terms alleges intent, willfulness,
recklessness, and wantonness. 
 
The court finds the punitive damages allegations sufficient for
the purposes of a motion to strike. Plaintiffs have alleged Defendants acted
with despicable conduct. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike is DENIED. 