 Case Number:  21TRCV00687    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    January 30, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   21TRCV00687
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Mid-Century
Insurance Company v. Blusky Restoration Contractors, et al.  
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant/Cross-Defendant,
ProCorp Construction, Inc.   
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
Blusky Restoration Contractors, LLC
¿¿ 
DEFAULT DATE:                    May 6, 2023
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion to Set Aside Default
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) GRANTED, on the condition
that ProCorp reimburse Blusky for the costs of service and for $500 in reasonable
attorneys fees incurred by Blusky in opposing this motion
 
¿¿ 
¿ 
 
                                                                                             
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
 
On
September 30, 2021, Plaintiff, State Farm General Insurance Company
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, Blusky Restoration
Contractors, LLC. On June 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleging causes of action for equitable subrogation for damages to
property. 
 
On
May 5, 2022, Cross-Complainant, Blusky Restoration Contractors, LLC, filed a
Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants, ProCorp Construction, Inc., Southwest
Home Remodeling, Inc. dba Southwest Roofing, and Dwayne Swallows dba Swallow
Roofing, and ROES 1 through 20. The Cross-Complaint alleged causes of action
for: (1) Equitable Indemnity; (2) Equitable Apportionment; (3) Declaratory
Relief; and (4) Express Indemnity.  Blusky
filed a request for a Clerk’s default after ProCorp failed to file a formal
response to the Cross-Complaint.
 
B.   
Procedural 
 
On January 3, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Defendant,
Procorp Construction, Inc. (“Procorp”) filed this Motion to Set Aside Default. On
January 17, 2024, Defendant, Blusky Restoration Contractors, LLC (“Blusky”) filed
an opposition. On January 23, 2024, Procorp filed a reply brief.
 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
 Legal Standard
¿ 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §473(b), both
discretionary and mandatory relief is available to parties from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding.  Discretionary relief is available
under the statute as “the court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  (Code of Civ. Proc.
§¿473(b).)  Alternatively, mandatory relief is available when “accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.”  (Ibid.)  Under this statute, an
application for discretionary or mandatory relief must be made no more than six
months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding from
which relief is sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b); English v. IKON
Business Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) 
 
“‘[W]hen relief under section 473¿is¿available, there is a
strong¿public¿policy¿in¿favor¿of granting relief and allowing the requesting
party his or her day in court…[Citation.]” (Rappleyea v. Campbell¿(1994)
8 Cal. 4th 975, 981-82.) 
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
Mistake,
Inadvertence, Surprise, or Excusable Neglect 
 
            Here, Procorp
avers that the default must be set aside due to excusable neglect. Procorp
contends it was never served with the Blusky Cross-Complaint and was unaware of
the proceedings filed against it. Procorp admits to its inadvertence 
 
            This Court
notes that on February 28, 2023, Blusky filed a Motion to Serve Procorp via the
Secretary of State. Blusky also asserts that the Secretary of State served
Procorp with the Blusky cross-complaint on March 6, 2023. Blusky also contends
that Clerk’s default was entered on May 6, 2023. This motion is made on January
2, 2024, more than six (6) months after default was entered. Lastly, Blusky
points out numerous attempts at service, including: in 2022, Blusky attempted
to serve Procorp repeatedly at its address on record with the Secretary of
State. Further, Blusky also contends that it also called and sent Procorp
letters indicating that it was attempting to serve Procorp, and Procorp ignored
these communications. Blusky also notes that during its meet and confer process
with Procorp, they asked Procorp to confirm their address and telephone number,
and to confirm AmTrust was aware of the matter and find out why it did not
participate in the lawsuit of its insured. Blusky contends Procorp did not
confirm or deny these details or that its carrier was involved, but instead
stated it did not know what happened before its request to set aside default. 
 
            As to the
timeline of this issue, Procorp clearly fails under mandatory relief as it is
more than six months from after entry of default. However, ProCorp also moves
on equitable grounds, which is not subject to the same strict timing
requirement. (Luxury Asset Lending, LLC v. Philadelphia Television Network,
Inc. (2020) 56 Cal. App. 5th 894, 910 [A trial court may vacate a default
on equitable grounds even if statutory relief is unavailable.].) The moving
party carries the burden of proving that he or she is entitled to equitable
relief. (Ibid.) Section 473 concerning relief from judgment or order taken by
mistake, etc., should be liberally construed. (Goodson v. Bogerts, Inc.
(1967) 252 Cal. App. 2d 32, 38.)  California has a strong public
policy favoring resolution of cases on their merits.  
The Court
finds that Procorp has articulated a satisfactory excuse regarding lack of
notice, and that the inclusion of the proposed Answer evinces Procorp’s intent
to participate in litigation. “[I]t is not every mistake that will excuse a
default, the determining factor being the reasonableness of the misconception.”
(Shank v. County of L.A. (1983) 139 Cal.App.3d 152, 157.) Further, the
motion was served and filed within a reasonable time, within 8 months after
entry of default. Blusky’s contention that it will be severely prejudiced
because of the efforts expended in obtaining default and default judgment is
unavailing, especially as public policy favors disposing cases on the merits.
These facts warrant setting aside the default entered against Procorp.  (Taliaferro
v. Taliaferro (1963) 217 Cal.App.2d 216, 220 [“It is the policy of the law
that every case should be heard upon the merits where possible; that a motion
to set aside a default is one addressed to the sound discretion of the court;
that the ruling on such motion will not be reversed in the absence of a clear
showing of abuse of discretion; that section 473 is a remedial provision to be
liberally construed to the end that cases be disposed of upon their
merits.”].)   
This
motion is therefore GRANTED. The May 6, 2023 default will be set aside. The
Court determines that the “terms as may be just” include imposing a condition
on the granting of this motion that ProCorp reimburse Blusky for the costs Blusky
incurred in applying for service on the Secretary of State and for $500 in
reasonable attorneys fees Blusky incurred in opposing this motion which was
brought outside the 6-month period for the usual 473(b) motion.
III. CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, ProCorp’s
Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default is GRANTED. 
ProCorp shall file its proposed Answer as a stand-alone document within
7 days of this ruling, and shall give notice of ruling to all appearing
parties. ¿¿ 
¿ 
 
 
 
 
 