  Case Number:  23STCV07063    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
            Plaintiff
Hayley Sipe’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions 
            Plaintiff
Hayley Sipe moves for terminating sanctions against defendant SXC Studio City,
LLC (SXC).  After a court issues an order
compelling responses to interrogatories or requests for production, “[i]f a
party then fails to obey” the order, “the court may make those orders that are
just, including” imposing monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating
sanctions.  (CCP §§ 2030.290(c) [interrogatories],
2031.300(c) [requests for production].)  
On June 7, 2024, the court ordered SXC
to serve responses without objections to plaintiff’s form interrogatories –
employment, special interrogatories, and requests for production, set one,
within 30 days.  The court further
ordered SXC to pay plaintiff $883.50 in sanctions for each of plaintiff’s three
motions.  SXC disobeyed those
orders.  SXC did not serve any responses
or pay the sanctions as of July 14, 2024. 
(Ranen Decl., ¶¶ 28-30.)
Terminating Sanctions
Courts “may impose a terminating sanction” by
“striking out” a defendant’s answer (CCP § 2023.030(d)(1)) or “rendering a
judgment by default against” it (id., subd. (d)(4)).  Discovery sanctions should be imposed incrementally, “starting with monetary
sanctions and ending with
the ultimate sanction of termination.”  (Lopez
v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)  “[A] terminating
sanction should generally not be imposed until the court has attempted less
severe alternatives and found them to be unsuccessful and/or the record clearly
shows lesser sanctions would be ineffective.” 
(Ibid.)  Appropriate sanctions are those “suitable
and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of
the discovery he seeks, but [not] which are designed not to accomplish the
objects of discovery but to impose punishment.” 
(Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 481, 488.)
Terminating
sanctions are appropriate.  Sanctions short of termination have
been ineffective to curb SXC’s misuse of the discovery process.  The monetary sanctions had no effect on SXC.  Plaintiff has been completely unable to
accomplish the objects of discovery.  “The purpose of discovery is to make trial ‘
“less a game of blindman’s bluff and more a fair contest with the basic issues
and facts disclosed to the fullest practicable extent.” ’ ”  (Reales Investment, LLC v. Johnson (2020)
55 Cal.App.5th 463, 473.)  SXC has not
complied with its discovery obligations. 
It disobeyed the court’s order compelling it to do so.  SXC’s misuse of the discovery process has
prevented plaintiff from conducting any discovery as to SXC.  Absent terminating sanctions,
plaintiff would face trial by surprise. 
Under these circumstances, the court finds terminating sanctions
appropriate.  The court therefore will
strike SXC’s answer and enter its default. 
Monetary Sanctions
Plaintiff moves for $2,925 in sanctions against SXC
and its counsel of record, Reza Sina of Sina Law Group.  After a party fails to obey an order
compelling responses, the court may impose monetary sanctions “[i]n lieu of or
in addition to” greater sanctions.  (CCP
§§ 2030.90(c) [interrogatories]; 2031.300(c) [requests for production].)  
The court finds it appropriate to impose monetary
sanctions in addition to the terminating sanction.  Plaintiff did not, however, reasonably incur
$2,925 in expenses for this motion.  That
amount includes fees at $450 per hour for 1 hour expected to review any
opposition and 1.5 hours to prepare a reply. 
(Palencia Decl., ¶ 2.)  SXC did
not file an opposition.  Plaintiff filed
only a notice of non-opposition, not a reply brief.  The court finds
plaintiff reasonably incurred 3 hours of fees to draft the motion, 0.1 hours
for the notice of non-opposition, and 1 hour preparing for the hearing, for a
total of $1,845 in attorney fees plus the $60 filing fee.
Disposition
            Plaintiff Hayley Sipe’s motion for
terminating sanctions and additional monetary sanctions against defendant SXC
Studio City, LLC is granted. 
            The court hereby strikes the answer of defendant SXC Studio City, LLC.  The court hereby enters the default of defendant
SXC Studio City, LLC.  
            Defendant SXC Studio City, LLC and
its counsel of record, Reza Sina of Sina Law Group, are ordered to pay plaintiff Hayley Sipe $1,905 in sanctions
within 30 days.  Defendant and its
counsel are jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.