  Case Number:  23STCV14059    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  11 Frederick (23STCV14059)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Date:                           1/22/24
Time:                          10:00
am
Moving Party:           The Private Suites Holdings, LLC
(“Defendant” or “TPS”)
Opposing Party:        Iman Frederick (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11        
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
An agreement to arbitrate exists.
 
The Court intends to hold an evidentiary hearing with live testimony on
whether the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) applies.
 
The hearing is continued for
supplemental briefing on whether section 5.8’s specific-performance sentence
can be severed.
 
The class waiver is
unenforceable.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a putative class action.
 
Plaintiff used to work for TPS,
“serv[ing] as a Member Experience Manager and Member Associate” from October 4,
2021 through April 12, 2023.  (Plaintiff
Decl., ¶ 3.)  During that time period,
she claims TPS failed to pay wages for all hours worked, pay overtime wages,
provide meal periods, provide rest periods, reimburse business expenses,
furnish timely and accurate wage statements, and pay all compensation due at
the time of discharge.  (See, e.g.,
Complaint, ¶¶ 23-36, 44-78.)
 
Here, TPS moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s
individual claims.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence and Assent
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Defendant’s
arbitration provision is attached to the declaration of Natalie Kimm at Exhibit
A.  The provision states:
 
5.0 ARBITRATION 
 
5.1 Employee and TPS
(“Company”) agree to submit to mandatory binding arbitration under the [FAA],
any and all claims arising out of or related to your service with The Company
and/or the termination thereof, including, but not limited to, claims for Unpaid
wages, wrongful termination, torts, contracts, benefits, FSLA claims, unpaid
meal periods, rest periods, stock or stock options or other ownership interest
in the Company, hostile work environment and/or discrimination (including
harassment) based upon any federal, state or local ordinance, statute,
regulation or constitutional provision (collectively, “Arbitrable Claims”). The
FAA applies to this Agreement because the Company's business involves
interstate commerce. 
 
5.2 Notwithstanding
the foregoing, each party may, at its, his or her option, seek injunctive
relief in court related to the improper use, disclosure or misappropriation of
a party's private, proprietary, confidential or trade secret information. 
 
5.3 To the fullest
extent permitted by law, you and the Company agree that no class or collective
Actions can be asserted in arbitration or otherwise. All claims, whether in
arbitration or otherwise, must be brought solely in your or the Company’s
individual capacity, and not as a plaintiff or class member in any purported
class or collective proceeding. THE PARTIES HEREBY WAIVE ANY RIGHTS THEY MAY
HAVE TO TRIAL BY JURY IN REGARD TO ARBITRABLE CLAIMS. THE PARTIES FURTHER WAIVE
ANY RIGHTS THEY MAY HAVE TO PURSUE OR PARTICIPATE IN A CLASS OR COLLECTIVE
ACTION PERTAINING TO ANY ARBITRABLE CLAIMS BETWEEN YOU AND THE COMPANY 
 
5.4 This Agreement
does not restrict Employee’s right to file administrative claims you may bring
before any government agency where, as a matter of law, the parties may not
restrict your ability to file such claims (including, but not limited to, the
National Labor Relations Board, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and
the Department of Labor). However, the parties agree that, to the fullest
extent permitted by law, arbitration shall be the exclusive remedy for the
subject matter of such administrative claims. 
 
5.5 Any arbitration
shall be conducted before a single arbitrator selected by the parties and shall
be conducted under the JAMS Employment Arbitration Rules & Procedures
(“JAMS Rules”) then in effect. You may obtain a copy of the JAMS Rules by
accessing the JAMS website at www.jamsadr.com. If you are unable to locate a
copy of the rules, the Company will provide a copy to you at no charge. The
arbitration shall take place within 75 miles of the metropolitan city in which
you are or were last employed by the Company. Other than $150 of any initial
filing fee that the you must pay to initiate the action with JAMS, the Company
will pay all forum costs, including any further filing fees, arbitrator fees,
or administrative fees subject to authority of the Arbitrator to reallocate
such costs or fees and require you to reimburse the Company, if Company is the
prevailing party in the Arbitration.
 
5.6 The arbitrator
shall have the authority to order such discovery as the arbitrator considers
necessary to a full and fair exploration of the issues in dispute, consistent
with the expedited nature of arbitration. The arbitrator is authorized to award
any remedy or relief available under applicable law that would have been
available to the parties had the matter been heard in a court. To the extent
any temporary injunctive relief is obtained in court, however, the underlying
merits dispute must be resolved through the arbitration procedures described in
this Agreement. 
 
5.7 The arbitrator
shall have the authority to award attorney's fees and costs if a court would be
authorized to make such an award under applicable law. The decision of the
arbitrator shall be in writing and shall provide the reasons for the award.
This Agreement is enforceable under and subject to the FAA, 9 U.S.C. Sec 1. 
 
5.8 This Agreement
states the full and complete terms of any dispute resolution as between
Employee and the Company. Specific performance of the Agreement may be
compelled by an action in a court of competent jurisdiction at the sole
discretion of the Company. Employee agrees that there is adequate consideration
for this Agreement and that Employee is not relying upon any representations or
promises regarding the matters herein that are not set forth in writing in this
Agreement[.]
 
(Kimm Decl., Ex. A, §§ 5.0-5.8,
capitalizing in original.)
 
It is undisputed that Plaintiff e-signed the provision.  (See id. at ¶ 5; see also, e.g., Plaintiff
Decl., ¶¶ 6-7, 9.)
 
Nevertheless, she appears to
raise an assent challenge, insinuating that she did not understand that she was
agreeing to arbitration.  (See Plaintiff
Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.)
 
The argument fails. Plaintiff
does not claim she could not read English, and, anyway, lack of understanding
is not a defense. (See, e.g., Ramos v. Westlake
Services LLC (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th
674, 687 [“[T]he fact that [the plaintiff] signed a contract in a language he
may not have completely understood would not bar enforcement of the arbitration
agreement.  If [the plaintiff] did not
speak or understand English sufficiently to comprehend the English Contract, he
should have had it read or explained to him.”].)
 
The
Court finds that these terms and facts establish an agreement to arbitrate.
 
FAA
 
Although
the arbitration provision plainly states that the FAA applies, Plaintiff
contends the Court should find it inapplicable based on an exception.  She claims the FAA does not apply to
employment contracts of transportation workers. 
She asserts that Defendant employed her as a transportation worker and
that she “was directly involved in the transportation of goods in
interstate commerce.”  (Opposition, p.
5.)  
 
Defendant
contends the exception is unsatisfied because Plaintiff “work[ed] in the
hospitality industry and not as [a] transportation worker[].”  (Reply, p. 2.)
 
Southwest
Airlines Co. v. Saxon (2022) 596 U.S. 450
(“Southwest”) is the controlling case. 
(See Opposition, pp. 5-6; see also Reply, pp 1-2.)  There, the High Court analyzed section 1 of
the FAA.  Section 1 states that the FAA
“does not apply ‘to contracts of employment of seamen, railroad
employees, or any other class of workers engaged in foreign or
interstate commerce.’”  (Knight, supra,
at ¶ 5:57, emphasis in original.)  The
justices held that this exception, which only applies to “transportation
workers[,]” encompasses “airline ramp supervisors who load and unload airplane
cargo[.]”  (Id. at ¶¶ 5:57, 5:58.)
 
The
Court turns to the evidence. 
 
Plaintiff
declares that part of her job duties involved “load[ing] and unload[ing] cargo
on and off airplanes” (Opposition, p. 6):
 
3. I served as a
Member Experience Manager and Member Associate for Defendant on or about
October 4, 2021 through on or about April 12, 2023. In those positions, I
regularly assisted high-net-worth clients, including well-known bands,
celebrities, and royal families in their travel arrangements, transportation,
and accommodations. I regularly coordinated the flow of client packages and
cargo to ensure their security and integrity, and to prevent loss, theft, or
damage. I frequently physically unloaded and loaded clients’ luggage, retail
items, and packages as well as coordinated with both the company's drivers and
the cargo companies responsible for transporting such cargo. Indeed, ensuring
customer’s belongings and retail items were safely transported from Defendant’s
airplanes to customer private vehicles and trucks was a core part of my
responsibility. 
 
4. A primary
function of my job included the handling and coordination of international
commercial cargo. For example, on or about September 11, 2022, Defendant
transported a well-known international pop star who arrived in the country for
a concert tour. This individual brought in both personal and retail cargo
and/or merchandise to sell at their performances. I personally carried and/or
supervised the safe transport of the band’s packages, merchandise for sale, and
bags upon arrival in California, through the U.S. Customs and Border Control
and to their subsequent flight to another state. 
 
5. On another
occasion, on or about July 8, 2022, I coordinated the flow of packages for a
prominent royal family. I personally assisted and ensured the safe transport of
seventy (70) bags and packages upon their arrival and to their next
destination. These instances were consistent with my regular duties, although
the volume of cargo varied.
 
(Plaintiff
Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.)
 
In reply, Defendant’s Employee
Relations Manager states:
 
2. I am aware of the
day-to-day duties and responsibilities of Member Associates (“MA”) and Member
Experience Managers (“MEM”) at TPS in Los Angeles. 
 
3. MAs and MEMs are
not responsible for loading and/or unloading baggage or cargo when working at
TPS. Their primary responsibilities are in the area of hospitality, and they
act as “greeters” welcoming TPS members to the suite or salon that the member has
selected and facilitating their experience (food, beverage, spa services, etc.)
while the member waits for their flight (for departing passengers) or when the
member arrives to TPS terminal from the flight (for returning passengers). 
 
4. Upon a member’s
arrival at the TPS terminal for a departing trip, the MA or MEM will welcome
the member and engage in the “check-in” process. The MA or MEM will coordinate
with the member and/or their driver to retrieve their baggage from their vehicles.
TPS Operations Associates (“OA”) are on hand to assist with this process. The
MA or MEM will then print out luggage tags for the member’s baggage at the
checkin desk at TPS terminal. After tagging the baggage, the MA or MEM turns
the baggage over to a third-party vendor, Airport Terminal Management (“ATM”).
TPS contracts with ATM to deliver passenger baggage to the airline for the
member’s travel and contractually is unable to load or unload passenger baggage
on airplanes (and no TPS employee is authorized to do so). TPS has no common
ownership with ATM, which is a completely separate entity. 
 
5. When a member
returns from a trip, ATM is responsible for retrieving the member’s baggage
from the designated baggage area and returning it to the TPS terminal. The MA
or MEM will verify that ATM has properly collected all such baggage and will
then coordinate getting such luggage to the member’s personal transportation to
leave TPS. At no time is a MA or MEM responsible or authorized to actually
unload any baggage from any airplane. 
 
6. No MA or MEM ever
is involved in working with commercial cargo. TPS solely works with passenger
travel and is not involved with commercial cargo as that term is understood
within the industry.
 
(Second Kimm Decl., ¶¶ 2-6.)  
 
The Court plans to hold an
evidentiary hearing with live testimony to resolve the factual
differences.  The matter is continued for
this purpose.
 
What happens if the FAA is
inapplicable?  What law governs in that
scenario?  The arbitration provision does
not say.  During oral arguments, the
attorneys need to answer these questions.
 
Enforcement
 
Plaintiff
contends the arbitration agreement is unconscionable.
 
“‘[U]nconscionability
has both a “procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’
or ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’
results.”  (Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.)  “The prevailing
view is that . . . both [must] be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Ibid.,
emphasis added.)  “But they need not be
present in the same degree.”  (Ibid.)  “Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which
disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation,
that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or
unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.”  (Ibid.) 
“In other words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term,
the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the
conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Ibid.) 
 
Procedural
Unconscionability
 
For procedural unconscionability,
Plaintiff claims the arbitration provision is a contract of adhesion, Defendant
failed to explain arbitration to her, and Defendant failed to provide the JAMS
fee schedule.  (See Opposition, pp.
10-12.)
 
The Court disagrees with
the first two points.  An arbitration
agreement “is not invalid merely because it is imposed as a condition of
employment.” (Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1122–1123.)  “[T]he
mandatory nature of an arbitration agreement does not, by itself, render the
agreement unenforceable.”  (Ibid.; see
also Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:146 [“The mere fact an adhesion contract is involved
does not per se render the arbitration clause unenforceable.  Rationale: Such contracts are ‘an inevitable
fact of life for all citizens – businessman and consumer alike.’”], emphasis in
original.)  Moreover, to repeat, lack of
understanding is not a defense.
 
The Court also disagrees with the
third point.  In addition to stating that
the JAMS Rules govern, section 5.5 of the arbitration provision identifies the
JAMS website where the JAMS Rules, including the fee schedule, can be viewed
and offers to have Defendant give a hard copy to Plaintiff for free.  (See Kimm Decl., Ex. A, § 5.5.)
 
Substantive Unconscionability
 
For substantive
unconscionability, Plaintiff contends the arbitration provision: 
 
* allows Defendant “to compel
Plaintiff and similarly situated employees to arbitration while disallowing
Plaintiff to compel [Defendant] the reciprocal right to compel it into private
arbitration” (Opposition, p. 12); and
 
* grants “access to judicial
remedies for only those claims and remedies that unilaterally benefit Defendant
while requiring arbitration of claims and denying remedies that would benefit
Plaintiff and other similarly situated employees.”  (Id. at p. 13.)
 
The first point concerns sections
5.1 and 5.3.  They are clear.  They state that either side can compel
arbitration, and both sides waive the right to seek a jury trial with respect
to covered disputes.  The language is
mutual.  (See Kimm Decl., Ex. A, §§ 5.1.,
5.3.)
 
The potential problem, though, is
section 5.8.  It gives Defendant sole
authority to compel specific performance of the arbitration provision in
court.  The specific-performance sentence
is one-sided.  Whether it can be severed
is a question for supplemental briefing, especially since the arbitration
provision appears to lack a severance clause. 
Does the Court have inherent authority to sever it in the absence of a
severance clause?
 
Plaintiff’s second point regards
the class waiver and section 5.2.  She
claims both are one-sided.
 
The
fate of the class waiver depends on whether the FAA applies.  (See Motion, pp. 8-9; see also Opposition,
pp. 6-9; Reply, p. 2.)  As noted above,
the FAA is inapplicable; thus, the Court is inclined to find the class waiver
unenforceable.
 
Section 5.2 says “each party may,
at its, his or her option, seek injunctive relief in court related to the
improper use, disclosure or misappropriation of a party’s private, proprietary,
confidential or trade secret information.” 
(Kimm Decl., Ex. A, § 5.2.)  It is
mutual, and it covers claims that Plaintiff likely would have an interest in
bringing, namely, claims related to private or confidential personal
information.
 
Summary
 
Plaintiff’s unconscionability
arguments fail, except:
 
* the Court orders the parties to
submit supplemental briefs regarding severance of section 5.8’s
specific-performance sentence; and 
 
* the class waiver is
unenforceable.[1]
 
 


