  Case Number:  21STCV07923    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:    
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
City of Burbank, the People of the State of California by and Through Joseph H.
McDougall, City of Burbank City Attorney’s Motion for Summary Judgment or
Summary Adjudication
            Plaintiffs/cross-defendants City of
Burbank, the People of the State of California by and through Joseph H.
McDougall, City of Burbank City Attorney move for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication, on their complaint and on the third amended
cross-complaint by defendants/cross-complainants Barfly, Inc., Baret Lepejian,
Lucas Lepejian, and Tayla Lepejian.
Requests for
Judicial Notice
Plaintiffs/cross-defendants
request judicial notice of 37 facts and exhibits.  Request Nos. 9, 10, 18, 31, 32, and 33 may be
court records subject to judicial notice under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision
(d)(1), but they are irrelevant and unnecessary to the court’s analysis.  (See Jordache Enterprises, Inc. v. Brobeck,
Phleger & Harrison (1998) 18 Cal.4th 739, 748, fn. 6; Appel v. Superior Court (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 329, 342, fn. 6.)  The
existence and legal effects of the remaining items are subject to judicial
notice under Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (b), (c), and (d)(1).  The court does not take judicial notice of the truth of facts
asserted therein.  (See Sosinsky v.
Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1569.)
            Plaintiffs/cross-defendants’
requests for judicial notice Nos. 9, 10, 18, 31, 32, and 33 are denied.  Plaintiffs/cross-defendants’ requests for
judicial notice Nos. 1-8, 11-17, 19-30, and 34-37 are granted.
Defendants/cross-complainants
request judicial notice of four court records. 
(Opp. RJN.)  They did not submit
copies of the first three records.  “A
party requesting judicial notice of material under Evidence Code sections 452
or 453 must provide the court and each party with a copy of the material.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1306(c).)  The only record attached, the fourth, is the
notice of ruling on plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment in a case by the
County of Los Angeles against several defendants including Barfly, Inc. and
Baret Lepejian.  Though it is subject to
judicial notice under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d)(1), it is
irrelevant and unnecessary to the court’s
analysis.  (See Jordache Enterprises, Inc. v. Brobeck,
Phleger & Harrison (1998) 18 Cal.4th 739, 748, fn. 6; Appel v. Superior Court (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 329, 342, fn. 6.)  
Defendants/cross-complainants’
four requests for judicial notice are denied.
Evidentiary Objections
            Defendants/cross-complainants
make 143 pages of evidentiary objections. 
They did not number their objections. 
When objecting to evidence submitted in support of or opposition to a
motion for summary judgment, “[e]ach
written objection must be numbered consecutively.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1354(b).)  Consecutively numbering objections—especially
such voluminous objections—is necessary for the court to make clear rulings on
them.  All of
defendants/cross-complainants’ evidentiary objections are overruled.
            Plaintiffs/cross-defendants make five
objections to the declaration of Baret Lepejian.  All five objections are overruled.
            Plaintiffs/cross-defendants make 10
objections to the declaration of Lucas Lepejian.  Objection Nos. 1, 3, 4, 5, 8, and 10 are sustained.  
Legal Standard for a Plaintiff’s Motion
for Summary Judgment
A plaintiff moving for
summary judgment “must prove each element of the cause of action on which he
seeks judgment.  Once the plaintiff meets
this burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show there is a triable
issue of material fact as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel
(2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1332, 1337; CCP § 437c(p)(1).)  The court must deny a plaintiff’s motion for
summary judgment if the defendant meets its “burden of showing the existence of
a triable issue of material fact as to any available affirmative defense.”  (Oldcastle Precast, Inc. v. Lumbermens
Mutual Casualty Co. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 554, 568.)
Plaintiffs’ Complaint
            Plaintiffs
bring three causes of action against defendants: (1) violation of Burbank Municipal Code section 4-1-101-1, (2)
violation of Burbank Municipal Code section 10-1-501l, and (3) abatement of
public nuisance.  The complaint alleges
defendants continued operating “Tin Horn Flats Saloon/Bar & Grill, located
at 2623 West Magnolia Boulevard, Burbank, California” (Comp., ¶ 7) after the
County revoked the restaurant’s public health permit (¶ 62) and after the City
revoked the restaurant’s conditional use permit (¶ 76).
Plaintiffs’
complaint prays for injunctive relief (a) prohibiting defendants from operating
the restaurant “Tin Horn Flats without the necessary use permit and public
health permit” (Comp., prayer ¶ 1); (b) permitting the city to disconnect the
electricity at Tin Horn Flats (prayer, ¶ 2); (c) permitting the City to padlock
the doors to Tin Horn Flats (prayer, ¶ 3); (d) a declaration that defendants’
conduct at Tin Horn Flats constitutes “a continuing public nuisance” (prayer, ¶
4); (e) “an abatement order requiring Defendants … to bring Tin Horn Flats into
compliance” with the applicable law (prayer, ¶ 5); (f) “attorney’s fees and
costs of suit” (prayer, ¶ 6); and (g) “any other relief that the Court sees as
just and proper” (prayer, ¶ 7).  
Assuming
plaintiffs meet their initial burden of proving each element of their three
causes of action, defendants meet their burden of showing there is a triable
issue of material fact as to an affirmative defense to all three causes of
action: mootness.  “As a general rule,
when events render a case moot, the trial or appellate court should dismiss it.”  (Davis v. Fresno Unified School District
(2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 911, 927.)  “[A] case that presents a true
controversy at its inception becomes moot ‘ “if before decision it has, through
act of the parties or other cause, occurring after the commencement of the
action, lost that essential character.” ’ ” 
(Fairview Valley Fire, Inc. v. Department of Forestry & Fire
Protection (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 1262, 1272.)  “When a plaintiff has
received all that he or she has demanded in the complaint, the case is
considered ‘moot’; in other words, there is no further relief the court could
provide.”  (Schoshinski v. City of Los
Angeles (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 780, 791.) 

Defendants present evidence
sufficient to show triable issues of fact on whether plaintiffs’ claims are
moot.  As discussed above, plaintiffs’
complaint seeks permanent injunctions and declaratory relief regarding
defendants’ operation of the Tin Horn Flats restaurant at 2623 West Magnolia
Boulevard in the City of Burbank. 
(Comp., ¶ 7.)  Defendant Lucas
Lepejian “was an employee of Barfly, Inc.” and “managed the day to day
operations” of the Tin Horn Flats restaurant. 
(L. Lepejian Decl., ¶ 1.)  He
states the property on which the restaurant was located was “forcibly taken in
a separate eviction action.”  (Id.,
¶ 18.)  Finally, he states, “Since
surrendering the property Tin Horn Flats was located at in or around June of
2021, I have not returned to the property.” 
(Id., ¶ 20.)
Defendant Baret Lepejian
also presents evidence to the same effect. 
He is and was the chief executive officer of defendant “Barfly, Inc.,
which operated the restaurant, Tin Horn Flats, previously located at 2623 W
Magnolia Boulevard.”  (B. Lepejian Decl.,
¶ 1.)  Baret Lepejian states, “Since the
eviction action brought by my estranged ex-wife against me in or around June of
2021, Barfly, Inc. has no interest in the property Tin Horn Flats was once located
at.”  (Id., ¶ 4.)  He further states, “Since surrendering the
property Tin Horn Flats was located at in or around June of 2021, neither
myself, my agents, nor employees who operated the restaurant have returned to
the property.  Additionally, since that
same surrender, I have not intended, nor attempted to open another restaurant,
nor do I intend on opening one in the future.” 
(B. Lepejian Decl., ¶ 9.)  
This evidence raises triable
issues of material fact on the defense of mootness.  If the Tin Horn Flats restaurant in Burbank
no longer exists and will never return, the trier of fact could conclude
plaintiff already received all that they demanded in the complaint.    
            Plaintiffs
rely on the rule that a defendant cannot make a case moot by voluntarily ceasing
unlawful conduct.  “[A] defendant cannot automatically moot a
case simply by ending its unlawful conduct once sued.  [Citation.] 
Otherwise, a defendant could engage in unlawful conduct, stop when sued
to have the case declared moot, then pick up where he left off, repeating this
cycle until he achieves all his unlawful ends. 
Given this concern, … ‘a defendant claiming that its voluntary
compliance moots a case bears the formidable burden of showing that it is
absolutely clear the allegedly wrongful behavior could not reasonably be
expected to recur.’ ”  (Already, LLC
v. Nike, Inc. (2013) 568 U.S. 85, 91.)
When
determining plaintiffs’ motion to summarily adjudicate its causes of action,
the issue is not whether defendants can ultimately make that showing.  The issue is whether they present a triable
issue of material fact on their affirmative defense.  They do. 
Based on this evidence, a reasonable trier of fact could determine that
defendants show it is absolutely clear defendants will never again operate a
restaurant in violation of the Burbank Municipal Code or in a manner that
constitutes a public nuisance.
Moreover, there is evidence
that the only reason for revoking Tin Horn Flats’ public health permit and
conditional use permit is that it operated a restaurant in violation of
COVID-19 shutdown orders in 2020 and 2021. 
Baret Lepejian states, “[T]he only health violations received were
related to the events giving rise to this lawsuit,” meaning the COVID-19
shutdown orders.  (B. Lepejian Decl., ¶
10.)  And there is evidence those
shutdown orders are no longer in effect. 
Lucas Lepejian states, “[M]erely merely two days after revoking Barfly’s
public health permit on that basis, the County officially lifted its restaurant
outdoor dining prohibition, declaring that outdoor dining at restaurants no
longer posed an immediate risk to the public’s health and safety.”  (L. Lepejian Decl., ¶ 12.)  The trier of fact could reasonably conclude
that, because the grounds for revoking Tin Horn Flats’ permit ended long ago,
it is absolutely clear that defendants will
never again operate a restaurant in violation of the Burbank Municipal Code or
in a manner that constitutes a public nuisance.
In
their reply brief, plaintiffs assert its causes of action are not moot due to
their “claim for payment of the outstanding Administrative citations/civil penalties
under BMC 1-1-108-1.”  (Reply, p.
12.)  They rely on Justice Stevens’ concurring
opinion in Friends of the Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services
(TOC), Inc. (2000) 528 U.S. 167, which states, “No one contends that a
defendant’s postcomplaint conduct could moot a claim for punitive damages;
civil penalties should be treated the same way.”  (Id. at p. 197.)  A concurrence is not binding authority.  
Moreover,
plaintiffs’ complaint does not seek any payment for outstanding citations or
civil penalties.  “The pleadings play a
key role in a summary judgment motion.  ‘
“The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit
the scope of the issues” ’  and to frame
‘the outer measure of materiality in a summary judgment proceeding.’ ”  (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co.
(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493.)  Above,
the court summarized all seven paragraphs of the complaints’ prayer for relief.  None of those seven paragraphs raises the
issue of civil penalties or outstanding citations or fines.  The court expresses no opinion on whether
plaintiffs may be able to recover the only other relief they seek: attorney
fees and costs.  (See Graham v.
DaimlerChrysler Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 553 [under “catalyst theory,”
plaintiffs may recover attorney fees when case dismissed as moot].)
The
court therefore will deny summary adjudication of plaintiffs’ three causes of action
against defendants.  
Legal Standard
for a Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment
Typically, a defendant moving for
summary judgment must show “that one or more elements of the cause of action…
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.”  (CCP § 437c(p)(2).)  Once the defendant does so, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to show a triable issue of at least one material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 849.)  
For
some causes of action that rely on the defendant’s subjective motivation, however,
the plaintiff bears the initial burden even on a defendant’s motion for summary
judgment.  The third amended
cross-complaint’s sole remaining cause of action is a claim
under 42 U.S.C. section 1983 for retaliation in violation of the First
Amendment.  (In June 2022,
cross-complainants requested dismissal of the first through fourth and sixth
through ninth causes of action, but specified that they did not dismiss the
fifth cause of action for “violation of the First Amendment.”  That is the third cause of action, not the
fifth.)
In
First Amendment retaliation claims, the plaintiff bears the initial burden of
proof.  This rule arises from the United
States Supreme Court’s decision in Mt. Healthy City School Dist. Bd. of
Educ. v. Doyle (1977) 429 U.S. 274 (Mt. Healthy).  On appeal after a bench trial (id. at
p. 276), the Court concluded, “Initially, … the burden was properly placed
upon” the plaintiff employee “to show that his conduct was constitutionally
protected, and that this conduct was a ‘substantial factor’ or to put it in
other words, that it was a ‘motivating factor’ [fn.] in the” defendant
employer’s “decision not to rehire him” (id. at p. 287).  “Mt. Healthy assigns to plaintiffs the
initial burden of showing that conduct protected by the First Amendment was a ‘
“substantial” ’ or ‘ “motivating” ’ factor in an employer’s adverse employment
decision, then assigns to the defendant the burden of showing it would have
made the same decision in the absence of the protected conduct.”  (Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes,
Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 714 [discussed in deciding burden-shifting
framework for summary judgment of whistleblower retaliation claims].)  
Numerous
circuit courts have held that, when a defendant moves for summary judgment, the
plaintiff bears the initial burden of showing a prima facie case.  (Walton v. Powell (10th Cir. 2016) 821
F.3d 1204, 1211 [doing so after noting Mt. Healthy was an appeal of “a
decision after trial”]; McCue v. Bradstreet (1st Cir. 2015) 807 F.3d
334, 344–345; Wagner v. Jones (8th Cir. 2011) 664 F.3d 259, 270-271; Eckerman
v. Tennessee Dept. of Safety (6th Cir. 2010) 636 F.3d 202, 207–208; Ulrich
v. City and County of San Francisco (9th Cir. 2002) 308 F.3d 968, 976–977.)  Courts have also applied this standard in
contexts other than public employment.  (Bello-Reyes
v. Gaynor (9th Cir. 2021) 985 F.3d 696, 702 [in habeas corpus petition, “once
a petitioner has made a showing of a First Amendment retaliation claim, ‘the
burden shifts to the government to show that it “would have taken the same
action even in the absence of the protected conduct” ’ ”].)
In
contrast with government employees suing for employment retaliation, a citizen bringing
a section 1983 suit for retaliatory government action generally must prove an
additional element: that the government lacked probable cause for its
action.  In “retaliatory prosecution
claims,” the plaintiff must “plead and prove the absence of probable cause for
the underlying criminal charge.”  (Nieves
v. Bartlett (2019) 139 S.Ct. 1715, 1723 (Nieves).)  The same requirement applies to claims for
“retaliatory arrest.”  (Id. at p.
1725.)  “[I]f the plaintiff establishes
the absence of probable cause, ‘then the Mt. Healthy test governs: The
plaintiff must show that the retaliation was a substantial or motivating factor
behind the [arrest], and, if that showing is made, the defendant can prevail
only by showing that the [arrest] would have been initiated without respect to
retaliation.’ ”  (Ibid.)  The Court concluded there was probable cause
for the arrest, so the “retaliation claim cannot survive summary
judgment.”  (Ibid.)
Courts
have applied the Nieves rule to government actions other than arrest or
criminal prosecution.  In Capp v.
County of San Diego (9th Cir. 2019) 940 F.3d 1046, 1056, the Ninth Circuit
applied the rule to a plaintiff’s claim that the County conducted a child
welfare investigation against him in retaliation for his protected speech.  The 11th Circuit applied Nieves to a
suit alleging a retaliatory civil action. 
(DeMartini v. Town of Gulf Stream (11th Cir. 2019) 942 F.3d 1277,
1303-1304 (DeMartini).)  “[A]s
with § 1983 First Amendment retaliation claims arising in the criminal
prosecution and arrest context, the presence of probable cause will generally
defeat a § 1983 First Amendment retaliation claim based on a civil lawsuit as a
matter of law.”  (Id. at p. 1304.)  
Here,
cross-defendants submit voluminous undisputed evidence establishing probable
cause for their actions against cross-complainants.  It is undisputed that cross-complainants
repeatedly violated the laws cross-defendants enforced against them.  Cross-complainants only argue that the public
health orders they violated were unconstitutional.  The Court of Appeal decided otherwise.  (County of Los
Angeles Department of Public Health v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 478.)
Nieves found one
exception to the requirement that the plaintiff prove the government lacked
probable cause for its action.  “Although
probable cause should generally defeat a retaliatory arrest claim, a narrow
qualification is warranted for circumstances where officers have probable cause
to make arrests, but typically exercise their discretion not to do so.”  (Nieves, supra, 139 S.Ct. at p.
1727.)  “[T]he no-probable-cause
requirement should not apply when a plaintiff presents objective evidence that
he was arrested when otherwise similarly situated individuals not engaged in
the same sort of protected speech had not been.”  (Ibid.)  “After making the required showing, the
plaintiff’s claim may proceed in the same manner as claims where the plaintiff
has met the threshold showing of the absence of probable cause.”  (Ibid.)  
It
is not clear this exception is available for retaliatory conduct other than
arrests.  (See DeMartini, supra,
942 F.3d at p. 1306 [“the Supreme Court has not identified any exceptions to
the no-probable-cause requirement in § 1983 First Amendment retaliation claims
predicated on criminal prosecutions”].)  Assuming
this exception applies, cross-complainants bear the initial
burden of proving they fall within it.  Doing so
requires them to “present[] objective evidence that” the government took
actions against them but not against “otherwise similarly situated individuals
not engaged in the same sort of protected speech.”  (Nieves, supra, 139 S.Ct. at p.
1725.)  
Cross-complainants
present no such evidence.  Rather than
attempting to do so, they argue cross-defendants bore the initial burden of
proving they had no animus.  (Opp., pp.
8-10.)  The United States Supreme Court
held otherwise because “retaliatory animus by a governmental actor is a
subjective condition that is ‘easy to allege and hard to disprove.’ ”  (DeMartini, supra, 942 F.3d at p.
1289, quoting Nieves, supra, 139 S.Ct. at p. 1725.)
Cross-complainants
provide zero admissible objective evidence that the City of Burbank enforced
the law against them but not other restaurants or businesses who violated the
COVID-19 shutdown orders (or ensuing court orders to comply).  Their only attempt to do so is the following
statement by Lucas Lepejian: “[R]estaurants located in places such as the Grove
that served to-go food, were not penalized or cited when their customers could
sit in shared areas, similar to Tin Horn Flats’s, due to the characterization
of the shared areas not belonging to a single restaurant.  That characterization was untrue as I
personally saw other restaurants within miles of Tin Horn Flats do the same
thing as us.”  (L. Lepejian Decl., ¶ 5.)  Cross-defendants properly objected to this testimony
on several grounds.  
Even
if this testimony were admissible, it would not constitute objective evidence
that the City of Burbank did not enforce the law against otherwise similarly
situated businesses that did not engage in the same protected speech.  The Grove is in the City of Los Angeles, not Burbank.  That fact is subject to judicial notice and
cannot be reasonably disputed.  (Evid.
Code, § 452(g), (h).)  What happened at
the Grove is irrelevant to whether the City of Burbank can be liable for selectively
enforcing the law.
Lucas
Lepejian’s statement that other restaurants “within miles of Tin Horn Flats” did
“the same thing” as cross-complainants is also insufficient.  For that to constitute objective evidence that
the City of Burbank did not enforce the law against other restaurants that did
not engage in similar protected speech, cross-complainants must show: (a) those
restaurants were in the City of Burbank, (b) the City of Burbank knew those
restaurants were also violating the shutdown orders, and (c) those restaurants did
not engage in similar protected speech.  Lucas
Lepejian’s statement provides as little information as possible.  He does not identify the other restaurants,
does not say when he saw them allow outdoor dining, and avoids even saying these
unidentified restaurants are in the City of Burbank.  There is no evidence that the City of Burbank
knew these unidentified restaurants violated the law and there is no evidence
that these unidentified restaurants did not engage in similar protected speech
as cross-complainants.
On
this record, no reasonable trier of fact could conclude cross-defendants
enforced the law against cross-complainants without probable cause or that they
selectively enforced the law to retaliate against them for protected
speech.  
Disposition
            Plaintiffs
City of Burbank, the People of the
State of California by and through Joseph H. McDougall, City of Burbank City
Attorney’s motion for summary adjudication of their complaint is denied.  
Cross-defendants
City of Burbank, the People of the State of California by and through Joseph H.
McDougall, City of Burbank City Attorney’s motion for summary adjudication of
the third amended cross-complaint is granted.

 