 Case Number:  21STCV42411    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
            Plaintiffs
Gerald Meehan and Lois Meehan’s Motions to: (1-3) Compel Depositions of Gal
Batzri, Nitzan Ben-Nun, and Neta Golani; (4) Compel Defendant Pacific
Horizon Holdings, LLC to Provide Answers to Special Interrogatories
(1-3) Motions to Compel Depositions       
Plaintiffs
Gerald Meehan and Lois Meehan move to compel the depositions of witnesses Gal
Batzri, Nitzan Ben-Nun, and Neta Golani. 
The motions are moot as to compelling the depositions.  
Plaintiffs
seek monetary sanctions.  “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though …  the requested discovery was provided to the
moving party after the motion was filed.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
The court, however, finds defendants acted with substantial
justification and sanctions would not be just under the circumstances.  
Disposition
Plaintiffs’ motions to compel depositions of Gal
Batzri, Nitzan Ben-Nun, and Neta Golani and for sanctions are denied.
(4) Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories
Plaintiffs Gerald Meehan and Lois
Meehan move to compel defendant Pacific Horizon Holdings, LLC to respond to
special interrogatories, set two.
Meet and Confer
            Defendant
argues plaintiffs did not meet and confer in good faith before filing this
motion.  Doing so is not required when moving
to compel responses as opposed to moving to compel further responses.  (Compare CCP §§ 2030.290 with
2030.300(b)(1).)
Defendant’s Untimely Responses
            When
the responding party fails to timely respond to interrogatories, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling responses.  (CCP § 2030.290(b).)  Failing to timely respond waives any
objections.  (CCP § 2030.290(a).)  Defendant concedes that it failed to timely
respond to plaintiffs’ special interrogatories, set two.  Defendant served responses on September 7, a
week after plaintiffs filed this motion. 
(Varozian Decl., ¶ 2.)  
The court
will exercise its discretion to treat this motion as a motion to compel further
responses to interrogatories under Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.300.  When the opposing party serves untimely responses, “the trial court has
the discretion to rule on the motion” and may “treat the motion as one” to
compel further responses and “determine that further answers are
required.”  (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 390, 409.)
Because its
response was untimely, defendant waived its objections.  Defendant’s response includes over a page of general
objections.  (Varozian Decl., Ex. A.)  Defendant’s objections to plaintiffs’ special
interrogatories, set two, are overruled.
Defendant’s
responses are also evasive or incomplete. 
“[A] party has a general duty to conduct a reasonable investigation to
obtain responsive information and must furnish information from all sources
under his or her control.”  (Regency
Health Services, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1496, 1504.)  “Verification
of the answers is in effect a declaration that the party has disclosed all
information which is available to him. 
If only partial answers can be supplied, the answers should reveal all
information then available to the party. 
If a person cannot furnish details, he should set forth the efforts made
to secure the information.  He cannot
plead ignorance to information which can be obtained from sources under his
control.”  (Deyo v. Kilbourne
(1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 782.) 
The
interrogatories ask defendant to state contact information for three people who
signed declarations in support of papers filed by Pacific Horizon Holdings, LLC
in another case.  Defendant responded, “This
information is unknown to Responding Party.  Investigation and discovery still continue and
Responding Party reserves the right to amend this response upon obtaining
additional information.”  Defendant neither
stated it conducted a reasonable investigation nor set forth any efforts it
made to obtain the witnesses’ contact information.
Cleary
defendant or its counsel at some point had communications with the three people
who submitted declarations on its behalf. 
The declarations did not fall from the sky into defense counsel’s
office.  Defendant’s curt statement that any
contact information is “unknown” to defendant is evasive.
Sanctions
Plaintiffs move for $3,085 in sanctions
against defendant Pacific Horizon Holdings, LLC and its attorneys, Rouben
Varozian and David Beitchman.  “The court
may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a
motion to compel discovery, even though … the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)          
The court will grant plaintiffs’ request for
sanctions.  “The court shall impose a
monetary sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP § 2030.290(c).)  Defendant unsuccessfully opposed this motion.  Defendant is also subject to sanctions for
making “an unmeritorious objection to discovery.”  (CCP § 2023.010(e).)
Defendant did not act with substantial
justification.  Sanctions are just under
the circumstances.  Defendant’s delay necessitated
this motion, and its untimely responses are insufficient.
Disposition
            Plaintiffs Gerald Meehan
and Lois Meehan’s motion to compel defendant
Pacific Horizon Holdings, LLC to respond to special interrogatories is granted.  
Defendant Pacific Horizon Holdings, LLC is ordered
to serve further responses without objections to plaintiffs’ special
interrogatories, set two, within 20 days. 
Defendant Pacific Horizon Holdings, LLC and its counsel David
P. Beitchman and Rouben Varozian are ordered to pay plaintiffs $3,085 in
sanctions within 20 days.  Defendant and
its counsel are jointly and severally
liable for the sanctions.