  Case Number:  24NNCV00582    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE ORDER DENYING MOTION TO BE RELIEVED WITHOUT PREJUDICEI.               
BackgroundPlaintiff Yadira Alejandra Torres
("Plaintiff") filed this action on March 8, 2024, against Mofongo’s
Inc., Augusto Coen-Brown (erroneously sued as Augusto Coyne Marcos Lopez),
Alexis Fuentes, and Does 1-100. Plaintiff alleges eleven causes of action,
including labor violations, unfair competition, sexual harassment, wrongful
termination, emotional distress, and a claim under the Private Attorneys
General Act (PAGA).On December 16, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel, Attorney
Daniel Ginzburg of Frontier Law Center, filed a motion to be relieved as
counsel.II.            
Legal
StandardThe Court may issue an order allowing an attorney to
withdraw from representation after notice to the client. (CCP § 284.) The
attorney may withdraw from representation if the withdrawal would not result in
undue prejudice to the client's interest—i.e., counsel cannot withdraw at a
critical point in the litigation. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.
App. 4th 904, 915; see California Rule of Professional Conduct 3-700.)The Court has discretion to grant or deny a motion
to be relieved as counsel, particularly when granting such a motion would cause
undue prejudice to the client's interests or result in “an unreasonable
disruption of the orderly processes of justice.” (People v. Ortiz (1990)
51 Cal. 3d 975, 979.) Furthermore, the Court may deny an attorney’s request to
withdraw “where such withdrawal would work an injustice or cause undue delay in
the proceeding.” (Mandell v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal. App. 3d 1,
4.) However, this discretion must be exercised reasonably, balancing the
client’s right to choose representation with the court’s duty to maintain the
orderly administration of justice. (Ibid.)In making a motion to be relieved as counsel, the
attorney must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362. The motion must be made using mandatory forms:1.
Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the client –
(MC-051).2.
Declaration “stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship” the reasons that the
motion was brought (MC-052).3. Proposed Order (MC-053).The forms must be timely filed and served on all
parties who have appeared in the case. If these documents are served on the
client by mail, there must be a declaration stating either that the address
where client was served is “the current residence or business address of the
client” or “the last known residence or business address of the client and the
attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after making
reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to
be relieved.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d)(1).)III.          
DiscussionAttorney
for Plaintiff, Daniel Ginzburg of Frontier Law Center, seeks to withdraw as
counsel. Mr. Ginzburg declares that Plaintiff has been unresponsive to all
forms of communication, including mail, email, and telephone. Counsel also
attempted to contact Plaintiff’s grandmother and conducted a Lexis search,
which yielded the same outdated contact information provided by Plaintiff.
Despite these efforts, Counsel has been unable to reestablish communication
with Plaintiff¿. (MC-052, p.2)The
Court notes that Mr. Ginzburg has complied with California Rules of Court, rule
3.1362, by filing the required MC-051 and MC-052 forms. However, Mr. Ginzburg
failed to submit the mandatory MC-053 (Proposed Order) form. This procedural
deficiency requires the Court to DENY the motion without prejudice.IV.          
Conclusion
and OrderThe
Court DENIES Mr. Ginzburg’s motion to be relieved as counsel without prejudice.Counsel
is ordered to give notice.  
Dated: January 13, 2025         JARED
D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
