

Hearing Date:             August 14,
2024
Case Name:                Estate
Research Associates v. Controller of the State of California
Case No.:                    24STCP01744
Motion:                       Petition
to Establish Claim to Escheated Property
Moving Party:             Petitioner,
Estate Research Associates
Opposing Party:          None

 
Tentative Ruling:      The
petition is granted.
 

             
Background
 
         Petitioner Estate Research Associates
(“ERA”) petitioned the Court for an order that the State Controller distribute
$268,217.73 deposited with the Controller by the Estate of Curtis Andrew Wade (“Mr.
Wade”). Mr. Wade died intestate. ERA conducted an investigation to discover the
identities of any heirs who could make claims on his estate. ERA located
fourteen (14) heirs. ERA now petitions for the Court to order the Controller to
release to each of them their share of the estate, with 33% of the funds going
to ERA for its services.
 
         The petition is unopposed.
 
Discussion
 
When a person
dies without a will and without heirs at law, as defined by the state laws of
intestate succession, all of the unclaimed portion of the estate of the
deceased escheats to the state on the date of the decedent's death, subject to
creditor's claims and the costs of estate administration. (Prob. Code, §§
11900-11904.)   Upon the expiration of five years after the entry of
judgment in any proceeding filed pursuant to the Unclaimed Property Law, the
completion of the notice period in an escheat action filed pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 1415 (money or personal property), or a decree of
distribution of estate assets to the state pursuant to the Probate Code, the
property covered by that proceeding or action permanently escheats to the
state.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1430(a).)  The purpose of this
five-year period is to protect previously unknown heirs from having the
property permanently escheat to the state and to allow them time to make a
claim to the state for the property.  (Estate of McGuigan (2000) 83
Cal. App. 4th 639, 645.) 
 
During the
five-year period, a person may file a petition showing his claim or right to
the money or other property, or the proceeds thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
1355.)  Code of Civil Procedure section
1355 sets out the requirements for a petition filed to claim an escheated
estate, including the presentation of detailed information on the identities
and whereabouts of all potential heirs of the decedent or an express statement
why the petitioners are unable to set forth any particular information called
for.  (Estate of Supeck (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 360, 365-66.) 
If it is determined that a person is entitled to the money or other property or
the proceeds thereof, the court must order the property to be delivered to
him.  (Id. at 366.) 
 
At
least 20 days before the hearing of the petition, a copy of the petition and
notice of hearing must be served on the Attorney General and on the Controller,
and the Attorney General may answer the same at his discretion. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1355.) 
 
Discussion
 
            The
Petition sets forth the basis for each claimant’s entitlement to their portion
of the estate, with each of the fourteen (14) claimants submitting a sworn
declaration verifying their own identity and the accuracy of the genealogical
information in ERA’s petition. (Claimants’ Decl. iso Petition, Exs. 1-14.)
(Claimant Lisa Orr also attests to her entitlement as testate successor to
claimant Lisa Orr, who died in May. (Orr Decl., ¶¶ 1, 6-9.)
 
            Counsel
has served the petition and related documents on all parties by mail. (See Not.
of Mot., p. 4.)
 
            No
claimant has filed any opposition, nor has the Respondent.
 
            The
Court GRANTS the petition. ERA is ordered to submit a proposed judgment within
twenty (20) days of this order.