  Case Number:  24STCV27431    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 DANITA JO JOHNSON, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
TOYOTA MOTOR SALES, U.S.A., INC., and
  DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV27431
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO TRANSFER VENUE TO POMONA OR
  SAN BERNARDINO 
 
Date: December 30, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc
(“Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.
No opposition was filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This is a lemon-law action. Plaintiff Danita
Jo Johnson (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative complaint on October 21, 2024
against Defendant and Does 1 through 20 alleging causes of action for: (1) violation
of subdivision (d) of Civil Code § 1793.2; (2) violation of subdivision (b) of Civil
Code § 1793.2; (3) violation of subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code § 1793.2; (4) breach
of express written warranty; (5) breach of the implied warranty of
merchantability; and (6) violation of the Song-Beverly Act § 1793.22 [Tanner
Consumer Protection Act]. 
            On November 21, 2024, Defendant
filed the instant motion to transfer venue to Pomona or San Bernardino (the
“Motion”). The Motion is unopposed. 
 
DISCUSSION
            ¿ In an action
arising from an offer or provision of goods or services intended primarily for
personal, family or household use, venue is proper in “the superior court in
the county where the buyer or lessee in fact signed the contract, where the
buyer or lessee resided at the time the contract was entered into, or where the
buyer or lessee resides at the commencement of the action is the proper court
for the trial of the action.” (Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 395
subd. (b)) 
 
If the plaintiff files an action with an
improper court, CCP section 396a subdivision b is a mandatory venue transfer
statute under which a defendant may move to transfer the case on the grounds
that venue was not filed in the proper court. “If it appears from the complaint
or affidavit, or otherwise, that the superior court or court location where the
action or proceeding is commenced is not the proper court or court location for
the trial, the court where the action or proceeding is commenced, or a judge thereof,
shall, whenever that fact appears, transfer it to the proper court or court
location, on its own motion, or on motion of the defendant…” (CCP, § 396a subd.
(b).) 
 
“It is the moving defendant’s burden to
demonstrate that the plaintiff’s venue selection is not proper under any of the
statutory grounds.” (Fontaine v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th
830, 836.) 
 
            Defendant requests to transfer venue
from the Central District of Los Angeles County Superior Court to the East
District—Pomona or San Bernardino County Superior Court on the grounds that Plaintiff
states she is a resident of Pomona in the Complaint, she presented her vehicle
to dealerships near Pomona for repair, and her home address on the repair
orders is in Rancho Cucamonga, which is located in San Bernardino County.
(Compl. ¶¶ 2, 6; Emmons Decl., Ex. A.) Plaintiff has not opposed the Motion
showing any grounds as to why venue should not be transferred. 
 
            Thus, because Defendant has shown
that venue in the Central District of Los Angeles County Superior Court is improper
pursuant to CCP section 396a subdivision (b), the Motion is GRANTED. 
 
The Motion to Transfer Venue is GRANTED
and this matter is transferred to the Pomona  Courthouse of the Los Angeles Superior Court. Plaintiff
is ordered to pay the transfer fee within 30 days of this order.  
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 30th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



