  Case Number:  23PSCV00063    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  G Defendants Dear John Denim, Inc. and Chiu Fai Yeung’s  Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint   Respondent: NO OPPOSITION   TENTATIVE  RULING   Defendants Dear John Denim, Inc. and Chiu Fai Yeung’s  Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with ten (10)  days leave to amend.   BACKGROUND   This is a breach of contract action arising from  international shipping agreements. Plaintiff Gladden Makin House, Ltd.  (Gladden) is a Hong Kong corporation engaged in the business of exporting  textiles from China to the United States. Gladden worked with textile factories  in China and an export shipping company in Hong Kong to fulfill orders from  California businesses that include Swat Fame, Inc. (Swat Fame), Defendant Dear  John Denim, Inc. (Dear John), and Defendant Ashley Mason, LLC (Ashley Mason). Defendant  Makin International, Inc. (Makin) served as an intermediary for Swat Fame and  Dear John by forwarding their orders and payments to Gladden while Ashley Mason  dealt directly with Gladden.   In August 2017, Ashley Mason attempted to cancel a shipment  from Gladden but after receiving the shipment, Ashley Mason allegedly accepted  it and refused to tender any payment. Makin also allegedly retained payments  from Swat Fame that were meant for Gladden. During the same month, Makin’s  president and CEO, Defendant Wade Leener, reached out to the Chinese factories and shipping company  that worked with Gladden to convince them to work directly with Makin by  falsely claiming Gladden was going to shut down.   On January 9, 2023, Plaintiffs Gladden and Derek Wong filed  a complaint against Defendants Makin, Ashley Mason, Dear John, Leener, Michelle  Mulleneaux, Chiu Fai Yeung, and Does 1-10, alleging the following causes of  action: (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of contract with third-party  beneficiary, (3) conversion, and (4) intentional interference with contractual  relations. On April 18, the court sustained a demurrer by Dear John and Yeung  to Gladden and Wong’s Complaint.   On May 8, 2023, Gladden and Wong filed a First Amended  Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants and Does 1-20 alleging the same  causes of action.    On June 6, 2023, Dear John and Yeung filed the present  demurrer. On August 1, the court continued a hearing on their demurrer so  parties could further meet and confer. On August 9, counsel for Dear John and  Yeung telephonically met and conferred with Gladden and Wong’s counsel. (Tan  Suppl. Decl., ¶ 2.)   A hearing on the demurrer is set for October 13, 2023,  along with a case management conference, OSC re: Failure to File Proof of  Service, and informal discovery conference.   REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE  Dear John and Yeung’s request for judicial  notice of discovery responses in this action are GRANTED.   ANALYSIS  Dear John and Yeung demur to Gladden and Wong’s  second cause of action for breach of contract with third-party beneficiary. For  the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS  their demurrer with leave to amend.   Legal Standard  Demurrer   A party may demur to a complaint on the  grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the  complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147  Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept  all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185  Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent  on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the  pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it  lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are  judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d  902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the  complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of  action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)   Breach of Contract   To state a cause of action for breach of contract, a  plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2)  plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,  and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v.  Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is  based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out  verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must  be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman &  Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff  may also “plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise  language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co.  (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)   “Under California law third party beneficiaries of  contracts have the right to enforce the terms of the contract under Civil  Code section 1559 which provides: ‘A contract, made expressly for the  benefit of a third person, may be enforced by him at any time before the  parties thereto rescind it.’” (Harper v. Wausau  Ins. Co. (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1086, quoting Civ. Code, § 1559.) “A  third party may qualify as a beneficiary under a contract where the contracting  parties must have intended to benefit that individual and such intent appears  on the terms of the agreement. [Citations.] It is well settled, however, that  Civil Code section 1559 excludes enforcement of a contract by persons who are  only incidentally or remotely benefited by the agreement.” (Id., at p.  1087.)   Discussion  In this case, Dear John and Yeung argue  Gladden was not a third-party beneficiary of alleged sale agreements between  Dear John and Makin. But even if Gladden was a third-party beneficiary, the  court finds this cause of action remains insufficiently pled. In previously  sustaining a demurrer to Gladden’s Complaint, the court noted Gladden had  failed to allege allegations that establish Dear John committed a breach of  contract. (4/18/2023 Ruling, p. 2.) Gladden’s FAC still fails to cure this  defect.   Gladden alleges the existence of a contract  between Dear John and Makin where Gladden fulfilled purchase orders from Dear  John and received a payment from Dear John through Makin. (FAC, ¶ 34-35, 53.) Gladden  alleges it performed its obligations pursuant to the contract by fulfilling  Dear John’s orders. (FAC, ¶ 56.) But, Gladden does not allege Dear John  breached the contracts by failing to make the required payments. Instead,  Gladden alleges Dear John breached the agreement by failing to ensure Gladden  received the payments from Makin. (FAC, ¶ 55.) However, because the FAC only  alleges Dear John had an obligation to pay Makin and never alleged Dear John  agreed to make payments directly to Gladden, Dear John did not breach the  agreement.   Furthermore, Gladden appears to suggest that  Dear John is liable for Makin’s failure to pass the payments on through joint  and several liability. (FAC, ¶ 55.) Joint and several liability applies “when  multiple parties promised the same performance.” (DKN Holdings LLC v.  Faerber (2015) 61 Cal.4th 813, 820.) Here, however, Makin and Dear John both  did not agree to perform by making the same payment to Gladden. Instead, Dear  John agreed to pay Makin and Makin agreed to pass the payment on to Gladden in  exchange for a commission. (FAC, ¶ 47.) Thus, because Gladden failed to allege  Dear John breached its own obligation to make payment to Makin, Gladden’s cause  of action fails and Gladden cannot hold Dear John liable for Makin’s separate  alleged breach.   Accordingly, Dear John and Yeung’s demurrer  is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.   CONCLUSION Based on the  foregoing, Dear John and Yeung’s  demurrer to Gladden and Wong’s FAC is SUSTAINED with ten (10)  days leave to amend as to the second cause of action. 