 Case Number:  23STCV10659    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  74 Gerardo
Garcia Espinosa and Gemima Luna Reyes v. Ford Motor Company 
Defendant Ford Motor Company’s
Motion for Entry of Protective Order.
 
BACKGROUND 
            This
motion arises from a breach of warranty claim for negligent repair. 
            On
May 12, 2023, plaintiffs Gerardo Garcia Espinosa and Gemima Luna Reyes
(Plaintiffs) filed a complaint for breach of express warranty against defendant
Ford Motor Company (Defendant). 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
¿      Parties must “promptly” move for a
protective order, generally, parties must seek the protective order before
expiration of the time required for a response. 
(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.060, subd. (a); Willis v. Superior Court
(1980) 112 Cal.App.3d 277, 289, fn. 5.) A protective order may be granted to
protect any party or expert from “unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment,
oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.250, subd.
(b).)  This includes “trade secret[s] or other confidential research,
development or commercial information.” 
(Id., subd. (b)(5).) Good cause must be shown for the protective
order, and the issuance and formulation of the protective order is in the
Court’s discretion.  (See, e.g., Mercury
Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 106-7; Raymond
Handling Concepts Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584,
588.) 
“A
party seeking the protective order must show by a preponderance of the evidence
that the issuance of a protective order is proper.”  (Stadish v. Superior Court (1999) 71
Cal.App.4th 1130, 1145.) If “good cause” is shown, the court may grant whatever
relief is just, including: (1) quashing the demand because it was not timely
served; (2) changing the date or place for the exchange of expert witness
information; (3) specifying terms and conditions for the exchange to proceed;
(4) dividing the parties into sides on the basis of their interests in the
action, and designating which retained experts shall be deemed employed by each
side; and (5) ordering any party or side to reduce the number of expert witnesses
designated by that party or side. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.250, subd.
(b).) 
 
DISCUSSION  
Timeliness
Parties
must “promptly” move for a protective order, generally, parties must seek the
protective order before expiration of the time required for a response.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.060, subd. (a); Willis
v. Superior Court (1980) 112 Cal.App.3d 277, 289, fn. 5.) Plaintiffs served
the discovery seeking the purportedly confidential information in November
2023.  Defendant claims that they began
discovery responses on January 5, 2024, provided supplemental responses on
April 2, 2024, and July 12, 2024, and intend to provide additional supplemental
responses. Defendant filed the motion for protective order on July 17, 2024. The
Court finds that the motion was filed “promptly” after an agreement could not
be reached between the parties regarding the protective order. 
 
Merits
Defendant
requests a protective order be issued to modify Paragraph 7 to (1) define
affiliated attorney’s to include the office personnel who have access to
confidential documents; (2) to include videographers and litigation support
companies in section (d); (3) to remove sub-section (g); (4) to include
non-attorney’s with experts and require that Defendant’s documents not be shown
to competitors; in Paragraph 8 to (5) provide that the receiving party does not
post any confidential documents to an website or advertise Defendant’s documents
and for sale; in Paragraph 21 to (6) clarify the process for destruction or
return of Defendant’s confidential documents.
            Defendant
must show that there is good cause for a protective order and that there is
good cause to modify the LASC model protective order.  Defendant argues that the protective order is
warranted to protect trade secrets, including how Defendant classifies customer
concerns and when it decides to elevate customer concerns to improve their
customer care techniques and processes, warranty policies, and repurchasing
procedures.  Defendant alleges that this
information would benefit competitors who would not be obligated to develop
their own processes for customer communications, warranty policies, and
repurchasing procedures.  (Doss Decl., ¶¶
10, 11, 12.)  Defendant also alleges that
these manuals were the product of time and significant cost and are unreleased
and unique to Defendant.  (Id.)
            Defendant
successfully shows that these manuals represent trade secrets and a protective
order is warranted. 
            
a.      Paragraph 7
Defendant
requests that Paragraph 7 be amended 7 to (1) define affiliated attorneys to
including only attorneys in the same firm and include the office personnel who
have access to confidential documents; (2) to include videographers and
litigation support companies in section (d); (3) to remove subsection (g)[1]; (4) to
include non-attorney’s with experts and require that Defendant’s documents not
be shown to competitors.
Generally,
the Court’s Model Protective Order is not modified unless a showing of good
cause for additional protections is necessary. 
As part of that showing, Defendant needs to identify why the model
protections are insufficient for their particular documents.  Defendant would need to allege a heightened
need for privacy for their confidential material than other materials typically
subject to the LASC Model Protective Order. 
Defendant has not established that the generally accepted LASC Model
Protective Order is insufficient to protect their confidential materials. 
The
Court declines to modify paragraph 7.
 
b.      Paragraph 8
Defendant
requests that Paragraph 8 be revised to include a specific provision stating
that the documents are not posted online where third parties may access, and
that they not be offered for sale, advertised, or publicized.  
Defendant
does not provide good cause for need additional protection when Paragraph 8
already requires that the “Confidential Materials shall be used by the persons
receiving them only for… the Proceeding, and not for any business or other
purpose whatsoever.”  
The
Court declines to revise Paragraph 8.
 
c.       Paragraph 21
Defendant
requests that Paragraph 21 be revised to require that Plaintiffs destroy or
return all files, not allowing Plaintiffs to maintain a copy for their
files.  
Defendant
does not provide good cause for the need for all files to be returned if
Plaintiffs’ maintaining of a complete copy for their files would still require
that the documents be protected in compliance with the protective order. 
The
Court declines to revise Paragraph 21.
 
CONCLUSION 
The
court denies Defendant’s motion for a protective order.
Defendant shall give
notice.


