  Case Number:  20STCV19951    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  74 Ruth
Getachew v. Moscatel Enterprise LLC et al.
Plaintiff’s Motion for Determination
of Contingency Fees, Attorney’s Fees, Costs and Revocation of Retainer
Agreement
 
BACKGROUND 
            Plaintiff
Ruth Getachew (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against defendant Moscatel
Enterprise, LLC (Defendant).  Defendant
and Plaintiff reached a settlement, but when Defendant failed to pay, Plaintiff
filed a motion to enforce the settlement. 
A judgement for $43,960 was entered on June 29, 2022, which included
$3,900.00 in attorney’s fees and $60.00 in costs.  
Plaintiff’s
Counsel attempted to enforce the judgement, but Defendants have made no
payments. 
On
October 31, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel’s (Counsel) motion to be relieved as
counsel of record was granted.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
¿¿            An
attorney may enter into a contingency fee contract with a client so long as the
contract contains: “(1) A statement of the contingency fee rate that the client
and attorney have agreed upon; (2) A statement as to how disbursements and
costs incurred in connection with prosecution or settlement of the claim will
affect the contingency fee and the client’s recovery; (3) A statement as to
what extent, if any, the client could be required to pay compensation to the
attorney for related matters . . . not covered by their contingency fee
contract”; and (4) “a statement that the fee is not set by law but is
negotiable between attorney and client.” 
(Bus. & Prof. § 6147(a).) If a contingency fee contract fails to
comply with any of the legal requirements, the agreement is voidable, and the
lawyer is entitled to collect a reasonable fee. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 6147(b).)
            “An
unconscionable contract ordinarily involves both a procedural and a substantive
element: (1) oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, and (2)
overly harsh or one-sided results.”  (Donovan
v. Rrl Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 261, 291.) 
Unconscionability is determined at the time the contract was entered
into.  (Morris v. Redwood Empire
Bancorp (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1316.)
 
DISCUSSION  
            A
retainer agreement was signed by both parties on March 3, 2024.  It includes (1) a statement of the
contingency fee rate, (2) a statement how costs affect recovery, (3) no
statement expanding compensation to related matters, and (4) a statement that
the contingency fee is negotiable. Plaintiff alleges that the original
contingency fee agreement was unconscionable and that Counsel’s motion to be
relieved as counsel was a breach of contract, and therefore she does not owe
the 44% contingency fee or costs. 
 
1)      Unconscionability of the Contingency
Fee Contract 
The
unconscionability of a contract is typically evaluated at the time the contract
was formed. The retainer agreement complies with the Business and Professions
Code § 6147.  Plaintiff argues that the
44% of the recovery and the $6,193.53 in costs is unreasonable and
unconscionable given the amount of the stipulated judgement. The court finds no
unconscionability. 
 
2)      Breach of Contract and Withdrawal
Plaintiff
argues that Counsel breached the Retainer Agreement when they were relieved as
counsel. 
Counsel
filed a motion to be relieved as counsel after securing a settlement, followed
by substantial expenditure attempting to enforce the judgement. The retainer
agreement between the parties entitles Counsel to 44% of the gross recovery if
a suit is filed and there is recovery.  Counsel
performed their duties under the contract, and, therefore, they are entitled to
attorney’s fees.  Counsel’s motion to be
relieved as counsel was not a breach of contract because Counsel had already
performed under the contract. 
Additionally,
the Contingency fee requires the client to reimburse Counsel for expenditures
that Counsel advanced on behalf of the client. 
Plaintiff includes the “Client Costs Advanced” billing document, which
appropriately entitled Counsel to $6,195.53 in costs under the Contingency Fee
contract.  This obligation to pay costs
is not contingent upon payment of judgement and Plaintiff is obligated to
reimburse Counsel for costs incurred during litigation. 
CONCLUSION 
The
court denies Plaintiff’s motion for determination of contingency fees, attorney
fees, costs and revocation of retainer agreement.
Defendants
shall give notice.