 Case Number:  24TRCV00649    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ANTONIO
  ZARAGOZA, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00649




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
THE
  PICERNE GROUP, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          September
17, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants The Picerne Group, Inc. and Wallcraft Drywall,
Inc.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Antonio Zaragoza
Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
first and second causes of action in the FAC.
            Defendants are ordered to file an
answer within twenty days. 
BACKGROUND
            On February 23, 2024, Antonio
Zaragoza filed a complaint against The Picerne Group, Inc. and Wallcraft
Drywall Inc. for (1) negligent hiring, supervision, or retention of employees
and (2) negligence.
            On June 25, 2024, the Court
sustained with leave to amend defendants’ demurrer to the first and second
causes of action.
            On July 15, 2024, plaintiff filed a
FAC for (1) negligent hiring, supervision, or retention of employees and (2)
negligence.
 
            On July 31, 2024, plaintiff filed an
amendment designating Mario De La Torre dba De La Torre Construction as Doe 1.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendants The Picerne Group, Inc.
and Wallcraft Drywall, Inc. demur to the first and second causes of action in
the FAC on the grounds that they fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a
cause of action because they are barred by the Privette doctrine. 
The FAC alleges that on March 3,
2022, plaintiff was employed by Trencore Plastering, Inc. to provide stucco,
plastering, and/or other work to the exterior of a building under construction located
at 24000 Crenshaw Blvd., Torrance.  FAC, ¶1.  Defendant The Picerne Group, Inc. was the
general contractor at the worksite. 
Picerne retained control over the safety at the worksite and
interactions between contractors. 
Picerne held daily meetings with defendants concerning safety protocols
at the worksite, instructing, directing, managing, and/or coordinating
defendants’ actions at the worksite. 
Id., ¶2.  Defendant Wallcraft
Drywall, Inc. was a subcontractor responsible for drywalling at the
worksite.  Id., ¶3.  Defendant De La Torre Construction, a
subcontractor, was delegated by Wallcraft Drywll to perform scrapping work at
the worksite.  However, Wallcraft Drywall
retained control over the manner of performance of some part of the scrapping
work entrusted to De La Torre Construction, including instructing, coordinating,
delegating, supervising, and/or managing this work.  Id., ¶4. 

The FAC further alleges that in
their respective capacities at the worksite, defendants were required to
create, implement, execute, and/or follow safety protocols to protect workers
at the worksite, including restricting interactions between workers contracted
to work in the interior of the building with workers contracted to work on the
exterior of the building; clearly designating a safety barricade to make
workers aware of dangerous areas at the worksite, including disposal sites for
scraps and waste; instructing workers to guard or spot the disposal site;
and/or otherwise safely removing scraps or other waste at the worksite.  Id., ¶5. 
Defendants failed to create, implement, execute, and/or follow these
safety protocols, creating a dangerous environment at the worksite.  Id., ¶6. 

The FAC further alleges that on
March 3, 2022, De La Torre Construction performed scrapping work at the
worksite, including the removal of drywall scraps from the interior of the
building.  Id., ¶7.  Defendants failed to barricade an area or
otherwise warn workers of the disposal site for drywall scraps, failed to
designate an employee to act as a spotter for the disposal site, and failed to
follow other safety protocols to protect workers at the worksite.  Rather, defendants instructed and/or
permitted De La Torre Construction to throw drywall scraps from a fifth-floor
balcony to the ground without warning or a spotter, endangering workers near
the exterior of the building.  Id., ¶8.
The FAC further alleges that on
March 3, 2022, at 9:30 a.m., plaintiff climbed a ladder to access scaffolding
on the exterior of the worksite.  There
were no warnings, tape, signs, or spotters present to indicate that the area
was a disposal site.  Without warning,
employees of De La Torre Construction threw large scraps of drywall from the
fifth floor balcony, landing on plaintiff below.  Id., ¶9. 
Plaintiff was struck in the head by a sheet of drywall.  The impact threw him from the ladder to the
ground.  Id., ¶10.  As a result of defendants’ negligence,
plaintiff suffered severe personal injuries. 
Id., ¶11.
Defendants argue that the causes of
action are barred by the Privette doctrine and the exclusive remedy of
worker’s compensation as set forth in Labor Code §3602.  Defendants explain that Privette v.
Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal. 4th 689 holds that if an employee
of an independent contractor hired to do work suffers a work-related injury,
the hirer is generally not liable for on-the-job injuries to the independent
contractor’s workers, and that an employee injured in the course and scope of
performance is already entitled to recover from their employer under the state
worker’s compensation system.  Defendants
note that the Privette doctrine has been extended to apply to general
contractors.  Defendants contend that as
alleged, Picerne was the general contractor and that under Privette it
would generally not be liable for plaintiff’s injuries on the understanding
that plaintiff’s employer (Trencore Plastering) is responsible for his
work-related injuries through the worker’s compensation system as his employer
is responsible for supervising plaintiff and had a direct duty to him to comply
with the standard of care in ensuring his safety.  As to Wallcraft, defendants argue, it should
also fall within the scope of Privette because plaintiff alleges that it hired
De La Torre and delegated its demolition duties to De La Torre, and thus cannot
be held liable for any alleged negligence by De La Torre.  Defendants also argue that none of the Privette
doctrine exceptions apply, including concealed hazard and retained
control.  As to retained control
exception, defendants contend that the allegations do not rise to the level of
“affirmative control” necessary to invoke the exception.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the Privette doctrine does not apply because plaintiff is seeking
to hold defendants directly liable that they breached duties owed to plaintiff
and that the breaches were a substantial factor in plaintiff’s harm.  Further, plaintiff argues, he has adequately
pleaded the retained control exception under Privette.
In reply, defendants reiterate that
Privette applies, and that plaintiff has not adequately pled an
exception.  
The Court rules as follows:  “The Privette doctrine holds that a
hirer generally delegates to an independent contractor all responsibility for
workplace safety and is not liable for injuries sustained by the contractor or
its workers while on the job.”  Gonzalez
v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 40.  There are, however, two exceptions to the Privette
doctrine.  “The first exception . . . is
usually referred to as the retained control exception.  It applies if:  (1) the hirer retains control over the manner
in which the contractor performs the work; (2) the hirer actually exercises its
retained control by involving itself in the work such that the contractor is
not entirely free to do the work in its own manner; and (2) the hirer’s
exercise of retained control affirmatively contributes to the worker’s injury.
. . . The second exception . . . is usually referred to as the concealed hazard
exception.  If applies if the hirer is
also an owner or possessor of land, and if ‘the landowner knew, or should have
known, of a latent or concealed preexisting hazardous condition on its
property, the contractor did not know and could not have reasonably discovered
this hazardous condition, and the landowner failed to warn the contractor about
this condition.’”  Miller v. Roseville
Lodge No. 1293 (2022) 83 Cal. App. 5th 825, 833-34 (citations
omitted).
“Affirmative contribution occurs
where a general contractor is actively involved in, or asserts control over,
the manner of performance of the contracted work.  Such an assertion of control occurs, for
example, when the principal employer directs that the contracted work be done
by use of a certain mode or otherwise interferes with the means and methods by
which the work is to be accomplished.”  Millard
v. Biosources, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal. App. 4th 1338, 1348 (citations
omitted).  The “failure to institute particular safety measures
at the jobsite is also not actionable absent some evidence that [defendants]
had agreed to implement such measures.”  Ruiz
v. Herman Weissker, Inc. (2005) 130 Cal. App. 4th 52, 66.  The failure to exercise retained control does
not constitute an affirmative contribution to an injury.  Such affirmative contribution must be based on
a “negligent exercise of control.”  Id.

The Court finds the allegations in
the FAC are sufficient at the pleading stage to meet the elements that
plaintiff’s claims fall within the retained control exception to the Privette
doctrine.  The allegations are sufficient
to show that defendants retained a sufficient degree of authority over the
safety of the work and that defendants exercised that control in a manner that
affirmatively contributed to plaintiff's injury.  See FAC, ¶¶2, 4, 5, 6.  Under the first cause of action for premises
liability, plaintiff further alleges that defendants so negligently and
carelessly constructed, inspected, maintained, contracted, subcontracted,
engineered, designed, owned or controlled the subject premises and/or failed to
properly train, direct, supervise or coordinated its employees and operations
at the worksite.  FAC, ¶23.  Picerne Group retained control over the
safety and interactions between contractors. 
Picerne Group’s conduct in carrying out its duties at the worksite
affirmatively contributed to plaintiff’s injuries.  Id., ¶24. 
Wallcraft Drywall retained control over the scrapping work at the
worksite.  Wallcraft Drywall’s conduct in
carrying out its duties at the worksite affirmatively contributed to
plaintiff’s injuries.  Id., ¶25.  Under the second cause of action for
negligence, plaintiff alleges that defendants were required to create,
implement, execute, and/or follow safety protocols to protect workers at the
worksite.  Id., ¶29.  Defendants so negligently and carelessly
constructed, inspected, maintained, contracted, subcontracted, engineered,
designed, owned or controlled the subject premises and/or failed to properly
train, direct, supervise or coordinated its employees and operations at the worksite.  Id., ¶30. 
Defendants failed to create, implement, execute, and/or follow these
safety protocols, creating a dangerous environment at the worksite.  Id., ¶31. 
See also pars. ¶¶32, 33.
            The demurrer is thus OVERRULED.
 
ORDER

            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
first and second causes of action in the FAC.
Defendants are ordered to file
answers within twenty days.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of ruling.