  Case Number:  21STCV14842    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BROADCAST
  MUSIC, INC 
  
           Plaintiff in Interpleader 
 
                           
         vs.
 
ALEXANDER
  COLLIN BAKER, et al. 
 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  21STCV14842
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  September 25, 2024



 
Clara
Veseliza Baker aka Clair Marlo’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
 
On 4/20/2021,
Broadcast Music, Inc (BMI) filed an complaint in interpleader against Alexander
Collin Baker (Baker), Clara Veseliza Baker aka Clair Marlo, and Adam Bravery,
LLC (Bravery, LLC). 
 
On 8/17/2021,
Baker and Bravery, LLC filed a cross-complaint (XC) against BMI and Erika
Stallings, alleging: (1) declaratory judgment; (2) declaratory judgment; (3)
breach of contract; (4) breach of fiduciary duty; (5) constructive fraud; (6)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (7) fraudulent inducement.
 
On 7/1/2024,
Clara Veseliza Baker aka Clair Marlo (Marlo) moved for summary judgment of this
Interpleader Action. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Marlo
seeks summary judgment of this action on the grounds that no triable issues
remain. 
 
            Here,
this Interpleader Action was filed by BMI as a result of disputes between
ex-spouses Baker and Marlo over the proper distribution of community music
royalties. In support of her contention that no triable issues remain as to
BMI’s proper distribution of the royalties, Marlo submitted evidence that the
November 7, 2022 Family Court Judgment made the following findings: 
 
(1)  Baker
is not entitled to receive any music royalties from the community estate;
(Exhibit A, p,162, ¶201)
 
(2)  To
the extent Baker would ordinarily be entitled to a 50% share of music royalties
from the community estate, such share was reallocated to Marlo in reimbursement
of sums owed by Baker and as a sanction against Baker under Family Code
§271(c); (Exhibit A, p,162, ¶201)
 
(3)  The
Family court specifically ordered that royalty paying organizations, such as
BMI, were directed to pay all royalties from the community estate “on hand or
earned in the future” to Marlo; (Exhibit A, p,163, ¶207)
 
(4)  When
making these orders, the Family court had specific knowledge of the fact that
various royalty paying organizations, including BMI, were holding certain
royalty amounts pending the outcome of the proceedings in Family court and that
BMI had filed the instant interpleader action; (Exhibit A, p,143, ¶131)
 
As such, the
Family Court found the Court’s primary jurisdiction over community property,
such that Baker only assigned his right to receive payment and the Family court
retained the power to arrange and allocate community property as necessary.
(Exhibit A – p.163, ¶208)
 
The Family
court determined that Baker’s royalty assignments to Write Hear, LLC and
subsequently to Adam Bravery, LLC were both dependent upon Baker’s initial
right to receive payment. Exercising its power to arrange and allocate
community property, the Family court reallocated Baker’s right to receive
payment – before either Baker royalty assignment could be triggered – to Marlo
in consideration of both the reimbursement amounts that Baker owes Marlo and as
a sanction against Baker. Thus, the reallocation of community royalties
indirectly resolves the issue of this Interpleader action, i.e., Baker’s 50%
share of the community royalties through BMI are payable to Marlo, including
those currently being held and on deposit with the Court. The Family Court acknowledged
this, writing “the Baker royalty assignments “are of no import because, in
effect, the entirety of the Community Royalties Estate is ultimately awarded to
[Marlo] for payment of the Reimbursement Sum and Sanctions … save for his
separate property interests as set forth in the Song List.” (Exhibit A – p.164,
¶208)
 
In
opposition, Baker argues that the Family Court Judgment is only effective from
the November 7, 2022 date of entry. As a result, Baker argues that the money
being held by BMI, to the extent accrued prior to the date of the Judgment,
should be paid to Adam Bravery.
 
Pursuant to
California Family Code §2601, “Where economic circumstances warrant, the court
may award an asset of the community estate to one party on such conditions as
the court deems proper to effect a substantially equal division of the
community estate.” This has been interpreted to allow a family court judgment
to award one spouse's share of community property to the other spouse,
effective from the date of legal separation. 
 
Applying this
statute, California courts have held that a family court has the authority in
its judgment to assign entire community assets, including shares of businesses
or community property interests, to one spouse, in order to effectuate an equal
division dating back to the separation date. (See, In re Marriage of Hug
(1984) 154 Cal.App.3d 780.) 
 
Based on
review of the Family Court Judgment, the Court does not see any demarcation
between royalties earned before and after the date of Judgment. As such, the
Court sees no basis for limiting the effect of the Family Law Judgment, and
interprets it to apply from the date of separation. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Marlo’s motion for summary judgment is granted. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
             