 Case Number:  24STCV01900    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LILLIAN H. MICHAELS, in and through her
  Guardian Ad Litem, John Michael,
  
        
  vs.
 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA HOSPITAL AT CULVER
  CITY, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV01900    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 25, 2024




 
Defendants’
demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.
 
The request
to dismiss Plaintiff’s FAC is denied. 
 
            On
1/24/2024, Plaintiff Lillian H. Michaels, in and through her Guardian Ad Litem,
John Michael (Plaintiff) initiated this action. 
 
On 8/6/2024,
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (SAC) against Southern California
Hospital at Culver City, Southern California Healthcare System, Inc. dba
Southern California Hospital at Culver City, and Alta Hospitals System, LLC
(Alta) (collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1) elder abuse; (2) negligence;
and (3) willful misconduct.
 
Now, Defendants
demur to Plaintiff’s FAC.
 
Discussion 
 
            As
a preliminary matter, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s FAC must be dismissed
because Plaintiff failed to timely serve and file an amended complaint after
this Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action with
leave to amend. Indeed, pursuant to the Court’s 7/5/24 Minute Order, Plaintiff
had until 7/22/24 to serve her FAC. Plaintiff did not serve the FAC on
Defendant until 7/26/24 and did not file it until 8/6/24. 
 
            However,
the Court was closed on 7/22/24 due to the ransomware attack. As such, the
delay was legitimately caused, at least in part, by the ransomware attack.
While Defendants are correct that this does not explain the failure to file the
FAC until 8/6/24, there is no dispute that Plaintiff had served Defendant with
the FAC by 7/26/24. As such, to strike the FAC as untimely would only result in
further delay. Accordingly, the Court in its discretion denies the request to
the strike the pleading and dismiss this action. However, in the future,
Plaintiff is to abide by all filing deadlines. 
 
            As
for the substance of Defendants’ demurrer, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has
failed to state a claim for elder abuse. 
 
            After
review, the Court disagrees. 
 
            The
Court previously sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the original Complaint,
writing: 
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants: (1) pushed Plaintiff to perform exercises in
physical therapy sessions despite her diagnosis of bursitis and complaints of
pain, (2) failed to document her fall which occurred on July 8, 2022 and failed
to report it to the physician resulting in her undergoing surgical debridement,
(3) understaffed and undertrained nursing staff, and (4) violated regulatory
provisions of C.C.R. §§ 70215, 70217, and 70263. Even accepted as true, these
allegations could not show neglect or abuse. Rather, they show negligence. 
 
            (Minute
Order 7/5/24.)
 
            Now,
however, Plaintiff has expanded her allegations to include facts which could
show failure to protect from health and safety hazards. (See Welf. &
Inst. Code § 15610.57(b).) More specifically, Plaintiff alleges:
 
During her
admission, Ms. MICHAELS made progress in physical therapy. By June 14, 2022,
she was able to walk 80 feet with a front wheel walker (FWW) and contact guard
assist (CGA). She was able to go from sit to stand and stand to sit with stand
by assist (SBA).
 
On June 14,
2022, prior to the start of the late afternoon session, Ms. MICHAELS complained
of 8/10 pain level in her right hip to DEFENDANTS’ physical therapist. She
described the nature of the pain as aching and sore, aggravated by
standing/stairs and decrease by immobilization and sitting. Despite her
reported pain, DEFENDANTS wheeled her to the rehab gym to do physical therapy
without pain medication. She was pushed to do stair training using right hand
rail ascending.
 
For the next
several days Ms. MICHAELS complained to DEFENDANTS’ nursing staff and physical
therapists of 10/10 pain level in her right hip. While Ms. MICHAELS had
complained of pain in the past, this was a significant change in condition
since she was complaining of 10/10 pain. Since it was a change of condition,
DEFEDANTS were required to notify her physician and her family as soon as
possible. DEFENDANTS failed to do so, thereby failing to provide Ms. MICHAELS
with timely, necessary medical treatment.
 
DEFENDANTS’
physical therapist continued to have her do stair exercises despite complaints
of pain in her right hip. DEFENDANTS’ physical therapists even noted her “pain,
aggravated by hip flexion especially in stair training and decrease by
immobilization and heating pad.” This was still in spite of being premedicated
for pain an hour before the physical therapy session.
 
Given the
severity of her pain level, Ms. MICHAELS’ daughter insisted that an MRI be done
on her right hip. An MRI of Ms. MICHAELS’ right hip was performed on June 17,
2022, which showed a 4.2 cm fluid collection along the proximal femoral
diaphysis adjacent to the hardware from a prior hip surgery, consistent with
bursitis.
 
There is no
indication in DEFENDANTS’ medical chart that their nursing staff communicated
the diagnosis of bursitis to the rehabilitation department.
 
On June 20,
2022, Ms. MICHAELS complained of 9/10 pain level in her right hip. Despite
these complaints, DEFENDANTS’ physical therapy assistant (PTA) continued with
stair training. During this session, DEFENDANTS’ PTA noted Ms. MICHAELS audibly
moans and groans secondary to pain in right hip. The PTA suggested she use her
left lower extremity to ascend however the patient reports she is unable to do
so. The PTA indicated that Ms. MICHAELS required frequent rest breaks in
between ambulation trials and stair trials secondary to pain.
 
Between June
20, 2022, and July 7, 2022, Ms. MICHAELS continued to complain of 8-9 out of 10
level pain in her right hip to DEFENDANTS’ nursing staff and physical
therapists. When someone complains of 9/10 pain while doing a certain movement
or exercise, the DEFENDANTS were required to stop the treatment and ask the
physician for alternative orders or ask the director of rehabilitation for
alternative methods of therapy for the patient. The family was never informed
that Ms. MICHAELS’ pain was continuing at such a high level after she had the
MRI performed on June 17, 2022.
 
On June 27,
2022, in the morning session, Ms. MICHAELS told DEFENDANTS’ physical therapist
that she was in too much pain to continue with stair training after recently
doing 10 stairs. In the afternoon session, she again stated she did not want to
do stair training because of the pain she experienced in her right hip.
 
On June 28,
2022, DEFENDANTS tried to make Ms. MICHAELS do stair training again but were
unsuccessful because of the pain she was experiencing, despite being
pre-medicated.
 
On June 29,
2022, Ms. MICHAELS was once again unable to participate in any stair training
in the morning due to her pain level. In the afternoon session, Ms. MICHAELS
refused to use the stairs due to pain.
 
On July 4,
2022, DEFENDANTS tried to get Ms. MICHAELS to participate in stair training
again. She once again declined to participate due to her pain.
 
On July 5,
2022, Ms. MICHAELS climbed 5 stairs but refused to participate in doing any
more in the morning session. During the afternoon, Ms. MICHAELS refused to do
any more stair training because of the pain
 
On July 7,
2022, Ms. MICHAELS refused again to participate in stair training. By this
point, Ms. MICHAELS had mostly refused to participate in stair training for two
weeks. DEFENDANTS knew she was experiencing ongoing, moderate-to-extreme pain
in her right hip, and even while being pre-medicated, was still unable and
unwilling to participate in stair training due to the pain.
 
…
 
On July 8,
2022, in the afternoon, DEFENDANTS took Ms. MICHAELS through another physical
therapy session. In this session, DEFENDANTS convinced Ms. MICHAELS to climb
stairs again. During the session, Ms. MICHAELS climbed to the 9th stair. This
was the most stairs she had climbed since June 27, 2022. While at the top of
the stair, Ms. MICHAELS experienced entirely predictable weakness. As a result
of this most likely scenario, Ms. MICHAELS’ legs buckled, causing her to fall.
 
            (FAC
¶¶ 23-38.)
 
            Accepted
as true, these allegations are sufficient at the pleadings state to state a
claim for elder neglect.  More
specifically, these facts could show that Defendants knew Ms. Michaels was in
severe pain and that the physical exercises would not alleviate this pain, and
with knowledge of the serious danger and harm the exercises could pose to her,
continued to subject her to the physical therapy sessions. 
 
            Moreover,
while Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not allege sufficient facts to show
ratification, such specifics facts are contemplated by the discovery process.
Indeed, it would be an insurmountable hurdle if Plaintiff were expected to
allege specific facts showing ratification without the benefit of discovery.
Here, Plaintiff alleges that: “The acts and omissions of DEFENDANTS were
ratified by DEFENDANTS’ managing agents. At all relevant times, the reference
to “managing agent,” for purposes of managing agent ratification is used as
that term is defined in California Approved Jury Instructions (CACI) 3102B.
Pursuant to CACI 3102B, “an employee is a ‘managing agent’ if he or she
exercises substantial independent authority and judgment in his or her
corporate decision making so that his or her decisions ultimately determine
corporate policy.”  (FAC ¶ 55.) This is
sufficient at the pleading stage.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to dismiss is denied. Defendants’ demurrer
is overruled. In light of this ruling, Defendant’s motion to strike is denied. 
 
            
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 