

 
Defendants 7520 S. Broadway, LLC,
Haresh Jogani, and J.K. Properties, Inc. seek to quash service of summons,
contending that Plaintiffs failed to serve them properly.  Their agent for service of process, Ritesh
Desai, states that he is the only person authorized to accept service of
process for the entity Defendants.
The proofs of service at issue
indicate substituted service upon “John Doe receptionist Male Hispanic 31-35
years old; 215 lbs.; black hair; brown eyes” at 2016 Riverside Dr. Los Angeles,
CA 90039, which Desai states is his address as well as the business
address.  
A defendant may move to quash
service of summons on the ground the Court lacks personal jurisdiction.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(a)(1).)  “Although the defendant is the moving party,
the plaintiff must carry the initial burden of demonstrating facts by a
preponderance of evidence justifying the exercise of jurisdiction in
California.”  (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I and II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
100, 110.) 
Code Civ. Proc. § 415.20(a) states
that “[i]n lieu of personal delivery of a copy of the summons and complaint to
the person to be served as specified in Section 416.10, 416.20, 416.30, 416.40,
or 416.50, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and
complaint during usual office hours in his or her office or, if no physical
address is known, at his or her usual mailing address, other than a United
States Postal Service post office box, with the person who is apparently in
charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint
by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place
where a copy of the summons and complaint were left. When service is effected
by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at a mailing address, it shall
be left with a person at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the
contents thereof. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the
10th day after the mailing.”
Code Civ. Proc. § 415.20(b) states,
“If a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be
personally delivered to the person to be served, as specified in Section
416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of
the summons and complaint at the person's dwelling house, usual place of abode,
usual place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United States
Postal Service post office box, in the presence of a competent member of the
household or a person apparently in charge of his or her office, place of
business, or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service
post office box, at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the
contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the
complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at
the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left. Service of a
summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing.”
“A
plaintiff may serve individual defendants through substitute service when they
cannot be personally served with reasonable diligence. (§ 415.20, subd. (b); American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara,
at p. 390, 131 Cal.Rptr.3d 99.) The plaintiff may effect substitute service of
a summons and complaint by leaving a copy of the documents at the defendant's
‘usual place of business’ with a person at least 18 years old who is
‘apparently in charge of his or her office [or] place of business,’ and
thereafter mailing a copy of the documents to the same place. (§ 415.20, subd.
(b).) ‘Two or three attempts to personally serve a defendant at a proper place
ordinarily qualifies as reasonable diligence.’ ”  (Rodriguez
v. Cho (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 742, 750.)
Here, Plaintiffs have adequately
shown that service was rendered at the Defendants’ business address upon a
receptionist and then the subject papers were mailed to the same place.  Indeed, “substitute service on entity defendants may be effected by
leaving summons with secretaries, receptionists, doorkeepers, or other persons
‘apparently in charge’ of the premises [ ]. They need not be authorized to
accept summons on defendant's behalf.” 
(Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Guide 2023) Ch. 4-D.)  For Jogani, the place of service was
similarly listed as his business address with the Secretary of State, and an
adequate declaration of diligence was provided. 
Additionally, Defendants ultimately obtained notice of this action.
Because service was proper, the
Motions to Quash are denied.  An answer
is to be filed within 20 days.
Moving party to give notice.
If
counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear
by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 