  Case Number:  22AHCV00411    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
10, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE: May 7, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         MIKAYEL
ISRAYELYAN, an individual, v. KRIKOR BARDAKJIAN, an individual; 485 CLIFF DR,
LLC, a California limited liability company, and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive.
 
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00411
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Mikayel Israyelyan
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed January 18, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff moves for summary
adjudication as to his claim for quiet title. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Mikayel
Israyelyan’s (“Plaintiffs”) claim that Defendant Krikor Bardakjian
(“Defendant”) improperly transferred property held by 485 Cliff Dr, LLC to
himself. Plaintiff alleges that he and Defendant were both 50 percent members
of 485 Cliff Dr, LLC and worked to purchase, invest in, and renovate property
located at 485 Cliff Drive, Pasadena, California, 91107 (“Subject Property”).
Plaintiff filed this complaint on June 24, 2022, alleging two causes of action
for (1) quiet title and (2) declaratory relief. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for summary adjudication as to his claim for quiet title is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s interest in the Subject Property is determined to be
50 percent.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “A party may move for summary judgment in an
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code of Civil Procedure
section 473c subd. (a)(1).) “The motion for summary judgment shall be granted
if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter
of law.” (Code of Civil Procedures section 473c subd. (c).) 
 
 “[W]here the plaintiff has
also moved for summary judgment—or, as in this case, summary adjudication—that
party has the burden of showing there is no defense to a cause of
action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a).) That burden can be met
if the plaintiff “has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the
party to judgment on that cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(1).) If the plaintiff meets this burden, it is up to the defendant
“to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (S.B.C.C., Inc. v. St. Paul Fire
& Marine Ins. Co. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 383, 388.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff moves for summary adjudication as to his cause of action for
quiet title of the Subject Property.
 
“To prevail on a quiet title claim,
a plaintiff must establish title to the property in dispute. [Citation.] ‘The
plaintiff may recover only upon the strength of his or her own title ... and
not upon the weakness of the defendant's title. Where the plaintiff relies on a
paper title alone he must trace his title (1) to the government; or (2) to
grantor in possession at the time of the conveyance to the plaintiff; or (3) to
a source common to the chains of title of plaintiff and defendant.’ ” (Thompson
v. Ioane (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1180, 1195.) “As a plaintiff moving for
summary judgment on a quiet title claim, [the plaintiff] bore the burden to
make out a prima facie case of ownership.” (Ibid.)
 
“In order to quiet title, a
plaintiff's complaint ‘must include’ all of the following as elements of the
claim: (1) a description of the property that is the subject of the action; (2)
the title of the plaintiff as to which a determination is sought and the basis
of the title; (3) ‘[t]he adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against
which a determination is sought’; (4) the date as of which the determination is
sought; and (5) a prayer for the determination of plaintiff's title ‘against
the adverse claims.’ ” (Weeden v. Hoffman (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 269,
294.) 
 
Plaintiff argues that he was
wrongfully denied his 50 percent interest in the Subject Property when
Defendant transferred the property from 485 Cliff Dr, LLC to himself. Plaintiff
provides that in 2018, Defendant approached him with the idea to purchase the
Subject Property to renovate and “flip” it. (Israyelyan Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) Plaintiff provides that on July 6,
2018, the parties formed 485 Cliff Dr, LLC to purchase the Subject Property. (Id.
¶ 5.) On August 28, 2018, 485 Cliff Dr, LLC purchased the Subject Property.
(Id. ¶ 6, Exhibits B and C.)  The
parties brought in a third-party investor, Manuel Tchaboukian, who provided
additional funds for membership interest in 485 Cliff. Dr, LLC. (Id. ¶
9.) The parties ultimately purchased Tchaboukian’s membership interest in the
business. (Id. ¶ 11.) 
 
Plaintiff provides that at relevant times, he and Defendant were
both 50 percent members of 485 Cliff Dr, LLC, including as listed on the
organization’s 2020 and 2021 tax returns. (Israyelyan Decl. ¶¶ 13, 16, and 17.)
Plaintiff provides that on April 16, 2021, Defendant transferred the Subject
Property from 485 Cliff Dr, LLC to himself by grant deed without Plaintiff’s
consent. (Id. ¶ 19, Exhibit L.) 
 
Plaintiff has demonstrated that he was a 50 percent member of 485
Cliff Dr, LLC, who was the owner of the Subject Property. Plaintiff also
established that Defendant transferred the Subject Property from 485 Cliff Dr,
LLC to himself without Plaintiff’s permission. Plaintiff also provides that he
did not receive compensation or reimbursement for purchase or renovation of the
property. (Israyelyan Decl. ¶ 23.) Further, Defendants have failed to oppose
the present motion and have failed to raise a triable issue of material fact. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication as to his claim for
quiet title is granted. Plaintiff’s interest in the Subject Property is
determined to be 50 percent.
 
Plaintiff also moves for a judgment on “further relief as is just
and proper.” (Motion at p. 9:7.) Plaintiff makes various damage claims
regarding his investments and the value of the property. However, Plaintiff
does not establish, for purposes of this motion, what remedy he is seeking or
that he is entitled to a specific remedy.
 
“A cause of action to quiet title is
clearly not a tort claim, and it does not seek to hold a defendant liable for
damages. Rather, ‘actions to quiet title, like true declaratory relief actions,
are generally equitable in nature.’ [Citation.] ‘A quiet title action is a
statutory action that seeks to declare the rights of the parties in realty.
[Citations.] “ ‘ “The object of the action is to finally settle and determine,
as between the parties, all conflicting claims to the property in controversy,
and to decree to each such interest or estate therein as he may be entitled to.”
’ ” [Citation.] The purpose of a quiet title action is to determine any adverse
claim to the property that the defendant may assert, and to declare and define
any interest held by the defendant, “ ‘so that the plaintiff may have a decree
finally adjudicating the extent of his own interest in the property in
controversy.’ ” ’ ” (Weeden, supra, 70 Cal.App.5th at p. 291.) 
 
Thus, at this current juncture,
Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication as to the remedies is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for summary adjudication as to his claim for quiet title is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s interest in the Subject Property is determined to be
50 percent.
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   April 10, 2024                                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
