  Case Number:  22VECV02268    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  T 22VECV02268 Poole v HyundaiTentative ruling: Plaintiff’s
motion to compel production16. The court does not enforce
this portion of the request as not authorized: [This request shall be
interpreted to include, but not be limited to, any such investigation to
determine the root cause of such BRAKE SYSTEM DEFECT, any such investigation to
design a permanent repair procedure for such BRAKE SYSTEM DEFECT, any such
investigation into the failure rates of parts associated with such BRAKE SYSTEM
DEFECT, any cost analysis for implementing a proposed repair procedures, any
savings analysis not implementing a proposed repair procedures, etc.]´  Otherwise, the court grants the motion and
orders a verified code compliant response and production within 20 days.  For purposes of this order, BRAKE SYSTEM
DEFECT is defined s • brakes not slowing vehicle down; • brakes not stopping
vehicle; • squealing; • brake malfunction requiring vehicle restart; • brake
pedal needs to be reapplied; • brake malfunction in 2002 Hyundai Ioniq 5s.17. Denied as overbroad as to
documents “including but not limited to electronically stored information and
electronic mails, concerning or relating to any communications.”  There is a lack of specificity.18. The court grants the motion
and orders a verified code compliant response and production within 20
days.  For purposes of this order, BRAKE
SYSTEM DEFECT is defined s • brakes not slowing vehicle down; • brakes not
stopping vehicle; • squealing; • brake malfunction requiring vehicle restart; •
brake pedal needs to be reapplied; • brake malfunction in 2002 Hyundai Ioniq
5s.19. The court grants the motion
and orders a verified code compliant response and production within 20
days.  For purposes of this order, BRAKE
SYSTEM DEFECT is defined s • brakes not slowing vehicle down; • brakes not
stopping vehicle; • squealing; • brake malfunction requiring vehicle restart; •
brake pedal needs to be reapplied; • brake malfunction in 2002 Hyundai Ioniq
5s.20. Denied.  Failure rates is not defined and there is no
indication that it is relevant to this case or would lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.21. Denied.  It is vague by what is meant by “fixes” which
is not defined and there is no indication that it is relevant to this case or
would lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. 

















 