 Case Number:  23VECV01361    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  T Banuelos v Ngo 23VECV01361
Defendant Robert Ngo has
not paid a first appearance fee.  He has
through the close of business on 10/27/2023. 
Otherwise, the court will strike his demurrer and any other papers and
enter default against him.
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Robert Ngo and Pacific Coast
Equities, Inc.’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED as to the
first and second causes of action and SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as
to the third cause of action.  Plaintiff
Anna Gloria Rodriguez Banuelos’ leave to amend is limited to curing the
pleading defects identified and not to add new causes of action.  This tentative decision as to Mr. Ngo is
conditional on his payment of his first appearance fees by close of business on
10/27/2023.
Defendant Robert Ngo and Pacific
Coast Equities, Inc.’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but not as to
hearsay and facts in dispute.
Introduction 
Defendant Robert Ngo (Ngo) and
Pacific Coast Equities, Inc. (PCE) (collectively, Defendants) demurred to
Plaintiff Anna Gloria Rodriguez Banuelos’ (Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint
(FAC).  The demurrer placed into issue
the first cause of action (COA) for breach of contract, the second COA for
common counts, and the third COA for fraud.
Discussion  
Defendant Ngo argued that the
first two COAs is insufficiently supported with factual allegations to show
that Ngo was a contracting party.  As
seen in the contract attached to the FAC, it is shown that Ngo signed the
agreement in his capacity as Director of PCE and thus not seen to be a
contracting party or signatory, as an individual.  However, the argument ignores the allegations
made in the FAC’s Attachment BC-6. 
Plaintiff alleged that PCE was the alter ego of Ngo.  With the alter ego allegation, Plaintiff
alleged that Ngo was the real contracting party/signatory to the contract and
thus individually liable under the agreement. 
Defendant Ngo’s arguments against the first two COAs is unpersuasive.
Defendants demurrer to the first
and second COAs is OVERRULED.
As to the fraud COA – false
promise, Defendants argued that the claim failed to allege facts with
particularity – where, when, to whom, and how these promises were made by each
Defendant – and failed to allege facts to plead actual and justifiable reliance.  Plaintiff alleged that the false promise was
Defendants’ promise to repay the principal and interest on the monies lent to
Defendant.  (FAC par. FR-4.)  Plaintiff alleged that the false promise was
made on September 13, 2022.  (FAC par.
FR-1.)  These factual allegations are
sufficient to plead what the false promise was and when it was made.  However, Plaintiff failed to allege where, to
whom, and how these promises were made by Defendants.  Plaintiff further failed to plead specific
facts to allege justifiable reliance upon the alleged false promise.  The allegation of justifiable reliance
alleged in FAC par. FR-4.b. is conclusory. 
As to actual reliance, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged actual reliance by
alleging that she invested/loaned Defendant the funds.  (FAC par. FR-5.)  The fraud COA is insufficiently pled with
supportive facts.
The demurrer to the third COA is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.