  Case Number:  22PSCV01233    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Pomona Valley Hospital
Medical Center and Ray Inge’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the alternative,
Summary Adjudication
Respondent: Plaintiff
Shaunette Miller
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants Pomona Valley
Hospital Medical Center and Ray Inge’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the
alternative, Summary Adjudication is DENIED without prejudice.
BACKGROUND
This
is an employment discrimination action. In June 2019, Plaintiff Shaunette
Miller was hired as a human resources director for Defendant Pomona Valley
Hospital Medical Center (PVHMC) under the direct supervision of Defendant Ray
Inge, PVHMC’s vice president of human resources. Soon afterwards, Miller
alleges Inge began sexually harassing Miller by making lewd and inappropriate
comments to Miller about Inge’s private life and Miller’s appearance. Miller
also alleges Inge singled out Miller by commenting on Miller’s attire,
including scolding Miller for wearing leggings.
As
a result of Miller’s refusal to give in to or entertain Inge’s alleged sexual
harassment, Miller alleges Inge began to retaliate against Miller by yelling at
Miller, speaking to Miller in a condescending manner, and undermining Miller’s
authority. Miller further alleges that Inge discriminated against Miller’s
disability by attempting to make Miller feel bad about using sick days,
contacting Miller’s primary care physician to verify accommodations, and
demanding proof of Miller’s physical therapy and chiropractor visits.
In
response to this alleged harassment and discrimination, Miller made complaints
to recruitment supervisor Sandra Shea and benefits specialist Krystal Garcia.
On August 5, 2021, Inge gave Miller a performance evaluation that allegedly
contained untruthful statements about Miller. When Miller submitted a rebuttal
to the evaluation, Inge stated an independent third party would conduct a
review of the performance evaluation and rebuttal. Miller then alleges the
review was conducted by Naomi Nightingale, one of Inge’s close friends, and
that the final report absolved Inge of responsibility. A week afterwards on
August 10, 2022, Inge fired Miller.
On
October 12, 2022, Miller filed a complaint against PVHMC, Inge, and Does 1-100,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) sexual harassment in violation of
Government Code sections 12940 et seq.; (2) discrimination in violation of
Government Code sections 12940 et seq.; (3) retaliation in violation of the
Fair Employment and Housing Act; (4) failure to provide reasonable
accommodations in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act; (5) failure
to engage in the interactive process in violation of the Fair Employment and
Housing Act; (6) failure to prevent sexual harassment, discrimination, and
retaliation in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act; (7) wrongful
termination in violation of public policy; and (8) intentional infliction of
emotional distress. On February 1, 2023, the court partially sustained and
overruled a demurrer to Miller’s Complaint by PVHMC and Inge.
On
February 21, 2023, Miller filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the
same Defendants alleging the following causes of action: (1) sexual harassment
in violation of Government Code sections 12940 et seq.; (2) discrimination in
violation of Government Code sections 12940 et seq.; (3) retaliation in
violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act; (4) failure to prevent sexual
harassment, discrimination and retaliation in violation of the Fair Employment
and Housing Act; (5) wrongful termination in violation of public policy; and
(6) intentional infliction of emotional distress. On June 30, the court overruled a demurrer to
Miller’s FAC by PVHMC and Inge.
On January
17, 2024, PVHMC and Inge filed the present motion for summary judgment or
adjudication. A hearing on the motion is set for April 3 along with a case
management conference.
ANALYSIS
PVHMC
and Inge move for summary judgment or adjudication on all six of Miller’s
causes of action and on Miller’s request for punitive damages. For the
following reasons, the court DENIES their motion.
A
party seeking summary judgment or adjudication must support their motion with “a
separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that
the moving party contends are undisputed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(1).) “The separate statement should include only material facts and not any
facts that are not pertinent to the disposition of the motion.” (Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1350, subd. (d)(2).) “‘Material facts’ are facts that relate to the
cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that
is the subject of the motion and that could make a difference in the
disposition of the motion.” (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1350, subd. (a)(2).) Furthermore,
there is a distinction between material facts and evidence cited in support of
those material facts. (See Reeves v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 95, 105-106 (Reeves).)
A
party’s failure to provide a code-compliant separate statement itself is
grounds for denial of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1); see Cal. Judges Benchbook Civ. Proc. Before
Trial, § 13.18, 13.20.) In fact, “[t]rial courts should not hesitate to deny
summary judgment motions when the moving party fails to draft a compliant
separate statement – and an inappropriate separate statement includes an overly
long document that includes multiple nonmaterial facts in violation of the
Rules of Court.” (Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97
Cal.App.5th 865, 876.)
In
the present case, PVHMC and Inge submitted a 145-page separate statement in
support of their motion for summary judgment. The court acknowledges such a
lengthy separate statement may be appropriate if the complexity or number of material
facts at issue demand it, but that is not the case here.
Instead,
PVHMC and Inge’s separate statement is riddled with facts that are not material
to the issues in their motion, including background information and outlines of
policy that have no bearing on whether Inge engaged in conduct that constitutes
harassment, discrimination, or retaliation. Defendants’ separate statement also
frequently falls short of the requirements in Reeves by blurring the
lines between a material fact and evidence that should be cited in support of
that material fact.
Instead of clearly stating those
material facts which actually are without substantial controversy, Defendants
offer countless obliquely stated “facts” that are material only to the extent
they are controverted, and uncontroverted only to the extent they are
immaterial. For instance, looking at Defendants’ Separate Statement on
Issue 1 (Plaintiff’s Cause of Action for Harassment), Defendants assert various
“undisputed facts” in terms not of relevant events but of
what a witness has said about
events, e.g., Dr. Nightingale’s conclusion that evidence did not support a
claim for sexual harassment or hostile work environment, or that Dr.
Nightingale spoke separately with Plaintiff and Defendant Inge. It seems
indisputably true that Dr. Nightingale prepared a report, but the report is of
interest only as evidence of a material fact,
e.g., that Defendant PVHMC investigated the complaints made by Plaintiff and
concluded there was no sexual harassment or a hostile work environment. That
“fact” is squarely controverted by Plaintiff’s statement to the contrary, to
wit, that Defendant Inge required Plaintiff to show Defendant Inge Plaintiff’s
pants and that Plaintiff felt uncomfortable doing so and refused further meetings
with Defendant Inge.
This pattern continues throughout Defendants’ Separate Statement and
takes an arguably worse turn in Defendants’ assertion of “facts” in the form of
supposed perceptions by witnesses. For Example, Defendants
assert that it is undisputed that “Dr. Nightingale noted” something, or Defendant
Inge’s perception that many of Plaintiff’s absences were unrelated to health or
illness. Ordinarily, however, the perceptions of witnesses are simply not
“material facts,” as that term is used in the summary judgment statute. (Reeves,
supra, at 106.)  The relevant
question is whether the underlying facts—the
events or conditions witnesses say they perceived—are established without
substantial controversy. Id. Defendants merely cloud the inquiry into
that question by formulating the operative facts in the intermediate form of a
witness’ perceptions or statements.
Finally, trial courts have the inherent power to strike proposed
“undisputed facts” that fail to comply with the statutory requirements and that
are formulated so as to impede rather than aid an orderly determination whether
the case presents triable material issues of fact. If such an order leaves the
required separate statement insufficient to support the motion, the court is
justified in denying the motion on that basis. (See, Id., and California Code
of Civil Procedure,§437c, subd. (b)(1).)
Accordingly,
PVHMC and Inge’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED without prejudice for their
failure to properly craft a code-compliant separate statement. 
The
court does not address the merits of Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgement. 