  Case Number:  22STCV39032    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  76 Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Tristan
Ibanez sexually harassed and sexually battered Plaintiff while they were at work,
but Defendant Del Taco retaliated against Plaintiff for reporting this conduct to
HR by terminating Plaintiff.  
Defendant Del Taco, LLC moves to quash
the deposition subpoena for production of records served on third party Progressive
Management Resources, Inc. by Plaintiff. 
Non-party U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission moves for a protective order against the subpoena served upon Progressive
Management Resources, Inc. 
TENTATIVE RULING
Non-party U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission’s motion for a protective
order against the subpoena served upon Progressive Management Resources, Inc. is
GRANTED.
Third Party
Progressive Management Resources, Inc’s. joinder in the motion to quash deposition
subpoena is DENIED as untimely served. 
Defendant Del Taco, LLC’s motion to quash is GRANTED in its entirety due to the ruling
on the motion for protective order.
ANALYSIS
Motion For Protective Order
Non-party U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (“EEOC”) moves for a protective order against the subpoena served upon
Progressive Management Resources, Inc.
At the time
of the underlying incident, around October 2022, Del Taco was under orders of an EEOC Consent Decree entered
in the matter EEOC v. Del Taco, LLC, Case No.: 5:18-cv-1978 CAS (SPX) (C.
D. Cal) (“EEOC v. Del Taco”). In 2018, the EEOC had filed a complaint against Del
Taco alleging unlawful employment practices involving a sexually hostile work environment.
On November 30, 2020, the EEOC and Del Taco settled to their dispute without admission
of liability. As part of the Consent Decree an EEOC Monitor was retained to oversee
implementation of a program that would allow for employees to report sexual harassment
and properly receive and resolve those reports.   Progressive Management Services (“PMR”) was appointed
as a third-party EEOC monitor. At the time of Plaintiff’s complaint, as the EEOC
Monitor, PMR was overseeing how Del Taco managed reports of complaints and conducted
investigations. PMR did not conduct investigations.
On April 26,
2024, Plaintiff issued a Deposition Subpoena for the Production of Business Records asking for records
of PMR. The EEOC has brought this motion for protective order to prevent the disclosure
of such records to Plaintiff pursuant to subpoena.
            The
EEOC argues that the doctrine of sovereign immunity prevents disclosure of the records
Plaintiff seeks because they contain reports to the EEOC regarding the monitor’s
evaluation of whether Del Taco had implemented effective policies against discrimination,
harassment, and retaliation. Because the Court finds this argument to be persuasive,
the Court does not address the remainder of the EEOC’s arguments.
The EEOC is a federal agency charged
by Congress with serving the “overriding public interest” in preventing and eradicating
employment discrimination, ensuring equal opportunity, and bringing employers into
compliance with Title VII. (Gen. Tel. Co. of the NW, Inc. v. EEOC (1980)
446 U.S. 318, 326.) A state court lacks the power to compel a federal entity to
comply with a subpoena due to the doctrine of sovereign immunity. (Elko County
Grand Jury v. Siminoe (9th Cir. 1997) 109 F.3d 554, 556-557.) 
However, an attempt to compel compliance with
either subpoena by the Attorney General founders like the Titanic on the hard rock
of  sovereign immunity. That doctrine is not
restricted to actions to which the United States itself is a party. It extends to
officials of the federal government when they act as agents of the United States.
(Citations omitted.)  The general rule is
that a suit is against the sovereign if the effect of the court order sought would
be to compel the federal government to act or would “interfere with the public administration.”
(Citation omitted)
The facts herein do not fall within either of
the two recognized exceptions to this rule. 
“Those exceptions are (1) actions by officers  [*110] 
beyond their statutory powers and (2) even though within the scope of their
authority, the powers themselves or the manner in which they are exercised are constitutionally
void.” (Citations omitted.)
The doctrine of sovereign immunity prohibits
any sort of judicial action against the United States in the absence of its consent,
a consent usually manifested by legislation. 
No such consent is asserted herein.
Regarding “‘the power . . . to issue subpoenas
to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents, and to punish
by fine and imprisonment’“ in United States v. McLeod, supra, 385
F.2d at page 752, the opinion notes that “‘When this power is asserted by a state
sovereignty over the federal sovereignty, it is in contravention of our dual form
of government and in derogation of the powers of the federal sovereignty. The state
having the power to subpoena may abuse that power . . . . This power could embarrass,
impede, and obstruct the administration of a federal agency.’“
(Civiletti v. Municipal Court
(1981) 116 Cal.App.3d 105, 109-110.)
Government contractors, such as PMR
here, are entitled to assert the government’s sovereign immunity for performance
of the government’s discretionary function:
“Government contractor immunity is derived from
the government’s immunity from suit where the performance of a discretionary function
is at issue.” (Citation omitted.) Government contractors are therefore “entitled
to assert the government’s sovereign immunity in suits arising from [discretionary
function] activities.” (Citation omitted.)
(Contango Operators, Inc. v. United
States (Tex. S.D. 2013) 965 F.Supp.2d 791, 813.)
            Further, as
the EEOC argues, the EEOC has enacted a Touhy regulation barring disclosure
of information. “Touhy requests,” [are so named] in reference to United
States ex rel. Touhy v. Ragen, 340 U.S. 462, 468, 71 S. Ct. 416, 95 L. Ed. 417
(1951) (upholding the authority of agencies to promulgate regulations establishing
conditions for the disclosure of information). (Cabral v. United States DOJ
(1st Cir. 2009) 587 F.3d 13, 18.)
29 CFR § 1610.30 provides:
This subpart contains the regulations
of the Commission[1]
concerning procedures to be followed when a subpoena, order, or other demand
(hereinafter in this subpart referred to as a “demand”) of a court or other authority
is issued for the production or disclosure of (a) any material contained
in the files of the Commission; (b) any information relating to material contained
in the files of the Commission; or (c) any information or material acquired by
any person while such person was an employee of the Commission as a part of the
performance of his official duties or because of his official status.

     (29 CFR 1610.30 [bold emphasis added].)
No employee or former employee of the Commission
shall, in response to a demand of a court or other authority, produce any material
contained in the files of the Commission or disclose any information or produce
any material acquired as part of the performance of his official duties or because
of his official status without the prior approval of the Legal Counsel.

(29 CFR 1610.32 [bold emphasis added].) 
            Notably: “Agency
record includes any information maintained for an agency by an entity under Government
contract, for the purposes of records management.” (29 CFR 1610.1(f).) 
(a) Whenever a demand is made upon an employee
or former employee of the Commission for the production of material or the disclosure
of information described in § 1610.30, he shall immediately notify the Legal Counsel.
If possible, the Legal Counsel shall be notified before the employee or former employee
concerned replies to or appears before the court or other authority.
 
(b) If response to the demand is required
before instructions from the Legal Counsel are received, an attorney designated
for that purpose by the Commission shall appear with the employee or former employee
upon whom the demand has been made, and shall furnish the court or other authority
with a copy of the regulations contained in this part and inform the court or other
authority that the demand has been or is being, as the case may be, referred for
prompt consideration by the Legal Counsel. The court or other authority shall be
requested respectfully to stay the demand pending receipt of the requested instructions
from the Legal Counsel.

(29 CFR 1610.34.)
 
If the court or other authority declines
to stay the effect of the demand in response to a request made in accordance with
§ 1610.34(b) pending receipt of instructions from the Legal Counsel, or if the court
or other authority rules that the demand must be complied with irrespective of the
instructions from the Legal Counsel not to produce the material or disclose the
information sought, the employee or former employee upon whom the demand has
been made shall respectfully decline to comply with the demand (United States
ex rel. Touhy v. Ragen, 340 U.S. 462 (1951)).

     (29 CFR 1610.36 [bold emphasis added].)
            Here, Plaintiff
has not demonstrated compliance with the EEOC’s Touhy enactments to obtain
approval of Legal Counsel of the records pertaining to Del Taco’s compliance with
the consent decree with EEOC. Absent such approval, even if the Court were to order
compliance with the subpoena, 29 CFR § 1610.36 appears to authorize PMR to “respectfully
decline to comply with the demand.”
            As such, the
motion for a protective order is GRANTED. PMR need not comply with any portion of
the business records subpoena.
Notice of Joinder
Third Party Progressive Management Resources,
Inc. filed a notice of joinder in the motion to quash deposition subpoena. The joinder
is DENIED as untimely served on only 7 days’ notice. A notice of joinder must be
filed pursuant to the same deadlines as the papers in which the joinder is made.
(See, e.g., Lerma v. County of Orange
(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 709, 719.) 
Motion To Quash Deposition Subpoena
Defendant Del Taco, LLC moves to quash
the deposition subpoena for production of records served on third party Progressive
Management Resources, Inc. (“PMR”) by Plaintiff. Based on the ruling on the EEOC’s
motion for protective order, the motion to quash is GRANTED in its entirety.


