 Case Number:  22STCV22161    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ENGINEER.AI CORPORATION, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
TALKDESK, INC.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV22161
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO SEAL
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 9, 2025



 
On November 5, 2024, the Court entered judgment in favor
of Defendant Talkdesk Inc. and against Plaintiffs Engineer.ai Corporation, Engineer.ai
Global Limited, and Engineer.ai India Private Limited on the first amendment complaint.
On December 13, 2024, Defendant filed
a motion for attorney fees.  On December 16,
2024, Defendant filed a motion to seal exhibits to the Declaration of Amy K. Van
Zant.  Defendant did not file a separate Notice
of Lodging, but it publicly filed redacted copies of the exhibits and provided the
Court (and opposing counsel) with unredacted electronic copies.
DISCUSSION
The Court may
order that a record be filed under seal only if it finds that (1) there is an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record, (2) the overriding
interest supports sealing the record, (3) a substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced absent sealing, (4) the proposed sealing
is narrowly tailored, and (5) no less restrictive means exists to achieve the overriding
interest.  (California Rules of Court, rule
2.550(d).)  A motion seeking an order sealing
records must be accompanied by a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify
the sealing.  (California Rules of Court,
rule 2.551(b)(1).)
A record must not be filed under seal
without a court order, and a party requesting that a record be filed under seal
must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record.  (California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(a)-(b).)  The party requesting sealing must also file a
public redacted version and lodge conditionally under seal with the court a complete,
unredacted version.  (California Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(b)(4)-(b)(5).)
A.        The Court Will Seal Exhibit 1 (Billing Records) and Related
Portions of the Declaration.
Defendant describes Exhibit 1 as “Talkdesk
counsel’s detailed billing entries, including detailed narratives of counsel’s tasks
and confidential discount information.”  (Yu
Decl. ¶ 4.)  Defendant contends that “[i]t
should be sealed entirely because it is replete with confidential details regarding
the legal work and strategy for Talkdesk as well as confidential information related
to discounts provided to Talkdesk.”  (Yu Decl.
¶ 4.)  Paragraphs 10, 19, and 37 of the Declaration
of Amy K. Van Zant discuss some of this information.
Although “[n]ot all the information contained
in billing invoices is ‘categorically privileged,’” a billing invoice may contain
some privileged information.  (People v.
Kelly (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 1172, 1186.) 
Even general information, “such as aggregate figures describing the total
amount spent on continuing litigation during a given quarter or year, it may come
close enough to this heartland [of attorney-client privilege] to threaten the confidentiality
of information directly relevant to the attorney’s distinctive professional role.”  (Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors v. Superior
Court (2016) 2 Cal.5th 282, 297.)  “When
a legal matter remains pending and active, the privilege encompasses everything
in an invoice, including the amount of aggregate fees. . . . Midlitigation swings
in spending, for example, could reveal an impending filing or outsized concern about
a recent event.”  (Ibid.)
The Court finds
that this attorney-client privilege concern is an overriding interest that overcomes
the right of public access to the record, the overriding interest supports sealing
the record, and a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will
be prejudiced if the record is not sealed. 
The
proposed redaction is narrowly tailored, and there are no less restrictive means.  
The motion is granted for these items.
B.        The Court Will Seal Portions of Exhibit 6 (References to
Confidential Information).
Defendant describes Exhibit 6 as “a letter
Amy Van Zant wrote to Engineer’s then-counsel Stephen Lobbin in May 2022.”  (Yu Decl. ¶ 5.)  Defendant explains that two of the six pages contain
redactions of “quotes from or references to already-sealed documents discussing
Talkdesk’s misused confidential and privileged information.”  (Yu Decl. ¶ 5.)
The Court finds
that this confidentiality concern is an overriding interest that overcomes the right
of public access to the record, the overriding interest supports sealing the record,
and a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed.  The proposed redaction is narrowly tailored,
and there are no less restrictive means. 
Additionally, the Court has previously ordered this information sealed in
connection with other motions.           
The motion is granted for Exhibit 6.
CONCLUSION
The unopposed
motion to seal is GRANTED.
On the Court’s
own motion, the following hearings scheduled for January 14, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. are
CONTINUED to January 16, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.: 
(1) Hearing on Motion to Compel Defendant Talkdesk, Inc.’s Notice of Motion
and Motion to Compel Depositions and for Sanctions; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
in Support Thereof; (2) Hearing on Motion to Quash Subpoena to Nonparty SML Avvocati;
and (3) Hearing on Motion for Attorney Fees.

Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 9th day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 