 Case Number:  23SMCV02312    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
This is an employment case brought by plaintiff against the
Regents of the UC.  Plaintiff alleges
that her supervisor made inappropriate comments regarding a woman’s place being
in the home.  She also contends that she
had a disability and was told that if she wanted to keep her job, she would have
to accept a demotion and pay cut due to the work restrictions even though she
was able to do the job she had with reasonable accommodations.  Plaintiff asserts that after she complained,
her supervisor retaliated.  Plaintiff
also alleges that she was directed to have another employee deliver tanks that
the other employee was not qualified to handle, which would have been
dangerous.  Her supervisor allegedly
yelled at her and said she would be written up for insubordination.  That caused plaintiff to need a leave of
absence.  When she returned, she claims
she was told that she was to be reassigned. 
Plaintiff asserts that she requested to work with a specialist to find a
position that could accommodate her restrictions, but the positions found were
per diem in nature.  There are other
allegations, and this brief overview is not meant to be a full list of the
allegations or the bases of the complaint. 
She herself found an alternative position in 2021, but it was at a lower
pay rate.  Plaintiff received a right to
sue letter on May 20, 2022.  Defendant
demurs on the basis that the causes of action are time barred because they
largely occurred in 2019 or before. 
Plaintiff opposes.
 
It is well settled that before bringing a suit under the
FEHA, an aggrieved employee must file an administrative claim with the DFEH and
obtain a right to sue letter.  Obtaining
that letter is a jurisdictional requirement, and the failure to obtain it
deprives the court of subject matter jurisdiction.  At the time many of the events allegedly
occurred, no administrative complaint can be filed more than one year after the
incident.  (Wassmann v. South Orange
County Community College Dist. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 825.)
 
Plaintiff here asserts that the last wrongful act occurred
in March 2021.  That is important because
an amendment to the time frame for brining claims of a FEHA violation enlarged
the period from one year to three.  If
that amendment pertains, then the claims are timely.  On the other hand, if the last actual act of
discrimination occurred in 2019, then it would be before the statute was amended
to three years and the action, or much of it, would not be timely.  Or, put another way, if there was a significant
enough break in the alleged misconduct so that the 2019 misconduct could not be
characterized as part of a continuing discrimination course of conduct, then
the conduct occurring in that time frame would be time barred (although the
conduct in March 2021 would still be timely).
 
The allegation as to the March 2021 act is not adequately
set forth to capture the potential extension. 
The complaint alleges, at paragraph 12(i), that when plaintiff returned
from her leave of absence on November 18, 2019, she was approached by the
disability management specialist who said that plaintiff was to go to her
supervisor’s office.  Plaintiff was told
that her employer requested a reassignment and that her current assignment
would not extend more then 90 days and that if another position was not found,
plaintiff would be placed on leave.  The
specialist also allegedly told plaintiff that plaintiff needed to submit a list
of jobs she could perform and update her resume so she could be placed in a job
position without restriction.  Plaintiff
voiced concerns, but they were not taken into account.  Rather, plaintiff was told that even though
she did not want to be reassigned and that her current position (with
accommodation) was supposed to be permanent, her position was not in fact
permanent.  Plaintiff asserts that she
was given no help in finding a position that would accommodate her
restrictions.  Plaintiff was given four
positions, but they were per diem, not full time.  She found another job (without her employer’s
help), but it was at a lower rate of pay and it was in 2021.
 
The court’s problem is that there is an unexplained gap
between 2019, when plaintiff returned from her leave of absence, and March
2021, when plaintiff was eventually reassigned. 
It is unclear from the complaint whether plaintiff remained in her prior
position between those dates, notwithstanding the statement that her current
position would last for no more than 90 days. 
And that matters.  Under the
continuing violation doctrine, plaintiff may recover for all of the wrongful
conduct she can prove—even conduct occurring outside the statute of
limitations—if she can prove that the conduct was all part of one continuing
violation.  But where the violations are
separate, then they do not relate back. 
To come within the doctrine, plaintiff must allege that defendant’s
actions before and during the statutory period were sufficiently similar in
kind, occurred with sufficient frequency, and had not acquired a degree of
permanence.  (Wassmann, supra, 24
Cal.App.5th at pp.850-851.)  Here, there
are no allegations as to any of these three factors.  And the conduct appears, at least at first
blush to be different.  The conduct up to
2019 involved inappropriate statements or behavior by plaintiff’s supervisor,
but the conduct in 2021 appears to be the failure to offer plaintiff an
alternative position.  The court is not
saying that plaintiff cannot bridge this gap; the court is only saying that
plaintiff needs to allege the linkage. 
If plaintiff can so allege, the court would think that defendant’s
position is better tested on summary judgment or trial than by demurrer.
 
Therefore, the court will SUSTAIN THE DEMURRER WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.  Plaintiff has 30 days to amend to
allege the relationship between the earlier allegations and the alleged
misconduct occurring in 2021.