 Case Number:  24SMUD01145    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here on demurrer.  The demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
Plaintiff filed this UD action alleging that defendants
entered into an oral agreement with the prior landlord for a month to month
lease.  It required rent of
$830/month.  Plaintiff alleges that
defendant is in violation of the lease because defendant modified the unit
without permission by installing a doorway, putting up drywall, and sealing the
garage door shut.  Plaintiff provided a
notice to quit, but defendant asserts that the notice is not valid.  According to defendant, plaintiff gave
defendant 30 days to cure the problem, but defendant was unable to cure legally
because the work would require a permit from the City and only the owner can
obtain a permit.  Thus, defendant argues,
the right to cure was illusory and as a consequence, the notice was
invalid.  
 
It appears that defendant agrees that the actual notice to
quit was preceded by a notice to cure. 
Plaintiff argues that defendant cannot be heard to complain that it
cannot cure the illegal activity in which it engaged.  Further, the notice to quit states that the
defendant refused to allow plaintiff access to the unit to determine if the
problem had been corrected.  
 
The court agrees with plaintiff here.  On its face, the requirements were met.  The notice to quit was preceded by a notice
to cure.  The fact that defendant’s past
acts may have made it impossible as a practical matter to cure is no basis for
the demurrer.  Further, there is no
evidence of any attempt by defendant to try and comply.  For example, there is no evidence that
defendant attempted to obtain a permit but was thwarted by plaintiff.  And even if there were, such would not be
considered on demurrer.
 
The bottom line is that it is possible that this is one of
those breaches that is incurable.  Or it
could be that it was curable, but defendant made no effort to cure it.  Or it could be that it was curable but
plaintiff wrongfully impeded the cure attempt. 
Either way, the issue is better resolved by way of summary judgment or
trial.  Nor does the court believe that
waiver is established on the face of the complaint.  The demurrer is OVERRULED.  Defendant has 5 days to answer.
 