  Case Number:  23SMCV00235    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Hughes v. Shekhtman, Case no. SMCV00235
Hearing date December 9, 2024
Defendants General Insurance Co.
and Safeco Insurance Co. Demurrer to SAC
Defendants
YS Insurance and Yuliya Shekhtman’s Demurrer to SAC
Plaintiff
Hughes sues defendants Shekhtman, YS Insurance, Safeco Insurance Company of
America (“Safeco”) and General Insurance Company of America (“General”) for professional
negligence, negligent misrepresentation and professional misconduct arising
from defendants’ issuance and subsequent cancellation of an insurance policy covering
plaintiff’s property. Plaintiff previously sued defendant General, a subsidiary
of Safeco, in federal court over the same policy dispute for breach of contract.
The federal court granted summary judgment against plaintiff, and General was
successful on appeal. 
Plaintiff
now sues General, Safeco, and plaintiff’s former insurance agency YS Insurance
and its owner Shekhtman. Defendants General and Safeco demur to the SAC’s
second, third and fifth COAs on the grounds that plaintiff’s claims are barred
by res judicata. Defendants YS and Shekhtman demur separately to
the entire SAC and all COAs on the grounds that plaintiff’s claims were
litigated in federal court, and findings of fact were made as to causation,
preventing plaintiff from stating facts sufficient to constitute a COA. Plaintiff
opposes. Defendants request judicial notice. Defendants YS and Shekhtman offer
evidentiary objections.
Defendants’ Requests for Judicial
Notice
Defendants
General and Safeco request judicial notice of 21 judicial documents, records of
court and decisions of court arising from plaintiff’s previous actions against
defendants. Judicial notice of records of this court or of any court of the
United States is proper under Cal. Evid. Code §§452 and 453. GRANTED.
Defendants
YS and Shekhtman request judicial notice of 9 documents; 7 documents, records
and orders arising from plaintiff’s previous actions against defendants General
and Safeco; the latest information statement filed by YS and the fictitious
business name statement filed by YS. Judicial notice of records of this court
or of any court of the United States is proper under Cal. Evid. Code §§452 and
453. Judicial notice of actions by the legislative, judicial or executive
branches of this state is proper. GRANTED.
Defendants YS Insurance and
Shekhtman’s Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Plaintiff’s Counsel
Gruzman
Defendants
YS and Shekhtman offer 12 evidentiary objections. Objections 1-7, 9-12 SUSTAINED
(impermissible extrinsic evidence), objection 8 SUSTAINED (impermissible legal
argument).
Defendants General and Safeco’s
Demurrer to the SAC
Under
California law, collateral estoppel or issue preclusion applies (i) after the
final adjudication (ii) of an identical issue (iii) actually litigated and
necessarily decided in the first suit and (iv) asserted against one who was a
party in the first suit or one in privity with that party. Lucido v.
Superior Court (1990) 51 Cal.3d 335, 341. Res judicata or claim preclusion
applies when an earlier suit (i) reached a final judgment on the merits, (ii)
involved the same claims or causes of action, and (iii) involved the same
parties or their privies. Zevnik v. Superior Ct. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th
76, 82. The doctrine also applies equally to claims based on the same operative
facts that could have been, but were not, asserted in the prior lawsuit. Id.
Defendants
demur to plaintiff’s SAC on the grounds plaintiff’s claims are barred by res
judicata, collateral estoppel and claim-splitting doctrines, so cannot form the
basis for COAs. Defendants argue the claims for negligence, negligent
misrepresentation and fraud arise from the same facts litigated in the previous
federal actions. 
The
SAC alleges “defendants concealed that they never sent the policy applications
to plaintiff and that she never signed them.” RJN exh. 19, paras. 38-40. The
SAC further alleges “new expert evidence supports that she [plaintiff] did not
receive the applications by email, and thus, never signed and returned them.”
RJN exh. 19, para. 37.
In
the federal actions, the district court adjudicated the following: (1) on 12/4/20
and 12/16/20, plaintiff submitted insurance applications for the property
through her agent; (2) plaintiff provided the information for the applications
in telephone interviews conducted by her agent at YS Insurance; (3) plaintiff
did not correct any representations in her applications and that she reviewed
and electronically signed them. RJN exh. 8, pp. 1-2; exh. 9, pp. 1-2. In its memorandum
affirming both judgments, the Ninth Circuit noted the evidence showed plaintiff
understands, reads and writes English, and she received and signed the
applications before they were submitted. RJN, exh. 13, p. 4. Based on the
foregoing, collateral estoppel prevents plaintiff from challenging the findings
or outcomes of the federal actions.
Plaintiff
argues the instant case arises from a theory of respondeat superior, which was
a claim not previously litigated. Defendants argue the facts alleged by
plaintiff are the same facts previously litigated in the federal actions, and
merely changing the legal theory does not defeat res judicata. Defendants are
correct; plaintiff was at liberty to raise the respondeat superior claims in
the federal action, and such claims arise from the same core nucleus of facts
that have already been decided. The rule against claim-splitting requires
plaintiff to have raised these claims in the federal action.
Plaintiff
alleges new facts have arisen demonstrating extrinsic fraud. Plaintiff alleges newly
discovered transcripts of phone calls demonstrating defendant YS and Safeco
knew of critical failings in plaintiff’s insurance application but issued
coverage regardless. Plaintiff offers the declaration of counsel Gruzman to
introduce said transcripts; this is improper. Extrinsic evidence may not be
considered on demurrer. Plaintiff has not sought judicial notice of this
evidence, and judicial notice cannot be granted, as the facts are not
reasonably undisputable. Plaintiff is limited to the allegations in the SAC,
nothing more.
Plaintiff’s
allegations in the SAC arise from the same set of facts litigated in the
federal action. Res judicata bars a subsequent suit involving the same
“transactional nucleus of facts” and “primary rights.” Wade v. Ports America
Mgmt. Corp. (2013 218 Cal.App.4th 648, 657. General was party to the
federal actions, and Safeco has privity as General’s parent company, allowing
both defendants the protections of res judicata. Plaintiff’s claims as alleged against
General and Safeco are barred and cannot form the basis of COAs in the instant
action. Defendants General and Safeco’s demurrer to the SAC is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend.
Defendants YS Insurance and
Shekhtman’s Demurrer to the SAC
In
testing the sufficiency of a pleading, a demurrer must admit the truth of all
material facts properly pled and matters which may be judicially noticed. See
Arce v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal. App. 4th 471,
495. “The plaintiff has the burden of showing that the facts pleaded are
sufficient to establish every element of the cause of action and overcoming all
of the legal grounds.” Martin v. Bridgeport Community Assn., Inc. (2009)
173 Cal. App. 4th 1024, 1031. A demurrer should be sustained without leave to
amend where there is no reasonable probability that the defect can be cured. Vater
v. Glenn (1958) 49 Cal. 2d 815, 821.
Defendants
argue Shekhtman is an improper party as a matter of law. Plaintiff alleges she
engaged with YS Insurance in preparing the insurance applications. SAC paras.
14-15. Plaintiff fails to allege any direct business interactions with
Shekhtman and alleges all interactions plaintiff had with defendants was in the
scope of business with YS Insurance. SAC para. 27. Defendants argue YS
Insurance is a separate business entity. “[C]orporate entities are presumed to
have separate existences and the corporate form will be disregarded only when
the ends of justice require this result.” Laird v. Capital Cities (1998)
68 Cal. App. 4th 727, 737. Plaintiff fails to make the necessary allegations to
bring claims against Shekhtman in her individual capacity.
Defendants
argue the federal actions decided the matters of the insurance applications’
preparation, review and signature against plaintiff, so plaintiff cannot
establish the elements of causation for any of the first four COAs. Plaintiff
alleges defendants: “… offered and sold to plaintiff a Safeco homeowners
insurance policy which defendants knew or should have known would not and did
not cover properties located in proximity to a brush area such as plaintiff’s property
in Malibu; … failed to supervise their employees resulting in incorrect
information entered into [plaintiff’s] application for insurance; … concealed
and/or misinformed Plaintiff regarding their errors and omission coverage.”
SAC, para. 16. 
The
federal courts made factual findings that plaintiff admitted she had insurance
coverage, she made unilateral misrepresentations to defendants and plaintiff
was the cause in fact of her own damages, rather than misrepresentations by
defendants. See RJN exhs. E-G. Plaintiff is collaterally estopped from
challenging the federal courts’ findings. Plaintiff cannot establish causation
for the SAC’s first through fourth causes of action as pled. 
Defendants
argue the fraud claim fails because it is premised on plaintiff not having
signed the insurance applications, despite the federal court finding that plaintiff
did sign the application. Plaintiff alleges new expert evidence shows she did
not sign the applications. SAC para. 37. This is contrary to the federal court
findings. RJN exh. E, p. 2. Plaintiff cannot establish damages for the fifth
COA for fraud.
Defendants
YS Insurance and Shekhtman’s demurrer to the SAC is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend.