 Case Number:  24SMCV03596    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Scotto v. The Adelaide Company, LLC,
Case no. 24SMCV03596
Hearing date December 9, 2024
Defendant’s
Adelaide’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
Plaintiff
Scotta sues defendants Matt Groening, trustee of the A&J Trust, the
Adelaide Company, LLC, Matthew A. Groening and Augustina Picasso for sexual
assault, harassment, wage and hour claims and unfair business practices arising
from plaintiff’s employment as defendants’ house manager. 
Plaintiff
alleges her employment began in 2019 and she began to be sexually harassed and
abused by a male coworker shortly thereafter. Plaintiff and defendant Adelaide
Company entered into an arbitration agreement in October 2021. The federal
Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act (“EFAA”)
was enacted March 2022. Plaintiff’s employment was terminated June 2022,
following which plaintiff filed the instant action. 
Defendant
Adelaide Company moves to compel arbitration and stay the instant action.
Plaintiff opposes, arguing (1) the EFAA prevents arbitration and (2) the
arbitration provision is unconscionable.
California
public policy strongly favors arbitration as an efficient alternative to
litigation. Code of Civ. Proc. §1280 et seq., Madden v. Kaiser Found. Hosps.
(1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 706. Under the CAA, where there is a valid written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy, arbitration is mandatory. Civ. Proc. Code
§ 1281.2. The opposing party bears the burden of proving any defense to
arbitrability, including unconscionability or applicability of the EFAA. See
Pinnacle Museum Tower Ass’n v. Pinnacle Mkt. Dev. (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236. “[T]he doctrine of unconscionability has both a procedural
and substantive element, the former focusing on oppression or surprise due to
unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly harsh or one-sided results.” See
Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 899, 910. 
The
parties signed an arbitration agreement. Knight decl., exh. 1. Plaintiff argues
her sexual assault and harassment claims are precluded from arbitration by the
EFAA, and her employment claims should not be arbitrated because the
arbitration agreement is unconscionable and unenforceable. 
Defendant
Adelaide argues plaintiff’s claims arise from conduct that began in 2019, meaning
those claims accrued prior to enactment of the EFAA. “The EFAA does not apply
to any claims that arise or accrue before March 3, 2022, the date of the
statute’s enactment.” See Arouh v. GAN Limited 2024 WL 3469032, at *6
(C.D. Cal., Mar. 22, 2024, No. 8:23-CV-02001-FWS). Plaintiff alleges the
harassment began in 2019 and continued through the end of her employment in
June 2022, meaning her claims did not finish accruing until after the EFAA was
enacted. 
Defendant
argues the EFAA only applies to pre-dispute arbitration agreements. The EFAA
defines “pre-dispute” arbitration agreements as “agreements to arbitrate a
dispute that had not yet arisen at the time the agreement was made.” 9 U.S.C.
§§401, 402. Plaintiff alleges she complained to defendants about the alleged
harassment before she signed the arbitration agreement in 2021. Compl. para.
25; Decl. Knight exh. 1. Defendant argues because plaintiff’s allegations of
sexual harassment arose and were presented prior to signing the arbitration
agreement, the agreement is a post-dispute agreement, not subject to the EFAA.
The
alleged sexual harassment is alleged to have been perpetrated by a male
employee of defendants. Compl. paras. 22-25. Plaintiff’s claims for sexual
harassment arise from the same set of facts which began in 2019. 
As
a practical matter, it would be impossible to split plaintiff’s claims into
pre- and post-EFAA claims, as all such claims share a core nucleus and
perpetrator. Additionally, plaintiff does not allege the dates of any of the
harassment. Comp., paras. 22-24. It appears most of the alleged harassment
occurred prior to enactment of the EFAA. Finally, plaintiff complained of the
harassment prior to enactment of the EFAA and prior to signing the arbitration
agreement. Comp., para. 25. Plaintiff’s claims for sexual harassment arose, and
she agreed to arbitrate those claims, before enactment of the EFAA. The EFAA
does not apply.
Secondly,
plaintiff argues the arbitration agreement is unconscionable, so unenforceable.
She argues the arbitration agreement was an adhesion contract and procedurally
unconscionable. 
Defendant
argues all employment contracts with arbitration agreements contain a degree of
procedural unconscionability, but that is not dispositive, absent substantive
unconscionability. See Serpa v. California Sur. Investigations, Inc.
(2013) 215 Cal. App. 4th 695, 704. Defendant argues the arbitration agreement
was three pages long, and plaintiff had the opportunity to consult counsel
before deciding whether to sign, making any procedural unconscionability
minimal. Decl. Knight exh. 1.
Plaintiff
argues the arbitration agreement lacked mutuality, so is substantively
unconscionable. Plaintiff argues the arbitration agreement applies to numerous
parties, including all defendants and family members, agents, contractors and
assignees. Plaintiff argues the arbitration agreement primarily convers claims
likely to be brought by plaintiff and other employees, and not those likely to
be brought by defendants or other hiring parties. Defendant Adelaide argues the
arbitration agreement is not exhaustive, does not preclude bringing claims
against any listed party and subjects all parties to arbitration, regardless of
who brings a claim. Decl. Knight exh. 1. Defendant argues this mutuality defeats
the claims of substantive unconscionability. 
California
law is clear that when an employee continues employment after notification that
an agreement to arbitrate is a condition of continued employment, that employee
impliedly consents to the arbitration agreement. See Diaz v. Sohnen
Ent. (2019) 34 Cal. App. 5th 126, 130. Plaintiff’s employment continued for
a year after signing the arbitration agreement, demonstrating her implied
consent to be bound. Plaintiff failed to show procedural or substantive
unconscionability such that the arbitration agreement should not be enforced on
those grounds. 
Defendant
Adelaide’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The action is stayed as to
Adelaide pending arbitration.