 Case Number:  20STCV29000    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV29000




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Set Aside Dismissal




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Anthony Lopez 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Hector Aparicio and AWRS of SFV 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 31, 2020, Plaintiff Anthony Lopez (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants AWRS of SFV LLC, Hector Aparicio (“Defendants”) and
Does 1 to 20 for negligence from a motor vehicle accident. 
 
On January 23, 2024, the case was called for trial at 8:30 a.m. and counsel
for Plaintiff did not appear. Upon oral request by Defendants, the Court
dismissed the complaint without prejudice pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 581(b)(5). (Min. Order, 1/23/24.) The minute order states that
Plaintiff’s counsel appeared in the courtroom at 8:50 a.m.  
 
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to set aside the
dismissal. Defendants oppose in part.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a
dismissal taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  This application must
be filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is
sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) However mandatory relief is only
available when a party fails to oppose a dismissal motion (“which are
procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief provision
does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations omitted], dismissals
for failure to serve a complaint within three years [citations omitted],
dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations [citations omitted],
and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement [citations omitted].”
(Id.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Procedurally,
the present motion is timely because it was filed within six months after the
case was dismissed. 
 
            The
Declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel, Michael H. Moghtader states that on the day
of the trial, he left his residence in Woodland Hills at 7:20 a.m., expecting a
normal travel time of 45 minutes. (Moghtader Decl. ¶ 5–6.) He encountered
heavier traffic than usual and entered the parking lot at 8:34 a.m. (Id.
¶ 7, Exh. A.) Counsel declares that he was mistaken about the time required on
January 23, 2024 to travel to the courthouse. Therefore, seeing as Counsel
asserts he made a mistake, the motion to set aside is granted. 
 
Defendants do not oppose setting
aside the dismissal but oppose Plaintiff’s request that the Court set a new
trial date at the hearing. Instead, they ask the Court to set a trial setting
conference on a future date. Defendants offer no further information why a
trial setting conference is needed. To the extent that the parties are unable
to appear for trial, they may timely submit a joint stipulation and proposed
order to continue the trial date.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal.
Trial is set for June 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring
Street Courthouse. All trial counsel are ordered to appear personally at 8:30
a.m. 
 
All discovery remains closed.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 