 Case Number:  21STCV41857    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV41857




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Sanctions against Plaintiffs and Counsel of Record




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Peter A. Coeler dba P.A.C.
  Properties and PBM 1, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Adrienne Tripp and Hoss Zargaran



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On November 12, 2021, Plaintiffs Adrienne
Tripp and Hoss Zargaran (Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendants City
of Los Angeles, PBM 1, LLC, Peter A. Coeler DBA P.A.C. Properties, and Does 1
to 50 for negligence, premises liability, and loss of consortium. Plaintiffs alleged
that Adrienne Tripp fell over tree roots on Defendants’ property.
 
            On December 11, 2023, the Court
granted Defendants Peter A. Coeler dba P.A.C. Properties and PBM
1, LLC (“Defendants”) motion for summary judgment against Plaintiffs.
 
            On February 29, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant motion for $126,020 in sanctions against Plaintiffs and their
attorneys of record under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5. Plaintiffs
oppose and Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5 states in pertinent
part: 
 
(a) A trial
court may order a party, the party's attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by another party as a result of
actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to
cause unnecessary delay. This section also applies to judicial arbitration
proceedings under Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1141.10) of Title 3 of
Part 3. 
 
(b) For purposes of this section: 
 
(1)
“Actions or tactics” include, but are not limited to, the making or opposing of
motions or the filing and service of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or
other responsive pleading. The mere filing of a complaint without service
thereof on an opposing party does not constitute “actions or tactics” for
purposes of this section. 
 
(2)
“Frivolous” means totally and completely without merit or for the sole purpose
of harassing an opposing party. 
… 
 
(f)
Sanctions ordered pursuant to this section shall be ordered pursuant to the
following conditions and procedures:  
… 
 
(1) (B) If
the alleged action or tactic is the making or opposing of a written motion or
the filing and service of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other
responsive pleading that can be withdrawn or appropriately corrected, a notice
of motion shall be served as provided in Section 1010, but shall not be filed
with or presented to the court, unless 21 days after service of the motion or
any other period as the court may prescribe, the challenged action or tactic is
not withdrawn or appropriately corrected.  
 
The 21-day safe harbor period is mandatory, and the full 21
days must be provided absent a court order shortening that time if sanctions
are to be awarded.  (Nutrition Distribution, LLC v. Southern SARMs,
Inc. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 117, 124-25.)   
 
Furthermore, a motion is “frivolous” and in “bad faith”
where “any reasonable lawyer would agree it is totally devoid of merit,” such
as when it is lacking any basis in statutory or case law or made without any
necessary evidence to support it.  (Karwasky v. Zachay (1983) 146
Cal.App.3d 679, 681.)  There must also be a showing of subjective bad
faith for sanctions under Section 128.5.  (See, e.g., In re Marriage of
Reese & Guy (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1214, 1220-21.)  The fact a
motion lacks merit is not enough by itself to justify an award of sanctions
under Section 128.5; it is error to award sanctions if it was not unreasonable
for the moving party's attorney to think the issues raised were arguable, and
there is no evidence of subjective bad faith or improper motive.  (Garcia
v. Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 17, 20; Bruno v. Superior Court (Gridley)
(1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1359, 1365.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants seek sanctions against Plaintiffs for the filing of the
complaint against them, opposing their summary judgment motion, and maintaining
this action. In this case, Plaintiffs alleged that Adrienne Tripp fell on a tree root that
was on property owned by the City of Los Angeles. Defendants owned private
property abutting the City property. 
 
Defendants
assert that on January 14, 2022, they requested legal and factual support for
the claims from Plaintiffs and that in response, Plaintiffs provided little
information. 
 
The
Court notes that whether or not the injury took place on Defendants’ property
was not dispositive of the case. An issue was the degree of Defendants’
control. That Plaintiffs were ultimately unsuccessful in establishing a triable
issue of fact does not mean that the action was objectively without merit.
 
In
any event, Defendants do not show that they served this motion after Plaintiffs
filed their opposition and complied with the mandatory 21-day safe harbor
period. In reply, they fail to show proof that this motion was served on
Plaintiffs at least 21 days prior to filing the instant motion with the Court.
(Reply, 2.) 
 
Therefore,
the motion is denied. The Court also denies Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions
in opposition for also failing to abide by the 21-day safe harbor and
procedures in section 128.5. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the motion for sanctions is DENIED.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 