  Case Number:  21STCV45088    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  71  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA, ex rel., ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY,
 
  
         vs.
 
ADAM AVELARDO PEREZ, et al.


 Case No.: 
  21STCV45088
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 1, 2023



 
Third-Party
Witness Healthcare Financial Solutions, LLC’s motion to quash Plaintiff People
of the State of California ex rel. Allstate Insurance Company’s subpoena
duces tecum for the production of documents served on the custodian of records
for Bank of the West (BMO Harris Bank, NA) c/o CT Corporation System, located
at 330 N. Brand Blvd., Suite 700, Glendale, CA 91203, is denied.  Allstate is directed to submit a protective
order to the Court. The Court declines Healthcare Financial Solutions, LLC’s
request to award sanctions.
 
Third-Party
Witness Healthcare Financial Solutions, LLC’s motion to quash Plaintiff People
of the State of California ex rel. Allstate Insurance Company’s subpoena
duces tecum for the production of documents served on the custodian of records
for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. National Association c/o
CT Corporation System, 330 N. Brand Blvd., Suite 700, Glendale, CA 91203 is
denied.  Allstate is directed to submit a
protective order to the Court.  The Court
declines Healthcare Financial Solutions, LLC’s request to award sanctions.
 
Third-Party Witness Healthcare Financial Solutions, LLC
(“HFS”) (“Third-Party Witness”) moves to quash Plaintiff People of the State of
California ex rel. Allstate Insurance Company’s (“Allstate”) (“Plaintiff”)
subpoena duces tecum for the production of documents served on the custodian of
records for Bank of the West (BMO Harris Bank, NA) c/o CT Corporation System,
located at 330 N. Brand Blvd., Suite 700, Glendale, CA 91203 (“Bank of West Subpoena”).  (Notice Motion Bank of West, pg. 2; C.C.P.
§1987.1.)  HFS also requests monetary
sanctions for concealing the inquiry into HFS’ private financial records in the
sum of $6,500 plus costs totaling $495.00. 
(Notice Motion Bank of West, pg. 2.)
HFS moves to quash Allstate’s subpoena duces tecum for the production of documents served on the custodian of
records for JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. National Association c/o CT Corporation System, 330 N. Brand
Blvd., Suite 700, Glendale, CA 91203 (“Chase Subpoena”).  (Notice Motion Chase, pg. 2; C.C.P. §1987.1.)  HFS also requests monetary sanctions for
concealing the inquiry into HFS’ private financial records for a total of
$6,995.00.  (Notice Motion Chase, pg. 2.)
 
          Background
On December 10, 2021, Allstate filed its initial
complaint.  On October 21, 2022, Allstate
filed its first amended complaint (“FAC”). 
On September 18, 2023, Allstate filed the operative second amended
complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Adam Avelardo Perez (“Perez”), New Hope
Imaging Services, LLC (“New Hope”), Alan Todd Turner, M.D. (“Turner M.D.”),
George Mednik, M.D. (“Mednik M.D.”) (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging two
causes of action: (1) California Insurance Frauds Prevention Act (Ins. Code
§1871.7); and (2) Unfair Competition Law (Bus. & Prof. Code §§17200 et.
seq.).  
          HFS filed its
motion to quash the Bank of the West Subpoena on July 18, 2023.  HFS filed its motion to quash the Chase
Subpoena on August 9, 2023.  Allstate
filed its consolidated opposition to the Bank of the West and Chase Subpoenas
on November 16, 2023.  HFS filed its reply
on November 22, 2023.
 
Evidentiary Objections
Allstate’s 11/16/23 evidentiary
objections to the Declaration of Ari Resnik (“Resnik”) is overruled as to Nos.
1, 2, and 3.[1]
 
          Meet and
Confer
A motion to quash a subpoena to a business records
custodian must be accompanied by a declaration showing a “reasonable and good
faith attempt at informal resolution of the dispute” between the party
requesting the records and the “consumer” or “employee” whose records are
involved or counsel for such person.  (C.C.P.
§§1985.3(g), 1985.6(f)(4).)
HFS’ counsel submitted a declaration stating that he
attempted to reach attorney Taylor Steele by phone on July 14, 2023, and left a
message indicating HFS’ records would not be produced.  (Decls. of Bass Meet and Confer ¶2.)  HFS’ counsel declares he sent an email to
Taylor Steele on July 16, 2023, to advise him that HFS objected to the subpoena,
and he would file a motion to quash if the subpoena was not withdrawn, to which
he did not receive a response.  (Decls.
of Bass Meet and Confer ¶3.)  HFS’
counsel sufficiently demonstrated a “reasonable and good faith attempt at
informal resolution of the dispute” with Allstate.  (C.C.P. §§1985.3(g), 1985.6(f)(4).)  Accordingly, the Court will consider HFS’
motions.
 
Motion to Quash
A.  
Bank of the West Subpoena
C.C.P. §1987.1(a) provides, in pertinent
part, as follows: “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things . . . at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by [a party] . . . , may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.” 
A motion to quash production of documents at
a deposition must be accompanied by a separate statement setting forth the
particular documents or demands at issue and the factual and legal reasons why
production should not be compelled.  (See CRC, Rule 3.1345(a)(5).)  In
lieu of a separate statement, the court may in its discretion allow the moving
party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and each response in
dispute.  (CRC, Rule 3.1345(b)(2).)
          On July 6,
2023, Bank of West sent HFS a
letter notifying it has been served with the Bank of West Subpoena.  (Decl. of Bass Subpoena, Exh. 2.)  The subpoena was noticed for production of
business documents on July 20, 2023, and requested documents relating to “any
and all accounts belonging to HEALTHCARE FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS, LLC, including
but not limited to Account Number 056942576 at any time from January 1, 2016,
to present.”  (Decl. of Bass Subpoena,
Exh. 3 at Attach. 3, pg. 3.)  HFS
summarizes Request 1 as seeking the following 14 items:
a.     
Account application
documents;
b.    
Signature cards;
c.     
Bank statements;
d.    
Copies of checks
issued from the account;
e.     
Copies of checks
issued to the account;
f.      
Deposit tickets;
g.    
Items deposited;
h.    
Wire transfer or other
electronic transfer records;
i.      
Currency Transaction
reports or Monetary Instrument reports;
j.      
Credit and debit
memoranda;
k.    
Corporate board
authorization minutes or partnership resolutions;
l.      
Correspondence;
m.  
Any other DOCUMENTS
RELATING TO the above-referenced accounts; and
n.    
Any DOCUMENTS RELATING
TO any safety deposit box. 
 
(Motion Bank of West, pg. 3.)
          HFS
summarizes Requests 2-8 as the following:
2.    
All
customer identification program reports
3.    
All
customer risk analysis reports.
4.    
All
compliance due diligence reviews.
5.    
All
enhanced due diligence reports.
6.    
All
customer notes . . . including but not limited to all Store Vision Platform
Teller Notes.
7.    
All
DOCUMENTS RELATING to account audit trails.
8.    
All
DOCUMENTS RELATING to transaction monitoring data.
 
(Motion Bank of West, pgs. 3-4.)
          HFS
argues the Bank of West Subpoena does not limit its scope but rather seeks all
records of money received, money paid for any reason, and to obtain HFS’ credit
evaluation via the Bank of West’s assessment of HFS’ credit worthiness.  (Motion Bank of West, pg. 4.)  HFS argues this is based on Requests 2 and 3
which seeks the Bank of the West’s “customer risk rating,” Requests 4 and 5 for
the bank’s “due diligence reviews,” Request 6 which seeks “customer notes,”
and Requests 7 and 8 for the bank’s “audit
trails” and “transaction monitoring” of HFS.  (Motion Bank of West, pg. 4.)  HFS argues the records sought also may include
patient names and information, which would be a violation of both federal and
state privacy laws.  (Motion Bank of
West, pg. 4.)
Unlike privilege, the protection afforded by
the right to privacy is qualified, not absolute.  In each case, the court must carefully balance
the right of privacy against the need for discovery. The showing required to
overcome the protection depends on the nature of the privacy right asserted; in
some cases, a simple balancing test is sufficient, while in others, a
compelling interest must be shown. “Only obvious invasions of interests
fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest.”  (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531, 557; Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Association
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 34-35; Kirchmeyer
v. Phillips (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th
1394, 1403; Lewis v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 561,
572-573 [medical board obtaining doctor’s prescribing history did not intrude
on fundamental autonomy right, so balancing test applied].)
The burden is on “the party asserting a
privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective
invasion,” and then the court must “weigh the countervailing interests the
opposing party identifies.”  (Williams, 3 Cal.5th at pg. 557.)
Allstate met its burden to demonstrate the
records sought in the Bank of West Subpoena are supported by a “compelling
interest,” namely that, in the instant qui tam on behalf of the state, the
purpose of obtaining this discovery is to combat alleged insurance fraud.  (See
People ex rel. GEICO v. Cruz
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 1184, 1192.)  
A right of privacy exists as to a party’s
confidential financial affairs, even when the information sought is admittedly
relevant to the litigation.  (Cobb v. Superior Court (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 543, 550 [privacy as
limit on discovery of defendant’s net worth where punitive damages sought]; see also Civ. Code §3295(c).)  However, HFS’
right to the privacy of its financial records is not akin to an individual’s
right to bodily autonomy or associational rights.  (See Hill, 7 Cal.4th at pg. 34.)  With regard to the rights of third parties
whose names and information may be disclosed by the Bank of West Subpoena, such
privacy rights would be protected and any threat to such rights would be
mitigated by a protective order.  (Hill,
7 Cal.4th at pg. 38 [“[I]f intrusion is limited and confidential information is
carefully shielded from disclosure except to those who have a legitimate need
to know, privacy concerns are assuaged.”].)
          Allstate
met its burden to raise the “legitimate and important countervailing interests
disclosure serves.”  (Williams, 3
Cal.5th at pg. 552.)  Allstate identifies
its countervailing interest in its right to request relevant documents, which
promote the state policy in the “ascertainment of truth and the just resolution
of legal claims.”  (Valley Bank of
Nevada v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 657-658.)  Here, the financial information sought goes to
the heart of Allstate’s financial fraud cause of action, and Allstate should
not be denied access to such information.  (See
Rawnsley v. Superior Court (1986)
183 Cal.App.3d 86, 91.)
          Allstate’s
subpoena requests are narrowly drawn and seek specific, relevant documents.  The account records sought in the subpoena are
probative of (a) where Allstate’s (and other victims’) alleged stolen money
went and to whom, (b) who participated in the alleged fraud scheme against Allstate
and other insurers, and (c) what the alleged participants’ incentives and roles
were.  In fraud cases, financial
transactions are admissible to show motive, intent, knowledge, plan, and
absence of mistake.  (See Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.)   Knowledge
of the fraudulent nature of the claims and intent to defraud are elements of Allstate’s
claims.  (See Ins. Code § 1871.7(b);
Penal Code §§550(a)(1), (a)(6).)  The account
records sought are also relevant to identify the fraudulent claims submitted to
other insurers.  (People ex rel. State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co. v. Rubin (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 753.)  An insurer-relator
such as Allstate has a right to pursue IFPA penalties for all the false
insurance claims submitted to any insurer that are part of the same fraud.  (Id. at pg. 758.)
Based on the foregoing, HFSs
motion to quash the Bank of West Subpoena is denied. 
 
Sanctions
C.C.P. §1987.2(a) authorizes the
awarding of reasonable attorney’s fees and costs incurred or expended in making
a motion to quash a subpoena “if the court finds the motion was . . . opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”  C.C.P. §2023.030 also states in pertinent part,
“[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the
misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both
pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.”
In light of the Court’s ruling
on the motion, HFA’s request for sanctions is denied.
 
B.   
Chase Subpoena
The Chase Subpoena is
substantively the same as the Bank of West Subpoena, aside from the fact that
it was propounded on the custodian of records for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
National Association c/o CT Corporation System, 330 N. Brand Blvd., Suite 700,
Glendale, CA 91203.
For the same reasons as stated
with regards to Bank of West Subpoena, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion to
quash the Chase Subpoena.
 
Sanctions
In light of the Court’s ruling
on the motion, HFA’s request for sanctions is denied.
 
Conclusion
HFA’s
motion to quash Allstate’s Bank of West Subpoena is denied.  The Court declines HFA’s request for
sanctions.  Allstate is directed to
submit a protective order to the Court.
HFA’s
motion to quash Allstate’s Chase Bank Subpoena is denied.  Allstate is directed to submit a protective
order to the Court.  The Court declines HFA’s
request for sanctions.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  December _____, 2023
                                                                             





  