 Case Number:  BC643861    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  71 Here is the final ruling on the trial of the 6th Cause of Action and the tentative ruling on the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings:Final
Statement of Decision following trial of Plaintiff’s 6th Cause of
Action
 
The parties to
this action stipulated to the Court’s bifurcating the remaining two causes of
action remaining in Plaintiff’s complaint, and having the Court try the 6th
Cause of Action for Declaratory relief first as a bench trial.  The Court tried the 6th Cause of
Action commencing August 7, 2023, and concluding August 10, 2023.  On October 2, 2023, the Court issued a
Proposed Statement of Decision.  The
Court has received and reviewed Defendants’ Request for Statement of Decision
on Omitted Controverted Issues, etc. dated October 12, 2023, and Plaintiff’s
Response thereto dated October 23, 2023, the Court now issues its Final
Decision. 
The Court makes
the Clerical and Factual corrections suggested by Defendants and agreed to by
Plaintiff.  Further,
the Court withdraws any findings made as to the tenancies of Mian Guo, Jia
Shen, Yunging Li, Yavuz Ertas, Ali Razfar, and Ganchimeg Oyunchimeg as
Plaintiff previously dismissed these individuals from the 6th Cause
of Action and did not seek relief against them on it.  The Statement of Decision remains as proposed
in all other aspects.  
 
I.       Background
In its Second
Amended Complaint, Plaintiff, A.C.A. LLC, alleges it acquired 2 apartment buildings
in Westwood, California (540 Glenrock and 543 Landfair) in December of 2016
(Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 65.)  There
are a total of 26 units in the 2 buildings. 
(Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 23.) 
Defendants, Paola Caldera, Jessica Caldera, Mian
Guo/Jia Shen, Yunying Li/Min Zhou, Nima Razfar, Ali Razfar, Nadia Saban/Lebiba
Saban, Paul Luigi, Daniel Sacilotto, Arnaud Larousse, Yavuz Ertas, Ganchimeg
Oyunchimeg, and Daniel Saciletto, were tenants in the apartment buildings
at the time of Plaintiff’s acquisition.  (Second
Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 70-253.)  Plaintiff
now sues these Defendants for Declaratory Relief as to the terms of the
Defendants’ tenancies (6th Cause of Action), and for breach of the
terms of those tenancies (Seventh Cause of Action). 
Plaintiff’s 6th
Cause of Action reads, 
“SIXTH
CAUSE OF ACTION – DECLARATORY RELIEF (IN THE ALTERNATIVE) (Declaratory
Relief: By Plaintiff as to all Defendants)
275. Plaintiff incorporate herein by reference paragraphs 1
through 274 of this Complaint. 
276. If the Court finds any valid tenancies, Plaintiff and those
Defendants need to know what are the terms of the tenancies going forward, and
for the seventh cause of action.
For example:
a) Plaintiff believes that all
Defendants signed a written AAGLA lease
with Holmstrom based on
his pattern and practice as determine through informal
and formal discovery. If the Court is going
to allow Defendants to stay, they should certainly be bound by the
no-subletting provision, inter alia, from the AAGLA form lease. The specific
terms are alleged in Paragraphs 87, 111, 134, 143, 164, 190, 208, 223, 238, and
249, above.
b) Defendants, such as
Paolo Caldera, have claimed rights in their
pleading and depositions that contradict
their estoppel certificates, such as the right to parking and utilities paid by
Plaintiff. Plaintiff disputes such rights exist.
c) Defendants, such as
Paul Luigi and JanChung Ozu, have claimed
rights in their pleading and depositions
that contradict the alleged lease, such as the right of Ms. Ozu to reside in
the unit. Plaintiff disputes such rights exist.
d) Do rent control laws
apply (either by the terms of the ordinance or by
constitutional law) when several of the
Defendants do not even live in the Buildings, have vacated and returned several
times, etc. Plaintiff disputes such rights exist, but Defendants plead the
contrary.
e) In the alternative,
the failure to raise rents to the maximum allowable
amount was elder abuse, and the “rents”
should be set at the amount they could have been raised to, but for Mr.
Holmstrom’s elder abuse and breach of fiduciary duties.
f) There is ample
evidence that the “rent” alleged by the Defendants is
not their true rent,
and the Court should declare the proper “rent,” both going
forward and the accrued
“rent” as of the date of the declaration of rights.
g) It appears some
Defendants had roommates in the past that were
selected by Holmstrom,
and a separate written “lease” with Holmstrom, and the
“rent” Defendants
currently allege is only their share of the “rent.” The Court
should determine that Plaintiff has the right to add roommates of its
choosing to
Defendants’ unit.
h) Whether or not Defendants have abandoned “their” units, and then
attempted to reclaim them without permission.”

The parties
requested the Court try the Declaratory Relief cause of action as a bench trial
before trying the Breach of Contract cause of action to a jury.  
Trial on the 6th
Cause of Action was held August 7, 2023, through August 10, 2023.   
 
                                                                                                    
II.      The Evidence Presented
 
Jim Collins 
Plaintiff first called
Jim Collins.  Mr. Collins was Plaintiff’s
buildings’ prior owner’s bookkeeper from 1999-2017.  Mr. Collins offered no relevant admissible evidence.  
 
Paola Caldera 
Plaintiff then
called Defendant, Paola Caldera.  Paola
Caldera testified that she has lived at 543 Landfair, #8, since early
2016.  She knew the buildings’ prior
owner, Rita Seifer, and considered her to be like a grandmother.  She moved into #8 with her sister, Jessica
Caldera, and her 1–2-year-old niece, Briana.   
Ms. Seifer wanted them to have the unit for free, but their father
insisted that they pay for it.  They had
no written lease.  The landlord paid for
all their utilities, and they had a parking spot.  
Ms. Caldera signed
a Tenant Estoppel Certificate on May 29, 2016. 
(Exhibit 131.)  In the
Certificate, Ms. Caldera verifies that she was current in her $800 monthly
rent, that she had no storage space or parking spot, and that she was
responsible for all utilities except water. 

Plaintiff also
submitted deposition testimony from Ms. Caldera indicating that she read the
Certificate before signing it and was allowed to ask Mr. Holmstrom questions
about it. (Exhibit 206.)
 
Osman Celik 
Plaintiff next
called Osman Celik.  Mr. Celik is not a
defendant.  He lived at 540 Glenrock, #2,
as a roommate to someone in 2000.  In
2001, he moved to 543 Lanfair Avenue, #11 (or #10), again as a roommate, with
Defendant, Nima Razfar.  In 2002, he
married, and moved into 540 Glenrock, #3. 
He signed a lease with the property manager, Myron Holstrom, for this
unit.  In 2010-2011, he, his wife, and
daughter moved into 540 Glenrock, #6. 
Mr. Holstrom, again, asked him to sign a lease.  Mr. Celik was unable to locate copies of any
of the leases he signed.  Plaintiff
introduced a copy of a Tenant Estoppel Certificate signed by Mr. Celik for 540
Glenrock, #6.  (Exhibit 81.)  Mr. Celik recalled, and the Certificate
reflects, that he paid for all utilities except water.   
 
Min Zhou 
Plaintiff next
called Min Zhou.  Ms. Zhou moved into 543
Lanfair, #16, at the end of 2017.  She
used to live in #10.  She moved in with
her spouse, Yunging Li, who was already living there.  Ms. Li has since moved out.  Ms. Li’s daughter, Jia Shen, previously
occupied #16, but had moved out before Ms. Li moved in.  At some point, they swapped #10 and #16.  Ms. Shen now lives in #10.  At some point, Ms. Zhou asked Plaintiff to
change the lock to #16 so that Ms. Shen could not enter.
Ms. Zhou testified
that her lease was a verbal agreement.  She signed a Tenant Estoppel Certificate for #16 on May
29, 2016.  (Exhibit 132.)  She pays for her own utilities except water,
consistent with the Certificate.
Ms. Shen signed a
Tenant Estoppel Certificate for #10 on May 29, 2016.  (Exhibit 10.)
 
Nima Razfar 
Plaintiff next
called Nima Razfar.  Mr. Razfar has
occupied 540 Landfair, #12, since the Fall of 1996.  Mr. Razfar testified that Myron Holstrom told
hm what his rent would be.  In 2001, he
took in Osman Celik as a roommate.  Mr.
Razfar’s brother, Ali Razfar, rented 540 Landfair, #14 in 2010.  From time to time, Ali Razfar would stay in Nima
Razfar’s #12 because Ali Razfar had sublet #14 out to Ali Reza for about a
year.  Unit #14 was also occupied by Amir
Farid for 4 to 6 months, although Mr. Farid did not pay rent.  Mr. Razfar testified that #12 and #14 both have
a right to 2 parking spots (4 spots in total). 

Neither Nima
Razfar nor his brother, Ali Razfar, signed a lease for their units.  Mr. Razfar refused to sign a Tenant Estoppel
Certificate (Exhibit 61) because the way he was requested to sign made him
uncomfortable and because he did not believe it accurately reflected the terms
of his tenancy.  Specifically, Mr. Razfar
disagreed with the Certificate’s representation that #12 had only one parking
space and no storage space and that it suggested a prior written lease.  He testified that all other aspects of the
Certificate appeared correct, including that he was responsible for paying for
all utilities except water.  
 
Paulos Zecharia

Plaintiff called non-party,
Paulos Zecharia.  Mr. Zecharia moved into
540 Glenrock, #3, on July 3, 2014.  Mr.
Zecharia moved in initially as a roommate to Jacob Rosenberg.  Upon moving in, Mr. Zecharia signed a written
lease on a form prepared by the Apartment Association of Greater Los Angeles
(AAGLA).  (Exhibit 101.)  The lease was presented to him by Myron
Holmstrom.  
On May 29, 2016,
Mr. Zecharia signed a Tenant Estoppel Certificate (Exhibit 99).  By the time of his signing the Certificate,
Jacob Rosenberg had moved out and a Brandon Fasy had replaced him.  
Mr. Zecharia’s
lease indicates that the landlord pays for electricity; the Certificate says Mr.
Zecharia does.  
 
David Bessler 
Plaintiff called non-party,
David Bessler.  Mr. Bessler testified
that he assisted Rita Seifer, the prior owner of the 2 apartment buildings,
apply for financing for improvements to the buildings.  He found discrepancies in the financials
prepared by Ms. Seifer’s manager, Myron Holmstrom.  He had looked for leases for the units in the
2 buildings but could not find any.  
 
Nadia Saban 
Plaintiff called
Defendant, Nadia Saban.  Ms. Saban has
lived at 543 Landfair, #1 since September of 2015.  Previously she had lived in 543 Landfair,
#2.  She lives at #1 with her
mother.  She works as a nanny and
registered her business with the City of Los Angeles using the 543 Landfair #1
address.  (Exhibit 162.)  She babysits in other people’s homes.  She has brought children to her apartment on
only a few occasions, primarily to say hello to her mother.  She has never babysat children in her
unit.  
Ms. Saban was not
asked to sign a lease for #1.  She did
sign a Tenant Estoppel Certificate on May 27, 2016.  (Exhibit 128.)  She pays for her own utilities except water,
consistent with the Certificate.  She does
not believe that she has the right to either sublet her unit or to have
additional roommates.  
 
Paul Luigi 
Plaintiff called
Defendant, Paul Luigi.  He lives at 540
Glenrock, #2, having moved in in June 2011. 
Mr. Luigi does not recall telling Plaintiff’s principal, Damon Akhavi,
that he did not have a written lease.  He
has some memory of making a complaint to the Housing Department about
Plaintiff.  He may have submitted a copy
of a lease with that complaint.  When
confronted with a copy of a lease (Exhibit 157/2-5), he recognized it as his
lease for 540 Glenrock, #2.  Myron Holmstrom
gave him the lease for his signature. 
The lease provides for a parking space.  
The space is a tandem space.  He has
parked his 2 cars there for over 10 years.  
Ms. Ganchimeg Oyunchimeg lived with him in #2 for a period.  Mr. Holmstrom was aware that Ms. Oyunchimeg
was living in #2 because Mr. Holmstrom would perform repairs to the unit while
she was there.  Mr. Holmstrom also
expressly agreed that Ms. Oyunchimeg could park in his tandem spot, behind Mr.
Luigi’s 2 cars.  
Ms. Oyunchimeg
signed a Tenant Estoppel Certificate for #2 on May 26, 2016.  (Exhibit 134.)  The Certificate indicates that Mr. Luigi is
entitled to one parking spot.  It also
indicates that he is responsible for all utilities, except water.  
 
Akina Gerber 
Plaintiff next
introduced deposition testimony from Akina Gerber.  (Exhibit 207.)  Ms. Gerber moved into 543 Landfair, #6, in
August 2015.  She testified that Mr.
Holmstrom told her that her rent was only $600 per month, not the $1,300
specified in her lease.  The lease was
not admitted into evidence.  Ms. Gerber
signed a Tenant Estoppel Certificate in May of 2016. (Exhibit 54.)  The Certificate indicated that although her
lease said there was no parking space included in the tenancy, one had been
provided.  
According to
Plaintiff’s counsel, the import of Ms. Gerber’s testimony was to establish the
existence of a lease.  (Transcript, 83:11-85:17.)
 There was no evidence presented as to
the circumstances of Ms. Gerber’s signing the lease.
 
Yuanina
Subandrio
Plaintiff next
introduced deposition testimony from Yuanina Subandrio.  (Exhibit 208.)  Ms. Subandrio lived at 540 Glenrock, #8 from
February 2008 to April 2018.  She worked
for Jia Shen, finding tenants for Ms. Shen’s rental properties.  At some point, Ms. Shen asked Ms. Subandrio
to list one of her two units, a studio located next door to Mr. Holmstrom’s
unit.  Ms. Shen instructed her to list
the unit for $1,400-$1,600 per month. 
Ms. Shen paid $1,200 for the unit. 
Ultimately, Ms. Subandrio found a subtenant for the unit.  
When Ms. Subandrio
moved into #8, she moved in as a roommate of Avais Chughtai.  She lived there with Ms. Chughtai and another
woman, Ananda.  Mr. Holmstrom was aware
of the situation.  Ms. Subandrio did not
sign a lease agreement.
According to Plaintiff’s counsel, the import of Ms.
Subandrio’s testimony was to impeach the testimony of Defendant, Min Zhou.  (Transcript, 88:13-21; 91:1-5.)
 

Arnaud Larousse
Plaintiff next called
Defendant, Arnaud Larousse.  He lives in
540 Glenrock, #1, having moved in in March 2007.  He obtained a
business license listing this address for an on-line business selling
accessories for musical instruments.  (Exhibit
160.)  He maintained a small stock of
such items in his apartment.  He stopped
doing business in 2018.  Mr. Larousse
testified that he never had a roommate at his apartment.  Mr. Larousse signed a Tenant Estoppel
Certificate in May 2016.  (Exhibit
133.)  It correctly reflects that he pays
for all his utilities except water, and that he has 1 parking spot.  The spot is a tandem spot where he parks 2
cars.  Mr. Larousse testified that he
believes he can sublet his unit and operate a business out of it because he is
unaware of any restrictions on his ability to do so.   Mr. Larousse was never asked to sign a lease
by Mr. Holmstrom.
 
Daniel
Sacilotto
Plaintiff called
Defendant, Daniel Sacilotto. Mr. Sacilotto lives in 543 Landfair, #3, having
moved there in June of 2015.  Mr.
Sacilotto signed a lease at the request of Mr. Holmstrom.  (Exhibit 506.)  Pursuant to the lease, he pays for all the
unit’s utilities except for water.  Mr.
Sacilotto also signed a Tenant Estoppel Certificate on May 28, 2016.  (Exhibit 129.)  Mr. Sacilotto previously lived at 543
Landfair, #1.  He signed a lease for that
unit, too.  
Mr. Sacilotto
testified that Mr. Holmstrom granted him permission to sublet #3, despite the
lease’s provision to the contrary.  He
has nothing in writing to memorialize this permission.  He advertised the unit in Craigslist for
sublet the summer months of 2014 at $1,000 per month.  (Exhibit 136.)  He sublet #3 6-7 times but has not sublet it
since the end of 2017.  
 
Damian Akhavi
          Plaintiff called Damian Akhavi, principal
of Plaintiff, ACA.  
          Mr. Akhavi testified that he put up
lattice work on the railings of the Landfair building because he saw Defendant,
Nadia Saban, pull up in her car and enter her unit with a child on more than
one occasion.  (Exhibit 162.)  On cross, Mr. Akhavi testified that he put
the mesh up because there were children in the buildings, not just because he
had seen Ms. Saban there with a child.  
          Yavuz Ertas formerly occupied 543
Landfair, #4, pursuant to a written lease (Exhibit 29.)  He executed a Tenant Estoppel
Certificate.  (Exhibit 130/6-9.)
          Mr. Akhavi does not agree that Jessica
Caldera is entitled to live in 543 Landfair, #8.  Nor does he agree that the unit is entitled
to free electricity and gas.  The unit,
like all units in the buildings, is separately metered for both electricity and
gas.  Mr. Akhavi has never received or
paid bills for Paola Caldera’s unit gas or electricity.  He does not agree #8 is entitled to a parking
space.  
          Ms. Zhou told him that she had a lease
requiring the landlord to replace her broken refrigerator.  She told him she could not find the
lease.  
          An individual once answered Mr.
Larousse’s apartment door and introduced himself to Mr. Akhavi as Mr.
Larousse’s roommate.   He invited Mr. Akhavi in and then laid down on
one of 2 beds in the studio apartment.  
          Mr. Luigi told him either that he did
not have a lease or could not find one.  Mr.
Akhavi obtained a copy of the lease from the Housing Department in response to
his inquiry regarding a complaint Mr. Luigi had filed against him.  
          Since acquiring the buildings, ACA has
caused all new tenants to pay for parking spots. 
          Since acquiring the buildings, ACA has
been able to turn over all of the buildings’ 26 units but for Defendants’ and 2
others. 
Rabina Turan is a
current tenant.  He has not seen a lease
for her unit.  
          
Ghizal Hasan        
          Plaintiff called Ghizal Hasan.  Mr. Hasan has lived in 543 Landfair, #9 since
August 2007.  Mr. Holmstrom requested
that he sign a lease.  He cannot find a
copy of the lease.  He was responsible
for all utilities except water. 
          
Plaintiff rested
and Defendants put on their case.
 
Damian Akhavi
Defendants called
Damian Akhavi.  Mr. Akhavi testified that
he had not accepted rent checks from several tenants who have since moved out
of the buildings.  On cross-exam, Mr.
Akhavi testified that he ultimately accepted rent checks from a couple of
tenants.
 
Arnold
Subandrio
          Defendants introduced deposition
testimony from Arnold Subandrio.  He
moved into 540 Glenrock, #8, in 2009 with his wife and her friends, who already
occupied the unit.  The friends moved out
in 2011.  Neither he nor his wife signed
a lease.
 
          At this point, the parties rested.  The Court requested briefing on the issues,
which the parties submitted, and the Court reviewed.  The Court now rules:
          
III.    Discussion
Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1060 grants the Court authority to make a declaration of
rights.  Section 1060 provides,  
“Any person … who desires a declaration of his or her
rights or duties with respect to another, or in respect to, in, over or upon
property … may, in cases of actual controversy relating to the legal rights and
duties of the respective parties, bring an original action or cross-complaint
in the superior court for a declaration of his or her rights and duties in the
premises, including a determination of any question of construction or validity
arising under the instrument or contract. He or she may ask for a declaration
of rights or duties, either alone or with other relief; and the court may make
a binding declaration of these rights or duties, whether or not further relief
is or could be claimed at the time. The declaration may be either affirmative
or negative in form and effect, and the declaration shall have the force of a
final judgment. The declaration may be had before there has been any breach of
the obligation in respect to which said declaration is sought.”
 
Plaintiff had the
burden of proving the terms and conditions of each tenancy at issue.  (Evid. Code, § 500.)  To prevail, Plaintiff had to
present evidence of such by a preponderance of the evidence. (Evid. Code, §§
115, 520; Sargent Fletcher, Inc. v. Able
Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1658, 1667.) 
 
A.      
Plaintiff put on mixed evidence on the issue
of Myron Holmstrom’s having tenants sign AAGLA leases.  Plaintiff established through both testimony
and exhibits that Mr. Holmstrom had each of the following tenants and former
tenants sign an AAGLA lease:  Paul Luigi,
Paulos Zecharia, Daniel Sacilotto, and Yavuz Ertas.  
Plaintiff established through testimony that
Mr. Holstrom had each of the following tenants and former tenants sign a lease
(without evidence that it was an AAGLA lease): Oman Celik (twice), Ghizal Hasan, Daniel Sacilotto (upon his first
tenancy), and Aquina Gerber. 
Defendants, Paola Caldera, Min Zhou, Nima
Razfar, Nadia Saban, Arnold Larousse, and Yuanina Subandrio, all testified,
with mixed credibility, that Mr. Holmstrom never requested they sign a
lease.  
David Bessler testified that in assisting
Rita Seifer, Plaintiff’s predecessor owner, he looked for leases for the
properties but could not locate any.
Based on the evidence presented, the Court
finds that Plaintiff did not establish that Myron Holmstrom had a custom and
practice of having tenants sign Apartment Association of Greater Los Angeles
(AAGLA) form leases such that all tenants in the buildings should be bound by
such form lease’s terms.  There are 26
units in the 2 buildings.  Plaintiff
offered proof of Mr. Holmstrom’s having requested 9 tenants to sign leases
between 2002-2015; Plaintiff produced 4 of these leases.  Even assuming there was no turnover of
tenants in these units over those 13 years, which there was, these 9 leases
represent a minority of tenants. 
Moreover, there is no evidence suggesting Mr. Holmstrom only used AAGLA
form leases when leases were signed.  
Simply stated, Plaintiff did not establish
by a preponderance of the evidence that Myron Holmstrom had a custom and
practice of having tenants sign AAGLA form leases. 
 
B.      Plaintiff
established that Defendants Paul Luigi and Daniel Sacilotto signed AAGLA form
leases
          Plaintiff
established that Paul Luigi and Daniel Sacilotto signed AAGLA form leases.  (Exhibits 506 and 157, respectively.)  The Court finds that these individuals are
bound by the terms of those leases.  
 
1.
      The Court finds the issue of whether
the AAGLA leases prohibited Mr. Luigi or Mr. Sacilotto from subletting or
having roommates is moot.
Plaintiff put on no evidence that either Mr.
Luigi or Mr. Sacilotto were currently subletting their units or that they currently
had roommates.  Accordingly, the Court
finds that the issues are moot as there is no actual controversy on these
issues.  Declaratory relief may
not be awarded if there is no justiciable controversy.  A party cannot seek declaratory judgment to
secure judicial answers to questions that are merely theoretical, hypothetical,
academic, or abstract.  “Declaratory
judgment statutes do not authorize the courts to give advisory opinions.”  (Wilson v. Transit Authority of Sacramento (1962)
199 Cal.App.2d 716, 722.)
 
 
C.      Plaintiff established that Tenant Estoppel
Certificates were signed by or on behalf of Defendants Paola Caldera, Jessica
Caldera, Mian Guo, Jia Shen, Yunying Li, Min Zhou, Nadia Saban, Lebiba Saban,
Arnaud Larousse, and Yavuz Ertas
Plaintiff established that the following Defendants
signed Tenant Estoppel Certificates for the following units:
Mian Guo/Jia Shen,
543 Landfair, #10 (Exhibit 10)
Nadia
Saban/Lily Saban, 543 Landfair, #1 (Exhibit 128)
Yavuz
Ertas, 543 Landfair, #4 (Exhibit 130)
Paola
Caldera, 543 Landfair, #4 (Exhibit 131)[1]
Yunying
Li, Min Zhou, 543 Landfair, #16 (Exhibit 132)
Arnaud
Larousse, 540 Glenrock, #1 (Exhibit 133)

When a tenant signs an estoppel certificate, the
certificate reveals the present intent and understanding of the parties as to
their rights and responsibilities under a lease.  “An ‘estoppel certificate’ is a signed
certification of various matters with respect to a lease [citation]. An
estoppel certificate binds the signatory to the statements made and estops that
party from claiming to the contrary at a later time.”  (Plaza Freeway Ltd. P’ship v. First
Mountain Bank (2000) 81 Cal. App. 4th 616, 626.)   As discussed above, Plaintiff
dismissed the Sixth Cause of Action against Mian Guo,
Jia Shen, Yunging Li, Yavuz Ertas, Ali Razfar, and Ganchimeg Oyunchimeg and
the Court makes no findings as to their tenancies.  The Court finds that
Defendants, Nadia Saban, Lily Saban, Paola
Caldera, Min Zhou, and Arnaud Larousse are bound by the terms of the
Certificates, including the number of parking spaces provided and
responsibility for utilities, as specified in the Certificates.[2]  
1.       The
Tenant Estoppel Certificates do not prohibit roommates or subletting
          While
the Tenant Estoppel Certificates require an attestation that the tenant has not
transferred any interest in the lease as of the time of signing the
Certificate, the Certificates do not contain any prohibition against subsequently
obtaining roommates or subletting a unit. 

 
2.       The Tenant
Estoppel Certificates do not prohibit conducting businesses out of the units
Plaintiff urges
the Court to find that Nadia Saban and Arnaud Larousse should be in violation
of their tenancies because they “operated businesses” out of their units.  The Court finds that the Tenant Estoppel
Certificates do not contain any prohibition against operating a business out of
a unit.  
a. The Court, nonetheless, finds the issue moot
          The
Court finds that the issue of tenants operating a business out of their units
is moot.  Although Ms. Saban testified
that she used her apartment address in registering her nanny business and Mr.
Akhavi testified that while perched across the street from her unit for a
significant period he saw Ms. Saban at her apartment coming or going with a
child, the Court finds that that evidence did not establish by a preponderance
of the evidence that Ms. Saban “operated” a business out of her apartment.  
Arnaud Larousse
testified that he obtained a business license using his address for an on-line
business selling accessories for musical instruments.  He maintained a small stock of such items in
his apartment.  He stopped doing business
in 2018.  The Court finds no basis for
Plaintiff to prohibit this activity. 
Plaintiff makes no showing that the Mr. Larousse’s activities created
any traffic to or from his apartment, or that his product shipments were anything
beyond any other resident’s use of, say Amazon or UPS.  More important, however, Plaintiff
established that the business activity had ended.  
The Court finds
that there is nothing in either Ms. Saban’ or Mr. Larousse’s cases for the
Court to decide.  As
explained above, declaratory
relief may be awarded only where there is a justiciable controversy.  (Wilson v. Transit Authority of Sacramento, supra, 199
Cal.App.2d at 722.)

 
C.      Nima Razfar’s
tenancy is month-to-month
          The
Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to establish that Nima Razfar signed
either a lease or a Tenant Estoppel Certificate.  Under the circumstances, Mr. Razfar’s tenancy
is a simple month-to-month tenancy. 
(Civil Code § 1944.)  
 
IV.    Conclusion

          In
conclusion, the Court makes the following findings:
Defendants Paul
Luigi and Daniel Sacilotto signed AAGLA form leases, and these individuals are
bound by the terms of those leases.  
Defendants, Nadia Saban, Lily Saban, Paola
Caldera, Min Zhou, and Arnaud Larousse all signed Tenant Estoppel Certificates
and these Defendants are bound by the terms of the Certificates, including the
number of parking spaces provided and responsibility for utilities, as
specified in the Certificates.  The Court
makes no such finding as to Mian Guo, Jia Shen,
Yunging Li, Yavuz Ertas, Ali Razfar, or Ganchimeg Oyunchimeg, whom
Plaintiff dismissed from the 6th Cause of Action prior to trial.
The Tenant Estoppel Certificates do not prohibit
roommates or subletting, nor do they prohibit conducting businesses out of the
units.
Nima Razfar’s tenancy is a simple month-to-month
tenancy.
 
__________________________________________________________________
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



A.C.A.
  LLC,  
  
         vs.
 
MYRON JEPPSON
  HOLSTROM, et al. 


 Case No.: 
  BC643861
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 1, 2023



 
Defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to the 7th cause of action is GRANTED as to Ming Guo, Jia Shen,
Yunying Li, Yavuz Ertas, Ali Razfar, and Ganchimeg Oyunchimeg.
Defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to the 7th cause of action is DENIED as to Paul Luigi, Daniel
Sacilotto, Paola Caldera, Jessica Caldera, Min Zhou, Nadia Saban, Lily Saban,
Arnaud Larousse, and Nima Razfar.
 
Defendants
DOE 101 Paola Caldera (“P. Caldera”), DOE 102 Mian Guo erroneously sued
as Mian Gvo (“Guo”), DOE 103 Jia Shen (“Shen”), DOE 104 Yunying Li erroneously
sued as Yun Ying Li (“Li”), DOE 105 Min Zhou (“Zhou”), DOE 112 Yavuz Ertas
(“Ertas”), DOE 113 Nima Razfar (“Nima” or “N. Razfar”), DOE 114 Ali Razfar
(“Ali” or “A. Razfar”), DOE 115 Jessica Caldera (“J. Caldera”), DOE 116 Nadia
Saban (“Nadia”), DOE 117 Lebiba Saban erroneously sued as Lily Saban
(“Lebiba”), DOE 118 Paul Luigi (“Luigi”), DOE 119 Ganchimeg Oyunchimeg erroneously
sued as JanChungOzu (“Oyunchimeg”), DOE 120 Daniel Sacilotto (“Sacilotto”), and
DOE 121 Arnaud Larousse erroneously sued as Arnald LaRousse (“Larousse”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) move for judgment on the pleadings as to the 7th
cause of action alleged in the second amended complaint (“SAC”) filed by
Plaintiff A.C.A. LLC (“Plaintiff”).  
 
Procedural
Background
 
          On December 15, 2016, Plaintiff filed
its complaint against Defendant Myron Holmstrom (“Holstrom”) and DOES 1-200,
alleging causes of action for (1) declaratory relief, (2) rescission and
restitution, (3) ejectment, (4) trespass, (5) breach of fiduciary duty, (6)
false promise, (7) concealment, (8) intentional misrepresentation, (9)
intentional interference with contractual relations, (10) breach of contract,
(11) professional negligence, and (12) Business and Profession Code §17200, in
which the 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and 12th causes of action were asserted
against all Defendants, the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd causes of action were
asserted against all Defendants except DOES 1-100, the 10th cause of
action was asserted only against Holmstrom, and the 9th cause of action was
asserted against all Defendants except Holmstrom.  Plaintiff thereafter filed numerous DOE
Amendments to the complaint, as well as requests for dismissals of certain
causes of action against Holmstrom and certain DOE Defendants.  Plaintiff’s complaint is based on allegations
that Rita Seifer (“Seifer”), who owned certain real property buildings which
share a border and are located at 540 Glenrock Avenue (“Glenrock Property”) and
543 Landfair Avenue (“Landfair Property”) (collectively “Buildings”) prior to
Plaintiff’s purchase of them, assigned her claims against Holmstrom (the
Buildings’ property manager) and his alleged co-conspirators (the tenants of
the Buildings, moving Defendants) to Plaintiff in an assignment dated December
12, 2016 (“Assignment”), and that Holmstrom allegedly engaged in a scheme
whereby he would charge tenants less than market rent, retain half of the rent,
and send the remainder to Seifer as landlord. 

          On April 19, 2018, DOES 101-105 filed
a cross-complaint against Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Akhavi (collectively,
“Cross-Defendants”).  On April 20, 2018,
DOES 101-105 filed a first amended cross-complaint (“FACC”).  On August 9, 2018, J. Caldera, Ertas,
Larousse, Luigi, Lebiba, Nadia, Ali, and Nima (collectively, “DOES 112-118,
121”) filed a complaint against Cross-Defendants in a separate action, Case No.
BC717036, alleging the same four causes of action as in the FACC.  On February 11, 2020, the Court ordered the
instant action and BC717036 consolidated. 
On March 27, 2020, DOES 101-105 filed a second amended cross-complaint
(“SACC”) alleging the same four causes of action against Cross-Defendants.  On September 14, 2020, the Court granted
Oyunchimeg’s ex parte application for leave to file a third amended
cross-complaint (“TACC”) to include DOE Defendant names inadvertently omitted
from the SACC.  The TACC was thereafter
filed on September 15, 2020. 
          On September 11, 2020, the Court
granted the motion for summary adjudication brought by DOES 101-105 as to
Issues Nos. 2-7 and denied the motion as to Issues Nos. 1 and 8.  Accordingly, the Court granted DOES 101-105’s
motion for summary adjudication as to the original complaint’s 1st, 3rd,
4th, 9th, 11th, and 12th causes of action, while the 2nd and 5th causes of
action remained in the operative pleading. 
On December 10, 2020, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for leave to
file an amended verified complaint in part.  Specifically, the Court granted Plaintiff
leave to amend the 1st (declaratory relief), 4th (trespass), 5th (breach of
fiduciary duty), 6th (false promise), 11th (professional negligence), and 12th
(Section 17200) causes of action and denied leave to amend as to the 2nd
(recission and restitution), 3rd (ejectment), 7th (concealment), 8th
(intentional misrepresentation), 9th (intentional interference with contractual
relations), and 10th (breach of contract) causes of action.  
          On January 7, 2021, Plaintiff filed
its first amended complaint (“FAC”) alleging the following causes of action:
(1) declaratory relief [as to all Defendants except DOES 1-100]; (2)
ejectment [as to all Defendants except DOES 101-105], (3) trespass [as
to all Defendants except DOES 101-105], (4) breach of fiduciary duty [as
to all Defendants], (5) intentional interference with contractual relations [as
to all Defendants except DOES 101-105], (6) declaratory relief (in the
alternative) [as to all Defendants], (7) breach of contract (in the
alternative) [as to all Defendants], and (8) declaratory relief (in the
alternative) [as to all Defendants].  On
May 13, 2021, the Court overruled Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC’s 1st and 6th
causes of action and sustained the demurrer as to the 7th cause of action (with
leave to amend) and 8th cause of action (without leave to amend).  
On
June 2, 2021, Plaintiff filed the operative SAC alleging the following causes
of action: (1) declaratory relief [as to all Defendants except DOES
1-100]; (2) ejectment [as to all Defendants except Caldera, Guo, Shen,
Li, and Zhou (collectively, “DOES 101-105”)], (3) trespass [as to all
Defendants except DOES 101-105], (4) aiding and abetting breach of
fiduciary duty [as to all Defendants], (5) intentional interference with
contractual relations [as to all Defendants except DOES 101-105], (6)
declaratory relief (in the alternative) [as to all Defendants], and (7) breach
of contract (in the alternative) [as to all Defendants].  
          On October 24, 2022, this Court denied
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment and granted Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th causes of action and
as to Issues Nos. 2, 5, and 6, and denied summary adjudication as to the 6th
and 7th causes of action and as to Issue No. 7. 
This Court did not reach Issue Nos. 1, 3, or 4.
          On February 15, 2023, this Court ruled
on Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings, denying the motion as to
the 6th and 7th causes of action.
          On August 7,
2023, this Court held a trial on the 6th cause of action for declaratory
relief.
Prior
to the trial on the 6th Cause of Action, Plaintiff dismissed the 6th cause of
action against Ming Guo, Jia Shen, Yunying Li, Yavuz Ertas, Ali Razfar, and
Ganchimeg Oyunchimeg (collectively, “Dismissed Defendants”).  In light of the dismissal, the Court made no
findings as to the nature of the Dismissed Defendants’ tenancies.  
Defendants
filed the instant motion on September 27, 2023. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition on October 16, 2023.  Defendants filed their reply on October 20,
2023.
 
Legal
Standard
The
grounds for a motion for judgment on the pleadings must appear on the face of
the challenged pleading or be based on facts the court may judicially notice.
(C.C.P §438(d); Tung v. Chicago Title Co. (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 734,
758-759.)  A motion for judgment on the
pleadings lies where the complaint shows on its face it is barred by the
statute of limitations, and therefore does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action.  (See Hunt v.
County of Shasta (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 432, 440.)
 
Breach
of Contract (7th COA)
Plaintiff’s breach of contract cause of
action is stated in the alternative, in the event the Court finds any valid
tenancies.  (SAC ¶278.)  Plaintiff alleges the following: (1) Defendants
entered into the written leases, orally modified to pay Holmstrom more, set
forth in Paragraphs 87, 111, 134, 143, 164, 190, 208, 223, 238, and 249; (2)
Plaintiff and Seifer did all things the written leases required; (3) Defendants
failed to pay the rents due in the amount determined in the 6th (declaratory
relief) cause of action from January 1, 2012 (or the move-in date, if later) to
June 2, 2021 in the following amounts [plus all permissible rent increases
requested in Paragraph 276(e), minus any amounts Defendants can prove were
deposited in Seifer’s account]: (a) Caldera failed to pay $1,600 per month for
66 months, (b) Shen and Guo failed to pay $2,000 per month for 102.5 months,
(c) Li and Zhou failed to pay $1,600 for 61.5 months, (d) Ertas failed to pay
$1,700 for 56 months, (e) Nima failed to pay $800 for 114 months, (f) Ali
failed to pay $1,600 for 66 months, (g) the Sabans failed to pay $1,600 for 66
months, (h) Luigi [and Oyunchimeg
if found to be lawful tenant] failed to pay $1,700 for 114 months, (i)
Sacilotto failed to pay $2,000 for 73 months, (j) LaRousse failed to pay $1,500
for 114 months; (4) Plaintiff requests additional unpaid rent until date of
judgment plus permissible rent increases; and (5) Defendants sublet and ran
businesses in violation of the terms of the agreements damaging Plaintiff.  (SAC ¶¶278-282.)  
This Court previously ruled on Defendants’
argument regarding the statute of limitations in the February 15, 2023,
ruling on the motion for judgment on the pleadings.  (2/15/23 Minute Order, pgs.
5-6.)  Therefore, the Court will not
revisit Defendants’ argument regarding the applicable statute of limitations.
Prior to the trial on the 6th Cause of
Action, Plaintiff dismissed the 6th Cause of action against the Dismissed
Defendants (Ming Guo, Jia Shen, Yunying Li, Yavuz Ertas, Ali Razfar, and
Ganchimeg Oyunchimeg).  In light of the dismissal, the Court made no
findings as to the nature of the Dismissed Defendants’ tenancies.  Plaintiff’s 7th Cause of Action seeks to
recover for the breaches of the terms of the tenancies determined by the Court
in the 6th Cause of Action.  Because the
Court made no such findings as to the Dismissed Defendants, the 7th Cause of
Action fails to state a cause of action as to them.  Therefore, as to the Dismissed Defendants,
the Court grants Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings and enters
judgment in their favor. 
The Court found that Paul Luigi and Daniel Sacilotto
both signed written leases.  Plaintiff’s
7th Cause Action may proceed as to them.
As to Paola Caldera, Jessica Caldera, Min
Zhou, Nadia Saban, Lily Saban, and Arnaud Larousse, the Court found that these
individuals were bound by the terms of Certificates of Estoppel signed by them
or on their behalf.  The Court finds that
the 7th Cause of Action is pled broad enough to encompass a breach of the
tenancy agreement prescribed by the Certificates of Estoppel, and so denies
Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as to them.
          As to Nima Razfar, the Court found that
his tenancy was a month-to-month tenancy. 
The Court finds that the 7th Cause of Action is pled broad enough to
encompass a breach of the month-to-month tenancy agreement, and so denies
Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as to him.
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion
for judgment on the pleadings as to the 7th cause of action is GRANTED as to Ming
Guo, Jia Shen, Yunying Li, Yavuz Ertas, Ali Razfar, and Ganchimeg Oyunchimeg, and DENIED as to Paul Luigi, Daniel Sacilotto,
Paola Caldera, Jessica Caldera, Min Zhou, Nadia Saban, Lily Saban, Arnaud
Larousse, and Nima Razfar.
 
Conclusion
 Defendants’
motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the 7th cause of action is GRANTED
as to Ming Guo, Jia Shen, Yunying
Li, Yavuz Ertas, Ali Razfar, and Ganchimeg Oyunchimeg.
Defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to the 7th cause of action is DENIED as to Paul Luigi, Daniel Sacilotto,
Paola Caldera, Jessica Caldera, Min Zhou, Nadia Saban, Lily Saban, Arnaud
Larousse, and Nima Razfar.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  December _____, 2023
                                                                             





  