  Case Number:  22CHCV01419    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  F51 
MAY 13, 2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Request for
Production of Documents, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22CHCV01419

 
Motion
filed: 3/8/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
C.C. (“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant
William S. Hart Union High School District (erroneously sued as Doe 2)
(“Defendant”)
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order compelling Defendant’s further responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents (“RFPs”), Set One, Request No. 17.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The unopposed
motion is granted. Defendant to provide further code-compliant responses to
Plaintiff’s RFP No. 17 within 30 days.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a childhood sexual assault action in which Plaintiff
alleges that in 1980, she was sexually assaulted, abused, and harassed by Doe
defendant 1, Plaintiff’s high school band and orchestra teacher, while she was
a 14-year-old student attending a public high school located within Doe defendant
2’s school district. (Compl. ¶¶ 1, 3.)
 
On 12/16/22, Plaintiff filed her complaint against Doe
defendants 1 and 2, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Sexual Abuse
and Harassment in the Educational Setting; (2) Violation of the Bane Act; (3)
Gender Violence; (4) Sexual Harassment; (5) Sexual Battery; (6) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; (7) False Imprisonment; (8) Constructive
Fraud; (9) Breach of Mandatory Duties; (10) Negligence; (11) Negligent
Hiring/Retention; (12) Negligent Failure to Warn, Train, or Educate; (13) Aiding
and Abetting; and (14) Fraudulent Concealment.
 
On 5/19/23, Defendant filed its answer and cross-complaint against
Doe defendant 1 for (1) Total Equitable Indemnity; (2) Partial Equitable
Indemnity; and (3) Declaratory Relief.
 
On 10/17/23, Plaintiff served Defendant with her Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One. (Decl. of Jordan L. Kellogg, ¶ 2.) On 12/29/23,
Defendant served its responses thereto. (Id. at ¶ 3.) On 2/16/24,
Defendant served further responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests. (Id. at
¶ 5.)
 
On 3/8/24, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel further
responses to RFP No. 17. No opposition has been filed to date. On 5/8/24,
Plaintiff filed her reply to the non-opposition.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff seeks to compel
additional responses to her first set of RFPs, specifically Request No. 17,
which seeks: “ANY AND ALL DOCUMENTS CONCERNING DOE 1, including, but not
limited to, personnel files, records, training certificates, and disciplinary
records.” (Ex. A to Kellogg Decl.) 
 
A.   
Meet and Confer
 
Plaintiff’s counsel declares
that on 3/4/24 and 3/5/24, she met and conferred with Defendant’s counsel regarding
the issues raised in the instant motion, but the parties were unable to come to
a resolution. (Kellogg Decl. ¶ 6.) The Court therefore finds that counsel has
satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirement under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (b)(2). 
 
B.    
Defendant’s
Objections
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
objections to RFP No. 17 are without merit. (Pl.’s Mot. 6:4–5; Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (a).) Defendant
objected to the subject request as follows:
“Objection: This request is vague, ambiguous,
overbroad, assumed facts not in evidence, violates the attorney-client
privilege and attorney work product doctrine, lacks foundation, and is not
likely to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery is continuing.
Responding party objects on the basis of attorney-client, attorney work product
and invasion of third party privacy privileges. Notwithstanding said
objections, and without waiver of same, responding party will amend or
supplement this response at a later date.” (Pl.’s Sep. Stmt. 2:23–26.)
 
Defendant’s supplemental response
states: “Objection, this request is vague, compound, ambiguous,
overbroad, speculation, and an invasion of privacy. Base[d] on the foregoing,
responding party is unable to produce Doe 1’s personnel file without a Court
order.” (Id. at 3:1–2.) 
a.                  
Relevance 
 
Plaintiff argues that any
objections to the subject RFP on the basis that it seeks irrelevant matter are
meritless because the scope of discoverability is much broader than what may be
relevant. (Pl.’s Mot. 3:10–12.) Discovery is relevant if it is admissible as
evidence, or “appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “Discovery may relate to
the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to
the action.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiff asserts that “the
information sought by Request for Production No. 17 (all documents concerning
Defendant Doe 2’s employee, Defendant Doe 1, is relevant to Plaintiff’s civil
rights and personal injury claims and likely to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence pursuant to Section 2017.010.” (Pl.’s
Mot. 3:17–20.) Plaintiff further argues that her “request that Defendant
Doe 2 produce all documents concerning its employee and co-defendant, Doe 1, is
directly relevant and material to the issues raised in this action in that
these documents will help elucidate the scope of Doe 1’s responsibilities at
Doe 2 and both Doe 1’s and Doe 2’s duties to Plaintiff with regard to the
subject incident.” (Id. at 5:5–8.)
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff that Request No. 17
seeks information discoverable as relevant to Plaintiff’s claims, namely that
Defendant had prior knowledge of Doe defendant 1’s history of sexual
misconduct, but concealed the misconduct and failed to discipline him,
contributing to Plaintiff’s injuries. (Compl. ¶¶ 21–24.) The Court also notes
that Defendant has failed to file any opposition to the instant motion. Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant’s relevance objections to RFP
No. 17 are without merit.
 
b.                 
Privacy
 
It appears that the focus of
Defendant’s objections to RFP No. 17 is that the request is an “invasion of
privacy.” When information protected by the right to privacy under
article I, section 1 of the California Constitution is sought by way of
discovery, the burden falls on the party asserting a privacy interest to show
that their privacy interests are so serious that they outweigh the interests of
the requesting party’s prospective invasion. (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.)
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that “Plaintiff’s need for the requested
information is substantial and outweighs the minimal privacy interests held by
Doe 1.” (PL.’s Mot. 8:12–13.) “These documents are directly relevant to
determining whether Doe 1 should have avoided, prevented, and/or is liable for
committing the harm to Plaintiff. Responsive documents may also include
admissible evidence concerning Defendant Doe 2’s training procedures,
supervision of employees, including Doe 1, monitoring of complaints from other
students and/or staff, and compliance with state laws, all of which are directly
relevant to proving Doe 2’s liability for the harm to Plaintiff and numerous
alleged violations of state laws with regard to the subject incident.” (Id. at
8:19–25.)
 
As Defendant has failed to oppose the instant motion, the Court agrees
with Plaintiff that “Defendant has failed to satisfy its burden to establish a
serious invasion of Doe 1’s privacy that outweighs Plaintiff’s substantial need
for Doe 2’s documents concerning Doe 1 during his tenure as an employee of Doe
2.” (Id. at 9:1–3, citing Williams, 3 Cal.5th at 557.)
Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant’s privacy objections to RFP No. 17
are without merit. Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Plaintiff’s
unopposed motion to compel Defendant’s further code-compliant responses to her
RFPs, Set One, No. 17.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The unopposed motion is granted. Defendant to provide
further code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s RFP No. 17 within 30 days.