 Case Number:  21SMCV00857    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  I The case is here on defendant’s request to re-open discovery
and for a trial setting conference. 
Since the last hearing, the court has reviewed plaintiffs’ opposition to
the ex parte and defendant’s further statement.  The court has concerns that need to be
addressed.
The first question is whether plaintiffs have assigned their
claim.  Defendant claims that there is
reason to believe that the claim was assigned to the carrier, which would mean
that plaintiffs lack standing. 
Plaintiffs deny any assignment. 
The court suggested that he obtain statements from his clients under
penalty of perjury that they had not assigned the claims.  The court is unsure whether that has been
done.  In any case, it is hard to fathom
how we could be a week from trial with the question whether plaintiffs had
assigned their claims still unresolved. 
In the reply, defendant produced a draft complaint—apparently never
filed.  The court is unsure of the
provenance of the draft, and counsel does not say (although the court will
inquire).  But assuming authenticity the
draft complaint is a bit odd.  It starts
in the introduction and paragraph 1 by identifying the carrier as plaintiffs’
“subrogee.”  As the court said that the
last hearing, carriers are often subrogees, but that does not strip the insured
of standing.  But in paragraphs 14, 18,
and 21, the draft complaint states that “Prior to the filing of this lawsuit,
all of said insured’s interests to the extent of such payments [the payments
were the $900,000 allegedly paid by the carrier to plaintiffs] were assigned to
[the carrier].”  The language suggests at
least a partial assignment.  Of course, a
draft complaint proves nothing—perhaps the reason it was never filed was
because plaintiffs would not assign their claims, for example.  But it does at least raise the question.  Because the question would seem so easy to
answer, it is troubling that it is still a question.  The court is also curious as to how exactly
defendant suddenly came by that document. 
Counsel states that something at the hearing tipped them off.  But that seems odd to the court—the court is
not sure what that could have been.  The
document was never filed, so it did not come from the court.  There is something very odd about this whole
thing, including what, if any, conversations counsel had with the document’s
source.  The court views there to be no
privilege or work product surrounding this. 
By submitting it to the court as evidence, counsel has waived any such
protection.
Perhaps more troubling is the issue of discovery.  According to the defense, they did receive an
“Inventory Summary Report.”  But that was
not the same as the “Total Loss Inventory,” which was apparently created in
2020 or 2021 but not turned over until December 2023.  The court cannot tell when the Total Loss
Inventory was requested or whether it was requested.  As discussed below, that is a question
defendant will need to answer, but it would be odd if it were not
requested.  Standard discovery requests would
be broad enough to include such a document. 
Further, defendant states that it received “NO invoices, receipts,
website printouts, bids or anything to substantiate the items on the Total
Inventory Report.”  If true, that
is very troubling at least if such documents do exist and they were
requested.  Plaintiffs misperceive the
court’s prior comments.  The court’s view
was that if there was something that was never part of the case, then discovery
as to its value is not germane.  For
example, if a set of china was destroyed but plaintiffs never made a claim for
it in this action, then that would explain why they did not produce receipts or
discovery.  Plaintiffs confuse this with
items for which a claim was made but for which they elected to withhold
information.  That kind of conduct is not
so easily overlooked.  It is no answer to
say that one hid evidence but in order to get to trial will waive that line
item of recovery for the problem is the far more significant problem whether
plaintiffs have been forthcoming in the discovery process; it infects not just
that line item but all of the line items. 
For that reason, the court rejects plaintiffs’ suggestion that if they
withheld information they will withdraw the claim from this action.
The court wants to know this: defendant needs to state the
specific discovery request that they propounded that would have covered the
documents now in question.  Defendant
should also submit the response to that request.  Finally, defendant should state what document
or documents were not produced but of which they are now aware.  If defendant can do that, the court will take
appropriate action.  If they cannot, then
the court will move forward with some alacrity.
The court is aware of plaintiffs’ claim that this is the
tail on the dog.  But that is not really
the point.  If the defense sought the
information they claim and plaintiffs withheld it, that calls into question
much more than the specific discovery at issue; it calls into question whether
plaintiffs are withholding other evidence, some of which could undercut their
claims.  It would, for example, explain
why plaintiffs have so strongly fought any discovery relating to the
carrier.  Suffice it to say that if the
assertions are true the court views it as a bigger problem than do
plaintiffs.  The court is aware of the
plaintiffs’ theory that the real reason that defendants seek a continuance is
to find out how much plaintiffs received from the carrier.  It appears that the answer is $900,000 based
on the draft complaint (but maybe not—it is only a draft), but whatever the
reason, one would think that defendant knows that it will not be able to
introduce that to the jury under the collateral source doctrine.  It is hard to ascribe that as a principal
motive.  Defendants suggest that
plaintiffs may well have provided evidence to the carrier that undercuts the
claim they are making here.  If that is
the purpose, that might be something that could be admitted to impeach
plaintiffs and their claim.
On a different note, the opposition papers make a compelling
case that plaintiffs attempted to begin the FSC process in December 2023 but
were rebuffed by defendant—something defendant does not even attempt to counter
in reply.  Plaintiffs again attempted to
start the process in January and were again rebuffed.  The court believes that plaintiffs may well
be correct that they at least made an effort to work on the FSC a couple of
months before papers needed to be filed (consistent with the court’s earlier instruction)
but defendant refused.  The thing that is
missing is the follow-up where plaintiffs move forward anyway and unilaterally
if necessary coupled with a declaration stating the reason.  Thus, the court’s conclusion on the FSC point
is that, while neither side is blameless, plaintiffs did attempt to go forward
with the process but the defense elected to refuse to cooperate.  That is a troubling thing for the court,
especially for the defense.
The court’s guess, then, is that it will set a trial date in
the relatively near future and discovery will remain closed.  The court notes that in doing so, it is
allowing this case to “jump the line,” largely because plaintiffs at least
attempted to move forward with the FSC while defendants did not.  The motion to compel set for 3/1/24 is taken
OFF CALENDAR as untimely because the hearing date was less than 15 days before
the prior trial date and it therefore out of time.  (The court would not feel the same way had
the motion been filed such that statutory notice would have rendered it
timely.)  While the court has some
sympathy for defendant’s position and its desire to get the carrier’s file,
defendant has not yet made a showing as to why discovery should be re-opened
for that purpose.  Part of such a showing
would be a showing of diligence.  If
defendant wants to move to re-open discovery, it will need to bring a motion
(quickly).  That motion will need to
specify precisely what discovery it believes should be taken and why defendant
acted diligently to get that information but were improperly rebuffed by
plaintiffs such that they could not bring a timely motion to compel.  Almost certainly it will require defendant to
provide the information set forth above as part of the motion.  In other words, the court has some sympathy
for the defense if plaintiffs appeared to produce documents fully but in fact
withheld them.  On the other hand, if
this is just last-minute discovery, then the court’s likely view would be that
the defense waited too long.  All of that
said, if defendant is able to make the showing discussed above, the trial date
the court will set today will almost certainly be vacated. 