 Case Number:  21SMCV01145    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here on two motions, both brought by the
defense.  The first is a motion to compel
further deposition of plaintiff.  The
second is a motion to deem requests for admission to be admitted.  Both are opposed and the court will discuss
both in turn.
The motion to compel Fuller’s deposition seeks to direct
Fuller to appear for a fourth day of deposition.  The parties seem to agree that Fuller has
been deposed for about 12.5 hours thus far, and Fuller had offered an
additional 1.5 hours for a total of fourteen hours.
McCourt contends that the deposition is going long because
the complaint is 373 paragraphs long and has 17 causes of action.  Thus, she claims, while counsel has covered a
lot, counsel has not completed the deposition and needs another 6 hours.  McCourt states that the questioning has
largely been efficient, it is just that it is not complete.  McCourt has not complained that Fuller’s
counsel has acted inappropriately during deposition in the sense of frivolous
and time-consuming objections or the like. 
McCourt also notes that the third day of deposition did not include any
questions by McCourt and it lasted for only 2.5 hours.
In opposition, Fuller agrees that the case arises from a
long term relationship he had with McCourt resulting in a partnership between
them where everything each had became jointly owned.  (That is a gross over-simplification of the
case and is not meant to be a definitive recap.)  He does not quarrel with the notion that the
presumptive 7 hours is not enough and he has agreed to allow 14 hours.  Fuller states, however, that McCourt wasted
time during the deposition to date by pursuing irrelevant lines of questioning,
such as foot massages, gym memberships, and AAA memberships.  Fuller also complains that McCourt spent an
hour questioning him about discussions he had with the government concerning
purportedly improper conduct by McCourt while she was an ambassador under
President Trump.  Critically, Fuller
notes what transpired at the end of the second day.  According to Fuller, McCourt’s counsel had
been questioning Fuller but near day’s end stated that she would “pass the
baton” to Grier’s counsel so that he could do some questioning.  McCourt’s counsel stated that she was not yet
done questioning, though, and stated that she was reserving her “right” to
continue questioning when co-counsel finished. 
Fuller stated that he would be available to continue the next day.  However, at the next day’s deposition,
McCourt sent a more junior lawyer to the deposition (which was held remotely)
and, when Grier’s counsel finished questioning (after about 2.5 hours),
McCourt’s lawyer was unprepared to continue questioning and no more senior
lawyer was available.  Thus, Fuller
forcefully argues, McCourt is unduly prolonging the deposition, which inures to
Fuller’s detriment because he has to take time off and it is putting his job at
risk.
In reply, McCourt again states that the complaint is
over-pled and that requires more questioning than would otherwise be the case
and that the defense was efficient. 
However, more telling is that McCourt challenges what occurred between
Day 2 and Day 3.  Apparently, Fuller’s
counsel stated that if McCourt’s attorney turned over questioning to Grier’s
attorney, Fuller would take the position that McCourt was done and counsel would
instruct Fuller not to answer any questions put by McCourt’s lawyer.  The next day—the day Fuller agreed to
continue the deposition—was a problem. 
It was a problem because, for various reasons, this deposition is being
done at the courthouse.  However, the
Sheriff would not allow the deposition to go forward the next day because there
was no court order to that effect. 
Counsel tried to get such an order, but the court was out sick that day.  McCourt has insisted on a live deposition,
but because the courthouse was not available Day 3 had to be remote.  McCourt agrees that the lawyer who attended
that day was not prepared to question Fuller. 
But she explains that the reason is that Fuller had unequivocally stated
that McCourt would not be allowed to ask any questions.  Only after Fuller’s counsel saw that a new
lawyer was there did Fuller’s counsel suddenly reverse course and offer that
Fuller would answer questions to be put by McCourt. 
The court is somewhat troubled by Fuller’s recitation of the
deposition between Day 2 and Day 3. 
Frankly, until the reply, the court was unsure whether to grant McCourt any
additional time on the theory that McCourt had the time available but chose not
to use it.  The reply, however, casts
that decision in a far different light. 
Given Fuller’s counsel’s earlier statement, there was no reason McCourt
should have assumed that any questioning would be allowed.  And, while the court has not read the entire
transcript, the court cannot say that the time was inefficiently used.  The court is slow to second-guess litigation
strategy and tactics.  The court cannot
say that the topics of which Fuller complains were addressed in bad faith.  And the court is aware that the complaint
spans a lot.  It is not the number of
paragraphs in the complaint that is the issue, or even the number of causes of
action.  It is that Fuller is claiming a
partnership in which both parties allegedly co-mingled all of their assets over
a period of years.  This is not just a Marvin
claim in which the argument is that earnings during the relationship should be
treated as similar to community property; it is a claim that all of the
parties’ assets—during and before the relationship—were commingled as a
partnership.  In addition, there are
questions of what happened during the relationship, questions of property and
the right to reside on property and eviction therefrom, and ownership of
entities formed during the relationship. 
In short, there is a lot by nature of the claims asserted.  At the same time, 12.5 hours is a lot of
time.  And the court is cognizant of the
hardship on the witness of having to appear day after day.  The court is therefore inclined to allow a
(long) part-day session, and that is it. 
Specifically, the renewed deposition will start at 8:30 or as soon
thereafter as the courthouse opens up. 
It will continue for no more than 5 hours with no more than 30
additional minutes in break time (or such additional time as Fuller may
reasonably request).  The five hours will
not include any time that Fuller’s counsel is on the record.  The 5 hours does not include any time that
Fuller’s counsel is questioning Fuller (if any), and if there is such
questioning, McCourt’s counsel may have an equal amount of time to further
question Fuller.  That said, if the
“clock runs out” and McCourt has a “few minutes” left, the parties are urged to
work it out.  A few minutes, though,
means just that—5 or 10 minutes.  If
Fuller’s counsel has no questions, the deposition ought to be over by about
2.  That will allow Fuller to do at least
some work that day, and he will not have to take additional time off beyond
that day.
As to the date, the deposition will take place no earlier
than 2 weeks from now and no later than four weeks from now.  Fuller can, within 3 court days, propose not
less than 5 days for deposition to occur (all of which will be court
days).  McCourt will, within 1 court day
of getting the list, pick the date that works the best.  That said, the parties ought to try and meet
and confer and just agree if they can. 
They need to let the court know well in advance so that it can issue the
appropriate order to allow the deposition to take place at the courthouse.
With that the court turns to the motion to deem
admitted.  There were two sets—one from
each of two defendants.  Fuller served
unverified responses on September 14, 2023, and counsel stated that his client
was looking them over but that verifications would follow.  However, verifications were not
received.  On October 27, 2023, defendant
reached out to Fuller and brought this to his attention.  On October 30, 2023, supplemental responses
were served but only two RFA’s were supplemented but still without verifications.  Plaintiff contends that because the
verifications are not proper, the RFA’s should be deemed admitted and further
that all objections were waived and therefore the five remaining objections
should be stricken.  Fuller responds that
responses were timely served and claims that they were compliant.  Fuller agrees that there were no timely
verifications, but he claims that the fault is counsel’s and that the issue
just got lost in the large amount of work that needed to be done.  Fuller’s counsel states that he heard nothing
about the issue until the motion was filed, and that verifications were
promptly sent thereafter.  In reply,
McCourt claims that the Smith declaration (which attaches the verifications) is
unsigned and therefore should be disregarded. 
(A signed version was filed last week, but, amazingly, it does not
attach the verifications.)  McCourt also
notes that only the verifications to the McCort RFA’s were attached to the
opposition papers but that there are still no verifications for the
RFA’s propounded by Ehlers.  According to
McCourt, while that might seem like a technicality, the Legislature commands
that such technical failures result in a waiver of all objections or (as to
verifications) an order deeming the requests to be admitted. 
The court is not inclined to disregard the Smith
declaration.  Failing to sign the
declaration was sloppy, but not sloppy enough that the court will make counsel
call the carrier.  As to Ehlers, if the
verification has not been served prior to the hearing, the court has little
choice but to grant the motion.  There is
no excuse for such a lapse given that it was called to Fuller’s attention in
reply (and before).  The court assumes,
though, that Fuller has provided a verification prior to the hearing.  The court does have a question, though.  The verification as to the McCourt responses
are dated January 10, 2024.  That is a
very long time after the responses were served and the court is curious as to
why.  In fact, it is three weeks after
the motion was filed raising this issue. 
The court is unsure what caused that delay.  But having said that, the court would not
deem the requests admitted.  What follows
from that would likely be a motion to be relieved of the admissions coupled
with a declaration from counsel.  The
court would very likely have to grant that motion, the result being that we
would be where we are now, but four months down the road.
That brings the court to the objections.  There are five.  The last objection is well taken, but only
technically.  The objection is that the
RFA is unintelligible.  If one thinks
about it, that objection really cannot be waived.  For example, if the RFA were “Please admit
that yellow coffee fast clock,” the “unintelligible” objection cannot be waived
because “admitting” that fact is meaningless and no one would admit the
“fact.”  Here, the final RFA is misworded
such that it is unintelligible as written. 
Having said that, the problem is obvious and the court is disappointed
in everyone that it was not resolved. 
The proper response would have been “Fuller finds the RFA as written to
be unintelligible, but interpreting it as erroneously worded and replacing the
phrase ‘does not own’ for the word ‘owns,’ Fuller responds as follows.”  That is what nice people do.  That is what professionals do.  That is what the court directed the parties
to do.  That is what people do who do not
want to waste the court’s time. 
Alternatively, McCourt could have called Fuller’s counsel and explained
the situation and asked for a response as properly phrased rather than bring a
motion or claim a waiver.  Same as
above.  The court will order Fuller to
respond to the RFA as just phrased by the court within 1 court day and without
objection.  If the response is a denial,
then Fuller will also supplement any 17.1 interrogatory to which this RFA would
pertain, also within 1 day.  Similarly,
RFA 16 is technically unintelligible. 
Trusts (one could argue) do not have “owners.”  They have trustees and beneficiaries and
settlors.  But the trustee does not “own”
the trust and neither do the beneficiaries. 
As such, asking Fuller whether he has an “ownership” interest in a trust
is arguably impossible to answer.  Of
course, one might also say that the answer is to “admit” on the theory that one
cannot have ownership of an entity that by law has no owners.  But as with the other RFA, it is plain what
McCourt was asking, and the better response would have been to say that Fuller
interpreted “ownership” to mean “beneficial interest” and then answer.  He should do so within 1 court day and also
supplement 17.1 if the answer is to deny and if a 17.1 was propounded.  The court strongly encourages the parties to
stop wasting the court’s time with this sort of thing.  The parties may have nothing better to do
with their time, but the court does.
The other three objections are different.  RFA’s 21 and 22 seek information about a
romantic relationship that McCourt apparently believes Fuller had with another
woman.  The response denies the
relationship but for a particular time period only.  The lack of verification might well mean that
the RFA should just be admitted or denied as written, but parties acting better
would talk to one another.  The time
period for which Fuller responded might be the only pertinent one in the case,
in which case, Fuller has answered the real call of the question and McCourt
should let it go.  Or it could be that
McCourt views the time Fuller inserted to be too narrow, in which case the
parties should discuss a broader one. 
But if McCourt really means “ever” at any point from the beginning of
time until the response date, then it is likely that the objection was waived
by the verification lapse.  Assuming that
McCourt really means “ever,” then, Fuller must respond within 1 court day to
RFA’s 21 and 22 without regard to time. 
RFA 20 asks whether Fuller possesses one or more firearms.  Fuller claims privacy.  The objection there is not well taken, even
if it had not been waived.  Fuller will
answer that RFA within 1 court day of today. 
As with the above, if the answer is other than a straight admission,
17.1 will be answered as well if there is one.
And that finally leaves us to sanctions.  Fuller contends that as to the verification
problem, if McCourt had only brought it to counsel’s attention, this would not
have been necessary.  The court is not so
sure.  In the moving papers, McCourt
provided copies of two emails bringing it quite plainly to Fuller’s attention
before the motion was filed, yet the issue was ignored.  Even after the motion was filed, Fuller
ignored the issue for three weeks.  And
the court is still not sure that the responses to the Ehler RFA’s have
been verified.  Sanctions are
appropriate.  They are imposed against
Fuller, but not his counsel.  Because
even a perfunctory live meet and confer would have solved at least the
objection problem, had the sanctions been larger, they would have been cut by
the court.  However, the $3905 amount
sought is documented by the evidence and the court finds that amount to be
reasonable under the circumstances.  They
will be paid within 30 days.  The court
very much hopes that this is the last of the discovery motions.
