  Case Number:  21STCV19845    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Perry Lazar’s Motion to Deem Cases Related and to
Consolidate Actions
            Plaintiff
Perry Lazar, individually and as trustee of the Plone Trust, moves to
consolidate the trials of three actions: (1) Plone Trust, et al. v. Kalousd Pandazos, et al., No. 21STCV19845; (2) Perry Lazar
v. Brad Korb, et al., No. 21STCV34102; and (3) Perry Lazar, et al. v.
First American Title Insurance Company, et al., No. 22STCV11182.  This court found the first two cases
related.  The court has not yet
determined whether the third case is related to the others.       
Relating Cases
            The
court finds Perry
Lazar, et al. v. First American Title Insurance Company, et al., No. 22STCV11182, is related to the
other two actions.  Cases are related
when they “[i]nvolve the same parties and are based on the same or similar
claims” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a)(1)), “[a]rise from the same or
substantially identical transactions, incidents, or events requiring the
determination of the same or substantially identical questions of law or fact”
(rule 3.300(a)(2)), or “[a]re likely for other reasons to require substantial
duplication of judicial resources if heard by different judges” (rule
3.300(a)(4)).  
These three cases arise
from a dispute over real estate transactions involving two intersecting parcels
of land in the County of Los Angeles, APN 5867-0011-35 and -036.  Lazar’s action against First American Title
Insurance Company and First American Title Company (collectively, First
American) includes unique claims regarding title insurance coverage.  But resolving each case involves determining
whether any of several parties, including First American, is responsible for
damages to Lazar arising from erroneous legal descriptions used in the real
estate transactions.  The cases arise
from the same events.  They require
determination of some substantially identical questions of law or fact.  Having a different judge hear the case
between Lazar and First American would require substantial duplication of
judicial resources.
Consolidation
Lazar shows good cause to consolidate the three actions for
trial.  Code of Civil Procedure section
1048, subdivision (a) provides, “When actions involving a common question of
law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial
of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.” 
Generally, consolidation is done “ ‘to promote trial convenience and economy by avoiding
duplication of procedure, particularly in the proof of issues common to both
actions.’ ”  (Estate of Baker
(1982) 131 Cal.App.3d 471, 485.)
As
discussed above, the three cases involve significant common questions of fact
and law.  Consolidating the actions for trial
will serve the interest of judicial economy. 
If the cases are tried separately, there will likely be substantial duplication
of evidence.
First American argues consolidation will
prejudice it.  Courts should not
consolidate cases where “undue confusion or prejudice [is] likely to result
from the consolidation.”  (Todd-Stenberg
v. Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 979.)  
First American contends consolidation will cause
prejudice because Lazar refuses to testify at deposition in case No.
22STCV11182.  First American filed a
motion to compel Lazar’s deposition on April 30, 2024.  Consolidating the cases will not interfere
with the determination of First American’s motion.  
First American also argues Lazar unduly
delayed bringing this motion.  Lazar
could have brought the motion significantly earlier.  First American, however, does not demonstrate
significant prejudice resulting from that delay.  Regardless of when Lazar filed this motion,
consolidation will serve the interest of judicial economy.  
Disposition
Plaintiff Perry Lazar’s
motion to deem cases related and consolidate cases is granted.  
The court finds the three cases are related.   Perry Lazar, et al. v. First American Title
Insurance Company, et al., No. 22STCV11182 is hereby
reassigned to Department 52 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.    
The court hereby consolidates
the trials in the following three cases: (1) Plone Trust, et al. v. Kalousd Pandazos,
et al., No. 21STCV19845; (2) Perry Lazar v. Brad Korb, et al., No.
21STCV34102; and (3) Perry Lazar, et al. v. First American Title Insurance
Company, et al., No. 22STCV11182.
The court does not decide
with this order whether trial in this case should be bifurcated.
On or before December 3,
2024, plaintiff Perry Lazar, individually and as trustee of the Plone Trust, is
ordered to file a report with the court setting forth all the claims at
issue in this consolidated action.  The
report shall include the following four columns:
Name of plaintiff   
Name of defendant    Cause
of action         Pleading
The terms “plaintiff” and
“defendant” include cross-complainants and cross-defendants.  The “Cause of action” column shall state the
number and title of the cause of action. 
The “Pleading” column shall identify the operative pleading and the
action in which it was filed.Cross-Defendant Odalis C. Suarez’s
Motion to Set Aside OrderCross-defendant
Odalis C. Suarez moves under Code of Civil Procedure section 473 to set aside
the order granting in part the motion to tax costs by cross-complainant In
Action Realtors, Inc. (In Action).  Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provides, “The court may, upon
any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative
from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”  Courts
liberally apply this provision for discretionary relief.  “Because
the law favors disposing of cases on their merits, ‘any doubts in applying
section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default.’ ”  (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980.)  “Where the
mistake is excusable and the party seeking relief has been diligent, courts
have often granted relief pursuant to the discretionary relief provision of
section 473 if no prejudice to the opposing party will ensue.”  (Zamora v. Clayborn Contracting Group,
Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 249, 258.) 
“In such cases, the law ‘looks with [particular] disfavor on a party
who, regardless of the merits of his cause, attempts to take advantage of the
mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary.’ ”  (Ibid.)On July 24, 2024, the court granted
in part In Action’s motion to tax Suarez’s memorandum of costs.  Suarez adequately shows that order resulted, in
part, from her mistake or excusable neglect. 
In its minute order, the court found Suarez did not submit any admissible
evidence of the costs she incurred.  Suarez’s
declaration in support of this motion states, “After receiving In Action’s reply, I realized there was an error in our
opposition that I had inadvertently failed to attach the supporting documents
to the memorandum of cost on Exhibit 6 to the opposition an exhibit to my
declaration.”  (Suarez Decl., ¶ 3.)  Suarez also shows she acted with reasonable diligence in
seeking relief.  She testifies, “On July
19, 2024 and prior to the hearing of this matter I attempted to file an errata
to the opposition, however the court-approved electronic service provider was
not functional.”  (Suarez Decl., ¶ 3.)  She and her counsel also unsuccessfully attempted
to attend the hearing on July 24 via LA Court Connect.  (Id., ¶ 4.)  The court takes judicial notice of the fact
that a cyberattack on the court on July 19 greatly interfered with court
systems beginning that day and continuing for several days after.  Suarez then filed this motion on July
30.  Suarez’s mistake in not submitting
the evidence did not prejudice In Action. 
It had ample time to respond to Suarez’s new evidence when opposing this
motion.  The court therefore will vacate its order granting In
Action’s motion to tax costs and reconsider the order after accounting for Suarez’s
additional evidence.  Recoverable
CostsSuarez
presents adequate evidence supporting most of the costs she claims.  “ ‘If the items on a verified cost bill
appear proper charges, they are prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses
and services therein listed were necessarily incurred.’ ”  (Seever v. Copley Press, Inc. (2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 1550, 1557.)  After an adverse party moves to strike or tax the “memorandum of costs,
the burden shift[s] to” the prevailing party “to prove his costs.”  (Jones v. Dumrichob (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 1258, 1265.)  “Once costs
claimed in the memorandum are challenged via a motion to tax, ‘[d]ocumentation
must be submitted’ to sustain the burden.” 
(Ibid.)SettlementIn Action argues Suarez cannot collect costs because, after
she filed this motion, In Action entered a settlement agreement with Perry
Lazar that required Suarez to dismiss this motion.  In Action acknowledges Suarez is not a party
to that settlement agreement but contends the parties’ intent was to require Suarez
to dismiss this motion and her claim for costs. 
(Supp. Brief., pp. 3-4.)  The settlement agreement provides, “Except as herein set
forth, each Party shall bear his, hers or its own costs and attorney’s fees and
as such, any pending motion or request for relief of the Court in connection
with any fees and/or costs previously awarded, whether by motion for reconsideration
or otherwise, shall be withdrawn with prejudice.  No Party shall be deemed a prevailing party.”  (Plotkin Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 2.)  The agreement further provides that the
parties release one another, “including their attorneys, agents, insurers,
servants, successors, heirs, executors, administrators and all other such
persons, firms, corporations, associations or partnerships associated with
them) from and against any and all claims, demands, causes of action,
obligations as well as any and all damages, liabilities, losses, costs and/or
expenses, including attorney’s fees.”  (Id.,
¶ 3.)These provisions do not apply to Suarez.  In Action filed a cross-complaint against
Suarez.  Though Suarez acted as Lazar’s
attorney in litigation and as his agent in the real estate transaction giving
rise to the litigation, she incurred these costs and filed this motion in her
capacity as a cross-defendant.  Given
that she is not a party to the settlement agreement, the agreement did not
release Suarez’s personal claim for costs in her capacity as cross-defendant.Specific ExpensesSuarez’s memorandum of costs claimed $10,618.03 in
costs.  She submits admissible evidence
detailing the costs she incurred. 
(Suarez Decl., Ex. C.)  In Action
challenges several specific expenses Suarez claims.  In her reply brief, Suarez conceded to some
of In Action’s objections and asserts she should recover $9,193.75 in costs.Filing FeesSuarez concedes she should recover $900 in filing fees.  (Supp. Opp., pp. 5 & 6; Reply, p.
8.)  Deposition CostsThe parties dispute the amount of recoverable deposition
costs.  In her reply brief, Suarez seeks
to recover $5,515.40 for the following costs of depositions and transcripts:
(1) Michelle Pascual, $583; (2) David Farrell, $808; (3) Sean Anders,
$1,090.20; (4) In Action’s person most knowledgeable #1, $1,287.15; (5) In
Action’s person most knowledgeable #2, $1,118.10, and (6) a copy of Suarez’s
deposition transcript, $628.95.  (Reply,
p. 8.)  The evidence Suarez she submitted
in support of this motion, however, does not include the $628.95 for her
deposition transcript.  (Suarez Decl.,
Ex. C.)  Suarez had multiple
opportunities to submit evidence in support of her costs.  The court will not permit her to present
additional evidence months after filing this motion.              In Action disputes the
$808 for the deposition of David Farrell, person most qualified for the County
of Los Angeles.  In Action argues that
expense does not pertain to its cross-complaint but instead is only relevant to
the claims by Lazar and Plone Trust against the County.  The issues overlap.  In the cross-complaint against Suarez, In
Action asserted a claim for indemnity against Suarez on the basis that she was
responsible for any damages to Lazar because of her conduct as Lazar’s real
estate agent in purchasing the subject property in 2004.  Deposing David Farrell was reasonably related
to her defense of showing she was not at fault based on her investigation of
the property.              Suarez therefore shall recover
$4,886.45 in deposition costs.Service of Process            In her reply brief,
Suarez seeks $453.40 for service of process. 
(Reply, p. 8.)  Her memorandum of
costs claimed only $291.15 for service of process.  She cannot seek extra expenses via her reply
brief on this motion.  Fees for Electronic Filing or ServiceSuarez concedes she should recover $1,249 in fees for
electronic filing or service.  (Supp.
Opp., pp. 5 & 6; Reply, p. 8.) Other Costs            In Action argues Suarez
cannot recover the costs for copying records from Crescenta Valley Water
District.  Like the deposition of David
Farrell, this discovery was intertwined with claims by Lazar and Plone Trust
against the Water District.  These
expenses were also reasonably related to Suarez’s defense of showing she was
not at fault in the property transaction in 2004.  Suarez therefore shall recover $1,075.95 in other costs.Total            Suarez’s recoverable
costs total $8,402.55.DispositionCross-defendant
Odalis C. Suarez’s motion to set aside order pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 473 is granted.  The court hereby sets
aside its order ruling on cross-complainant In Action
Realtors, Inc.’s motion to strike or tax costs on July 24, 2024.  The
court hereby grants in part cross-complainant
In Action Realtors, Inc.’s motion to strike or tax costs.  Cross-defendant Odalis C. Suarez shall
recover $8,402.55 in costs from cross-complainant In Action Realtors, Inc.
 