 Case Number:  24STCV19220    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiffs’ Motion to Expunge Notice of Pendency of Action and Request
for Attorneys’ Fees

Plaintiffs Union Home Loan Profit
Sharing Plan, et al., move to expunge the notice of pendency of action
defendants Pure Energy 369, LLC, Arthur Becerra, Melina Becerra, and Antonio
Becerra filed in another action, Pure Energy 369, LC v. Union Home Loan, et
al., No. 23STCV20798.  
Plaintiffs’ motion is defective.  Code of Civil Procedure section 405.30
provides, “At any time after notice of pendency of action has been recorded,
any party, or any nonparty with an interest in the real property affected
thereby, may apply to the court in which the action is pending to expunge the
notice.”  Plaintiffs did not apply to the
court in which the action is or was pending. 
That action, though dismissed, was pending in Department 78 before Judge
Feeney.  Moreover, the agreement to
settle that action provides that the court retains jurisdiction to enforce the
agreement under Code of Civil Procedure 664.6. 
(Curd Decl., Ex. 1, ¶ 11.)  Plaintiffs
provide no authority that this court can, in a separate action, expunge the
notice of pendency of action filed in a different action before a different
court.  
Attorney Fees
            In
their opposition, defendants request $3,825 in attorney fees for opposing this
motion.  Code of Civil Procedure section
405.38 provides, “The court shall direct that the party prevailing on any
motion under this chapter be awarded the reasonable attorney’s fees and costs
of making or opposing the motion unless the court finds that the other party
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of attorney’s fees and costs unjust.”  
The court finds plaintiffs acted
with substantial justification.  Though
they filed this motion in the wrong action, plaintiffs presented a reasonable
argument on the merits for expunging the lis pendens.
Disposition
            Plaintiffs’ motion to
expunge notice of pendency of action is denied.  
Plaintiffs are ordered to file a notice of related case in this
action and in case No. 23STCV20798 forthwith. 