 Case Number:  23STCV25003    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Proceedings
Defendants
Dick Browning, Inc., Matthew Browning, Kent C. Browning, Peter Browning, and
Scott Dickinson move to compel arbitration of this action by plaintiff George
Langarcia.  Defendants further move to
stay the proceedings.
Evidentiary
Objections
            Plaintiff makes two objections to
the declaration of Jeanine Tesoro.  Both
objections are overruled.
Validity
of Agreement to Arbitrate
            Defendants meet their burden of
showing plaintiff agreed to arbitrate employment disputes.  Plaintiff argues the court cannot enforce the
agreement for three reasons.
            First, plaintiff contends the agreement
is unenforceable due to the following provision: “Both the Dealership and I
agree that any arbitration proceeding must move forward under the FAA’s
procedural provisions even if the claims may also involve or relate to parties
who are not parties to the arbitration agreement and/or claims that are not
subject to arbitration; in other words, a court may not refuse to enforce this
arbitration agreement and may not stay the arbitration proceeding, despite the
provisions of CCP section 1281.2(c).”  (Tesoro
Decl., Ex. A, § 3, p. 2.)
            Plaintiff provides no authority that
such a provision makes the agreement unenforceable.  To the contrary, there is binding authority
directly on point.  “[P]arties may limit
the trial court’s authority to stay or deny arbitration under the CAA by
adopting the more restrictive procedural provisions of the FAA.’ ”  (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8
LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 345.) 
The Court of Appeal held that, by adopting the FAA, the agreement “ ‘thereby
eliminat[ed] the trial court’s authority’ ” to deny a motion to compel
arbitration “ ‘under section 1281.2(c).’ ” 
(Id. at p. 346.)  Here, the
agreement similarly incorporates the FAA’s procedural provisions.  Moreover, even if the provision limiting the
court’s authority under section 1281.2(c) were invalid, that would not make the
entire agreement unenforceable.  
            Second, plaintiff argues the
agreement does not meet two requirements under Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83 (Armendariz).  Plaintiff contends the agreement does not
include provisions stating (1) the arbitrator has the power to award all relief
available in court, and (2) defendants will bear all costs unique to
arbitration.  
            Failing to specifically provide for
everything required under Armendariz does not make the agreement
invalid.  “Armendariz held that an
employee can be compelled to arbitrate unwaivable statutory claims only if
certain minimum requirements are satisfied,” including that the “agreement may
not limit the statutory remedies available” and “the employer must bear all
costs that are unique to arbitration.”  (Sanchez
v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 175–176.)  But “Armendariz held that to the
extent that the arbitration agreement was silent on these issues, these
requirements must be implied as a matter of law.”  (Id. at p. 176; accord Little v. Auto
Stiegler, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1084.)  Plaintiff has these rights even if the
parties’ agreement does not expressly provide for them.   
Third,
plaintiff argues the agreement is not mutual because defendant Dick Browning,
Inc. did not sign it.  It is well established that the drafting
party can enforce an arbitration agreement it did not sign.  (See, e.g., Cruise v. Kroger Co.
(2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 390, 398.)  The
issue is whether the employer intended to be bound, not whether it signed the
document.  (Ibid.)  The agreement shows Dick Browning, Inc.
intended to be bound.  It provides,
“[T]he Dealership and I agree to utilize binding arbitration as the sole and
exclusive means to resolve all” disputes between them.  (Tesoro Decl., Ex. A, § 3, p. 1.)  It further provides, “Both the Dealership and
I agree that any claim, dispute, and/or controversy covered by this agreement
shall be submitted to and determined exclusively by binding arbitration under
the Federal Arbitration Act.”  (Id.,
p. 2.)  The arbitration provision is
mutual.
Individual Defendants
Plaintiff
also argues the individual defendants (Matthew Browning, Kent C. Browning,
Peter Browning, and Scott Dickinson) cannot enforce the agreement because they
have no admissible evidence that they are owners or officers of the
corporation.  The court rejects this
argument for three reasons.  
First,
defendants present testimony that Matthew Browning, Kent C. Browning, and Peter
Browning are all owners of the corporation, while Scott Dickinson was its
executive vice president.  (Tesoro Decl.,
¶ 5.)
Second,
the agreement is not limited to claims against owners or officers.  It provides, “This agreement to submit to
binding arbitration applies to any and all claims between me and the Dealership
(or its parent or subsidiary companies, owners, directors, officers, managers,
employees, agents, and parties affiliated with its employee benefit and health
plans).”  (Tesoro Decl., Ex. A, § 3, p.
1.)  
Third,
plaintiff asserts the individual defendants are liable because they employed
him or controlled his employment.  A defendant who is not a party to the
agreement “may enforce the arbitration agreement, ‘when a plaintiff alleges a
defendant acted as an agent of a party to an arbitration agreement.’ ”  (Garcia v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11
Cal.App.5th 782, 788; accord Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284 [“a nonsignatory
sued as an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration agreement”].)  
Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges, “Defendants MATTHEW BROWNING, KENT C. BROWNING, PETER
BROWNING, and SCOTT DICKINSON are individuals residing within the state of
California and whom from in or about January 7, 2019 to on or about October 28,
2022: (1) exercised control over Plaintiff’s wages, hours, and/or working
conditions; (2) caused Plaintiff to suffer or permit to work; (3) had an ‘at-will’
employment relationship with Plaintiff; and/or (4) engaged Plaintiff in such a
manner so as to create a common law employment relationship with Plaintiff,
and/or are individuals liable for the wage and hour violations committed by the
other Defendant employers.”  (¶ 2.)  It further alleges all individual defendants
are alter egos of the corporation (id., ¶ 4) and acted as one another’s
“agents, servants, employees, joint venturers or co-conspirators” (id.,
¶ 5).  
Plaintiff
cannot contend the individual defendants are not entitled to compel arbitration
while also alleging they are liable as his employers or as his employer’s alter
egos or agents.
Disposition
            Defendants Dick Browning,
Inc., Matthew Browning, Kent C. Browning, Peter Browning, and Scott Dickinson’s
motion
to compel arbitration and stay proceedings is granted.  Plaintiff George Langarcia is ordered to arbitrate this action against defendants.  The court hereby stays the entire action pending resolution of the
parties’ arbitration proceeding.