 Case Number:  24NWCV02382    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  C 3301 LEONIS, LLC
v. FURNITURE DELIVERY SOLUTIONS, INC. 
CASE NO.: 24NWCV02382
HEARING:  11/24/24
 
#8 
 
     I.       
Defendant FURNITURE DELIVERY SOLUTIONS, INC.’s
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED with 5 days leave to amend.

 
    II.       
Plaintiff 3301 LEONIS, LLC’s Motion to Compel
Deposition of the PMK of Defendant FURNITURE DELIVERY SOLUTIONS, INC. and
Production of Documents is GRANTED. 
 
  III.       
Plaintiff 3301 LEONIS, LLC’s Motion for
Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Prevailing Party to give notice. 
 
I.            
Demurrer 
 
This action for commercial unlawful detainer was filed by
Plaintiff 3301 LEONIS, LLC (“Plaintiff”) against Defendant FURNITURE DELIVERY
SOLUTIONS, INC. (“Defendant”) on July 29, 2024. 
 
Defendant specially and generally demurs to the Complaint. 
 
As to the Entire Complaint – Uncertainty 
 
Defendant argues that the pleading is fatally uncertain. This
argument lacks merit because “[a] special demurrer for uncertainty is not
intended to reach the failure to incorporate sufficient facts in the pleading
but is directed at the uncertainty existing in the allegations actually made.”
(Butler v. Sequeira (1950) 100 Cal.App.2d 143, 145-146.) Moreover,
demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and will only be sustained where the
pleading is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., he or
she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of
Calif. Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
Here, it is clear from Defendant’s other arguments that they understand what Plaintiff
at least attempts to allege, and there is no true uncertainty. The demurrer is
not sustained on the basis of uncertainty.
 
Unlawful Detainer
 
Defendant generally demurs on the basis that the three-day
notice to quit is defective. 
 
No Opposition has been filed as of November 18, 2024. 
 
“[T]he basic elements of unlawful detainer for nonpayment of
rent contained in CCP §1161(2) are: (1) the tenant is in possession of the
premises; (2) that possession is without permission; (3) the tenant is in
default for nonpayment of rent; (4) the tenant has been properly served with a
written three-day notice; and (5) the default continues after the three-day
notice period has elapsed.”  (Kruger
v. Reyes (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th Supp. 10, 16.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint states that the Proof of Service
of the 3-Day Notice to Pay Rent or Quit is attached as Exhibit 3 to the
Complaint. (Complaint ¶10(d).) However, as argued in Reply, there are no
documents attached as Exhibit 3 to the Complaint. The time and manner of
service of the 3-Day Notice has not been properly alleged. 
 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED with 5 days leave to amend.
 
II.           
Motion to Compel PMK Deposition  
 
Plaintiff moves to compel the deposition of Defendant’s
Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”) with production of documents.
 
“Pursuant to CCP §2025.450, if after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action, without having served a valid objection, fails
to appear for examination, or proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, the party giving notice may move for an order compelling the
deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any
document. (CCP §2025.450(a).) 
 
In Opposition, Defendant states: “Defendant has never
refused to be deposed and will cooperate in scheduling and the taking of his
deposition…. [¶] The undersigned intended to expressly offer to schedule
Defendant’s deposition after the hearing on Defendant’s demurrer but
inadvertently omitted to do so. [¶] In the circumstances, Defendant submits
that an award of sanctions is unnecessary.” (Opp. 2:2-10.) 
 
The substantively unopposed Motion is GRANTED. Defendant is
ORDERED to produce its PMK to appear for a deposition and produce documents by
no later than 15 calendar days from the date of the Court’s issuance of this
Order. This date may be extended by agreement of the parties. 
 
Reasonable sanctions in the amount of $435.00 is GRANTED.
Defendant and its Counsel of Record are ORDERED to pay Plaintiff and their
Counsel of Record sanctions in the amount of $435.00 within 30 days from the
date of the Court’s issuance of this Order. This date may be extended by
agreement of the parties. 
 
III.         
Motion for Sanctions 
 
Plaintiff moves for CCP §§128.5 and/or 128.7 sanctions
against Defendant and Defendant’s counsel of record for the following reasons:
(1) Defendant served on Plaintiff a Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint without
any attempt to meet and confer; (2) Defendant scheduled the hearing on the
Demurrer for May 15, 2025—over 9 months after the filing of the Demurrer; (3)
The 3-Day Notice was attached as Exhibit 2 to the Complaint, and not missing;
and (4) Defendant’s Demurrer is frivolous. 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that sanctions are not
warranted and the Motion should be denied because the Complaint is deficient
and the Demurrer is well-reasoned. 
 
“(a) A trial court may order a party, the party’s attorney,
or both to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
another party as a result of actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are
frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay…... (b)…. (1) ‘Actions
or tactics’ include…the making or opposing of motions or the filing and service
of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive pleading…... (2)
‘Frivolous’ means totally and completely without merit or for the sole purpose
of harassing an opposing party.” (CCP §128.5(a), (b)(1-2).) 
 
“By presenting to the court,
whether by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading,
petition, written notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney…is
certifying to the best of the person’s knowledge, information, and belief, formed
after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of the following
conditions are met: (1) It is not being presented primarily for an improper
purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase
in the cost of litigation. (2) The claims, defenses, and other legal
contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument
for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the
establishment of new law. (3) The allegations and other factual contentions
have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have
evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or
discovery. (4) The denials of factual contentions are warranted on the evidence
or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of
information or belief.” (CCP §128.7(b). CCP §128.7(c) provides: “If, after
notice and a reasonable opportunity to respond, the court determines that
subdivision (b) has been violated, the court may…impose an appropriate sanction
upon the attorneys, law firms, or parties that have violated subdivision (b) or
are responsible for the violation.” 
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section
128.7 imposes a lower threshold for sanctions than is required under Code of
Civil Procedure section 128.5. This is because Code of Civil Procedure section
128.7 requires only that conduct be ‘objectively unreasonable,’ while Code of
Civil Procedure section 128.5 also requires a showing of subjective bad faith.
[Internal Citation.]” (Gullemin v. Stein (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 156,
167.) 
 
The Court notes that there is no meet and confer requirement
prior to filing a Demurrer in unlawful detainer cases. (CCP §430.41(d).) 
 
As indicated above, Defendant’s Demurrer is well-taken, and
the Court does not find that it was filed for an improper or frivolous purpose.
There is no proof of service for the 3-Day Notice to Pay Rent or Quit attached
as Exhibit 3 to the Complaint as alleged. 
 
Moreover, due to the Court’s congested calendar, it is not uncommon
for parties to experience long delays in obtaining hearing dates.  Thus, the fact that a motion filed in August
2024 was noticed for hearing in May 2025 is not evidence of an improper
purpose.  
 
The Motion is DENIED. 
 