 Case Number:  24STCV16293    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
VIG Private Lending, Inc.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV16293




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Ilan Kenig,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 11, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Preliminary Injunction
Moving Party: Plaintiff VIG Private Lending, Inc.
Responding Party: Defendants Ilan Kenig and Avivit
Kenig
 
T/R:      PETITIONER’S MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY
INJUNCTION IS DENIED.
 
PETITIONER TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On September 18, 2024, Plaintiff VIG
Private Lending, Inc. filed the operative first amended complaint against
Defendants Ilan Kenig and Avivit Kenig, asserting causes of action for (1)
private waste; (2) waste; (3) injunctive relief; (4) fraud; (5) intentional
misrepresentation; and (6) negligent misrepresentation. Plaintiff alleges
Defendants refuse to vacate real property after a foreclosure.
 
ANALYSIS
 
In deciding whether to issue a
preliminary injunction, the court looks to two factors: “(1) the likelihood
that the Petitioner will prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative balance of
harms that is likely to result from the granting or denial of interim
injunctive relief.” (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 553-54.) The
factors are interrelated, with a greater showing on one permitting a lesser
showing on the other. (Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v.
Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1414, 1420.)
 
Plaintiff moves for a preliminary
injunction allowing Plaintiff physical access to the property, to perform
repairs and show the property to potential buyers. Plaintiff represents that
there is significant water damage on the property that will continue to get
worse if not remedied quickly. 
 
In opposition, Defendants assert that
the motion is moot because Plaintiff’s inspector already came to the property
and found no damage. Defendants also contend that possession is being
adjudicated in a separate unlawful detainer action between the parties. In
reply, Plaintiff presents conflicting statements from Defendants in the unlawful
detainer action stating that Defendants have refused to repair the premises.
 
An unlawful detainer action is an
expedited process that should afford the parties sufficient remedy for
possession issues. The Court declines to interfere with the unlawful detainer
case by making orders regarding right of entry and possession. In addition, Plaintiff
has not shown that the condition of the property is so poor that irreparable
harm could occur without issuance of an injunction.
 
Plaintiff’s motion for preliminary
injunction is DENIED.
 