 Case Number:  23STCP02375    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Crane Boulevard Safety Coalition, 


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCP02375




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




City of Los Angeles,


 
 
 
Respondent.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 11, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to Second Amended Petition for
Writ of Mandate
Moving Party: Respondent City of Los Angeles 
Responding Party: Petitioner Crane Boulevard Safety
Coalition
 
T/R:      RESPONDENT’S DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED AS
TO THE THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION AND OVERRULED AS TO THE FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION.
 
RESPONDENT TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER
TO THE SECOND AMENDED PETITION WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
RESPONDENT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises under the California
Environment Quality Act (“CEQA”). On August 7, 2023, Petitioner Crane Boulevard
Safety Coalition filed the First Amended Petition for Writ of Mandate (FAP) against
Respondent City of Los Angeles and Real Parties in Interest Rachel Foullon and
Ian Cooper. On July 15, 2024, the Court granted Respondent’s motion for
judgment of the pleadings on the third and fourth causes of action. On August
2, 2024, Petitioner filed a second amended petition (SAP).
 
Petitioner challenges certain patterns
and practices of Respondent relating to the Mount Washington/Glassell Park
Specific Plan (“Specific Plan”) and proposed development housing project
located at 464-466 Crane Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA (“Project”). 
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
 
The parties’ requests for judicial
notice are GRANTED as to the existence of the documents, but not as to the
truth of the matters asserted therein. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Third Cause of Action for Violation
of Mount Washington/Glassell Park Specific Plan
 
Respondent argues the third cause of action is barred by the statute of
limitations in Government Code § 65009 because it was filed and served more
than one year after the expiration of the 90-day statute of limitations for
actions challenging an agency’s final determination of compliance with a
specific plan. Respondent also argues the petition fails to state facts
demonstrating its timeliness.
 
Government Code § 65009, subdivision
(c)(1) states, “Except as provided in subdivision (d), no action or proceeding
shall be maintained in any of the following cases by any person unless the
action or proceeding is commenced and service is made on the legislative body
within 90 days after the legislative body's decision: [¶](E) To attack, review,
set aside, void, or annul any decision on the matters listed in Sections 65901
and 65903, or to determine the reasonableness, legality, or validity of any
condition attached to a variance, conditional use permit, or any other permit.
[¶](F) Concerning any
of the proceedings, acts, or determinations taken, done, or made prior to any
of the decisions listed in subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), (D), and (E).” (Cal.
Gov. Code, § 65009(c)(1)(E)-(F).) “ ‘Under section 65009, subdivision (e),
after expiration of the filing and service limitations period, “all persons are
barred from any further action or proceeding.’ There are no exceptions.” (Weiss
v. City of Del Mar (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 609, 619.)
 
The East Los Angeles Planning
Commission (“ELAPC”) determined that the Project is consistent with the
Specific Plan on December 28, 2021. The PLUM committee conducted its hearing on
May 2, 2023, and voted to deny the appeal of that determination and approve the
categorical exemption. The City Council approved the PLUM Committee report on
May 10, 2023. The original petition was filed on July 7, 2023. 
 
In ruling on this issue in the motion
for judgment on the pleadings concerning the FAP, the Court wrote: 
 
The East Los Angeles Planning Commission…determined that
the Project is consistent with the Specific Plan and issued a Letter of
Determination (“LOD”) on December 28, 2021, following an administrative hearing
on Petitioner’s appeal. The LOD constitutes a final determination of the
Specific Plan because it was issued in response to Petitioner’s administrative
appeal.
 
Petitioner contends the ELAPC’s Project
approval could not become final for purposes of Section 65009 until the
conclusion of the administrative appeal process under Public Resources Code
Section 21151(c), and because LAMC 11.5.13D states
that the project approval is stayed upon the filing of an appeal. The SAP pleads additional facts purportedly
showing an exception to the limitations period of Section 65009. But those
include various draft documents, which do not show the City’s official interpretation
of its ordinance regarding the effect of CEQA appeals. As Respondent notes, the Planning
Commission’s December 28, 2021, LOD states that CEQA appeals do not affect the
finality of the Project’s Permit Compliance Review:
 
Effective Date/Appeals: The decision of the East Los
Angeles Area Planning Commission is final and effective upon the mailing of
this determination letter and not further appealable. Notice: An appeal of the
CEQA clearance for the Project pursuant to Public Resources Code Section 21151
(c) is only available if the Determination of the non-elected decision-making
body (e.g., ZA, AA, APC, CPC) is not further appealable and the decision is
final. If you seek judicial review of any decision of the City pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.5, the petition for writ of
mandate pursuant to that section must be filed no later than the 90th day
following the date on which the City’s decision became final pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6. There may be other time
limits which also affect your ability to seek judicial review. 
 
            Petitioner has not shown an exception to the 90-day statute
of limitations in Section 65009. The third cause of action is untimely. Project
Permit Compliance Review was final as of the December 28, 2021, Letter of
Determination. Any challenge to the project approval under the Planning and
Zoning Law must have been filed by March 28, 2022. 
 
Respondent’s demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED without
leave.
 
B. Fourth Cause of Action for Violation of California Due
Process/Fair Hearing
 
Respondent argues the fourth cause of
action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a viable cause of action
under the California Constitution because Respondent’s process met the minimum
standards required for a “fair hearing,” and Petitioner fails to state facts
demonstrating they have the requisite property interests to warrant a different
process than the one Respondent provided. 
 
In Pinheiro v. Civil Service Com.
for County of Fresno (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1458, the court held “The ‘fair
trial’ requirement of section 1094.5 is not synonymous with constitutional due
process and does not mandate ‘a formal hearing under the due process clause.’”
(Pinheiro v. Civil Service Com. for County of Fresno (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 1458, 1463.) Only “a fair administrative hearing, which affords the
appellant a reasonable opportunity to be heard,” is required. (Id.)
Furthermore, deprivation of a fair administrative hearing requires a deficiency
in the process, which resulted in prejudice to a party. (Hipsher v. Los
Angeles County Employees Retirement Association (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 671,
702.) “[T]hese principles apply to governmental land use decisions which are
adjudicative in nature, not those which are ministerial or legislative in
nature, and they serve to protect both adjacent landowners and applicants.” (Linovitz
Capo Shores LLC v. California Coastal Com. (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 1106,
1122.) As such, “land use decisions which ‘substantially affect’ the property
rights of owners of adjacent parcels may constitute ‘deprivations’ of property
within the context of procedural due process.” (Horn v. County of Ventura
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 605, 615.)
 
Petitioner alleges that Respondent
failed to provide notice to all interested persons, failed to read the written
submissions in the Council File, and allowed Petitioner only three minutes to
make its arguments. Petitioner asserts that its members are landowners that
could be seriously damaged by the project’s soil impacts, requiring procedural
due process. The Court finds that the SAC pleads sufficient facts to allege a violation
of due process. 
 
The demurrer to the fourth cause of
action is OVERRULED.


 