  Case Number:  19TRCP00166    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  8  Tentative RulingHEARING DATE: June 14, 2024CASE NUMBER: 19TRCP00166CASE NAME: City of Palos Verdes, People of the State of California v. Lucretia Zorotovich Duncan, et al.MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs, City of Palos Verdes Estates and the People of the State of CaliforniaRESPONDING PARTY: Defendants, James Duncan, Lucretia Z. DuncanTRIAL DATE: Not Set.MOTION: (1) Motion for an Order to Show Cause Re: ContemptTentative Rulings: (1) Motion toI. BACKGROUNDA. FactualSince the Court’s previous minute order and continuance of the Contempt issue, on Aoril 3, 2024, this Court indicated that Plaintiff was to submit a report or declaration detailing the “disturbing” information received by April 10, 2024.On April 10, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a statement and/or supplemental briefing along with a declarations of Jeffrey P. Wilson and Public Works Director Seims in support of Plaintiffs’ Statement for April 12, 2024 Contempt Hearing.On April 11, 2024, this Court continued the hearing on its own motion.On May 1, 2024, Defendants submitted the Declaration for Allan Rigg, PE AICP of Rigg Consulting Inc.On May 6, 2024, this Court ordered monetary sanctions for contempt of Judge Tanaka’s ruling in the additional higher amount of 2,500. The Court notes that the sanctions are ordered held until the submission of a conceptual plan (100%) is received and reviewed by the City of Palos Verdes Estates no later than June 3, 2024. This Court further continued the hearing on the order to show cause re: Higher Monetary Sanctions.On June 3, 2024, Defendants, James Duncan and Lucretia Z. Duncan filed the Declaration of James Duncan as well as the Declaration of Allan Rigg, PE AICP of Rigg Consulting, Inc.II. ANALYSISJames Duncan’s supplemental declaration indicates that he has taken Mr. Rigg’s conceptional plan and submitted it to four contractors. (Duncan Decl., ¶ 2.) He further notes that he is currently waiting for bids from at least two contractors. (Duncan Decl., ¶ 3.) Further, Allan Rigg’s declaration has both a construction plan that would comply with the city’s demand as well as a $30,000 estimate by Rosewood landscape, Inc. (Rigg Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) The Rosewood Landscape bid notes that asphalt work, if any is needed, would be an additional amount and a permit would be required for the same. The Court notes that Mr. Duncan has not stated whether he willing to move forward with Rosewood’s bid if he gets not other responses to his contractor casting call, nor has he given any time frame for expected receipt of the other bids. The Court will inquire at the hearing how long Rosewood’s proposal would take to complete if M. Duncan approves it, and of the City as to whether the Rigg Construction Plan does it fact meet the City’s requirements.