  Case Number:  21STCV18294    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
DECEMBER 7,
2023

MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 21STCV18294

 



MP:  


Olga Zharovskaya
  (Plaintiff)




RP:  


BHC Alhambra Hospital (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On May 14, 2023, Olga Zharovskaya (“Plaintiff”) filed suit
against BHC Alhambra Hospital (“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges Defendant was
negligent in her care and in the supervision of a third-party patient who
attacked Plaintiff while she was a patient at Defendant’s hospital. This motion
follows a previous motion to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s RFPD (Set
Five), in which Defendant identified 19 previous incidents of
patient-on-patient violence at its facility. The Court held that Defendant’s
records of these incidents were subject to privilege and could not be produced.

 
Plaintiff now seeks
to compel further response to its RFPD (Set Six) Nos. 51-161.
 
These RFPD
request any and all documents that concern the Incident Reports identified in
Defendant’s Privilege Log. The RFPD asks for any and all documents relating to
the following: 
 
·        
Records
maintained under the provisions of Cal. Code Regulations (“C.C.R.”), Title 22,
section 70737 CONCERNING Incident No. 1-19;
 
·        
Records RELATING
TO or CONCERNING Defendant’s reporting of Incident No. 1-19 to the California
Department of Health. 
 
·        
Portions of the
respective patients’ medical records in which notations are made CONCERNING
Incident No. 1-19;
 
·        
Correspondence,
notes, compilations, maps, charts, diagrams, photographs, minutes and records
of any memoranda of all types, inter-office and intra-office communications,
notes of conversations, and other recorded matter of every nature and kind
CONCERNING Incident No. 1-19.
 
·        
All documents
reflecting the bylaws, policies and procedures, and the purpose of any
committee who received the incident reports. 
 
·        
All documents
which demonstrate that the incident reports are covered under attorney-client
privilege. 
 
Defendant
opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A motion
to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or production of
documents may be brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2)
inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3)
unmerited or overly generalized objections.  (C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there “a
disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
“The
court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden,
expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood
that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”
(C.C.P. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require
the objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party’s
subjective intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it
would take to respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v.
Superior Court In and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.)
However, no such evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad
on its face. (See Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424,
431.)  
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Upon review, the Court finds the meet
and confer requirement has been met. (Klimianok Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 5.) 
 
Committee Information & Documents
Reflecting Privilege 
 
The Court first addresses the RFPD
requesting information regarding the committee receiving the documents. The
Court finds Plaintiff has not set out good cause for the production of these
documents. While the discovery standard is liberal, Plaintiff has provided no
argument that these RFPD are reasonably calculated to lead to discoverable
information. Plaintiff does not address these requests specifically in her
memorandum. It was made clear in Defendant’s previous moving papers that these
incident reports are generated and maintained by Defendant’s Risk Management
Team and in-house/outside counsel. Without further argument from Plaintiff as
to relevance of the bylaws and policies of the Risk Management Team, the Court
finds no good cause has been demonstrated. Accordingly, the motion is DENIED as
to the RFPD requesting the bylaws, policies, and purpose of Defendant’s Risk
Management Team. 
 
As concerns the requests for documents
which demonstrate that the incident reports are covered under attorney client
privilege, the Court finds good cause to be similarly lacking. Plaintiff offers
no argument addressing these requests specifically. Further, the Court has
already found that the attorney-client privilege attaches to the documents
identified in the Privilege Log. Accordingly, the motion is DENIED as to the
request for documents which demonstrate the attorney-client privilege. 
 
As concerns the RFPD which request
records maintained under C.C.R. § 70737, the Court finds Plaintiff has also
failed to show good cause for production. As indicated in the Court’s prior
ruling, it does not appear that patient-on-patient violence qualifies as the
type of unusual occurrence which triggers this code section. Plaintiff makes no
additional showing in this motion that such incidents must be recorded under
the code section and as such has failed to show good cause. 
 
Patient Records
 
With respect to the remaining requested
documents, namely patient medical records, the Court finds good cause has been
shown for further production. As with her previous motion, Plaintiff clearly
articulates that prior incidents of patient-on-patient violence are relevant to
her claims such as to be discoverable and Defendant again offers no argument in
contravention. As such, the Court will examine each of Defendant’s objections
to production. 
 
The Court first notes that Defendant’s
objections of relevance, that the RFPD were unduly burdensome, and that the
RPFD were vague/ambiguous remain without merit. Defendant advances no argument
regarding these objections. 
 
Much of the moving and opposing papers
focus on the various privileges which apply to patient records. Defendant
objects on grounds that they are barred from producing mental health records
for third party by the Lanterman-Petris-Short Act (“LPS Act”). Defendant
additionally argues that these records are privileged from production by virtue
of the Constitutional guarantee of the right to privacy. 
 
The LPS Act, codified at Welfare and
Institutions Code §§ 5000-5556, contains various protections for those with
mental health disorders. As an institution providing care for those suffering
such disorders, Defendant states they are bound by certain provisions of the
LPS Act designed to protect their patients. The specific provision of the LPS
Act in Defendant’s argument are the confidentiality provisions located at
Welfare and Institutions Code §§ 5328-5328.9. These sections outline that
information obtained in providing mental health services is to be held
confidentially and outline specific circumstances in which that information may
be disclosed without patient authorization. These exceptions are as follows: 
 
1.     
between qualified
professionals in the provision of services or appropriate referrals; 
 
2.     
to third-party
payers, persons or organizations in connection with processing a claim for aid,
insurance or medical assistance to which the patient may be entitled;
 
3.     
between qualified
professionals in the course of conservatorship proceedings; 
 
4.     
to report a death
to the coroner; 
 
5.     
to the courts, as
necessary to the administration of justice; 
 
6.     
to a county
social worker, a probation officer, foster care public health nurse or other
person legally authorized to have custody or care of a minor for the purpose of
coordinating health care services and medical treatment, mental health
services, or services for developmental disabilities, for the minor; 
 
7.     
to researchers
provided that the Director of Health Care Services, State Hospitals, Social
Services, or Developmental Services, designates, by regulation, rules for the
conduct of research and requires the research to be first reviewed by the
appropriate Institutional Review Board(s); 
 
8.     
to the person
appointed as the developmental services decision-maker for a minor, dependent,
or ward; 
 
9.     
to a state civil
service employee against whom an adverse action has been filed, as necessary
for the employee to defend against the action, if certain conditions are met;
and 
 
10. 
when required by
the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, for purposes
of investigating or determining the covered entity's compliance with the
Privacy Rule, Security Rule or other administrative simplification rules.
 
(Welf. and Inst. Code §§ 5328-5328.9)
 
Defendant argues that none of the
approved exceptions to disclosure without patient authorization are present in
this case. Defendant further argues that there is no provision I the LPS Act
which permits the disclosure of partial records which have had their
identifying information redacted. 
 
Plaintiff argues the fifth exception
applies to these circumstances, allowing Defendant to disclose the information
to the Courts if necessary to the administration of justice. The Court agrees
that the exception applies here. 
 
“The very purpose of the exception to
general confidentiality under Welfare and Institutions Code section 5328,
subdivision (a)(6) is to allow use of otherwise confidential information and
records as necessary to the administration of justice in some pending judicial
action or proceeding.” (McGovern v. BHC Fremont Hospital, Inc. (2022)
87 Cal.App.5th 181, 203 [internal quotation and citations omitted].) “Of
course, care must still be taken to use narrowly tailored discovery procedures
to minimize any intrusion into a patient's privacy rights with respect to
confidential information—such as in camera review, removal of irrelevant
information, protective orders, and/or the redaction of unnecessary identifying
information related to third parties.” (Id. [internal citation
omitted].) “In addition, a court must properly balance the seriousness of the
prospective invasion of privacy against the interests of the party seeking
disclosure. If disclosure is warranted, a court would then consider the least
intrusive means to disclose the information.” (Id. [internal citation
omitted].)
 
The holding of McGovern
specifically contemplates the redaction of irrelevant information in patient
records under this exception to the LPS Act. Defendant’s argument that there is
no statutory approval for redacted disclosure is thus moot in light of the McGovern
ruling. Further, Defendant poses no argument as to why these records could not
be produced if the requests were narrowly tailored to remove identifying
information. It appears to the Court that redaction of the names and any other
identifying information would address the concerns of maintaining the privacy
of Defendant’s patients. The Court disagrees with Defendant’s categorization of
the requests as seeking a wide range of confidential mental health records.
Plaintiff is requesting portions of patient records reflecting 19 specific
incidents identified by Defendant in their privilege log. If these portions are
redacted top remove identifying information, the Court finds the request is
more than narrowly tailored to seek information relevant to the administration
of justice. 
 
To the extent that Defendant argues
Plaintiff has not identified a countervailing interest, the Court disagrees.
Plaintiff has specifically stated that the information pertaining to these 19
incidents is critical to its claims that Defendant was aware of the need for
improved safety measures to prevent patient-on-patient violence. Without this
information, of which Defendant is the sole custodian, Plaintiff has no means
of showing the propensity for patient-on-patient assault at Defendant’s
facilities. While this interest is not compelling enough to outweigh the
serious privacy concerns in the unredacted patient records, the interest is
compelling enough to compel the production of these records with the
identifying information redacted. 
 
Defendant further argues that the
patient records are protected by the Constitutional right to privacy. Defendant
argues the patient records satisfy the factors in determining a state
constitutional privacy claim, as laid out in Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Ass’n (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1. Defendant argues patients have (1) a
legally protected privacy interest, (2) a reasonable expectation of privacy,
and (3) the conduct by the moving party constitutes a serious invasion of
privacy. 
 
Plaintiff offers no direct argument that
these records are not constitutionally protected, and the Court finds the
factors are indeed present. Regardless, it remains the case that production may
still be compelled if there is a sufficient countervailing interest. (See Hill
supra, 7 Cal.4th at 38 [“The diverse and somewhat amorphous
character of the privacy right necessarily requires that privacy interests be
specifically identified and carefully compared with competing or countervailing
privacy and nonprivacy interests in a “balancing test.” The comparison and
balancing of diverse interests is central to the privacy jurisprudence of both
common and constitutional law.”].) 
 
The Court finds an analysis of the
recent decision in County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2021) 65
Cal.App.5th 621 to be helpful in the analysis of constitutionality here. In County
of Los Angeles, the moving part sought discovery of voluminous data
concerning opioid prescriptions from various pharmaceutical companies. The
court held that the companies could assert the constitutional privacy of
third-party patients in refusing production of the data sets. (County of Los
Angeles supra, 65 Cal.App.5th at 638.) The court further held that the
superior court’s order that the data sets be turned over was in violation of
this privacy right, specifically finding that it included no instruction that
the information be redacted to remove identifying information. (Id. at
646.) Specifically, the superior court’s order required production to a third
party so that the information could be “de-identified” and then produced to the
moving party. (Id.) The County of Los Angeles Court noted the
holding in Snibbe v. Superior Court (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 184 and cases
in its progeny, had held that redaction was sufficient to allay privacy
concerns in patient records. (Id. at 650.)  The County of Los Angeles Court
assumed, without deciding, that the holding in Snibbe was correct, but determined
that the facts in their case were inapposite. (Id.) The County of Los
Angeles Court was specifically concerned by the superior court
ordering unredacted production to an outside party and the risk of
“re-identification” of the data sets by cross-referencing information already
available to the moving party. (Id. at 651.) 
 
The Court finds the patient records
sought by Plaintiff are more analogous to those in Snibbe than in County
of Los Angeles. Here, Plaintiff does not seek redaction by an outside
group, but rather seeks in camera review whereby the Court would determine the
redaction necessary to render the records producible. Further, it does not
appear likely that re-identification of these records could occur here, as
Plaintiff has made it abundantly clear they lack any information regarding
these previous 19 incidents of patient-on-patient violence. 
 
In short, the Court finds Plaintiff has
shown a valid countervailing interest that justifies the production of these
records in a redacted form such as to safeguard the constitutional and
statutory privacy of the third-party patients. The Court declines to conduct an
in- camera review, but rather will order the parties to agree on a discovery
referee to review the documents and order redaction, subject to Court
review.  The cost of the discovery
referee shall be born equally by each party and selected by mutual
consent.  Further, should Defendant wish
to propose a protective order to be signed by this Court limiting the
dissemination of these records, they are welcome to do so.  
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses is GRANTED as to those requests which seek portions of third-party
patient records concerning the incidents described in Defendant’s prior
privilege log. These records shall be redacted through a mutually acceptable
discovery referee and the cost equally shared by each party.  Defendant is permitted to produce a
protective order concerning this production should it wish to do so. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion as to all other
requests is DENIED. 
 
The Court finds neither party made nor
opposed this motion without substantial justification. As such, no sanctions
shall issue. (C.C.P. § 2031.300(c).)  
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Olga
Zharovskaya’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents came on regularly for hearing on December 7,
2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES IS GRANTED AS TO THOSE REQUESTS WHICH SEEK PORTIONS OF THIRD-PARTY
PATIENT RECORDS CONCERNING THE INCIDENTS DESCRIBED IN DEFENDANT’S PRIOR
PRIVILEGE LOG. 
 
THESE RECORDS SHALL BE SUBJECT TO REDACTION
FOR CONFIDENTIALITY BY A MUTUALLY AGREED UPON DISCOVERY REFEREE WITH THE COST
TO BE SHARED EQUALLY BY EACH PARTY. 
 
DEFENDANT IS PERMITTED TO PRODUCE A
PROTECTIVE ORDER CONCERNING THIS PRODUCTION SHOULD IT WISH TO DO SO. 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION AS TO ALL OTHER
REQUESTS IS DENIED. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE,
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: December
7, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 