  Case Number:  22STCV16849    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  4, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV16849




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Steven Blum 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Janet Cruz 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.     Declaration of Kathryn J. Harvey 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.     Plaintiff’s Opposition; Memorandum of Points
and Authorities; Declaration of John Ksajikian
2.     Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Separate
Statement 
3.     Objection to Evidence 
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.     Reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition 
2.     Defendant’s Reply to Plaintiff’s Response to
Separate Statement
3.     Declaration of Steven Blum 
4.     Objection to Evidence 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 20, 2022, Plaintiffs
Alejandro Osornio-Cano and Janet Cruz filed a complaint against Defendants
Karen Agnes Clark, Steven Blum, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence related to a
motor vehicle accident. The complaint alleges that on May 23, 2020, Plaintiffs
were traveling southbound on Pacific Coast Highway in Santa Monica, when they
were rear-ended by a vehicle operated by Defendant Karen Agnes Clark (“Clark”).
Defendant Steven Blum is alleged to have owned and entrusted the motor vehicle
that Clark was driving. (Complaint, 4-5.) 
 
On August 7, 2023, Plaintiff
Alejandro Osornio-Cano was dismissed from the complaint, leaving Janet Cruz
(“Plaintiff”) as the sole plaintiff in this case. 
 
Defendant Steven Blum
(“Defendant”) now moves for summary judgment, arguing that he is not liable
since he did not drive the subject vehicle and was not the registered owner.
Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he
party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is
no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the
evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in
favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable
standard of proof.”¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 850.) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if
it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim
for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) ¿“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any
triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he
causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of
production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar
apply to summary adjudication motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the
trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied.
If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's
Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) .)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993)
12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991)
231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore
consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could
reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner,
the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues
rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based
on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840 [cleaned up];
see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9
Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light
most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in
favor of that party”].)        
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
 
Plaintiff’s Objections numbers 1 and 3 are sustained. (Evid. Code § 1200.)
In reply, Defendant argues his evidence is admissible “under the applicable
standards set forth in C.C.P. §437c(c) and (d)” but fails to explain further. (See
Reply, 3.) However, under these subsections, the Court is required to rule
based on the evidence in the moving papers pursuant to evidentiary objections.
(See Code Civ. Proc. § 437c (c), (d) [“the court shall consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which objections
have been made and sustained by the court . . . . Supporting and opposing
affidavits or declarations shall be made by a person on personal knowledge,
shall set forth admissible evidence . . . .”] [emphasis added].) 
 
Plaintiff’s Objection number 4 is sustained.
 
The Court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s remaining objections as they
have no effect on the ruling herein. 
 
The Court declines to rule on Defendant’s objections as they have no
effect on the ruling herein. 
 
 
DISCUSSION
Negligence and
Negligent Entrustment 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) 
Generally, “one who places or entrusts his [or her]
motor vehicle in the hands of one whom he [or she] knows, or from the
circumstances is charged with knowing, is incompetent or unfit to drive, may be
held liable for an injury inflicted by the use made thereof by that driver,
provided the plaintiff can establish that the injury complained of was
proximately caused by the driver's disqualification, incompetency, inexperience
or recklessness.” (Flores v. Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. (2010) 188
Cal.App.4th 1055, 1063 [quoting Osborn v. Hertz Corp. (1988) 205
Cal.App.3d 703, 708] [alteration in original; citation omitted].) 
Here, it is undisputed that on May 23, 2020, at approximately
10:40 p.m., a two-vehicle accident occurred at the 1100 block of Pacific Coast
Highway (PCH) in Santa Monica, California. (UMF 1.) Additionally, Plaintiff
does not dispute that at that approximate time, Defendant Karen Agnes Clark was
driving a 2017 Tesla Model X alone, behind the Plaintiffs on PCH which then
collided with the rear-end of Plaintiff’s vehicle. (See Pl. Resp. UMF 3-4.) 
In light of the evidentiary rulings herein, Defendant has not
produced admissible evidence sufficient to meet his initial burden.
In reply, Defendant has produced a new, conclusory
declaration by Defendant, stating that he is informed and believes that Karen
Clark is the sole registered owner of the subject vehicle and that he has never
“owned or had any ownership interest” in the vehicle. (Blum Decl. ¶ 2.) “[T]he inclusion
of additional evidentiary matter with the reply should only be allowed in the
exceptional case…” (Plenger v. Alza Corp. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 349,
362, fn. 8.) Moreover, no attempt was made to authenticate the extrinsic
evidence.
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Steven Blum’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 