  Case Number:  21PSCV00427    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  H Liu
v. Sunnyland International Group, et al., Case No. 21PSCV00427 
ORDER
ON DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Defendant Sunnyland International
Group’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication is DENIED.
I.        Background

In this
quiet title action, Plaintiff Yongyi Liu (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows: 
Plaintiff is the equitable owner and is in possession
and control of the real property located at 636 East Boxwood Lane, Azusa,
California, 91702 (the “subject property”). On or about August 18, 2005,
Plaintiff and Defendant Feng Li (“Li”) had a child, Meixi Li. At the time Meixi
Li was born and to date, Li was and has been married to another woman. On July
27, 2012, Li purchased and gifted the subject property to Plaintiff since she
was raising Meixi Li by herself. Prior to and upon closing of the escrow of the
subject property, Li told Plaintiff that he had purchased the subject property
for her and was giving it to her. Li told Plaintiff he would transfer title to
the subject property at a future time.
In or about early August 2012, shortly before escrow
closed on the subject property, Li asked Plaintiff to come to the United States
with him so that he could transfer title to the subject property from him to
her. Plaintiff came with her mom, her other daughter Helin Xu (“Xu”), and Meixi
Li and took possession of the subject property; however, due to an unexpected
event, Li had to return to China before the transfer paperwork was completed. 
In or about December 2013, Li came to the United
States for a short trip; Plaintiff was then in China. Li promised to transfer
title to the subject property to Plaintiff when they were both in the United
States. In or about April 2014, Li was incarcerated in China on a 13-year
sentence. Li remains incarcerated. On March 27, 2021, while still incarcerated,
Li purportedly signed a grant deed granting the subject property to Sunnyland
International Group (“Sunnyland”). On or about April 14, 2021, Li allegedly
sent a Notice to Quit to Plaintiff’s address in China, claiming therein that
the subject property was owned jointly by Li and his wife, Jing Li, and that
they had sold the subject property to a third party, Sunnyland. On April 16,
2021, Xi Lin (“Lin”) went to Plaintiff’s house and told Xu that Lin was the President
of Sunnyland and demanded possession of the subject property. Lin represented
to Xu that Li had transferred title of the subject property to Sunnyland to
settle a loan he owed to the company and placed a Notice to Quit on the front
door of the subject property. On April 26, 2021, Xu served a 30-day Notice to
Terminate Tenancy at Will on Plaintiff. 
On May 21,
2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against
Sunnyland, Lin, Li, Jing Li, and Does 1-50 for (1) quiet title, (2) cancellation
of instrument, and (3) declaratory relief. 
On August
19, 2021, the Court related and consolidated this case with Case No.
21WCUD00362 and designated this case as the lead case. On September 30, 2021,
Sunnyland filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against
Plaintiff, Li, and Meixi Li for (1) declaratory relief, (2) quiet title, (3) equitable
lien, and (4) unjust enrichment. 
On April 11,
2024, an “Order Entering Default Against Defendants Feng Li and Jing Li” was
entered.
The final
status conference is set for November 4, 2024 and a bench trial is set for
November 8, 2024. Pending before the Court is Sunnyland’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication. For the reasons stated
herein, the motion is denied. 
 
II.      Legal Standard
“A party may move for summary judgment. . . if it is
contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).) 
“The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if
all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
“On
a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) “A
plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there
is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once
the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
“A defendant or
cross-defendant has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action. . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action. Once the defendant. . . has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).)
 
III.     Discussion 
A.       Request for Judicial Notice and Objections 
The Court first addresses Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice and Sunnyland’s objections to the Declaration of Yongyi Liu.
Plaintiff asks the Court to take judicial notice of
the following documents: (1) Feng Li’s criminal trial judgment dated September
9, 2016, (2) The People’s Intermediate Court of Benxi City of Liaoning
Province’s Administrative Ruling dated April 27, 2021, and (3) the grant deed
from Feng Li to Sunnyland International Group dated April 14, 2021. A court may take judicial notice of, among other things,
“official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of a
state and of facts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute
and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (People v. Terry, 38 Cal. App. 3d
432, 439, 113 Cal. Rptr. 233, 237 (Ct. App. 1974) [citing Evid. Code § 452].) With
this standard in mind, the Court denies the request as to the first two items
but grants the request as to the third item (the grant deed). 
Turning to
Sunnyland’s objections, the Court overrules the objections. Sunnyland
principally objects to the Declaration of Yongyi Liu on hearsay grounds. However,
“[t]here is a well established exception or departure from the hearsay rule
applying to cases in which the very fact in controversy is whether certain
things were said or done and not as to whether these things were true or false,
and in these cases the words or acts are admissible not as hearsay, but as
original evidence.” (Am-Cal Inv. Co. v. Sharlyn Ests., Inc. (1967) 255
Cal. App. 2d 526, 528 [“In these situations, the words themselves, written or
oral, are ‘operative facts,’ and an issue in the case is whether they were
uttered or written.” (Internal citations and quotation marks omitted)].) Here, because
Plaintiff recounts the statements by Li to demonstrate the terms of their oral
contract, Li’s statements are not excluded by the hearsay rules. 
The Court
similarly overrules Sunnyland’s objection that Plaintiff lacks personal
knowledge of Li’s arrest and incarceration. The Court need not address Sunnyland’s
objections to Plaintiff’s request in light of the Court’s ruling declining to
take judicial notice of Li’s criminal trial judgment and the foreign court
ruling.
B.       The
Alternative Request for Summary Adjudication

At the
outset, the Court notes that, while the instant motion is styled as a “Motion
for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication,” Sunnyland
has failed to identify any issues for summary adjudication in its notice of
motion, as required by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(b) (i.e., “[i]f made in the alternative, a motion for summary adjudication may make
reference to and depend on the same evidence submitted in support of the
summary judgment motion. If summary adjudication is sought, whether separately
or as an alternative to the motion for summary judgment, the specific cause of
action, affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty must be
stated specifically in the notice of motion and be repeated, verbatim, in
the separate statement of undisputed material facts” [Emphasis added]). The
Court thus construes the instant motion as a motion for summary judgment only.
C.       The
Motion for Summary Judgment 
Sunnyland
contends that Plaintiff cannot establish the elements of each of her causes of
action and there is no dispute as to the material facts. 

Generally, a holder of equitable title cannot maintain an action for quiet
title against the legal owner. (Stafford v. Ballinger (1962) 199
Cal.App.2d 289, 294-295.) However, Sunnyland acknowledges an exception to this
general rule that entitles an equitable title holder to challenge a legal title
holder if the title was obtained by fraud. (Liberty National Enterprises,
L.P. V. Chicago Title Ins. Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 62, 81 [“[W]hen legal
title has been acquired through fraud[,] . . . available remedies include
quieting title in the defrauded equitable title holder’s name and making the
legal title holder the constructive trustee of the property for the benefit of
the defrauded equitable titleholder.” (Internal quotation marks and citations
omitted)].)
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that the grant deed Sunnlyand relies on was procured by
fraud, as Li (the alleged grantor) was imprisoned in China on the alleged date
the transfer occurred, March 27, 2021. Sunnyland takes the position that this
fact does not matter because Plaintiff admitted that Li sent a Notice to Quit
to Plaintiff informing Plaintiff that the subject property was sold to a third
party. The Court is unpersuaded. As explained below, Sunnyland has failed to
carry its burden of demonstrating that no triable issues of material fact
exist. Sunnyland’s motion is denied.    
          (1)      Quiet
Title 
An
action for quiet title seeks “to establish title against adverse claims to real
or personal property or any interest therein.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 760.020,
subd. (a).) Plaintiff must plead (1) “[a] description of the property that is
the subject of the action,” specifically the location of tangible personal
property and the legal description and street address or common designation of
real property, (2) “[t]he title of the plaintiff as to which a determination
under this chapter is sought and the basis of the title,” (3) “[t]he adverse
claims to the title of the plaintiff against which a determination is sought,”
(4) “[t]he date as of which the determination is sought,” and (5) “[a] prayer
for the determination of the title of the plaintiff against the adverse
claims.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020.) 
At a minimum, the Court determines that there are
triable issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff is an equitable titleholder
and whether Li’s purported transfer of the property to Sunnyland was fraudulent.
According to Plaintiff’s declaration, she has paid for all expenses,
maintenance, and taxes on the subject property since the subject property was
purchased in 2012. (Liu Decl., ¶ 8.) While generally a holder of equitable
title like Plaintiff cannot maintain an action for quiet title against the
legal owner, Plaintiff alleges that Sunnyland’s grant deed was fraudulently
obtained because Li was imprisoned in China on the date the alleged transfer
took place. (See Liu Decl., ¶9.) Moreover, the grant deed is notarized by a
Notary Public from Texas, alleging Li appeared before her in the county of
Dallas. (Appendix of Evidence ISO Sunnyland’s Motion for Summary Judgment, Exh.
4.) While Sunnyland contends this is irrelevant because of a subsequent Notice
to Quit purportedly sent to Plaintiff by Li, Sunnyland fails to carry its
burden on summary judgment as it provides no explanation for how Li, who is
allegedly in prison in a foreign country, could have appeared before a notary
in Texas. Outside of the grant deed, Sunnyland provides no other evidence to
rebut Plaintiff’s allegation of fraud. Accordingly, the Court determines that
there is a triable issue of material fact as to whether the deed transfer was
fraudulent. 
Sunnyland additionally contends the first cause of
action should fail because Plaintiff failed to name all parties that hold an
adverse claim to Plaintiff’s per Code of Civil Procedure section 762.010.
Sunnyland argues that Miao Li, Li’s daughter from another relationship, has an
interest in the title because Sunnyland transferred the title to her on April
12, 2021, 16 days after Sunnyland purportedly acquired the subject property
from Li. However, this ignores the fact that Sunnyland was only able to
transfer the property to Miao Li based on the initial purported deed transfer
from Li, which Plaintiff alleges was fraudulent due to Li’s incarceration in
China. Plaintiff’s complaint was filed only a month later. Although Plaintiff
failed to name Miao Li in the lawsuit, Plaintiff alleges that Miao Li only has
this interest because of the alleged fraud. The Court agrees. 
None of the cases cited by Sunnyland compels a
different result. G.R. Holcomb Estate Co. v. Burke (1935) 4 Cal.2d 289
makes no mention of fraud at all, and Stafford v. Ballinger (1962) 199
Cal.App.2d 289, 294-295 dismisses the alleged fraudulent acts as irrelevant
because they were alleged to have occurred 17 years before the case being filed
such that any cause of action would be barred by the statute of limitations.
Here, of course, Plaintiff filed the lawsuit within a month of the alleged
fraudulent transfer. Lewis v. Superior Court (1994) 30
Cal.App.4th 1850, 1858-60 is similarly inapposite, both because the case did
not involve an actual title claim (as the lis pendens only served as a means of
collecting monetary damages) and because the Lewises were good faith purchasers
who lacked actual and constructive notice of the fraud, as the lis pendens had
not been indexed until after the Lewises acquired title. In this case,
title is clearly in dispute. Moreover, Sunnyland was not far removed from the
purported fraud; it was a party to the transfer of property from a man who was
allegedly incarcerated in China. While Sunnyland will have the opportunity to
prove at trial that the sale was legitimate, the notarized grant deed showing
that Li personally appeared before a notary in Texas, despite being allegedly
incarcerated in China, provides a triable issue of fact as to whether the sale
was fraudulent.
(2)           Cancellation
of Instrument and Declaratory Relief 
To prevail
on claim to cancel an instrument, plaintiff must prove: (1) the instrument is
void or voidable due to, for example, fraud, and (2) there is a reasonable
apprehension of serious injury including pecuniary loss or prejudicial
alteration of one’s position. (U.S. Bank National Assn. v. Naifeh (2016)
1 Cal.App.5th 767, 778; see also Cal. Civ. Code § 3412.) 
“To qualify for declaratory relief, a
party would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements:
(1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy
involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.”
(Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets omitted.)
Both the
second and third causes of action largely flow from the first cause of action. As
to the cancellation of instrument cause of action, because a finding of fraud
can make an instrument voidable, Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of
material fact. Additionally, Plaintiff has demonstrated apprehension of serious
injury as she could lose her home without judicial intervention. As to the
cause of action for declaratory relief, the subject property and the instant
quiet title action are proper subjects for declaratory relief as there is a
clear controversy involving each of the party’s rights.
IV.     Conclusion
Because
Sunnyland fails to carry its burden of demonstrating no triable issues of
material fact, its Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. In advance of the final status
conference on November 4, 2024, the parties are directed to review the Department
H Case Management Standing Order and serve and file trial documents in
accordance with that order.