 Case Number:  24PSCV00273    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  H Hamilton
v. Factory Five AT, Inc., et al., Case
No. 24PSCV00273


ORDER
ON PRO HAC VICE APPLICATION
Defendants
Factory Five AT, Inc., Factory Five Holdings Inc., Factory Five Licensing,
Inc., Factory Five Racing, Inc., and Factory Five XT, Inc.’s Application for
an Order Admitting Randall Weeks to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED, effective
upon the filing of proof of payment of the remaining $450.00
owed to the State Bar. 
Background 
Plaintiffs, Keegan Hamilton, Dylan
Hamilton and Olivia Hamilton, minors by and through their guardian ad litem,
Marni Olsen (“Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
On
April 5, 2021, Plaintiffs’ father Jesse Phelan Hamilton (“Decedent”) was riding
as a passenger in a 2012 Factory Five Racing GTM Supercar (“subject vehicle”)
owned and driven by Robert Adomeit (“Adomeit”) and sold by Factory Five AT,
Inc., Factory Five Holdings Inc., Factory Five Licensing, Inc., Factory Five
Racing, Inc. and Factory Five XT, Inc. (collectively, “Factory Five
Defendants”) when the subject vehicle collided with a sports utility vehicle.
Decedent sustained traumatic injuries in the collision and died later that
evening. 
On January 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a complaint, asserting causes of action against Factory Five Defendants,
Adomeit, and Does 1-20 for:
1.       Negligence;
2.       Failure to
Warn; and
3.       Strict
Products Liability. 
A Case Management Conference is set
for October 7, 2024. 
Legal
Standard 
“A person who is not a licensee of the State Bar of
California but who is an attorney in good standing of and eligible to practice
before the bar of any United States court or the highest court in any state,
territory, or insular possession of the United States, and who has been
retained to appear in a particular cause pending in a court of this state, may
in the discretion of such court be permitted upon written application to appear
as counsel pro hac vice, provided that an
active licensee of the State Bar of California is associated as attorney of
record. No person is eligible to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule if the person is:

(1)
A resident of the State of California; 
(2)
Regularly employed in the State of California; or 
(3)
Regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other activities in
the State of California.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a).)
“A person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file with
the court a verified application together with proof of service by mail in
accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the
application and of the notice of hearing of the application on all parties who
have appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California at its San
Francisco office. The notice of hearing must be given at the time prescribed in
Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 unless the court has prescribed a shorter
period.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c)(1).) 
“The
application must state: 
(1)
The applicant’s residence and office address; 
(2)
The courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission; 
(3)
That the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those courts; 
(4)
That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; 
(5)
The title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an
application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in
this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and
whether or not it was granted; and 
(6)
The name, address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar
of California who is attorney of record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).) 
“The State Bar of California may set an appropriate fee to
be paid by counsel pro hac vice.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(e)[FN1].)
Discussion
Factory Five Defendants move, pursuant
to California Rules of Court Rule 9.40, for an order allowing the pro hac vice
admission of Randall Weeks.

The application complies with the requirements of California Rules of Court Rule 9.40, except that counsel has only paid the State Bar a $50.00 fee.
(Tabak Decl., ¶ 5.) Accordingly, the Court grants the application, effective
upon the filing of proof of payment of the remaining $450.00 owed to the
State Bar.


