 On July 28, 2021, Plaintiff Jeremy Pfau filed the operative Complaint against Defendants Riko Wiemer International, LLC and Riko Wiemer (actually spelled “Weimer”) for (1) violation of Labor Code §§ 1182.12, 1194, 1197, 1197.1, and 1198 (Unpaid Wages); (2) violation of Labor Code §§ 226.7 and 1198 (Failure to Authorize and Permit Rest Periods); (3) violation of Labor Code § 2802 (Unreimbursed Business Expenses); (4) violation of Labor Code §§ 201-202 (Wages Not Timely Paid Upon Termination); (5) violation of Business & Professions Code §§ 17200, et seq., (6) retaliation in violation of Labor Code § 1102.5; and (7) wrongful termination.  Plaintiff alleges he was a piano instructor for Defendants and that he was not paid for all hours worked, not paid for business expenses, and not given rest breaks.  Plaintiff alleges he was terminated for complaining about these issues.On July 29, 2024, Riko Weimer International, LLC and Riko Weimer filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) against Jeremy; this pleading also identified Does 1 and 2 as Jeremy’s parents, Bruce and Amy Pfau.  Riko contends that Jeremy’s parents were part of some sort of conspiracy in which they aided Jeremy with his wage and hour complaints and settlement, “concealed” that Jeremy had depression, and objected to a subpoena for phone records.  The SACC goes as far as saying that the Pfaus were “acting in a conspiracy with one another to accomplish the unlawful purpose of extracting money from Cross Complainants via poorly researched and understood claims in this lawsuit, and/or intentional misuse of litigation processes to pay Pfau family medical and business expenses attributable to Jeremy’s chronic mental health condition and to support Jeremy’s business in competition with RWI.”  Bruce and Amy now seek to quash service of summons.  A defendant may move to quash service of summons on the ground the Court lacks personal jurisdiction.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(a)(1).)  “Although the defendant is the moving party, the plaintiff must carry the initial burden of demonstrating facts by a preponderance of evidence justifying the exercise of jurisdiction in California.”  (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I and II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 110.) By statute, the courts of this state may exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresident defendants to the extent permitted by the United States Constitution.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 410.10.)  Constitutional due process requires that a nonresident defendant have “certain minimum contacts” with a forum such that the Court’s exercise of personal jurisdiction does not offend traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.  (International Shoe Co. v. State of Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.)  The extent of the defendant’s contacts with the forum determines whether the Court’s jurisdiction is general or specific.  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 134 S.Ct. 746, 754-755.)  Courts may assert general jurisdiction where the foreign defendant’s contacts with the forum “ ‘are so “continuous and systematic” as to render them essentially at home in the forum State.’ ”  (Id. at p. 754.)  To determine whether the exercise of specific jurisdiction is proper in a given case, courts consider the relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation.  (Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269.)  “A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant only if: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice.”  (Elkman v. National States Ins. Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1314.)  It is the plaintiff’s burden to demonstrate that the defendant’s conduct giving rise to the pleaded causes of action amounts to constitutionally cognizable “minimum contacts.”  (Id. at p. 1313.)As an initial matter, an opposition was not filed with respect to Amy’s Motion.  Therefore, Riko failed to carry her burden.  Amy’s Motion to Quash is granted.Next, Bruce lives in Florida, and there is nothing to show that Bruce has some sort of continuous presence in California so as to support general jurisdiction.  With respect to specific jurisdiction, there is nothing to show that Bruce purposefully availed himself of California’s benefits.  Bruce merely communicated with Jeremy for Jeremy’s benefit.  Bruce is Jeremy’s father.  Bruce does not do business in California.  Even if it could somehow be argued that Bruce targeted California, the Court believes that notions of fair play and justice would militate against personal jurisdiction.  The parent of a child having a labor dispute in California would not foresee being haled into Court there simply for communicating with his child.  Thus, the Motions are granted.  The objections are overruled.Moving parties to give notice.