  Case Number:  24PSCV01041    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  PVOM
LLC v. LTG South Hills LLC, et al. 
1 –
Defendants LT Management Group and Shao Xing Max Yang’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint; and
2 – Defendants
LT Management Group and Shao Xing Max Yang’s Motion to Strike Portions of
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court OVERRULES Defendants LT Management Group and Shao Xing
Max Yang’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. 
The Court DENIES Defendants LT Management Group and Shao Xing Max
Yang’s motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. 
Defendants LT Management Group and Shao Xing Max Yang must file an
answer to the First Amended Complaint within 10 days of the Court’s order. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a breach of contract action. On April 2, 2024, plaintiff PVOM
LLC (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants LTG South Hills LLC (LTG),
LT Management Group, Shao Xing Max Yang (Shao) (collectively, Defendants), and
Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for breach of contract and
specific performance. On July 31, 2024, following the Court’s sustaining of the
Defendants’ respective demurrers and a motion to strike, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same Defendants and
alleging the same causes of action. On August 27, 2024, LTG answered the FAC. 
On August 27, 2024, LT Management Group and Shao (collectively,
Moving Parties) demurred to and moved to strike portions of the FAC. On October
3, 2024, Plaintiff opposed both motions. On October 9, 2024, Moving Parties
replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD – Demurrer 
            A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of
other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or
content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (Donabedian).) It
is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the
complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the
complaint are assumed to be true. (Ibid.) 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer]; see
also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].) 
A
demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete
or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of
the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are
incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s
Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as
surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”]) 
A demurrer
can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  
DISCUSSION –
Demurrer 
Meet and Confer 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Moving
Parties were required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video
conference before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The Court finds Moving Parties’ efforts to meet and confer satisfactory.
(Huang Decl., ¶ 2.) 
First Cause of Action – Breach of Contract 
“A cause of action for breach of contract requires pleading of a
contract, plaintiff's performance or excuse for failure to perform, defendant's
breach and damage to plaintiff resulting therefrom. [Citation.] A written
contract may be pleaded either by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint
or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by
reference—or by its legal effect. [Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual,
Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) 
Moving Parties demur to the First Cause of Action for breach of
contract on the grounds that the FAC fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. Moving Parties contend the FAC lacks specificity
regarding Moving Parties’ alleged breaches and purported misrepresentations.
Moving Parties contend the FAC fails to specify how the prorations were
inaccurate, which records were not provided, and how the tenant files and plans
were mishandled. Moving Parties also contend they were not signatories to the
subject purchase agreement. 
Moving Parties then contend that the FAC lacks the requisite
specificity regarding alleged misrepresentations, such as which specific
representations were false, how they were false, or how the Plaintiff detrimentally
relied on those misrepresentations. Moving Parties contend the FAC
mischaracterizes the entity relationships by mischaracterizing Shao’s role,
fails to recognize that LTG is a special purpose vehicle created to hold
commercial property that was later dissolved, and inaccurately claiming Shao is
involved in the lease of the Okawa Wagyu property. Moving Parties further
contend the FAC fails to establish unity of interest, ownership, and
commingling for purposes of alter ego liability, and does not sufficiently
allege facts demonstrating commingling, disregard of corporate formalities, or
that LTG and LT Management Group acted as one entity. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends the FAC properly pleads facts
demonstrating alter ego liability between the Moving Parties, such as the
terminated status of LTG and Defendants using the same address. Plaintiff
contends a heightened pleading standard does not apply to an alter ego claim.
Plaintiff contends Moving Parties do not need to have been signatories or have actually
engaged in the substantive acts to be liable under the alter ego doctrine.
Plaintiffs contends it does not need to plead specific factual details
demonstrating commingling or violation of corporate formalities, and such
information would be in the possession of the adverse party. Plaintiff contends
it does not need to allege “unified operations” either, and that the FAC
alleges facts of inequitable result that Plaintiff would suffer if it was not
permitted to sue Moving Parties as alter ego defendants. 
Plaintiff further contends Moving Parties’ arguments regarding a
heightened pleading standard for a breach of contract claims is erroneous and that
the Court already rejected this argument previously. Plaintiff also contends
Moving Parties attempt to improperly argue the case at the pleading stage. 
The Court finds the FAC alleges sufficient facts to state a cause
of action for breach of contract against Moving Parties. The FAC alleges that
Plaintiff and Defendants entered into a written agreement, and that Defendants
were obligated to perform certain tasks thereunder, such as prorating expenses,
providing original accounting records, and transferring tenant files and
property plans. (FAC, ¶¶ 8-9.) The FAC further alleges Defendants failed to
perform their respective obligations, and that Defendants’ representations were
false, resulting in damages to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶¶ 10-14.) The Court assumes
these allegations to be true at the pleading stage. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) 
Moreover, as the Court
previously stated, a breach of contract claim is not subject to a heightened
pleading requirement. (Order re Tentative Ruling (7/11/24); Code Civ. Proc., §
425.10, subd. (a)(1) [complaint need only allege facts constituting the cause
of action in ordinary and concise language]; compare Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645 [heightened pleading requirements for fraud
claims].) 
Furthermore, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff that Moving Parties improperly attempt to argue the facts of the case
and introduce facts outside the four corners of the FAC. (Demurrer, 5:9-14, 5:24-28,
6:1-24; Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson, supra, 110
Cal.App.3d at p. 881 [error to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer].)

The Court also finds the FAC alleges sufficient facts
demonstrating alter ego liability against the Moving Parties for purposes of
this demurrer. To state a claim for alter ego liability, the plaintiff need
only allege sufficient facts showing a unity of interest and ownership, and an
unjust result if only the entity is held liable. (Leek v. Cooper
(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 415.) Allegations demonstrating unity of interest
and ownership include that Shao is the sole owner, manager, and member of LTG,
that LTG’s sole asset is the commercial property at issue in this action, that
Shao took the proceeds from LTG after it was dissolved on January 12, 2024, that
LTG and LT Management Group have the same office as the property at issue, and that
Shao is a principal and owner of LT Management Group. (FAC, ¶ 6; Zoran Corp. v. Chen (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 799, 811-812
(Zoran) [test for alter ego liability includes identical equitable ownership
in two entities, same office address, sole ownership of all stock by one
individual, and inadequate capitalization, among other things].) 
Allegations demonstrating an unjust result if only
LTG is held liable include Defendants concealing from Plaintiff outstanding
unpaid rents and common area maintenance expenses chargeable to the tenants of
the subject property, and Moving Parties continuing to occupy the subject
property as tenants with Shao owning one of the other tenants. (FAC, ¶ 12.) Coupled
with the allegation that LTG has since been dissolved, the Court finds these
allegations sufficiently demonstrate the wrongful conduct necessary to support
alter ego liability. (FAC, ¶ 6, subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc., § 452; Mid-Century Ins. Co. v. Gardner (1982) 9 Cal.App.4th
1205, 1213, [alter ego liability protects against bad faith inequitable
conduct, not just a creditor’s inability to recover].) Whether all of these
allegations are sufficient to establish alter ego liability against Moving
Parties is generally a question of fact not resolvable on a demurrer. (Zoran,
supra, 185 Cal.App.4th at p. 811 [alter ego liability is generally a
question of fact]; M.F. v. Pac. Pearl Hotel Mgmt. LLC (2017) 16
Cal.App.5th 693, 703 [questions of fact generally not suitable for demurrer].) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the
First Cause of Action. 
Second Cause of Action – Specific Performance 
A plaintiff seeking specific performance of a contract must
demonstrate the inadequacy of the legal remedy, a contract that is both
reasonable and supported by adequate consideration, the existence of mutual
remedies, sufficiently definite contractual terms, and substantial similarity
of the requested performance to that promised in the contract. (Tamarind
Lithography Workshop, Inc. v. Sanders (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 571, 575.) 
Moving Parties demur to the Second Cause of Action on
the grounds that the FAC fails to plead facts sufficient to state a cause of
action. Moving Parties contend this cause of action should be dismissed for
failure to allege the inadequacy of monetary damages. Moving Parties contend
the FAC does not explain why monetary damages would not adequately compensate
the Plaintiff. Moving Parties also reiterate their contention that they are not
signatories to the subject purchase agreement. Moving Parties further contend
that this cause of action fails because the obligations Plaintiff seeks to
enforce are not sufficiently clear or certain with respect to prorating
expenses, providing original accounting records, and transferring tenant files
and property plans. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends this cause of
action is properly pled, as Plaintiff has demonstrated the inadequacy of a
legal remedy due to the need for original accounting records, tenant files, and
property plans for Plaintiff’s tax, accounting, and reconciliation purposes. Plaintiff
reiterates the argument that the FAC alleges sufficient facts demonstrating
alter ego liability. 
The Court finds the FAC alleges sufficient facts to
state a claim for specific performance. As discussed above, Plaintiff
adequately pled a cause of action for breach of contract. Plaintiff also adequately
pled a claim for specific performance. (FAC, ¶¶ 7-17; see Collins v. Marvel
Land Co. (1970) 13 Cal.App.3d 34, 40-41 [trial court erred in sustaining a
demurrer to cause of action for specific performance].) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the
demurrer to the Second Cause of Action. 
Fraud 
Moving Parties argue that the FAC fails to adequately
plead a fraud claim, but the Court declines to consider this argument because the
FAC does not allege a separate cause of action for fraud, but instead alleges
only two causes of action for breach of contract and specific performance. To
the extent there are any fraud allegations in the FAC, they are alleged in the
context of Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim, not as a standalone cause of
action. (FAC, ¶ 12.) Accordingly, the Court rejects Moving Parties’ arguments
here.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD – Motion to Strike 
            “Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions
specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.) 
PRELIMINARY ISSUE – Motion to
Strike 
            “A notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading
must quote in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion
is to strike an entire paragraph, cause of action, count, or defense.
Specifications in a notice must be numbered consecutively.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (a).) Plaintiff’s notice of motion does not identify
the portions of the FAC that it seeks to strike. The Court will still consider
the motion, but admonishes Plaintiff to comply with the requirements of the California
Rules of Court going forward. 
            Plaintiff
notes in the opposition that Moving Parties’ moving papers cite cases that do
not exist. (Opp., p. 2, fn. 1.) The Court checked the purported citations of Bernard
v. Mayer (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 593 and Kirkpatrick v. City of Los
Angeles (1956) 144 Cal.App.2d 470, and confirmed that those citations are
not correct and the case names do not exist; nor do the cases with those
citations stand for the propositions for which they were cited, as they mention
nothing about motions to strike. Moving Parties indicate in their reply that
they were inadvertent misquotes, but this does not adequately explain the
mistakes. (Reply, p. 2, fn. 1.) The above-cited cases simply do not exist and
it is unclear to the Court how Moving Parties could cite non-existent cases. The
Court will hear further from counsel for Moving Parties on this issue at the
hearing. 
DISCUSSION –
Motion to Strike 
Meet and Confer 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section
435.5, subdivision (a), Moving Parties were required to meet and confer in person, by
telephone, or by video conference before bringing this motion to strike.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds Moving Parties’ efforts
to meet and confer satisfactory. (Huang Decl., ¶ 2.) 
Paragraph 6 of the FAC 
Moving Parties seek to strike paragraph 6 of the FAC in its
entirety on the grounds that the FAC fails to provide concrete facts showing a
unity of interest and ownership exists or that an injustice would result from
treating the entities separately. Plaintiff’s opposition does not directly address
this argument, but does generally contend that Moving Parties’ arguments here
are similar to those made in their demurrer regarding lack of factual
specificity, and incorporates by reference the arguments made in Plaintiff’s
opposition to the demurrer. 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff that Moving Parties’
arguments here are the same as those made in their demurrer. Thus, for the same
reasons set forth in the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, the Court finds the
FAC alleges sufficient facts to state a claim for alter ego liability. (FAC, ¶¶
6, 12; Zoran Corp. v. Chen (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 799, 811-812
(Zoran) [test for alter ego liability includes identical equitable
ownership in two entities, same office address, sole ownership of all stock by
one individual, and inadequate capitalization, among other things]; Id.
at p. 811 [alter ego liability is generally a question of fact]; see M.F. v.
Pac. Pearl Hotel Mgmt. LLC (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 693, 703 (M.F.)
[questions of fact generally not suitable for demurrer].) Therefore, the Court DENIES
the motion to strike as to paragraph 6 of the FAC. 
Paragraph 6a of the FAC 
Moving Parties seek to strike paragraph 6 of the FAC in its
entirety on the grounds that the FAC erroneously claims Shao is the sole owner,
manager, and member of LTG, and that LT Global Investment is the sole member of
LTG. In opposition, Plaintiff contends the allegations in paragraph 6a
regarding Shao’s interest in LTG are properly pled as they set for factors for
invoking the alter ego doctrine, and that Plaintiff is entitled to discovery regarding
the facts and evidence surrounding these allegations. 
The Court finds Moving Parties’ arguments here
unavailing. On a motion to strike, the Court assumes the allegations to be
true. (Clauson v. Superior Ct. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.) The Court therefore assumes the allegations in paragraph 6a to be true
for purposes of this motion to strike. Moreover, as noted above, Moving Parties
are improperly attempting to introduce facts from outside the four corners of
the FAC. (See Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson
(1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 (Ion Equip.) [error to consider facts
asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer].) The Court declines to consider
the purported facts raised in Moving Parties’ motion to strike, and therefore
DENIES the motion to strike as to paragraph 6a of the FAC. 
Paragraph 6d of the FAC 
Moving Parties seek to strike paragraph 6d of the FAC in its
entirety on the grounds that it is conclusory and lacks the necessary factual
specificity. Moving Parties contend the FAC does not detail how the alleged
commingling occurred or how it led to a lack of separation between Shao and
LTG. Moving Parties contend the allegations that the entities shared the same
office address do not establish the level of control or financial intermingling
necessary to prove an alter ego claim. In opposition, Plaintiff contends the
allegations in paragraph 6d are properly pleaded as they set forth allegations
regarding the factors for invoking the alter ego doctrine, and that Plaintiff
is entitled to discovery regarding the facts and evidence surrounding these
allegations. 
As noted above, the Court finds the FAC alleges sufficient facts
to state a claim for alter ego liability. (FAC, ¶¶ 6, 12; see Zoran, supra, 185 Cal.App.4th at pp. 811-812; M.F.,
supra, 16 Cal.App.5th at p. 703.) Therefore, the Court DENIES the motion to
strike as to paragraph 6d of the FAC. 
Paragraph 6e of the FAC 
Moving Parties seek to strike paragraph 6e of the FAC in its
entirety on the grounds that it incorrectly alleges Shao signed the lease for
Okawa Wagyu when LT Management Group signed it. Moving Parties also contend
that the FAC inaccurately describes the management structure and relationship
between LT Management and LTG, as LT Management was engaged under a management
contract and trust account to manage LTG’s property, not as a member or owner.
In opposition, Plaintiff contends there is no such allegation in paragraph 6e
that Shao signed a lease for Okawa Wagyu. Plaintiff also contends this is a
factual allegation assumed to be true on a motion to strike. 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff. Paragraph 6e does
not allege Shao signed a lease for Okawa Wagyu. Also, the Court assumes the
allegations about management structure to be true on a motion to strike. (Clauson v. Superior Ct., supra, 67 Cal.App.4th at p. 1255.)
This again is an improper attempt to introduce facts from outside the four
corners of the FAC. (See Ion Equip., supra, supra,
110 Cal.App.3d at p. 881.) The Court declines to consider the facts raised
in Moving Parties’ motion to strike, and therefore DENIES the motion to strike
as to paragraph 6e of the FAC. 
Paragraph 12 of the FAC 
            Moving Parties
seek to strike paragraph 12 of the FAC in its entirety on the grounds that the
FAC alleges fraudulent misrepresentations regarding financial records and
expenses without specifying how these misrepresentations occurred or their
impact on Plaintiff. Moving Parties also contend the fraud allegations are
based on the same facts as the breach of contract claim and are thus barred by
the economic loss rule, which precludes tort recovery for purely economic
losses arising from a breach of contract. In opposition, Plaintiff contends
there is no heightened pleading standard for a breach of contract claim, and
that the argument regarding the economic loss rule is irrelevant and should be
disregarded for the same reasons. 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff.
Paragraph 12 is part of Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim, and therefore
does not trigger the heightened pleading requirements of a fraud claim. (FAC, ¶
12; see Code Civ. Proc., § 425.10, subd. (a)(1)
[complaint need only allege facts constituting the cause of action in ordinary
and concise language]; compare Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th
631, 645 [heightened pleading requirements for fraud claims].) Since the FAC is
alleging a contract based claim and not a tort based claim, the economic loss
rule does not apply here. (See Rattagan v. Uber Techs., Inc.
(2024) 17 Cal.5th 1, 553 P.3d 1213, 1225.) Accordingly, the Court DENIES the
motion to strike as to Paragraph 12 of the FAC. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court OVERRULES Defendants LT Management Group and Shao Xing
Max Yang’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. 
The Court DENIES Defendants LT Management Group and Shao Xing Max
Yang’s motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. 
Defendants LT Management Group and Shao Xing Max Yang must file an
answer to the First Amended Complaint within 10 days of the Court’s order. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order.