 Case Number:  23STCP03872    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  85 
Douglas Peter Richter v. California
Department of Industrial Relations, et al., 23STCP03872 
 

Tentative decision on motion for
reconsideration: denied




 



Petitioner Douglas Peter Richter (“Richter”) moves for
reconsideration of the court’s March 19, 2024 order granting Respondents California Department of Industrial
Relations, Department of Labor Standards Enforcement, Lilia Garcia-Brower,
Ethera Clemons, Wendy Corleto, Cristina Zamora, and Karen Betancur’s demurrer
without leave to amend. 
The court has read and considered the moving papers and
opposition (no reply was filed), and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of the Case
            1. The Petition
            Petitioner
Richter filed the Petition against Respondents and Real Parties-in-Interest
Ariela Lousky (“Lousky”) and Universal Home Design, Inc. (“Design”) on October
17, 2023, alleging (1) traditional mandamus based on procedural due process
under article 1, section 7 of the California Constitution; (2) traditional
mandamus based on bias of DLSE and the hearing officer; (3) traditional
mandamus based on anti-discrimination protections in Government Code (“Govt.
Code”) section 11135; (4) traditional mandamus based on protection of workers’
rights under Govt. Code section 11135; and (5) violation of the California
Public Records Act (“CPRA”).  Pet. at
15-16.  The verified Petition alleges in
pertinent part as follows.
 
            a.
Factual Allegations
            García-Brower
is the Labor Commissioner, Clemons is a former Chief Deputy Labor Commissioner,
Corleto is a Senior Labor Hearing Commissioner, Zamora is a DSLE Regional
Manager, and Betancur is a Deputy Labor Commissioner.  Pet. at 1.
            Lousky’s
family operates a construction company. 
Pet. at 7.  Richter started
working for Lousky during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Pet. at 7. 
Richter began renting a house from Lousky in May 2020, with a move-in
date of May 26.  Pet. at 7.  The lease was for two years with a monthly
rent of $5,500.  Pet. at 5.
            The
house had various issues, including electrical and water intrusion that needed
repairs within 72 hours for safety reasons. 
Pet. at 8.  An electrician did not
come to the house until four days after Richter moved in.  Pet. at 8. 
A breaker exploded, and the electrician blamed Lousky for being cheap
and difficult to work with before he stormed off.  Pet. at 8. 
The explosion caused a minor fire that Richter had to put out with an
extinguisher.  Pet. at 7.
            A
few days later, in early June 2020, Lousky and her cousin tried to assert that
the problems stemmed from a switch Richter wanted to install.  Pet. at 8. 
The cousin eventually declined to conduct the repairs and Richter hired
a third-party electrician to do so.  Pet.
at 8.  Between the repairs to the house
and Richter’s employment by Lousky, deductions against Richter’s rent totaled
$4,519.23.  Pet. at 9.  
            Sometime
after Richter moved out of the house, Lousky built an accessory dwelling unit (“ADU”)
on the property and attempted to charge Richter for it.  Pet. at 6. 
The ADU was lawful, but the inspector falsely asserted that Richter left
the property in disrepair.  Under
California law, ADU construction could not begin until a year after the
inspection.  Pet. at 6.  Lousky retained an ex-felon, Andrew Mazor, to
produce a forged report in an attempt to defraud the courts.  Pet. at 6.
            The
hearing for this matter was in 2023. 
Pet. at 10.  Richter did not
receive all of Lousky’s evidence and exhibits before the hearing.  Pet. at 9. 
At the hearing, Lousky gave conflicting testimony about the repairs and
reimbursement and tried to downplay the severity of issues with the house.  Pet. at 9. 

            Hearing
officer Clemons let Lousky testify as to whatever she chose but insisted that
Richter’s testimony had to be relevant. 
Pet. at 10.  She wrote down parts
of Lousky’s testimony to keep track of relevant facts and did not do the same
for Richter.  Pet. at 10.  She interrupted Richter’s testimony and
attempted to fit his answers into a manufactured narrative.  Pet. at 9. 

            Instead
of interpreting wage and hour regulations to protect the employee, Clemons tried
to protect Design.  Pet. at 9-10.  This reflected bias, possibly because of an
incident three years ago where an employer filed a claim against Richter before
DLSE.  Pet. at 9.  Someone in the DLSE later told him that the
agency knew the claim was fraud, but he was still told to just pay the amount
the claimant requested.  Pet. at 9.  Richter may also be part of the reason the
Legislature is currently investigating DLSE. 
Pet. at 31.
            The
Order, Decision, and Award (“ODA”) denying unpaid wages and reimbursements had
various clerical, calculation, and factual errors.  Pet. at 3, 5. 
Richter moved for DLSE to correct these errors.  Pet. at 5. 
DLSE denied the request but did not deny that the ODA had such
errors.  Pet. at 5.  It also told Richter that his motion did not
toll the deadline for appeal of the ODA to the superior court.  Pet. at 5.
 
            b.
Recitations of Law
            Under
Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations (“22 CCR”), a decision issued by
an administrative law judge (“ALJ”) may not be changed except to correct a
clerical error.  22 CCR §5069(a).  Pet. at 22. 
In In the Matter of the nunc pro tunc Request for Review of:
S. C. Clemons, Inc. (“Clemons”), Case No. 15-0409-PWH, the hearing
officer chose to modify the decision to correct a clerical error rather than
let the error stand.  Pet. at 26.
If an ALJ amends a decision based on clerical error, the
time within which to file any board appeal begins anew upon service of an order
correcting a clerical error or a corrected decision or order.  22 CCR §5069(d).  Pet. at 23. 
Based on this, Richter requests correction of the clerical errors in the
ODA to reflect actual figures supported by the evidence and take into
consideration facts that were proven during the hearing.  Pet. at 23.
            Labor
Code section 98 limits the scope of hearing held by the Labor Commissioner to
matters properly before its division. 
Pet. at 23.
            Under
Govt. Code section 11519(a), an administrative decision becomes effective 30
days after it is delivered or mailed to respondent unless a reconsideration is
ordered or a stay of execution granted by then, or the agency itself orders
that the decision shall become effective sooner.  Pet. at 24. 
A stay of execution may be granted either before the decision becomes
effective or as part of the decision itself, with terms of probation that are
reasonable based on the findings and decision. 
Govt. Code §11519(b).  Pet. at
24-25.
            
            c.
Causes of Action
            The
first cause of action alleges that the ODA violates due process based on breach
of confidentiality, privacy, and a court order. 
Pet. at 15.  DLSE was barred from
entering content of sealed matters into that record.  Pet. at 15.
            The
second cause of action alleges that the ODA was predetermined and flawed
because the hearing officer was biased and the hearing filled with
problems.  Pet. at 15.
            The
third cause of action alleges that Govt. Code section 11135 prohibits discrimination
under any state program or activity on the basis of race or national origin.
Pet. at 15.  Richter is protected under anti-discrimination
provisions based on racial identification and national origin.  Pet. at 15.
            The
fourth cause of action asserts that, under Govt. Code section 11135, DLSE
failed to take action to support AB 5 wage orders and further the rights of
workers.  Pet. at 15.
            The
fifth cause of action alleges that, in passing the CPRA, the Legislature found that
access to information concerning the conduct of the people’s business is a
fundamental and necessary right of every person in this state.  Pet. at 16. 
DLSE has ignored Richter’s requests for records.  Pet. at 16.
 
            d.
Prayer for Relief
            Richter
seeks, inter alia, (1) remand to DLSE for an additional in-person
hearing to correct the figures in the ODA to comply with prevailing law and
public policy based on the AB 5 test, including finding that Richter was an
employee and performed the work he was hired to do; (3) elimination of any
barred references in the ODA; (4) an apology and admission of fault form the
state, and punishment for willfully criminal conduct; (5) an order compelling
DLSE to add a review step between the hearing decision and the appeal which
would allow a party to show factual inaccuracies in an ODA merit corrections
thereto; (6) stronger separation of adjudicative and investigative roles in
DLSE to preserve due process and avoid bias; (7) an order assigning the matter
to Clemons for her to act consistently with public policy and this court’s
order; (8) removal of any figures derived from incorrect facts; (11) an order
to issue an ODA aligning with prevailing laws and public policy, including an
award of compensatory and consequential damages, waiting time penalties, and
liquidated damages; (13) compensatory damages of $62.54 based on 118 miles
traveled; and (14) 10% annual interest on the $15,756.35 owed in compensatory
damages, or $2,734.57.  Pet. at 13-15.
 
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On
November 6, 2023, Richter served Lousky and Design with the Petition and
Summons by substitute service, effective November 16, 2023.  
            On
January 8, 2024, DLSE, García-Brower, Clemons, Corleto, Zamora, and Betancur
signed a Notice of Acknowledgement of Receipt for the Petition and Summons.
On February 5, 2024,
Respondents filed a demurrer to the petition. 
On March 19, 2024,
the court sustained Respondents’ demurrer without leave to amend. 
On April 23, 2024,
Richter filed the instant motion for reconsideration.  On April 26, 2024, Respondents’ filed an
opposition. As of May 6, 2024, no reply has been filed. 
 
B. Applicable Law
Pursuant to CCP section
1008(a), “[w]hen an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a
court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally,
or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service
upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or
different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or
court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or
revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by
affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order
or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law
are claimed to be shown.” CCP § 1008(a). 
As it relates to new
or different facts, circumstances, or law under CCP section 1008(a), “the
moving party must provide a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce
that evidence at an earlier time.”  Shiffer
v. CBS Corp. (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 246, 255.  Furthermore, “facts of which the party
seeking reconsideration was aware at the time of the original ruling are not
“new or different.”  In re Marriage of
Herr (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1468.
 
C. Statement of Facts[1]
On March 19, 2024,
the court heard oral argument on Respondents’ demurrer and sustained it without
leave to amend.  Raymond Decl., ¶ 4, Ex.
1; Richter Decl., lns.15-16.  Petitioner Richter
appeared at the hearing.  Raymond Decl.,
¶4.  Notice of the ruling was sent to
Richter by mail and email.  Raymond
Decl., Ex. 1.
As part of its
ruling on demurrer, the court stated that Richter had not filed an opposition.  Richter Decl., lns. 16-17.  Richer had filed an opposition on March 18,
2024.  Richter Decl., lns. 17-18.  Included in the opposition were responses to
Respondents’ points on demurrer that he did not file a de novo appeal.  Richter Decl., lns. 19-20.  He attempted to do so but it was rejected for
the wrong courthouse.  Richter Decl.,
lns. 19-22.  The changed circumstances not
considered at the March 19 hearing was the opposition.  Richter Decl., lns. 26-29.
On April 4, 2024,
the court held a hearing on an order to show cause regarding dismissal.  Raymond Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 2.  Richter stated to the court that he attempted
to file a motion for reconsideration and an amended petition but was unable to
do so.  Thus, the court continue the
order to show cause and ordered Richter to serve the documents forthwith.  Raymond Decl., ¶ 5. 
On April 17, 2024,
an email attaching a “final motion for reconsideration” was sent to
Respondents’ counsel but was blocked by a system filter, so Respondents’
counsel did not receive these emails until later when sent by counsel for the
real party in interest.  Raymond Decl.,
¶6.  Respondents’ counsel had reached out
to Richter on April 23 and 24, 2024 that the motion for reconsideration had not
been received.  Raymond Decl., ¶ 7.  Richter responded with Google document links
to the motion for reconsideration and the amended petition, and Respondents’
counsel downloaded and saved the motion. 
Raymond Decl., ¶ 7. 
Upon review of the
motion, Respondents’ counsel noticed the declaration attached to the motion for
reconsideration served on April 17, 2024 purportedly attached an opposition to
the demurrer as an exhibit.  Raymond
Decl., ¶ 8, Exs. 3-4.  However, the Google
document motion reconsideration provided by Richter had changed the language in
the declaration to state the amended petition was the opposition.  Raymond Decl., ¶8.
As of the date of
the instant declaration, Respondents’ counsel has not been served with an
opposition to the demurrer nor seen such opposition on the court’s docket.  Raymond Decl., ¶ 9.
 
D. Analysis
Petitioner Richter
moves for reconsideration of the court’s ruling on demurrer.[2]  
 
1. Timeliness
As Respondents’
opposition points out (Opp. at 1, 3), Richter’s motion is untimely because it
was not filed within ten days after service of the notice of entry of the March
19, 2024 order.  Richter was served
notice of the March 19, 2024 order via email and mail, meaning that Richter had
until April 8, 2024 to file the instant motion. The motion was served on April
1, 2024 and filed on April 23, 2024.  
Richter asserts that
the motion is timely because he filed it by way of a First Amended Petition
(“FAP”) on April 3, 2024.  Likewise,
Richter contends that the FAP was kept in limbo by the court until after the
demurrer and dismissal without leave to amend, which is a violation of his
statutory right to be heard on the merits and the Constitution’s guarantee to a
fair proceeding. Similarly, Richter asserts it is fundamentally unfair to hold
him to a Code of Civil Procedure deadline but not do the same to the attorney,
who filed an untimely demurrer.  Respondents
correctly argue that a FAP cannot be a motion to reconsider.  Opp. at 3.
Nonetheless, the
court will exercise its discretion and consider the motion. 
 
2. Procedural
Defects
Respondents argue
the motion should be denied because the 49-page single, spaced motion grossly violates
the 15-page limit in CRC 3.1113(d).  Richter’s
flagrant filing requires the court and Respondents to wade through many pages
of unnecessary briefing. Opp. at 4. The court agrees and the motion to
reconsider is denied for this reason.
Respondents argue
the motion fails because it does not present any new or different facts,
circumstances or law as required by CCP section 1008(a).  Respondents contend that it is hard to see how
a missing opposition would constitute new facts, circumstances, or law.  Opp. at 5.
While the court does
not agree with Respondents on this point, Respondents demonstrate that Richter
never attached the purported demurrer opposition to this motion.  Nor is there any demurrer opposition in the
court file.  It appears that Richter may now
be contending that the FAP filed on April 3 is his opposition.  Raymond Decl., ¶8.  If so, plainly Richter cannot oppose a
demurrer held on March 19 with a pleading filed after-the-fact on April 3.
Respondent also correctly
argues Richter has offered no explanation of why he did not state at the March
19, 2024 hearing that he had filed an opposition one day earlier on March 18,
2024.  See Richter Decl., lns.
17-18.  This failure negates any duty to
consider the opposition now.
Finally, even if Richter
had filed an opposition on March 19, it was untimely under CCP section 1005,
which required him to file and serve his opposition nine court days before the March
19 hearing.  As a result, he was not
entitled to have it considered.
The court declines
to reconsider the March 19, 2024 order. 
 
D. Conclusion
Richter’s motion for
reconsideration is denied.  The
unauthorized FAP is ordered stricken and the case is ordered dismissed pursuant
to CCP section 581(f)(1).


