


[1] Blyumkin does not raise subject matter jurisdiction in
opposition to this motion. This Court previously accepted Bank’s view on this
issue, as discussed in granting Bank’s application for right to attach order. 


[2] Significantly, however, Bank does not address whether
the judgment complied with due process or was “fundamentally fair,” as required
by CCP sec. 1716(c)(1)(G), except in so far as it does not reach the level of
repugnance for purposes of CCP sec. 1716(c)(1)(C). 


[3] Though the documents were in Russian, Blyumkin
acknowledges his fluency with Russian – even if some of the documents were
still hard to understand.  


[4]
Bank’s argument that the 9th Circuit
in Bank Melli Iran v. Pahlavi, 58 F.3d 1406 (9th Cir. 1995)
determined that for foreign proceedings to offend traditional notions of due
process, the defendant must demonstrate that she could not participate in the
foreign proceedings, by virtue of her status as a U.S. citizen, does not
mean that is the exclusive means by which a foreign court might offend
traditional notions of due process.  As the
Bank Melli court acknowledges at p. 1409, the leading case of Hlilon
v. Guyot (1895) 159 U.S. 113, 205-206 outlines the broader requirements of
due process to recognize a foreign judgment. 


[5] Article 35,
Rights and Duties of the Persons Taking Part in the Case, provides in relevant
part: 
 
1)      The persons taking part in the case have the
right to get acquainted with the materials 
of the case, to take excerpts from them and take copies, file
recusations, supply proofs and participate in their investigation, put
questions to the other persons taking part in the case, to  witnesses, experts and specialists; to lodge
petitions, including for the supply of proof on 
demand; to furnish explanations to the court, orally and in writing; to
advance their arguments  on all issues
arising in the course of legal proceedings, to raise objections against the
petitions and arguments of the other persons participating in the case; to
lodge appeals against the judicial decisions and to exercise the other
procedural rights granted by the legislation on the civil legal procedure. The
persons taking part in the case shall conscientiously exercise all procedural
rights, belonging to them. 
 


[6] However, the Russian court would not have had reason
to do so where Blyumkin did not raise this issue in his July 15, 2020 letter. That
said, where Blyumkin was then primarily requesting a continuance, at least in
this country that would be unlikely to then preclude him from raising the issue
of the stock at trial. 


[7] The Court does not rely on Blyumkin’s different
positions as to whether the loan documents were forged that the Russian court
did address. 


[8] Under California
Civil Code sec. 2819, a surety is exonerated, except so far as he or she may be
indemnified by the principal, if by any act of the creditor, without the
consent of the surety the original obligation of the principal is altered in
any respect, or the remedies or rights of the creditor against the principal,
in respect thereto, in any way impaired or suspended. 
Similarly, a
guarantor is released if the original obligation is altered. Parties to an
obligation cannot alter its terms without the guarantor's consent even though
it may be to the guarantor's advantage. (Ralston-Purina Co. v. Carter
(1962) 210 Cal.App.2d 372, 378) 
A
creditor who has received a continuing guaranty of credit owes the same duty of
disclosure during the course of the suretyship as he does at its inception.
Thus, each time he accepts the surety's continuing offer by extending further
credit to the principal debtor, the creditor has a duty to the surety to
disclose facts known by the creditor if the creditor has reason to believe that
those facts materially increase the risk beyond that which the surety intended
to assume and that those facts are unknown to the surety, and if there is a
reasonable opportunity to communicate them. A creditor's failure to disclose
such facts to the surety prior to an extension of further credit to the debtor
will discharge the surety from liability on a subsequent loan. (Sumitomo
Bank v. Iwasaki (1968) 70 Cal. 2d 81)
 


[9] The motion, however, does not seek an order for
summary adjudication of issues. Hence, because the Court finds Issue No. 2 is
disputed, the motion must be denied in its entirety. 

