  Case Number:  21STCP03455    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING
ON MOTION OF PLAINTIFF FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Bank Otkritie
Financial Corp. v. Aleksandr Blyumkin, Case No. 21STCP03455
Hearing Date: April 5,
2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
        Consistent
with its ruling on the application of plaintiff Bank Otkritie Fin. Corp.
(“Bank”) for a right to attach order, in the context of this summary judgment motion,
the Court finds Bank meets its burden of proof under California Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) sec. 437c(p)(1). Pursuant to that same CCP section, the
burden is then switched to defendant Aleksandr defendant Aleksandr Blyumkin (“Blyumkin”)
to prove his affirmative defenses.
 
The Court finds three of those
affirmative defenses to be unsupported and without merit, and in particular,
the claims that the Russian court lacked personal jurisdiction over Blyumkin,
that the Russian court was a seriously inconvenient forum and as to the
integrity of that court.
 
         However,
pertinent to this motion, the Court is concerned by whether the Russian court’s
handling of this matter met the requirement of complying with due process.
Specifically, the Court questions why the Russian court might not have informed
Blyumkin of its implicit rejection of his several requests to continue the
trial, given the COVID travel restrictions, prior to hearing the merits, to give
Blyumkin notice that he would need to find some other way to defend the case,
either remotely (if possible) or through a lawyer appearing on his behalf. There
is no evidence that the Russian court informed Blyumkin that it was going to
proceed forward notwithstanding his request for postponement. 
 
          The foregoing
might have been material here where Blyumkin provided evidence that could have
been a whole or partial defense to the case; namely, that Bank did not return to
him the collateral he provided for his guaranty that would presumably have been
exonerated by the material change in the terms of the loan (and which could
have been used to pay off the loan.) 
 
          If the
stock had the value Blyumkin contends it had when the second loan was executed,
that might have eliminated what Blyumkin owes to Bank. However, presumably if the
stock then had that value it is not clear why Bank would not have sold that
stock instead of entering into a new unsecured loan with Blyumkin rather than with
the prior borrower whose stock it held. However, neither Bank nor its expert Dr.
Ilia Rachkov (in an otherwise very detailed report) (nor the Russian court)
addressed this issue.  As a result,
Blyumkin has met his burden on this motion of presenting facts that create a material
issue as to recognition of the default judgment. 
 
          Furthermore,
assuming the Russian court could have notified (but did not) Blyumkin of its
denial of his requests for continuance the hearing prior to reaching the merits,
and that Blyumkin might have had a viable defense if given the opportunity, there
is at least some basis upon which the Court as trier of fact might reasonably
conclude that there was a failure of due process that would be reason for this
Court not to recognize the foreign judgment. Blyumkin never had his “day in
court” prior to the issuance of this judgment. Given these facts not previously
considered on the application for the right to attach order, the Court cannot now
conclude as a matter of law that the Russian proceeding here was “fundamentally
fair” where it did not permit Blyumkin to contest this case, either by postponing
it as he requested to when he could appear in person or by notifying him that
he would instead need to participate in one of the ways Bank suggests. Blyumkin
has presented evidence sufficient for this motion that the Russian court’s severe
order to deny his request to continue trial on the basis that it was supposedly
for purposes of delay does not comport with his reasonable expectations to his
“day in court.” Bank’s assertion that Blyumkin could have participated remotely
is put into question by Blyumkin’s claim that he inquired into his ability to
do so and was allegedly advised that the court did not have the technology to
allow him to do so.      
 
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY AND STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS 
 
          On
September 19, 2022, Bank filed this motion for summary judgment. Bank seeks recognition
of a judgment of the Tagansky District Court in Russia. The motion was
supported by a report of an expert, Dr. Ilia Rachkov, a Russian lawyer. 
 
          Rachkov
explains that the judgment arises from non-payment of a 216 million rubles loan
for one year (Agreement 6281) that a predecessor of Bank made to Blyumkin on
March 18, 2016. This loan was a refinance of an earlier loan (Agreement 5818) of
September 18, 2013 to MCW Energy (“MCW”) that Blyumkin guaranteed by pledge of
stock in MCW. Blyumkin failed to pay the remaining amount owed on the due date
of March 17, 2017. On May 6, 2020, Bank filed a Statement of Claim in the
Tagansky Court seeking the unpaid principal amount, past due interest, certain
penalties (delay fees) on the debt and interest, as well as State duty. On July
1, 2020, Bank served Blyumkin with the Statement by DHL courier. On October 12,
2020, the Court entered judgment, which judgment became final after Blyumkin’s
appeal was dismissed for technical reasons. 
 
          Based on
Rachkov’s report, Bank sets forth why this Court should recognize the judgment
under CCP sec. 1715 and 1718. In addition, Bank explains why Blyumkin cannot
establish a defense under CCP sec. 1716(b); specifically, that the Russian
court had personal jurisdiction over Blyumkin, that in any event Blyumkin
waived any claim of lack of personal jurisdiction and that the Russian court
had subject matter jurisdiction over the civil action.[1] In
addition, Bank explains why Blyumkin cannot establish a defense under CCP sec.
1716(c); specifically, that he had sufficient notice of those proceedings, the
judgment was not obtained by fraud, the judgment is not repugnant to public
policy, the Russian court was not an inconvenient forum and that the judgment
was not entered under circumstances impacting the integrity of that court.[2]
 
          On
October 22, 2022, as the result of a motion to dismiss this case filed by
Blyumkin, the Court issued a stay of this case due to the need for Bank to
obtain a specific license to further pursue this case under an Executive Order
of President Biden arising from the war in Ukraine. This motion was as a result
continued. 
 
          On November
22 2023, Bank having obtained a specific license to pursue this case, the Court
lifted the stay and denied Blyumkin’s third motion to dismiss this case. 
 
          On March
7, 2024, the Court granted the contested application of Bank for a right to
attach order and writ of attachment and issued a written ruling that addresses
certain of the issues on this motion. The Court found that Bank’s claim had
probable validity. On page 7, fn. 6, however, the Court stated: 
 
A finding of probably validity of
the claim does not mean that the Court is now finding Blyumkin has no defense
to Bank’s case. To the extent that the underlying merits are relevant (which
Bank contends they are not under CCP sec. 1716), there are several points that
the parties may need to explore further; for example, why Bank allegedly
did not return the collateral on the first loan, why Blyumkin became the
borrower under the second loan and how Blyumkin could have borrowed the funds
Bank states were transferred if the initial borrower was not able to repay what
it owed. In addition, it is unclear whether the Tagansky Court should have
advised Blyumkin it was denying his request to continue the case before
proceeding to hear it. Blyumkin did not support this claim with any evidence or
law to warrant denial of this application.
 
          On March
8, 2024, Blyumkin filed his opposition to this motion and related documents:
 
          Blyumkin
asserts that he estimates the almost six million shares in MCW he pledged as
security for the earlier loan was “at that time” trading at about $0.30 per
share. The guaranty was non-recourse. The due date on the earlier loan was extended
by an amendment to loan agreement on September 15, 2015. As consideration,
Blyumkin transferred a total of 8,764,829 shares to Bank as collateral for his
(and other guarantors) continuing guaranty. At that time, the pre-split stock
in MCW was trading “in the range of up to $.40 / share.”  In view of the inability of MCW to repay the
loan, Blyumkin agreed to repay in one year what MCW borrowed by way of a new
loan agreement dated March 18, 2016. Blyumkin asserts that at that time MCW
stock was trading in the Canadian public market at around $.40 per share and “Bank
would have been able to obtain anywhere from $3.5 million to $4 million (U.S.)
for the Pledged Stock.” (Blyumkin Decl., para. 16) Blyumkin requested return of
the stock certificates. Bank advised Blyumkin that it had lost the certificates
and could not be returned. (Blyumkin speculates that Bank may have sold the
stock through brokers.) Blyumkin contends that had Bank sold the stock the
second loan would not have been necessary and the earlier loan would have been
paid off. He asserts that the second loan was a sham whereby Bank avoided
having to declare a default on the first loan and by not returning the
certificates could still sell the stock. Finally, Blyumkin contends that Bank
did not disclose the issues surrounding the stock to the Russian court.
 
          Blyumkin
explains that on or about July 1, 2020 he received notice from Bank by mail of
the suit in Russia in the form of the documents Bank had filed in the Russian
court.[3] There
was no summons from the Russian court. By then, Blyumkin could not return to
Russia (to defend the case) and could not do so until after entry of the
judgment against him by reason of the COVID travel bans of the Russian
Government and his inability as a U.S. citizen resident in Los Angeles to
obtain a visa. (Blyumkin Decl., para. 28) He therefore requested a postponement
of hearings in the case by letter dated July 15, 2020, to which he received no
response. He followed up on this request by letters to the Court dated August
5, 2020 and September 1, 2020. He again received no response. Upon discovering
that the judgment had been entered against him on October 12, 2020, Blyumkin
sent letters to the relevant courts related to his wish to appeal from the
judgment given the foregoing circumstances, two dated November 3, 2020 and in
turn on November 20, 2020 and December 8, 2020. Blyumkin received no response
to any of these letters either. 
 
         Blyumkin makes
the following arguments under CCP sec. 1716(b) related to recognition of a
foreign judgment: 
 
1.     
The Russian court lacked a basis to exercise
personal jurisdiction “that would be sufficient according to the standards
governing personal jurisdiction in this state” and under Russian law. (CCP sec.
1717(a)) Bank did not comply with one of the methods for service authorized
under the CCP and was further not permitted as a party to itself perform
service of process. Mailing of documents was also not permitted under Article 113,
secs. 1-3 of the Civil Procedural Code of the Russian Federation (“CPC”). 
 
2.     
The Russian court proceedings were fundamentally
unfair in violating his rights to defend the case, incompatible with the
requirements of due process. (CCP sec. 1716(c)(1)G)) He claims he had no
reasonable opportunity - given the Russian COVID travel ban - to investigate
the facts Bank submitted or to confront witnesses at trial, consistent with Art.
35 of the CPC, that this travesty of denying his requests to postpone
the proceedings would not be permitted to occur in this country and that therefore
this Court should not recognize the judgment entered against him in his absence.
Blyumkin contends that he inquired into his participating remotely in the
hearing but was advised the court did not have the technology to allow him to
do so. (Decl., para. 30) Under these circumstances, Blyumkin did not fail to
provide a valid reason for not appearing to thereby allow the Russian court to
proceed in his absence, consistent with Art. 233 of the CPC.  
 
3.     
The Russian court was a seriously inconvenient
forum for trial of the action. (CCP sec. 1716(c)(1)(E))
 
4.     
There is substantial doubt about the integrity
of the Tagansky court (CCP sec. 1716(c)(1)(F)) Blyumkin speculates that Bank
purposely brought the Russian proceeding shortly after the Russian Government
issued its travel ban knowing that Blyumkin would not be able to appear and in
the court having failed “suspiciously” to grant his repeated requests for a
postponement to review the relevant records and question witnesses at trial. 
 
          On March 22,
2024, Bank filed its Reply Brief and related documents. Bank argues as follows:
 
1.     
Even if service did not comply with California
law, Blyumkin waived challenging the judgment on personal jurisdiction grounds
where he defended that case on the merits.  (CCP sec. 1717(b)(2) and (3)) In addition, the
DHL courier service utilized was proper under Art. 113 of the CPC. Due process
was also satisfied here where this method taken was reasonably certain to
accomplish actual notice. (AO Alfa-Bank v. Yakovlev (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th
189, 197) 
 
2.     
The Russian proceeding was not “fundamentally
unfair.” Bank argues that even if Blyumkin was unable to appear physically at
the Russian court due to the pandemic, this did not wholly prevent him from
participating in the proceedings. Indeed, the Russian court found that
Blyumkin’s statement of impossibility of personally appearing “is not aimed at securing
a legally protected interest, but at delaying the consideration of the
statement of claim, which is an abuse of the right and infringes the plaintiff’s
right to conduct legal proceedings within a reasonable time.” The Russian court
found further that Blyumkin not being able to appear did not preclude his
participation because he could have hired a lawyer to appear on his behalf. In
addition, Blyumkin provided a statement of his defense and the court addressed
the merits of that defense. 
 
3.     
The “seriously inconvenient forum” defense under
CCP sec. 1716 (c)(1)(E) is not applicable here because that section applies
where personal jurisdiction is based only upon personal service. Here, Bank
relies as a basis for personal jurisdiction that the underlying agreement
provided for performance by payment of the loan at the predecessor bank in
Moscow. Hence, Bank asserts personal jurisdiction under Art. 29 of the CPC,
providing for jurisdiction where there was to be performance of the agreement. The
foregoing comports with the standards for personal jurisdiction under CCP sec.
1717(a). (Integral Dev. Corp. v. Weissenbach (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th
576, 589-90)   
 
4.     
The claim that Bank and the Russian court
colluded to use COVID to deprive Blyumkin of due process lacks supporting
evidence. Similarly, there was no basis to contend Bank sent Blumkin papers at
the wrong address or did anything to wrongly secure a judgment to constitute
extrinsic fraud under CCP sec. 1716(c)(1)(F). 
 
5.     
Blyumkin may not relitigate the merits of the
Russian judgment. Ohno v. Yasuma, 723 F.3d 984, 997 (9th Cir.
2013), AO Alfa Bank, supra, 21 Cal.App.5th at 197. The
Russian court already addressed his claim that the signature on the underlying
loan was forged (which he now admits). Hence, Blyumkin should not be able to
raise the issue over the stock Bank held as collateral, as to which Bank
contends also Blyumkin provided no supporting evidence. 
 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          The Court
has ruled on the evidentiary objections to Blyumkin’s declaration separately in
the form provided. 
 
          The Court
grants Bank’s Request for Judicial Notice and Blyumkin’s Request for Judicial
Notice of Exs. 1 - 4. 
 
 
Personal Jurisdiction 
        
          Here, service by DHL courier, which
confirms receipt, was in conformity with Art. 113 of the CPC, as indicated by
Rachkov. There is no evidence to the contrary. However, Bank effectively
acknowledges that service by Bank itself, as a party, and by mail, was not in conformity
with any of the bases for service of summons under the CCP.
 
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, however,
under CCP sec. 1717(b), a foreign-country
judgment shall not be refused recognition for lack of personal jurisdiction (2)
if the defendant voluntarily appeared, other than for the purpose of protecting
seized or of contesting the jurisdiction over the defendant or (3) the defendant,
before the commencement of the proceeding, had agreed to the jurisdiction of
the foreign court  with respect to the
subject matter involved. 
 
          Here, the Court finds, as discussed
further in its earlier ruling, under CCP sec. 1717(b),the Russian judgment
cannot be refused recognition on this basis because (2) Blyumkin contested not
only the jurisdiction of the Russian court but also asserted his other defenses
to the case on the merits and (3) Blyumkin agreed prior to the commencement of
the proceeding to the jurisdiction of the Russian courts in the loan agreement
at issue. In addition, more significantly, the Court finds further that the
method Bank took to serve Blyumkin was reasonably certain to (and did) accomplish
actual notice. (AO Alfa-Bank, supra, 21 Cal.App.5th at 197)
 
Inconvenient Forum 
 
      This defense
is not applicable where Bank is not relying solely on personal service as a
basis for  personal jurisdiction. The
underlying loan agreement to which Blyumkin agreed provided for performance in
Moscow. Given those facts, Arts. 29 and 402 of the CPC provides that the
Russian court may exercise personal jurisdiction over a foreign person. Hence, even
if the Tagansky court was inconvenient to Blyumkin, that is not a basis for
lack of personal jurisdiction. Inconvenience is not itself a basis to not
recognize a foreign judgment. 
 
Integrity of Tagansky District Court 
 
          Blyumkin’s suspicion that Bank waited
until there was a travel ban to file this action (by reason of which it would
be impossible for him to appear personally) is not evidence. Moreover, Bank’s
counsel would not have known beforehand that a pandemic would have begun a
month before the filing of this case or that there would be a resulting travel
ban. What appears to have precipitated the filing of this case was the
expiration of the statute of limitations just one day after the case was filed,
according to Dr. Rachkov. 
 
         There is also no evidence to infer any
collusion between Bank and the Russian court. Further, the Court is not persuaded
that Bank intentionally used a wrong address for Blyumkin to serve him with its
papers filed in the Russian court – which papers Blyumkin received at another
address Bank also used.  
 
Due Process 
 
It has
long been established in this country that the fundamental conception of a
court of justice is a decision only after hearing. No one shall be personally
bound until he has had his day in court, by which is meant, until he has been
duly cited to appear, and has been afforded an opportunity to be heard. An
order of a court pronounced against a party without hearing him, or giving him
an opportunity to be heard, is not a judicial determination of his rights, and
is not entitled to respect in any other tribunal (Hovey v. Elliott, 167
U.S. 409 (1897)).
          
After further consideration
since the hearing on the application for right to attach order, there are at
least triable issues of fact as to: (1) the Russian court’s alleged failure to
notify Blyumkin of its denial of his requests for continuance of the hearing
prior to reaching the merits; and (2) whether it was unduly harsh under the
circumstances for the Russian court to conclude that Blyumkin’s statement of
impossibility of personally appearing “is not aimed at securing a legally
protected interest, but at delaying the consideration of the statement of claim,
which is an abuse of the right and infringes the plaintiff’s right to conduct
legal proceedings within a reasonable time.” There is at least a question as to
whether these issues contravene the traditional notions of due process in this
country; namely, that due process protects an individual's right "to have
his own day in court" and affords litigants the right to participate in
and control lawsuits affecting their interests (See, e.g., IRMO Carlsson
(2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 281, 291, 293 (“Denying a party the right to
testify or to offer evidence is reversible [error] per se”) and long established
line of cases cited reversing judgments that did not allow a litigant their constitutional
right to a full day in court ).See also Guardianship of A.H. (2022)
83 Cal.App.5th 155, 160-161 (courts should not exercise their discretion
arbitrarily in using their power to deny a party what would be their day in
court).[4]
 
As to (1), because of Blyumkin
allegedly not receiving notification from the Russian court of its denial of
his requests for continuance, he effectively claims that the news of the
functional equivalent of a default judgment entered against him came as a
surprise. Under CCP sec. 473(b), a court will relieve a party from a judgment
taken against him on the basis of, among other things, surprise (e.g. see
Shapell Socal Rental Properties, LLC v. Chico's FAS, Inc., (2022) 85
Cal.App.5th 198).
 
          As to (2), Blyumkin’s request was
seemingly not about indefinite delay but about confronting Bank’s witnesses and
pleading his defense to the Court. The Russian court does not address this
basic point – that significantly is also embodied in Art. 233 of the CPC. Moreover,
there is no evidence to support the conclusion that Blyumkin sought to unduly delay
the proceeding or was “abusing” Bank’s rights. There was no prior request to
continue the hearing or consideration of a short postponement that would
address Blyumkin’s concerns. It is not clear if the Russian court is blaming
him for the restriction on his being able to travel to Russia or as to how long
that court believed the travel restriction might last. 
 
          Further,
there is no evidence in the record to support the court’s conclusion that Bank
was suffering any material prejudice by a postponement that would allow
Blyumkin to meaningfully participate. Indeed, the loan had already been in
default for three years prior to Bank filing suit, according to Rachkov. Blyumkin
would presumably have argued - if he could have been there - that any delay was
minor given the length of time Bank took to file the case. Had Blyumkin been
able to participate, this is exactly the sort of unwarranted conclusion that he
could have had a chance to correct. 
 
           While
having a lawyer appear on Blyumkin’s behalf would mitigate the issue here to
some degree, it again may not be adequate if the lawyer has not had an
opportunity to meet the client or to know the facts as does the client, as Art.
35 of the CPC contemplates in allowing a party to review the evidence
beforehand.[5]
The principal roles of the lawyer, after all, are to give advice and to be an
advocate (see ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct, Preamble
para. 2); they act as agent for their client but not as a substitute for their
client (see, e.g., Blanton v. Womancare, Inc. (1985) 38
Cal.3d 396). The party himself here is entitled to be in court regardless (Hovey,
supra; Carlsson, supra; see also 28 U.S. Code § 1654 (parties have a
right to conduct their own cases personally)). Indeed, significantly, the
Russian court in fact states merely that the defendant “was not deprived of the
opportunity to ensure the appearance of an authorized representative in order
to participate in the trial…” The Russian court does not find that Blyumkin was
not himself deprived of the opportunity to himself personally appear at trial –
which there was no question he was.  
 
          Finally, while
the Russian courts allow remote appearances under Art. 155.1 of the CPC if
the court in question has the technical capability of videoconferencing, at
least according to Blyumkin the Tagansky Court advised him that it did not have
that ability. This Court has no first-hand evidence one way or another whether
the Tagansky Court had such capability. 
 
          The
foregoing evidence as to deficiencies in how the Russian court reached its
judgment are material: As discussed above, Blyumkin may have had a defense to
Bank’s claim by reason of Bank not having sold the stock in MCW that it held as
collateral. Blyumkin contends this stock then had value that would have eliminated
the debt. Bank does not offer any evidence on this issue and Dr. Rachkov did
not address it in his report either. In turn, the Russian court did not address
the issue.[6] As a
result, Blyumkin may permissibly raise the issue now where it was not litigated
before.[7]  While Bank raises concern about the level of
proof Blyumkin has provided, his uncontested evidence is sufficient at least
for purposes of this motion.  For
example, there appears no question that under the earlier loan Bank was provided
this stock as collateral to secure his guaranty. There is no evidence Bank ever
returned it upon entering into a different unsecured loan agreement with
Blyumkin.[8] 
 
Separate Statement 
 
Issue No. 1: Bank satisfies the requirements for
recognition of a foreign judgment under CCP secs. 1715 and 1718.
 
          Blyumkin
either admits (or denies but only as to non-material issues, without conflicting
evidence, that do not create a factual dispute) Facts 1 through 27.  
 
  The Court
therefore finds Bank has set forth the necessary facts to allow the Court to summarily
adjudicate Issue No. 1 in favor of Bank.[9]
 
Issue No. 2: Bank is entitled to summary judgment because
Blyumkin cannot establish a defense under CCP sec. 1716(b). 
 
          Blyumkin
either admits (or denies but only as to non-material issues, without
conflicting evidence, that do not create a factual dispute) Facts 29 through 52,
54 through 65 and 68-69.   
 
          Blyumkin,
however, disputes Fact No. 28 that ‘[t]he Russian Tribunal is a court of
competent jurisdiction with procedures compatible with the requirements of due
process of law.” He contends based upon his declaration that “[t]he legal
proceedings in the Tagansky court afforded defendant no procedural protection, was
fundamentally unfair, and did not come close to affording Defendant due process
protections.”  
 
          In
addition, Blyumkin disputes in part, based upon his declaration, Fact No. 53:
“The purpose of Agreement 6281 is to repay the debt under Agreement 5818. Blyumkin
contends the purpose was also to facilitate the return of the pledged
securities and for Bank to avoid having to declare a default under Agreement
5818.   
 
          Blyumkin
also disputes Fact No. 66: “The Bank performed its obligations under the LOAN
by transferring funding the amount… to Defendants account no. …” Blyumkin
asserts based upon his declaration that Bank “appropriated stock in MCW which,
at the time, had a substantial value. The question Defendant is raising is what
disposition did the Bank make of 8.7 million shares of Petroteq (formerly MCW) stock.”

 
          Finally,
Blyumkin disputes in part Fact No. 67; “Defendant did not repay the loan debt
pursuant to his obligation under Agreement 6281.” Blyumkin asserts based upon
his declaration, that he “declined to repay the loan because the Bank was
illegally keeping, and may have sold, the Pledged Securities.” 
 
          The Court
finds Blyumkin has set forth facts that dispute these four facts that preclude
the Court summarily adjudicating Issue No. 2. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
          For these
reasons, the Court denies the motion. 
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


