 Case Number:  21STCV29644    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  73 12/10/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
THE MACHINE GROUP, INC. v. NC
DYNAMICS LLC (21STCV29644)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant:  Albro
Lundy III (Baker, Burton & Lundy PC)
 
Counsel
for Defendant/Cross-Complainant:  Jeffrey
Goodfried (Saul Ewin LLP)
 
NC DYNAMICS’ Motion to COMPEL TMG TO RESPOND TO THE THIRD DEMAND FOR
PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IN THE SUM OF $3,500 (filed 05/31/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
NC Dynamics’ Motion to Compel TMG to respond to the Third Demand
for Production of Documents and Request for Sanctions is MOOT.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
August 11, 2021, Plaintiff The Machine Group (“TMG”) filed this action against
Defendant NC Dynamics.
 
TMG’s
Complaint alleges causes of action for breach of contract and recission. 
 
On
June 3, 2024, NC Dynamics filed a Second Amended Cross Complaint (“SACC”)
against TMG and Nidec OKK USA Corporation, fka OKK USA Corporation.
 
NC
Dynamics alleges the following causes of action in its SACC: (1) breach of
contract; (2) fraud in the inducement; (3) negligence; (4) intentional
interference with contractual relations; (5) intentional interference with
prospective economic relations; (6) negligent interference with prospective
economic relations; and (7) breach of warranty of fitness for particular
purpose.
 
This
case concerns a contract dispute for the sale and underperformance of
specialized machinery.  NC Dynamics alleges the following in its SACC. NC
Dynamics, the Defendant/Cross-Complainant, is a full-service manufacturing
facility that manufactures products for aerospace companies.  According to
NC Dynamics, NC Dynamics took steps to upgrade the manufacturing process in
regard to an existing contract it had with Bombardier Aerostructures
(“Bombardier”).  As part of that process, NC Dynamics requested bids from
three companies to sell manufacturing equipment to NC Dynamics.  NC
Dynamics also requested the companies to conduct time studies to establish the
running time for the construction of specific titanium parts for the Bombardier
contract.  
 
TMG,
the Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant in this case, was one of the three companies to
submit a bid, but the only company that offered to sell an upcoming machine
from another company called OKK.  OKK conducted the time study. NC
Dynamics contend that TMG ultimately won the bid based on a guarantee made by
TMG President Richard Wackeen (“Wackeen”) that the parts would be manufactured
in ten hours with the OKK machine and also upon the misrepresentation that OKK
was aware that Wackeen was guaranteeing a ten hour running time.
 
NC
Dynamics and TMG entered into two contracts for the purchase of two OKK
machines.  The machines failed to construct the parts in the contracted
ten-hour running time, and multiple attempts were made to reduce the running
time. Because of the slow running time, NC Dynamics contend that they were
forced to purchase a third machine from TMG to meet its production needs for
the Bombardier contract.  NC Dynamics further allege that TMG continued to
guarantee that the OKK machines would achieve the ten-hour running time despite
knowing the OKK machine could do so.  NC Dynamics later learned that six
weeks before the parties entered into the third contract, a TMG manager named
Jim McCulloch (“McCulloch”) admitted in an email that the OKK machines would never
achieve a running time.  McCulloch was present to witness the final run of
the OKK machines, which at the lowest point exceeded 24 hours. As a result
of the running time, NC Dynamics contend that they lost Bombardier, and others,
as a current and future customer.   
 
In
TMG’s Complaint, TMG alleges that NC Dynamics has an unpaid balance in the
amount of $1,895,150.13 on the Second Machine and Third Machine, and has
refused to make any further payments on these machines despite TMG’s demands.
 
On May 31, 2024, NC Dynamics filed a Motion to Compel TMG to respond to the Third Demand for
Production of Documents asserting that TMG
failed to serve responses.
 
In opposition, TMG argues that the motion is moot because TMG has since served responses
In reply, NC Dynamics maintains that the Court
should compel TMG to provide responses/further responses.
 
II.
DISCUSSION
 
On May 31,
2024, NC Dynamics filed the instant motion to compel TMG’s responses to Requests for
Production of Documents, Set Three, and request for sanctions.
 
The
statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have
been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does not respond to
discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that discovery
requests were properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond
has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)  
 
On
March 12, 2024, NC Dynamics served its Requests for Production of Documents, Set Three upon
TMG. (Chow Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)
 
TMG’s counsel
states he was traveling at the time of service, and an administrative error led
to the discovery being incorrectly calendared. (Semos Decl., ¶ 3.) On July 3,
2024, TMG served responses without objections to the Requests for
Production of Documents, Set Three. (Semos Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.)
 
Since
TMG has served responses, the Court finds the instant motion to compel
responses is moot. When respondents serve untimely discovery responses after parties
have filed motions to compel initial responses, courts have broad discretion as
to the ruling and may hold that the motion is moot. (Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc., v. Klugman (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 409.) Since
the motion is moot, the Court does not award sanctions. 
 
Thus,
the Court finds NC Dynamics’ motion to compel TMG’s responses to Requests for Production
of Documents, Set Three is MOOT. The Court denies NC Dynamics’ request for sanctions.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
NC Dynamics’ Motion to Compel TMG to respond to the Third Demand
for Production of Documents and Request for Sanctions is MOOT.