  Case Number:  19STCV38374    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  73 12/10/2023
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
SHAHNAZ AMIRTALESH v. ROCHELLE
STERLING, et al. (19STCV38374)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Shahnaz
Amirtalesh (Pro Per)
Counsel for Defendant/opposing
party:  Krista Dawkins (Pyka Lenhardt
Schnaider Dawkins)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE
PLEADINGS (filed 08/30/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED
in part with 20 days leave to amend as to the first, second, third and seventh
causes of action.
BACKGROUND
 
On October 23, 2019, Plaintiff Shahnaz
Amirtalesh (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Rochelle H.
Sterling (“Sterling”), Beverly Hills Properties (“BHP”), The Sterling Family
Trust, Susan Robman and Does 1-50 (collectively, “Defendants”).
 
This
action arises out of Plaintiff’s tenancy at 240 N. Crescent Drive, Apt. 107,
Beverly Hills, CA 90210 (the “Apartment”).  In her complaint, Plaintiff
alleges that the Apartment landlord, BHP, failed to maintain sewage pipes in
the building which caused a leak in her shower drain in October 24, 2018; that
BHP delayed in granting her request to replace flood-damaged carpeting in her
Apartment with laminate floors as a reasonable accommodation for her disability
stemming from lung cancer; that BHP did not properly enforce COVID-19
restrictions regarding the use of the Apartment swimming pool; and further,
that Apartment manager, Susan Robman, harassed and discriminated against
Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s religious beliefs.   
 
In
the summer of 2019, Plaintiff filed complaints with the County of Los Angeles
Department of Public Health (“DPH”) and the City of Beverly Hills regarding her
apartment.  On September 5, 2019, the City of Beverly Hills issued a
notice of violations to BHP.  On September 10, 2019, DPH issued an
Official Inspection Report for violations regarding wall/ceiling floor and
faucet fixtures. 
  
On
October 23, 2019, Plaintiff filed her complaint against Defendants. Sterling is
the owner of BHP and the Apartment and the trustee of the Sterling Family
Trust.  On August 7, 2020, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) alleging eight causes of action.  On or about October 20, 2021,
the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action in the
SAC without leave to amend.  The remaining causes of action are as
follows: 
C/A 1: Breach of Warranty of Habitability 
C/A 2: Negligence  
C/A 3: Nuisance  
C/A 4: Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4 
C/A 6: Violation of the California Fair Employment
and Housing Act  
C/A 7: Violation of the California Unruh Civil Rights
Act 
C/A 8: Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
 
On March 17, 2023,
Plaintiff dismissed Defendant Susan Robman from the case.
 
On January 24, 2023,
the Court granted Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to the fourth,
sixth and eighth causes of action. The motion was denied as to the first,
second and third causes of action.
 
On August 30,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings,
arguing:
·      
Defendants, through their attorney,
filed a defective and time-barred answer to Plaintiff's complaint, with 48
defective insufficient affirmative defenses. 
·      
Defendants' affirmative defenses did not plead facts sufficient to
constitute a defense, but were merely ‘boilerplate’ allegations
·      
Defendants has alleged defenses that have no facts suggesting any
relation to the case.
 
Defendants
filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of 86 documents, including
discovery responses and declarations. Plaintiff has not established that the subject discovery responses
or declarations contradict that party's answer. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion impermissibly relies on extrinsic
evidence and should be denied.
·      
Defendants answer to the second amended complaint puts forth
allegations of fact that contradict Plaintiff’s allegations.
o  
Per MacIsaac v. Pozzo (1945) 26 Cal.2d 809, 813, when
ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings, the Court is required to
treat Defendants’ allegations as true, e.g., that Plaintiff failed to maintain
her own apartment and suffered no damages. These factual allegations by Defendants contradict Plaintiff’s allegations in her second
amended complaint and establish a defense to the three operative causes of
action in Plaintiff’s second amended complaint that were not abandoned or
defeated by demurrer or motion for summary adjudication: (1) breach of warranty
of habitability, (2) negligence, and (3) nuisance.
·      
There is no factual or legal basis to Plaintiff’s claim that her
motion should be granted because the answer was untimely.
·      
Plaintiff argues, not for the first time, that Defendants’
discovery responses admitted to all of Plaintiff’s allegations. This is
inaccurate. Plaintiff alleges that “sewage” flooded her apartment. Defendants
maintain that the intrusion was “greywater” from the shower. Defendants were
asked to admit, and did admit, that “waste water” backed up into the apartment.
“Sewage” and “greywater” are two kinds of “waste water.” Defendants’ admission
regarding “waste water” does not constitute an implied admission that Plaintiff
encountered “sewage.”
·      
If Plaintiff’s motion is granted, this Court should afford
Defendants the opportunity to amend their answer.
 
Plaintiff
filed a reply, arguing: 
·      
Plaintiff maintains Defendants' affirmative defenses did not plead
facts sufficient to constitute a defense, but were merely ‘boilerplate’
allegations
·      
Plaintiff maintains Defendants’ Answer is time barred.
o  
Plaintiff Second Amended Complaint was filed and serve on August
7, 2020. Defendants' answered to plaintiffs Second Amended Complaint on
10/26/2020. Statute of limitation to respond to complaint is 30 days, defendant
responded 80 days After being served. Defendants' answer is time barred.
 
DISCUSSION
 
A.      Meet and
Confer
 
“Before
filing a motion for judgment on the pleadings pursuant to this chapter, the
moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings
for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the
claims to be raised in the motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (C.C.P. §
439(a).) A declaration regarding meet and confer efforts must be filed with the
motion for judgment on the pleadings. (C.C.P. § 439(a)(3).) 
 
Plaintiff stated
in her declaration that she left Defendants’ counsel a voicemail and sent counsel
emails outlining the grounds for the instant motion. (Amirtalesh Decl. at ¶ 19.)
The Court finds Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer requirement. 
 
B.      Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff
filed a request for judicial notice as well as a supplemental request for
judicial notice, requesting the Court take judicial notice of a total of 86
documents. 
 
Plaintiff has
requested that the Court take judicial notice of documents in the case file.
The Court declines to take judicial notice of these documents, as this is an
unnecessary request. The Court does not need to take judicial notice of
documents in the present case file. 
 
Defendant has
also objected to Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of discovery responses
and declarations. Generally, the Court may not take
judicial notice of discovery responses. (See TSMC North America v. Semiconductor Mfg. Intern. Corp. (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 581, 594.) However, the Court may take judicial notice of discovery
responses “to the extent ‘they contain statements of the [party] or his agent
which are inconsistent with the allegations of the pleading before the court.”
(Bounds v. Superior Court (2014) 229
Cal.App.4th 468, 477 (quoting Del E. Webb
Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 605).) Here,
Plaintiff has not established that any of the subject discovery responses or
declarations contradict that party’s answer. Thus, the Court declines to take
judicial notice of the subject discovery responses and declarations. 
 
Further, the
Court may decline to take judicial notice of irrelevant matters. Town of
Atherton v. California High-Speed Rail Authority (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
314, 341 (“The Authority requests that we take judicial notice of the fact that
amicus curiae POH participated in the STB proceedings and of letters POH
submitted asking the STB to exercise jurisdiction over the HST. We deny the
requests as these matters are irrelevant. (People v. McKinzie (2012) 54
Cal.4th 1302, 1326, 144 Cal.Rptr.3d 427, 281 P.3d 412 [court will take judicial
notice of only relevant matters].)”) The Court fails to see how
Plaintiff’s requests are relevant to the instant motion and declines to take
judicial notice. 
 
Plaintiff’s Requests
for Judicial Notice are denied. 
 
C.      Legal
Standard 
 
A plaintiff
may move for judgment on the pleadings where “the complaint states facts
sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action against the defendant and
the answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the
complaint.”  (CCP § 438(c)(1)(A).)   
 
“A motion for
judgment on the pleadings may be made at any time either prior to the trial or
at the trial itself. [Citation.]”  (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson
(1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 877.)  “A motion for judgment on the pleadings
performs the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only
defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be
judicially noticed. Presentation of extrinsic evidence is therefore not proper
on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.”  (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman
Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999 (Citations Omitted).)  The
standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially
the same as that applicable to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of
the pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears
that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Bezirdjian
v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322 (citing Schabarum v.
California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216).)    
 
D.     Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves for an order granting judgment as to the entirety
of Plaintiff’s SAC, arguing that: Defendants’ Answer is time barred, that Defendants’
affirmative defenses are boilerplate, and Defendants’ Answer does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the SAC.   
 
a.      Timeliness of
Answer
 
First,
Plaintiff asserts Defendants’ Answer is time barred.
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue the Answer is not time barred, and nevertheless,
the timeliness of the answer is not part of the Court’s inquiry in considering
a motion for judgment on the pleadings. The Court agrees.
 
CCP section
438(c)(1) provides a motion for judgment on the pleading may only made on one
of the following grounds:  
 
(A) “[i]f the moving party is a plaintiff, that the complaint
states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action against the
defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
defense to the complaint.  
(B) If the moving party is a defendant, that either of the
following conditions exist: 
(i) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of
action alleged in the complaint.  
(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant. 
 
Therefore,
Plaintiff’s argument that Defendants’ Answer is untimely does not appear to be
a basis on which the instant motion can be granted. While Plaintiff cites to Hunt
v. County of Shasta (1990) 225 Cal. App.3d 432, 440 in her reply, Hunt
is inapplicable here because there the court discussed whether defendants were
entitled to judgment on the pleadings on the ground that plaintiffs’ action was
untimely based on the statute of limitations. Accordingly, the Court does not
grant Plaintiff’s motion on this basis. 
 
b.      Affirmative
Defenses
 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendants’ fifty-seven affirmative defenses in its Answer are
boilerplate and fail to plead specific facts in support. 
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue they have set forth sufficient facts. As examples,
Defendants cite to their eleventh and fifty-first affirmative defenses. 
 
The eleventh
affirmative defense states “Defendants allege that at all times mentioned in
the Complaint, Plaintiff and others so carelessly, recklessly, negligently and
wrongfully maintained the subject property so as to cause and contribute in
some manner to the damages, if any, alleged to have been sustained by
Plaintiff. Therefore, Plaintiff’s recovery herein, as to any damage or injury
suffered by the Plaintiff shall be diminished to the extent that such injury or
damages were proximately caused by the carelessness, recklessness, negligence
or wrongful conduct of the cross-complainant and others.” (Answer, p. 4.)
 
The
fifty-first affirmative defense states “Defendants allege that Plaintiff has
sustained no injury or damage by reason of any act or omission attributable to
Defendants.” (Answer, p. 12.)
 
However, the
Court finds Defendants’ allegations are conclusory and fail to plead facts in
support. For example, Defendants do not allege how Plaintiff allegedly
improperly maintained the premises. “An affirmative defense is new matter that
defendants are required to plead and prove.” (Marich v. MGM/UA Telecomms,
Inc. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 415, 424.) 
 
Upon review
of Defendants’ Answer, the Court finds that Defendants’ affirmative defenses
are largely devoid of facts.
 
For example,
the second affirmative defense of Waiver states “Defendants allege that
Plaintiff, by her own acts and omissions, has waived her rights, if any, to
recover against these answering Defendants.” (Answer, p. 2.) However, there are
no facts to support the conclusory allegations that Plaintiff’s conduct or
actions constitute waiver. 
 
The fifth
affirmative defense of Failure to Mitigate states “Defendants allege that the
damages allegedly suffered by Plaintiff, if any, have been aggravated as a
result of Plaintiff's failure to exercise reasonable diligence to mitigate
damages, if any. Defendants' liability, if any, must therefore be limited to the
amount of damages that would have been sustained if Plaintiff had exercised
reasonable diligence and appropriately mitigated damages.” (Answer, p. 3.)
However, except for the conclusory allegation that Plaintiff failed to exercise
reasonable diligence to mitigate damages, if any, no facts are alleged to
support such a contention.  As such, the fifth affirmative defense fails
to provide facts to support a defense based on failure to mitigate and thus, it
is insufficiently pled. 
 
The twentieth
affirmative defense of Unjust Enrichment states “Defendants allege Plaintiff
would be unjustly enriched if she recovered damages as alleged in the
Complaint.” (Answer, p. 6.) The Court finds that unjust enrichment is not a
proper affirmative defense because unjust enrichment is neither a cause of
action or a remedy, but rather a general principle underlying various legal
doctrines and remedies.  (McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 379, 387.)  Rather, it is synonymous with restitution and has
also been characterized as describing the result of a failure to make
restitution.  (Id.)  Furthermore, to the extent that unjust
enrichment may be regarded as an affirmative defense, the Answer fails to
allege sufficient facts showing that it applies here. 
 
The Court
also notes that the first affirmative defense for Failure to State a Cause of
Action is not an affirmative defense. (See Walsh v. West Valley
Mission Community College Dist. (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1532; see also
Zivkovic v. Southern California Edison Co. (9th Cir. 2002) 302 F.3d
1080, 1088 [finding that a defense which demonstrates that plaintiff has not
met its burden of proof is not an affirmative defense.].)  As such, the
first affirmative defense has been improperly pled. The Court
does however note that the failure to state a cause of action is a
defense that is which is not waivable by failure to file an answer or
demurrer. (CCP § 430.80(a); Henry v. Associated Indemnity Corp.
(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1405, 1413 fn. 8.)
 
In sum, the
Court finds that Defendants’ affirmative defenses are insufficiently pled. 
 
c.       Entry of
Judgment in Plaintiff’s Favor
 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court enter judgment in Plaintiff’s favor as Defendants’ Answer
fails to state a defense. The Court acknowledges that as discussed above, Defendants
failed to sufficiently allege an affirmative defense.  However, the Answer
to the SAC also generally denies each and every allegation in the SAC.  (Answer,
p. 1.)  Notably, the failure to state a cause of action is a defense that
is which is not waivable by failure to file an answer or demurrer. (CCP §
430.80(a); Henry v. Associated Indemnity Corp. (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d
1405, 1413 fn. 8.)  As such, entry of judgment against Defendants is
improper.  
 
d.      Leave to
Amend
 
Whether a motion for judgment on the pleadings is to be granted
with or without leave to amend is governed by the same standards applicable to
demurrers. (See Virginia G. v. ABC Unified Sch. Dist. (1993) 15
Cal.App.4th 1848, 1851; People v. $20,000 U.S. Currency (1991) 235
Cal.App.3d 682, 691.) “If there is any reasonable possibility that plaintiff
can state a good cause of action, it is error and an abuse of discretion to
sustain the demurrer without leave to amend. [Citations.] However, leave to
amend is properly denied if the facts and nature of plaintiffs' claims are
clear and under the substantive law, no liability exists.”  (Campaign
for Quality Education v. State (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 896, 904.) 
 
The Court grants leave to amend.
 
In sum, the
Court finds that Defendants’ affirmative defenses are insufficiently pled and
grants leave to amend. Plaintiff’s request for entry of judgment against
Defendants is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION 

Plaintiff’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED in part with 20 days leave to
amend as to the first, second, third and seventh causes of action.