 Case Number:  23TRCV01697    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative  Ruling    HEARING DATE:                 December 15, 2023    CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV01697  CASE NAME:                        Lottie  Mae Patterson Shumate v. General Motors, LLC, et al.      MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, General Motors, LLC   RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Lottie Mae Patterson Shumate    TRIAL DATE:                        Not  Set     MOTION:                              (1) Demurrer  (2) Motion to Strike    Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Defendant’s Demurrer is  SUSTAINED, with 30 days leave to amend (2) Defendant’s Motion to Strike is MOOTED         I. BACKGROUND    A. Factual    On May 26,  2023, Plaintiff, Lottie Mae Patterson Shumate (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint  against Defendant General Motors (“GM”) and DOES 1 through 10. On September 12,  2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of  action for: (1) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil  Code § 1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of the  Implied Warranty of Merchantability; and (5) Fraudulent Inducement –  Concealment.    Defendant GM  has now filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike portions of the FAC.               B. Procedural   On November 9, 2023, Defendant,  GM filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike. On December 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed  opposition papers. On December 8, 2023, Defendant, GM filed a reply brief.    II. MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS   GM demurs to Plaintiff’s  complaint on the grounds that it argues the Fifth Cause of Action alleging It  is barred by the statute of limitations, fails to state facts relevant to the  elements of the claim, and fails to allege a transactional relationship giving  rise to a duty to disclose.    III. ANALYSIS  A. Demurrer A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that  appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the  pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39  Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts  sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might  eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.  William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For  the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer  admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City  Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit  contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” Daar v. Yellow Cab  Co (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)   A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or  unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for  uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the  complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to  respond to. (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d  135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,  even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can  be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of  California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿    Fraud – Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment  GM demurs to  Plaintiff’s cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment on the  grounds it argues the Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to establish  fraud, fails to allege a transactional relationship, and that the three-year  statute of limitations for fraud bars Plaintiff’s claim.    Statute of  Limitations   The statute of limitations for fraud  generally is three years. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 338(d).) The cause of action  begins to accrue when the aggrieved party discovers the facts constituting the  fraud. (San Francisco Unified School Dist. v. W.R. Grace & Co.  (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1327 (“A cause of action does not accrue until the  plaintiff either discovers the injury and its negligent cause or could have  discovered the injury and cause through the exercise of reasonable  diligence.”).)  Further, the statute of limitations for the fraud  causes of action is highly related to the delayed discovery rule.    California’s discovery rule delays the start  of the statute of limitations until the plaintiff discovers, or is on inquiry  notice (i.e., has reason to discover) facts supporting a cause of action. (Fox  v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 807.)  “The  discovery rule only delays accrual until the plaintiff has, or should have,  inquiry notice of the cause of action. The discovery rule does not encourage  dilatory tactics because plaintiffs are charged with presumptive knowledge of  an injury if they have “ ‘ “information of circumstances to put [them] on  inquiry ” ’ ” or if they have “ ‘ “the opportunity to obtain knowledge from  sources open to [their] investigation.” (Id. at 808; fn. 2 provides: “At  common law, the term “injury,” as used in determining the date of accrual of a  cause of action, “means both ‘a person's physical condition and its “negligent  cause.” ’ ” ”(emphasis in original).)     “In order to rely on the discovery rule for  delayed accrual of a cause of action, ‘[a] plaintiff whose complaint shows on  its face that his claim would be barred without the benefit of the discovery  rule must specifically plead facts to show (1) the time and manner of discovery  and (2) the inability to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable  diligence.’ ” (Fox, supra, 35 Cal.4th at 808, citing (McKelvey v.  Boeing North American, Inc. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 151, 160 (superseded on  limited grounds by Code Civ. Proc. § 340.8(c))(emphasis in  original).)  “When a plaintiff reasonably should have discovered  facts for purposes of the accrual of a case of action or application of the  delayed discovery rule is generally a question of fact, properly decided as a  matter of law only if the evidence (or, in this case, the allegations in the  complaint and facts properly subject to judicial notice) can support only one  reasonable conclusion.” (Broberg v. Guardian Life Ins. Co. of America  (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 912, 921.)     Here, Defendant asserts that the Fraudulent  Inducement – Concealment occurred, if at all, at the time of the sale of the  Subject Vehicle.  The Complaint alleges the  sale occurred on or about August 17, 2016, but Plaintiff did not file this  action until May 21, 2023. Plaintiff alleged in her FAC that the discovery  rule, the Repair Doctrine, and Fraudulent Concealment Tolling (Estoppel)  delayed expiration of her fraudulent inducement – concealment claim. The FAC  alleges GM’s fraudulent inducement – concealment occurred, not only at the time  of the sale, but also concealed the defects, minimized the scope, cause, and  dangers of the defects with inadequate TSBs and/or recalls, and refused to  investigate, address, and remedy the defects as it pertains to all affected  vehicles. (FAC, ¶ 40.) Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant’s fraudulent  concealment was ongoing as Defendant blamed the symptoms of the defects on  other issues and not the actual defect itself and purported to be able to  repair Plaintiff’s issues. (FAC, ¶ 41.) It is not “clearly and affirmatively”  apparent from the FAC that the fraudulent inducement – concealment claim is  barred by the statute of limitations. As such, the Court finds that based on  Plaintiff’s allegations, tolling is sufficiently alleged.     Specificity Requirement     Defendant also argues that Plaintiff’s fraud  claim fails as a matter of law because it is not plead with the requisite  specificity. The elements of a cause of action for fraudulent  concealment are: (1) concealment of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a  duty to disclose; (3) the defendant intended to defraud by failing to disclose;  (4) plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as it did had it  known the fact; and (5) damages.” (Butler America, LLC v. Aviation Assurance  Company, LLC (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 136, 144.) The facts constituting the  alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of  fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not  ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior  Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a  corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly  making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke,  what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153,  157.)   Here, GM argues that the fraud claim fails  as a matter of law because Plaintiff did not plead it with the requisite  specificity. GM asserts that Plaintiff needs to allege: (1) the identity of the  individuals at GM who purportedly concealed material facts or made untrue  representations about the CT66666; (2) their authority to speak and act on  behalf of GM; (3) GM’s knowledge about alleged defects in Plaintiff’s CT6 at  the time of purchase; (4) any interactions with GM before or during the  purchase of Plaintiff’s CT6; or (5) GM’s intent to induce reliance by Plaintiff  to purchase the specific CT6 at issue. The Court disagrees. In fact, the  allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint are exceptionally detailed. Although it is  true that the Complaint fails to allege the names of the persons who allegedly concealed  facts or who knew of a transmission flaw, details of that nature are required  in affirmative misrepresentation cases, not concealment cases.    This Court finds that such specificity meets  the requisite pleading standard for fraudulent concealment. However, with  fraudulent concealment, California law, a duty to disclose material facts may  arise (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff;  (2) when the defendant has exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to  the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from  the plaintiff; or (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also  suppresses some material facts. (Falk v. General Motors Corp. (N.D. Cal.  2007) 496 F.Supp.2d 1088, 1098-1099 citing LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52  Cal.App.4th 326.)  The Opposition alleges  that the FAC contains allegations supporting that the transmission defect was a  material fact, that it poses safety risks, and that it arose during the  warranty period.   Transactional Relationship   GM also argues that Plaintiff’s fraud claim  fails because Plaintiff does not allege a transactional relationship between GM  and Plaintiff, or other circumstances giving rise to a duty to disclose. GM  contends that because the FAC does not allege that Plaintiff purchased the  vehicle directly from GM or otherwise entered into a transaction with GM,  Plaintiff has not alleged facts demonstrating a duty to disclose. GM notes that  absent a fiduciary relationship between the parties, a duty to disclose can arise  in only three circumstances: (1) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of the  material fact; (2) the defendant actively concealed the material fact; or (3)  the defendant made partial representations while also suppressing the material  fact. (BiglerEngler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311; LiMandri  v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) GM further cites to Bigler-Engler,  noting that the Court of Appeals reversed a verdict for fraudulent concealment  against the manufacturer of a medical device because the manufacturer and the  plaintiff (who was injured by using the device) did not have the required  direct transactional relationship. (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th  at 314-15.) There, the plaintiff did not obtain the device directly from the  manufacturer but from a medical group that sold and leased such devices. (Id.  at 287, 314.) The Court of Appeals went on to explain, the lack of direct  dealings between the plaintiff and the manufacturer was fatal to the  plaintiff’s argument that the manufacturer had a duty to disclose. (Id.  at 312 [“Where, as here, a sufficient relationship or transaction does not  exist, no duty to disclose arises even when the defendant speaks.”].)   GM argues that the same is true here. GM  contends that the FAC does not allege that Plaintiff purchased the CT6 directly  from GM. Thus, GM argues that any alleged concealment by GM did not arise in a  direct transaction between Plaintiff and GM.    In a fraud action based on nondisclosure, if  the duty to disclose arises from the making of representations that were  misleading or false, then those allegations should be described. (Alfaro,  supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 1384.) Further, “mere conclusionary allegation  that the omissions were intentional and for the purpose of defrauding and  deceiving plaintiffs and bringing about the purchase…and that plaintiffs relied  on the omissions in making such purchase are insufficient to show fraud by  concealment.” (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 347.) GM argues  that the Complaint does not allege that Plaintiff purchased her GT6 directly  from GM, and thus, any alleged concealment by GM did not arise in a direct  transaction between Plaintiff and GM.    The Court notes Plaintiff’s opposition does  not seem to oppose the transactional relationship argument. Instead, Plaintiff  contends that a transactional relationship is not required for GM to have a  duty to disclose.  In Dhital v. Nissan  North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 844, the First District held  that a Lemon Law plaintiff adequately pleaded the existence of a buyer-seller  relationship between the parties, because plaintiffs bought the car from a  Nissan dealership (not from Nissan itself). Of course, the California Supreme  Court has granted review of Dhital but signaled that trial courts may  consider the Court of Appeal decision for its persuasive effect.     Although a transactional relationship has  not been alleged or argued, Plaintiff argues that the transmission defect is a  material fact, poses safety risks, and that the transmission defect arose  during the warranty period. The FAC alleges that from September 2014 to at  least February 2019, Defendant issued many TSBs and service bulletin updates to  its dealers in the United States, but not to its customers, acknowledging  problems of harsh shifting, jerking, clunking, and delays in acceleration or  deceleration releasing to the 8-speed transmission.   Other requirements besides transactional  relationship are exclusive knowledge of a material fact, active concealment of  a material fact, or partial representation but suppression of a material fact.  The FAC does not allege exclusive knowledge, but it does allege superior position.  (FAC, ¶75(b).) The FAC also alleges that GM’s concealment of this safety defect  was material and Plaintiff relied on Defendant GM’s advertising materials which  did not disclose the defect. (FAC, ¶ 72.) The FAC also contends that GM  knowingly and intentionally concealed material facts and breached its duty not  to do so. (FAC, ¶ 76.) Plaintiff argues that these facts are material in that a  reasonable person would have considered them to be important in deciding  whether or not to purchase the Vehicle. (FAC, ¶ 77.)   The Court will invite oral argument as to  whether there exists any general duty by a motor vehicle manufacturer to  disclose to a consumer that it has had warranty complaints or reports of  malfunctions or that a component or system in a prior version of a transmission  has been the subject of repair recommendations or procedures. The creation of  such a duty seems better left to the policy-making branches of government  rather than the judiciary. Such a duty seems to implicate balancing the burden  that would be placed on manufacturers of such a broad duty against the  perceived value that disclosures of such a wide array of information might  yield for consumers. The law already recognizes a duty to recall or retrofit  (see, e.g., Hernandez v. Badger Construction Equipment Co. (1994) 28  Cal.App.4th 1791, 1827; Lunghi v. Clark Equipment Co. (1984) 153  Cal.App.3d 485, 494), but such a cause of action requires harm in the form of  personal injury rather than the economic losses alleged in the FAC here. (The  Court is mindful that a claim for fraudulent inducement by concealment is not  subject to demurrer on the ground it is barred by the economic loss rule,  pending a decision by the California Supreme Court on certified question from  the Ninth Circuit decision in Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (9th  Cir. 2021) 19 F.4th 1188, 1191, and on petition for review of Dhital.)   Further, the Court is mindful that in most  Lemon Law claims, the manufacturer / warrantor has been alleged to have  published repair literature or technical bulletins to its authorized dealers that  bear on the claimed defect or defects.   Does Plaintiff contend that where she can truthfully allege that  defendant had prior knowledge that a component or system like the transmission  has been the subject of TSBs or other published repair procedures that were not  disclosed to the plaintiff prior to the date of sale to the plaintiff, those  facts establish a viable fraudulent concealment claim?  Further, how is it that Plaintiff can allege  that such TSBs were publicly disclosed to NHTSA but at the same time were concealed  from the general public including plaintiff?   This Court is not convinced, on the allegations before it, that such a  duty exists.  Nor is the Court convinced  that such inconsistent allegations of disclosure and concealment of the same  facts would permit a viable fraudulent concealment claim.  The Court will entertain argument on the  point and will grant leave to amend if counsel believes additional allegations  would bolster support for such a duty, but the Court’s tentative ruling is to  sustain the Demurrer to the fraudulent concealment cause of action as alleged  here.     A.    Motion to Strike    Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole  or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may,  upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems  proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any  pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954)  42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim  is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or  disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not  drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of  the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant  allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;  is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or  defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the  allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The  grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way  of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿    Here,  GM bases its Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s prayer for Punitive Damages on the  argument that Plaintiff has not pleaded the fraud cause of action with the  specificity required. Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages, and Defendant’s  argument against it, are intrinsically intertwined with the fraudulent  inducement – concealment cause of action, and as such, the Court’s ruling as to  the Motion to Strike is determined by the Court’s ruling of the demurrer. The  Motion to Strike is mooted by the Court’s tentative sustaining of the demurrer  to the fraudulent concealment cause of action.   IV.  CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s Demurrer is  SUSTAINED. Additionally, Defendant’s Motion to Strike is MOOTED.  GM is ordered to give notice.            