 Case Number:  22STCV32700    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  30 TENTATIVEPlaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMQs is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to produce PMQs within 20 days of this notice. The motion to compel the documents is DENIED without prejudice as premature.Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is GRANTED. Defendant City of Redondo Beach is ordered to pay $1,691.25 in sanctions to Plaintiff’s counsel within 20 days.Moving party to give notice.Legal Standard“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document … described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document… described in the deposition notice.” (CCP § 2025.450(a).)This motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document described in the deposition notice. (CCP § 2025.450(b).) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.Code Civil Procedure section 2025.480 provides, in pertinent part, as follows:(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production. (b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. ...(CCP § 2025.480(a).)DiscussionOn October 6, 2023, Plaintiff noticed Defendant’s PMQs and employees’ deposition along with the production of documents for November 8, 2023. (Conlogue Decl; Exh. 1.) On November 3, 2023, Defendant objected to the deposition on the ground that “Defense counsel and the witnesses [were] presently unavailable on the date selected unilaterally by plaintiff’s counsel.” (Id., Exh. 2.)On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff requested alternative dates for the deposition(s) to be provided by Defendant by November 8, 2023. (Id., Exh. 3.) Defendant never provided alternative dates for the deposition by November 8, 2023 as requested. (Conlogue Decl. ¶ 8.)On November 9, 2023, Plaintiff properly noticed Defendant’s PMQs and employees’ deposition along with the production of documents for December 13, 2023. (Id., Exh. 4.) On December 8, 2023, Defendant objected to the deposition on the grounds that “Defense counsel and the witnesses [were] presently unavailable on the date selected unilaterally by plaintiff’s counsel;” and as to the categories: “This request is not specified with reasonable particularity violating Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.220(a)(4).” (Id., Exh. 5.)On December 8, 2023, Plaintiff requested alternative dates for the deposition(s) by December 11, 2023. (Id., Exh. 6.) On December 11, 2023, and to date, Defendant has not provided alternative dates for the deposition(s) of its employees and person(s) most qualified. (Conlogue Decl. ¶ 10.)Objections to a notice of the deposition are very limited and may only pertain to errors or irregularities in the deposition notice itself. (CCP § 2025.410, [“Any party served with a deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section 2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled, on the party seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on whom the deposition notice was served.].) Article 2 which consists of Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2025.210-2025.295 provide specific requirements that a deposition notice must satisfy.Here, Defendant objects to the deposition on the ground that Defense counsel and witnesses are unavailable on the date unilaterally selected by Plaintiff’s counsel. As to the specific categories, Defendant objects on the grounds that (1) the categories are not described with sufficient particularity (CCP § 2025.230); and (2) they violate the attorney work product doctrine and attorney client privilege.Most of Defendant’s objections are improper as they are not objections based on the irregularity of the notice. The unilateral setting of a deposition under Los Angeles County Superior Court Rule, Local Rule 3.26 is not a basis for an objection to the notice as all local rules are preempted as to discovery. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.20(a).) However, an objection as to the specificity of the categories for the person most knowledgeable under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.230 could constitute a valid objection to the notice.Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.230 provides, in relevant part, that “[i]f the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.” (CCP § 2025.230.)The Court has reviewed the categories requested and finds that each of the designated categories is clear as to the matters on which the examination is requested.Lastly, the objections based on the work product or attorney client privilege are improper as the categories in the notice are not deposition questions. The categories in the notice of the deposition are solely for purposes of identifying Defendant’s person(s) most qualified on those issues. (See CCP § 2025.230.) Rather, Defendant’s objections should be raised only to specific objectionable questions during the deposition -- not the notice of the deposition.Accordingly, as Defendant has been noticed to appear at a deposition and has failed to appear, without properly objecting to the notice, Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition is GRANTED pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450. Defendant is ordered to produce PMQs within 20 days of this notice.Defendant argues the motion is moot because the parties have agreed to depose the first PMQ on January 24, 2024, and Defendant has offered another date for a second PMQ, which has not been set yet. However, as Plaintiff points out, Defendant has not stated which categories the first and second PMQ will testify to. Thus, because the depositions for all of the categories requested have not proceeded (because the second PMQ has not been deposed) the motion is not moot.As a final matter, the parties’ dispute involving the taking of Strickfaden’s deposition has not been briefed. It is unclear what categories Plaintiff seeks her deposition for. Additionally, Defendant argues that she is an apex deponent with no evidence. If Defendant believes this is so, it may move for a protective order and fully brief the issue. As it is now, the Court does not have sufficient evidence to make any kind of determination as to Strickfaden.Request for Production of Documents in Deposition NoticeAs to the request for production of documents in the deposition notice, a request for production of documents in a deposition notice merely requires that the documents identified are to be produced by the deponent at the deposition. (CCP § 2025.220(a)(4).) Thus, a request for documents in conjunction with a deposition notice is not the equivalent of a request for production of documents under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010 et seq. The non-moving party need not object in advance of the deposition as with an objection to the notice. Rather, objections are timely raised during the deposition and are not waived by the failure to object before the deposition commences. (See CCP § 2025.460.)Here, a request to compel documents under the deposition subpoena is premature as no deposition has yet occurred. Rather, if documents are not produced at the deposition, Plaintiff may then move to compel Defendant to produce the documents. (See CCP § 2025.480; see also CCP §2025.460(e).)However, the Court will offer the following guidance in an effort to prevent additional motion work. The Court notes the objections are based on failing to specify the documents with reasonable particularity and that they violate the attorney work product privilege.Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.230 provides, in relevant part, that “[i]f the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.” (CCP § 2025.230.)Each of the designated categories is clear as to the matters on which the examination is requested.Moreover, as to the attorney client privilege, Defendant would have the burden of showing the preliminary facts to support the privilege. Without these facts, the objection would likely be overruled.“In general, when a party asserts the attorney-client privilege, that party has the burden of showing the preliminary facts necessary to support the privilege.” (Venture Law Group v. Superior Court (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 96, 102.) “The party asserting the privilege need only present facts which ‘support a prima facie claim of privilege.” (OXY Resources California LLC v. Superior Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 874, 894.) “After this burden is met, or where there is no dispute concerning the preliminary facts, the burden shifts to the party opposing the privilege to show either the claimed privilege does not apply, an exception exists, or there has been an express or implied waiver.” (Venture Law Group, supra, 118 Cal.App.4th at p.102.) The court may require the party who opposes the discovery to prepare and serve a “privilege log,” the purpose of which is to make a record of the documents withheld and the privilege claim asserted as to each. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (c)(1); Best Products, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1188-1189; Wellpoint, supra, 59 Cal.App.4th at 130.) “The information in the privilege log must be sufficiently specific to allow a determination of whether each withheld document is or is not (in) fact privileged.” (Wellpoint, supra, 59 Cal.App.4th at 130.)SanctionsIf this motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with Defense counsel argues sanctions should not be imposed because he was engaged in trial from December 4 through 12, 2023 and was unavailable to meet and confer. Moreover, defendant had to contact employees of the City and determine the “person most qualified” to testify on the 19 topics.However, Plaintiff has been attempting to take these depositions since October 6, 2023. Defendant could have met and conferred over these issues before his trial preparation started. Defendant refused to provide alternative dates until after the instant motion was filed. Thus, Defendant did not act with substantial justification. Thus, sanctions are imposed against Defendant, in the amount of $1,691.25 ($725.00 x 2.25 hours + $60 filing fee) to be paid within 20 days of this order. Sanctions cannot be awarded against defense counsel because the statute says nothing about imposing sanctions against the attorney.Defendant request sanctions “for having to oppose this motion,” without any authority which would allow for sanctions in this circumstance. Defendant argues Plaintiff’s counsel failed to meet and confer over the document requests and Strickfaden’s deposition, however, the motion is primarily concerned with Defendant’s failure to produce PMQs. Defendant’s request is denied.