  Case Number:  23STCP00500    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



WALTER PEARCE 
      
  
  vs.
 
GARDENA REITREMENT CENTER, INC. dba GARDENA
  RETIREMENT CENTER 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCP00500   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 27, 2024




 
Defendant’s
motion for an order directing compliance is GRANTED. The Court orders redaction
of all information regarding any other of Mr. Pearce’s phone call conversations
with anyone besides facility staff and his daughter.
 
On 2/21/2023,
Walter Pearce (Plaintiff) filed suit against Gardena Retirement Center, Inc.
dba Gardena Retirement Center (Defendant), alleging: (1) dependent adult
abuse/neglect; and (2) negligence. 
 
           On
5/16/2024, Defendant moved for an order directing Plaintiff’s compliance with a
subpoena. 
 
Discussion  
 
           Defendant
argues that an order is necessary to produce Plaintiff’s relevant phone records
because while Plaintiff has complied by signing an Authorization of Release,
T-Mobile will not produce the records absent a Court order.
 
           In
response, Plaintiff filed a limited opposition, arguing that the motion should
be granted but “any cell phone records involving anyone besides Mr. Pearce’s
daughter and facility fails to meet the relevancy standard under Code Civ.
Proc. §2017.010.” (3, 26-27.) 
 
           As
such, Plaintiff requests that his counsel receive and have a right to review
and redact the subpoenaed cell records. The information to be redacted shall
include any information revealing Mr. Pearce’s contacts with anyone besides his
daughter and facility staff including the names and contact information of any
other third-party and the contents of those calls.
 
           Defendant
did not file a reply, and thus has not raised any objection to this request. 
 
           Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for an order directing compliance is
granted. The Court orders redaction of all information regarding any other of
Mr. Pearce’s phone call conversations with anyone besides facility staff and
his daughter.
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  June   
, 2024
                                                                                                                       
                   
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 