 Case Number:  21STCV45322    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  December 13, 2021, Plaintiffs Alicia Lugo (“Lugo”) and German Frausto  (“Frausto”) filed this action against Defendants Marshalls, The TJX Companies  Inc., Marmaxx Operating Corp., and Does 1-100 for negligence, premises  liability, and loss of consortium.  On  August 31, 2022, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendant  Marshalls of CA, LLC (“Marshalls”) as Doe 1.  On  October 25, 2022, Marshalls filed an answer.  On  June 29, 2023, Marshalls filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the  alternative, summary adjudication, to be heard on September 12, 2023.    On  July 26, 2023, the Court continued the hearing on the motion for summary  judgment or summary adjudication to November 20, 2023 based on the stipulation of Marshalls and Plaintiffs.  On November 6,  2023, the Court continued the hearing to May 2, 2024 based on the stipulation of Marshalls and Plaintiffs.  (The Court’s  order stating the hearing was continued to October 30, 2024 appears to be an  error.)  On May 2, 2024, the Court continued  the hearing to July 9, 2024.  On  April 18, 2024, and June 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed oppositions to the motion  for summary judgment or summary adjudication.  On April 26, 2024, Marshalls filed a reply.  Trial  is currently set for December 3, 2024.     PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Marshall’s  asks the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary  adjudication.  Plaintiffs  ask the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication  “‘[F]rom  commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the  burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that  he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos  Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic  Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party  moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a  prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;  if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing  party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima  facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material  fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  When  the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot  establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,  supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the  plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by  showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,  needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must  “present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not  possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)  Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with  evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to  interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may  ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence  that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The  defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and  cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the  plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered  nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.)  “Supporting  and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible  evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be  excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as  hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in  supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176  Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)  In  addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must  support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and  concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.  Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the  supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &  Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),  quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must  file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of  the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating  whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.  The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material  facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact  contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference  to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.  (b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable  separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion  constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending  party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)   In  ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the  inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and  inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing  party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  B.   Negligence and premises liability   “The  elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a  legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in  injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159.)  “Landowners  under California law are required to maintain land in their possession and  control in a reasonably safe condition.”   (Williams v. Fremont Corners, Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 654, 663  (Williams), citing Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993)  6 Cal.4th 666, 674 (Ann M.).)   “The underlying principle, set forth in Civil Code section 1714,  subdivision (a), is that “‘[e]veryone is responsible ... for an injury  occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management  of his or her property or person . . . .’” (Ibid.)  This rule “‘establishes the general duty of  each person to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the  safety of others.’” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko v. Grace Family Church  (2017) 3 Cal.5th 1077, 1083 (Vasilenko); see Brown v. USA Taekwondo  (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214 (Brown).)  “ ‘  “ ‘Courts ... invoke[ ] the concept of duty to limit generally “the otherwise  potentially infinite liability which would follow from every negligent act  ....” ’ ” ’ ” (Williams, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 663, quoting  Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) “Our Supreme Court has  explained that an exception to the general rule of Civil Code section 1714 must  be “ ‘ “ ‘clearly supported by public policy.’ ” ’ ” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) “Courts look to what are commonly called ‘the Rowland  factors’ in determining whether policy considerations favor such an exception.”  (Ibid., citing Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p.  1083.)  “These are “ ‘ “the  foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the  plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the  defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the  defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the  burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to  exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost,  and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.” (Rowland [v. Christian  (1968)] 69 Cal.2d [108,] 113, 70 Cal.Rptr. 97, 443 P.2d 561 [(Rowland)].)’  ” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.)  In  considering the Rowland factors, the court “determine[s] ‘not whether  they support an exception to the general duty of reasonable care on the facts  of the particular case before us, but whether carving out an entire category of  cases from that general duty rule is justified by clear considerations of  policy.’ ”  (Regents of University of  California v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 629.)  In  addition, “[c]ausation is an essential element of plaintiff’s complaint.”  (Christoff v. Union Pacific Railroad Co.  (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 118, 126 (Christoff).)  “Causation may be determined as a question of  law if reasonable minds would not differ.”   (Ibid.)  “If causation is  lacking, the complaint cannot stand.”  (Ibid.  [“the trial court’s ruling of lack of causation disposes of the entire  complaint and suffices to affirm summary judgment in favor of defendant”].)  C.   Open and obvious conditions  “As  a general rule, an owner or possessor of land owes no duty to warn of obvious  dangers on the property.”  (Christoff,  supra, 134 Cal.App.4th at p. 126.) “There is no duty to warn of an  obvious danger but the possessor of land does have a duty to warn an invitee  not only of conditions known by him to be dangerous but also of conditions  which might have been found dangerous by the exercise of ordinary care.  [Citation.] The invitor may assume that an  invitee will perceive that which would be obvious to him through the ordinary  use of his senses.  [Citation.]” (Beauchamp  v. Los Gatos Golf Course (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 20, 27.)  “Foreseeability  of harm is typically absent when a dangerous condition is open and obvious.  [Citation.] ‘Generally, if a danger is so obvious that a person could  reasonably be expected to see it, the condition itself serves as a warning, and  the landowner is under no further duty to remedy or warn of the condition.’  [Citation.] In that situation, owners and possessors of land are entitled to  assume others will ‘perceive the obvious’ and take action to avoid the  dangerous condition.” (Montes v. Young Men’s Christian Assn. of Glendale,  California (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 1134, 1140 (Montes), quoting Jacobs  v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 447  (Jacobs).)  A  defendant may owe a duty of care even where a dangerous condition is open and  obvious, “when ‘it is foreseeable that the danger may cause injury despite the  fact that it is obvious (e.g., when necessity requires persons to encounter  it).’ ” (Montes, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 1140, quoting Osborn v. Mission Ready Mix (1990) 224  Cal.App.3d 104, 122 (Osborn).)  “In  other words, ‘the obviousness of the condition and its dangerousness ... will  not negate a duty of care when it is foreseeable that,  because of necessity or other circumstances, a person may choose to encounter  the condition.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Jacobs, supra, 14  Cal.App.5th at p. 447.)  Courts have found it was foreseeable that a plaintiff  would choose to encounter an obviously dangerous condition when the plaintiff’s employment required him to walk  across an area to complete his work.  (Montes,  supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 1140, citing Osborn, supra,  224 Cal.App.3d at pp. 109–110, 123 & Florez v. Groom Development Co.  (1959) 53 Cal.2d 347, 358–359.)  In addition,  the court in Martinez v. Chippewa Enterprises, Inc. (2004) 121  Cal.App.4th 1179, 1185, “determined there was a practical necessity for the  plaintiff to walk across wet pavement because the pavement was the ‘principal  if not sole access way from the street to defendant's building, which housed a  government office serving the public.’ ”   (Ibid., quoting Jacobs, supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at pp.  447–448.)  DISCUSSION  A.   The complaint  The  complaint alleges the following:  Defendants were the owners, lessors, sub-lessors,  managing agents, landlords, renters, managers, operators, marketers,  inspectors, maintainers, and/or controllers, of a commercial property located  at 28901 S. Western Avenue, Rancho Palos Verdes, State of California, 90275  (the “premises”), to which the general public is invited to come.  On January 18, 2020, Lugo was lawfully on the premises  to purchase miscellaneous items when, suddenly and without warning, she tripped  due to the dangerous distribution of the premises and fell violently to the  floor, causing her to sustain bodily injuries requiring medical attention and  treatment.  Defendants knew or should have known in the exercise  of reasonable care that the structures and/or components and/or other parts of  the premises were in a dangerous and defective and unsafe condition and a  menace to Lugo and others lawfully on the premises.  Due to Defendants’ negligence, carelessness,  and recklessness, a dangerously placed shelf that was not properly installed  and maintained in the premises caused Lugo’s injuries.  Lugo and Frausto are married.  Defendants’ actions entitle Frausto to assert  a loss of consortium claim against Defendants.  B.   The motion  1.     Marshalls has carried its initial burden of proving the allegedly dangerous condition was  open and obvious, shifting the burden to Plaintiffs  Marshalls  argues that the furniture platform on which Lugo tripped and fell was an open  and obvious condition.  Marshalls used  the platforms to display furniture and other merchandise in the store.  (See Tapia dec., exhs. 1 & 2.)  Marshalls  presented the following evidence: When Lugo visited Marshalls before the  accident in 2018 and 2019, she noticed the platforms underneath the furniture.  (Lugo depo p. 28.)  The platforms could be seen from a  distance.  (Lugo depo pp. 29-30; see Opposition  p. 14.)  The platform on which Lugo  tripped was grey, while the floor on which the platform rested was a different  color.  (Lugo depo p. 85; Lugo’s response  to special interrogatory 16.)  The  platforms were four feet wide with a height of between 5 3/8 and 5 1/2 inches.  (Froom dec. ¶¶ 4-5.)  Based  on this evidence, Marshalls has carried its initial burden of proving the  allegedly dangerous condition was open and obvious, relieving Marshalls of any  duty to Lugo.  The burden shifts to  Plaintiffs.  2.    Plaintiffs have not raised a triable issue of fact  In opposition,  Plaintiffs submit the declaration of Philip Rosescu, a forensic engineer serving  as Plaintiffs’ safety and liability expert.  Rosescu opines that,  “[f]rom a human factors standpoint, . . . the subject display platform would  have been relatively difficult to perceive at the time of the incident. While  considerable enough in height to cause a trip or misstep, the height  differential was not easily perceivable.” (Rosescu  dec. ¶ 9.)  This was because “[t]he  attention of customers within a retail environment is intentionally redirected  away from the walking surface and towards merchandise such as the furniture  atop the display platforms. Moreover, plaintiff describes tripping on the  subject merchandise platform after attempting to take a step backwards to look  at merchandise behind her, creating a line of site issue between Plaintiff and  the platform, which ultimately caused her fall. The combination of these  factors would have made the height differential created by the display platform  difficult to perceive at the time of the incident and therefore caused and/or  contributed to Plaintiff’s trip and fall incident.” (Rosescu dec. ¶ 9.)  “ ‘[T]he  law does not accord to the expert's opinion the same degree of credence or  integrity as it does the data underlying the opinion. Like a house built on  sand, the expert's opinion is no better than the facts on which it is based.’ ”  (County of Sacramento v. Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th  785, 797, quoting Kennemur v. State of California (1982) 133 Cal.App.3d  907, 923.)  Here, Rosescu’s opinion does  not raise a triable issue of fact because his reasons do not include facts that  support the opinion.  Rosescu's first reason –  Marshalls’ assumed attempt to direct customers’ attention away from the walking  surface and toward merchandise – is speculative and lacks evidentiary  support.  Rosescu's second reason – Lugo’s  backwards step to look at merchandise behind her – has nothing to do with  whether the platform was open and obvious but shows only that Lugo was looking  somewhere else.  The fact that a person  looks away from an open and obvious condition does not make the condition any  less open and obvious.  Plaintiffs  also assert that the platforms and floor were the same color and that they “nearly  disappear with all the furniture covering them.”  (Opposition p. 14.)   But Plaintiffs  rely on their counsel’s declaration to support these factual assertions.  (See Farahi dec. ¶¶ 9, 13.)  Plaintiff’s counsel has not established that  he is an expert or that he has personal knowledge of the facts of the  accident.  Therefore, his assertions do  not raise a triable issue of fact.  The  Court concludes that Plaintiffs have not raised a triable issue of fact concerning  (1) whether the allegedly dangerous condition was open and obvious or (2) whether  it was foreseeable that, because of necessity or other circumstances, a person  might choose to encounter the open and obvious condition.  As a result, Marshalls did not owe Lugo a  duty to remedy or warn of the condition.   The Court therefore grants Marshalls’ motion for summary adjudication of  Plaintiffs’ negligence and premises liability claims.  CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS the motion for summary adjudication filed by Defendant Marshalls  of CA, LLC and summarily adjudicates the claims for negligence and premises  liability of Plaintiffs Alicia Lugo and  German Frausto.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.