 Case Number:  23STCV00701    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 12, 2023, Plaintiffs Benito Navarro and
Valentina Navarro filed this action against Defendants Weho Collision
Center (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for premises liability, negligence,
negligent infliction of emotional distress, negligent hiring and supervision,
and loss of consortium. 
On
February 20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint against Defendant
and Does 1-50 for premises liability,
negligence, negligent infliction of emotional distress, negligent hiring and
supervision, and loss of consortium.  The
prayer includes a request for “attorney fees according to proof.” 
On
May 28, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to strike portions of the first amended
complaint, to be heard on July 9, 2024. 
Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 11, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Defendant
asks the Court to strike the request for attorney’s fees in Plaintiffs’ first amended
complaint. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 436 provides: 
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: 
“(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. 
“(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) 
“The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on
the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)  “Where the
motion to strike is based on matter of which the court may take judicial notice
pursuant to Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, such matter shall be
specified in the notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities,
except as the court may otherwise permit.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (b).) 
“In
passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (Clauson).)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION 
The
Court may award attorney’s fees as an item of costs only when they are
authorized by contract, statute, or law. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).) 
Plaintiffs
have not pleaded facts showing that they are entitled to attorney’s fees based
on contract, statute, or other source of law. 
Therefore, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to strike the first
amended complaint’s request for attorney’s fees. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Weho
Collision Center’s motion to strike the prayer for attorney’s fees from the
first amended complaint filed by Plaintiffs Benito
Navarro and Valentina Navarro with 30 days leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.