 Case Number:  21STCV34963    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 22, 2021, Plaintiff Alexander Hallstead (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Schueleke, Inc., Sergio Julian Castel (“Castel”), and
Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
November 8, 2021, Defendant Schuelke, Inc.,
erroneously sued and served as Schueleke, Inc. (“Schuelke”), filed an answer. 
On
March 3, 2022, Castel filed an answer. 
On
June 5, 2024, Schuelke filed a motion to compel
Plaintiff’s independent medical examination with a hip specialist, to be heard
on July 9, 2024.  On June 25, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On July
1, 2024, Schuelke filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 9, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Schuelke asks
the Court to compel Plaintiff to appear for an examination with orthopedic
surgeon and hip specialist Gregory Tchejeyan on August 5, 2024, at 1:00 p.m. at
250 Lombard Street, 1st Floor, Thousand Oaks, CA 91360. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 

Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220 provides: 
“(a) In any
case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any
defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the
following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive. 
“(2) The
examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the
examinee. 
“(b) A
defendant may make a demand under this article without leave of court after
that defendant has been served or has appeared in the action, whichever occurs
first. 
“(c) A demand
under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if
any, of the physician who will perform the examination. 
“(d) A
physical examination demanded under subdivision (a) shall be scheduled for a
date that is at least 30 days after service of the demand. On motion of the
party demanding the examination, the court may shorten this time. 
“(e) The
defendant shall serve a copy of the demand under subdivision (a) on the
plaintiff and on all other parties who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.)  
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310
provides: 
“(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a
physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with
Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of
court. 
“(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a)
shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the
person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.310.) 
          Code of
Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides in part: 
“(a) The
court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown. 
* * *
 “(d) An order
granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons
who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic
tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (a), (d).) 

DISCUSSION 
In
December 2023, the parties stipulated that Plaintiff would participate in two
independent medical examinations, including one orthopedic examination.  At the time of the stipulation, Plaintiff had
not received treatment for his hip in two years. 
In
January 2024, Plaintiff participated in the orthopedic examination to which the
parties had stipulated.  The examining doctor
specialized in lumbar and cervical surgery. 
Hips were outside this doctor’s expertise. 
Schuelke
now argues that good cause exists for a
supplemental independent medical examination with an orthopedic hip specialist because
“Plaintiff recently asserted a new, previously undisclosed, unanticipated and
significant claim for medically recommended future total hip replacement
surgery that materially impacts Defendant’s defense in this case.”  (Motion p. 2.) 
Schuelke
acknowledges that Plaintiff initially claimed injury to his right hip resulting
from the accident.  Plaintiff received
treatment for a tear in his hip in July 2021, a few months of physical therapy/rehabilitation,
and follow-up visits in 2022 and 2023. 
On August 7, 2023, orthopedist Rajan Patel stated that he wanted to get
a repair MRI for Plaintiff's right hip. 
According to Schuelke, none of this information put it on notice that
Plaintiff might require hip replacement surgery. 
Schuelke
asserts that it was not until February 2024 that Plaintiff’s counsel first
informed Schuelke’s counsel that Plaintiff’s orthopedist had recommended that
Plaintiff undergo total hip replacement surgery. 
Plaintiff
opposes the motion, arguing that (1) Schuelke seeks a third independent medical
examination “for harassment purposes only, and to further delay the matter,”
(2) the requested examination would duplicate Plaintiff’s previous examination
by an orthopedic surgeon, and (2) Schuelke has known about Plaintiff’s hip
injury for over two years. 
Plaintiff
points to his April 13, 2023 deposition testimony that his doctor told him that
if injections were not successful “ ‘then we could talk about potential hip
replacement, but [the doctor] wanted to be very conservative and take it slow because I’m
young . . . .’ ”  (Opposition p. 7.)  Plaintiff also points to a June 2023 conversation
in which Plaintiff’s counsel informed Schuelke’s counsel that Plaintiff was
still receiving treatment and was concerned about needing a future surgery.  In November 2023, Schuelke’s counsel asked Plaintiff’s
counsel “to allow the defense to perform
a second IME with an orthopedic doctor, prior to the scheduled mediation of
2/12/24.”  Schuelke’s counsel stated: “Given
that your client is claiming orthopedic injuries to the neck, back and right
hip and in light of his testimony earlier this year that he is still
inconsiderable pain and plans to seek further treatment, we believe there is
good cause for an additional examination by an orthopedic specialist.” 
Accordingly, before
the January 2024 orthopedic examination took place, Schuelke was aware that
Plaintiff continued to experience hip pain and that Plaintiff might undergo hip
replacement surgery if other treatments were not successful.  The January 2024 orthopedic examination provided Schuelke
an opportunity to examine Plaintiff’s hip. 
Yet Schuelke chose to retain an orthopedic examining doctor who lacked
the expertise to render an opinion about Plaintiff’s hip and the potential need for
future hip surgery. 
The
Court finds that Schuelke has not shown good cause to compel Plaintiff to
attend an independent medical examination with an orthopedic hip
specialist.  The Court denies the motion.  
CONCLUSION 
          The Court DENIES Defendant Schuelke, Inc.’s motion to
compel Plaintiff Alexander Hallstead to attend an independent
medical examination with orthopedic surgeon and hip specialist Gregory Tchejeyan. 
          Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
          Moving party is ordered to file the proof of service of
this ruling within five days.