  Case Number:  23STCV14800    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September 9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV14800




MOTIONS


Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant State
  Farm General Insurance Company




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Noureen Entertainment, Inc.



 
MOTION
Plaintiff Noureen
Entertainment, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) alleges Defendant State Farm General
Insurance Company (“Defendant”) failed to defend Plaintiff against lawsuits brought
by third parties.  Defendant moves to strike portions of the
first amended complaint, and Plaintiff opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322,
subd. (b).)  On a motion to strike, the
court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)
Defendant moves to strike the prayer for
punitive damages. In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges
read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all
parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294. (Coll.
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Pursuant to Civil Code section 3294, a
plaintiff must allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud
or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(a).)  “Malice is defined in the statute
as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Coll. Hosp., Inc.
v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) “The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages. Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or
malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves
v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166, internal citations and
footnotes omitted.)
In the instant case, Plaintiff alleges, “the
subject wrongdoing complained-of herein is being committed by [Defendant], as
knowingly approved, expressly or impliedly, and/or ratified, by the corporate
officers of [Defendant], including, but not limited to, Michael Tipsord, in his
capacity as the President/Chief Executive Officer of State Farm, and Jon
Farney, in his capacity as the Senior Vice President/Chief Financial
Officer/Treasurer of [Defendant], despicably, in the manner of fraud, and/or
malice and/or oppression in the conscious disregard for the rights and welfare
of [Plaintiff] justifying the proper imposition of punitive and/or exemplary
damages in favor of [Plaintiff] and adverse to [Defendant] . . . .” (First
Amended Complaint, p. 3.)  Plaintiff fails
to allege specific facts to support these conclusory allegations.  The Court, therefore, grants the motion to
strike.
In its February 5, 2024 order, the Court granted
Defendant’s motion to strike and provided Plaintiff with the opportunity to
amend its complaint to state a claim for punitive damages.  Plaintiff has failed to do so.  Accordingly, the Court considers leave to
amend futile at this time.  (See e.g., Heritage
Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 994-995 [trial
court does not abuse its discretion in sustaining demurrer without leave to
amend when plaintiff given ample opportunity to cure defect in its pleading but
fails to demonstrate it can do so].)  Nonetheless,
the Court will consider a motion for leave to amend should Plaintiff uncover
evidence to support a claim for punitive damages against Defendant.
Defendant is ordered
to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 