 Case Number:  24STCV05506    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September 9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV05506




MOTION 


Motion to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Space
  Exploration Technologies Corp.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Michelle Dopak



 
MOTION
              Defendant
Space Exploration Technologies Corp. (“Defendant”) moves to compel arbitration of
the claims Plaintiff Michelle Dopak (“Plaintiff”) asserts against it.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.  
ANALYSIS
The moving party
on a petition to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as
the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its
discretion, to reach a final determination.” 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836,
842, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  
Defendant has
presented an arbitration agreement Plaintiff signed when Plaintiff worked for Defendant.  The arbitration agreement provides Plaintiff
and Defendant agree to arbitrate a “Covered Claim,” defines as “any claim (except
a claim that by law is non-arbitrable) . . . .” 
(Declaration of Lynette Dhillon in Support of Motion to Compel
Arbitration, Exhibit A.)  Accordingly,
Defendant meets its burden to show an agreement to arbitrate exists that may cover
Plaintiff’s claims in this action.  
The arbitration agreement Plaintiff signed specifies the
Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) governs. 
(Dhillon Decl., Exhibit A, ¿ 11.) 
A choice of law provision in an arbitration
agreement is enforceable.  (See Coopers & Lybrand v. Superior Court
(1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 524, 538.)  As such, the FAA applies.  Plaintiff argues the Ending Forced
Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 (“Ending Forced
Arbitration Act”), which became law on March 3, 2022, bars arbitration of
Plaintiff’s claims.  This law amends the
FAA to provide, “at the election of the person alleging conduct constituting a
sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute, or the named
representative of a class or in a collective action alleging such conduct, no
predispute arbitration agreement . . . shall be valid or enforceable with
respect to a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and
relates to the sexual assault dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.”  (9
U.S.C. § 402(a).)  For purposes of this
law, a sexual assault dispute is “a dispute involving a nonconsensual sexual
act or sexual contact . . . , including when the victim lacks capacity to
consent . . . ,” and a sexual harassment dispute is “a dispute relating to
conduct that is         alleged to
constitute sexual harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or State law.  (9 U.S.C. § 401(3)-(4).)  
Defendant argues the Ending Forced
Arbitration Act does not apply because Plaintiff’s claims accrued before the
enactment of the law.  The law applies to “any dispute or claim that
arises or accrues on or after the date of enactment of this Act.”  (9 U.S.C. § 401 note.)  Plaintiff alleges the sexual harassment
continued after March 3, 2022.  (See,
e.g., First Amended Complaint, ¶ 67.)  As
such, Plaintiff’s claims accrued after the law’s enactment under the continuing
violation doctrine.  (Richards v. CH2M
Hill, Inc. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 798, 812; see also Blue Fountain Pools
& Spas Inc. v. Superior Court (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 239, 254-255.)  Accordingly, the Ending Forced
Arbitration Act applies to Plaintiff’s claim for sexual harassment.  
Plaintiff argues all
her claims are intertwined with and arise out of her sexual harassment claim
and, therefore, none of the claims should proceed to arbitration.  In support of this contention, Plaintiff
cites various federal opinions, which do not bind this Court.  (Mesler v. 
Bragg Mgt. Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 299; see also Thomas G.
Ferruzzo, Inc. v. Superior Court (1980) 104 Cal.App.3d 501, 503 [“[n]either
federal district court procedures nor decisions are binding on this court”].)  Likewise, “a written trial court ruling has
no precedential value . . . .”  (Santa
Ana Hospital Medical Center v. Belshe (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 819, 831.)  The Court disregards these citations.  
The Court concludes only Plaintiff’s first
cause of action for sexual harassment is non-arbitrable.  Under the FAA, the Court must compel
arbitration of arbitrable claims, even if some claims are not arbitrable.  (KPMG LLP v. Cocchi (2011) 565 U.S.
18, 22.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff must
arbitrate her second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth,
tenth, and eleventh causes of action to the extent they do not relate to
Plaintiff’s claim for sexual harassment. The Court concludes those claims are
not sufficiently related to the sexual harassment claim to warrant excluding
them from being subject to arbitration pursuant to the parties’ agreement to
arbitrate such claims.  Thus, Plaintiff’s
first cause of action for sexual harassment is stayed pending arbitration of
Plaintiff’s other claims.  
Plaintiff also contends the arbitration
agreement is unconscionable.  This
contention is unsupported.  Pursuant to
Civil Code section 1670.5, “If the court as a matter of law finds the contract
or any clause of the contract to have been unconscionable at the time it was
made the court may refuse to enforce the contract, or it may enforce the
remainder of the contract without the unconscionable clause, or it may so limit
the application of any unconscionable clause as to avoid any unconscionable
result.”  (Civ. Code, § 1670.5, subd.
(a).)  Unconscionability is defined as
“an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together
with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.”  (A
& M Produce Co. v. FMC Corp. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473, 486 (A &
M Produce).)  
Unconscionability thus has a procedural and a
substantive element.  (A & M
Produce, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at p. 486.)  The court considers the
factors of oppression and surprise in determining whether a contract is
procedurally unconscionable.  (Ibid.) 
Oppression refers to inequality of bargaining power, which cuts off
meaningful negotiation.  (Ibid.) 
Surprise refers to the concealment of the agreed-upon terms in a lengthy
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce them.  (Ibid.)  Substantive unconscionability refers to the
extent to which a contractual term reallocates the risks of a transaction “in
an objectively unreasonable or unexpected or unexpected manner.” (Id. at 487.)  Both substantive and procedural
unconscionability must be present for a contract to be unenforceable, and “the
greater the unfair surprise or inequality of bargaining power, the less
unreasonable the risk allocation which will be tolerated.” (Ibid.)
            The evidence before the
Court shows Defendant prepared the arbitration agreement, and Plaintiff had no
opportunity to negotiate or discuss its terms. 
It is, therefore, a contract of adhesion (Neal v. State Farm Ins. Companies (1961) 188 Cal.App.2d 690, 694),
which constitutes some evidence of procedural unconscionability.  (Flores
v. Transamerica HomeFirst, Inc. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 846, 853).  
Plaintiff has not, however, demonstrated the
arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable.  She argues substantive unconscionability,
asserting, although the agreement does not prevent either party from obtaining
injunctive relief, it is one-sided, and the agreement requires her to waive a
right to recovery under FEHA.  First, by
virtue of the fact both parties can obtain injunctive relief, the provision is bilateral.   Second,
the agreement does not require Plaintiff to waive her rights under FEHA.  Rather, the operative provision in the agreement
expressly states what claims are covered by the agreement and specifies claims
that are not arbitrable under the law. 
As such, Plaintiff has not presented
evidence of unconscionability.
Plaintiff also argues Defendant waived the
right to compel arbitration.  Defendant
did not waive the right to compel arbitration by litigating claims unless the
litigation prejudiced Plaintiff.  (Saint
Agnes Med. Ctr. v. PacifiCare of Calif. (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1203.)  As Plaintiff points out, Defendant answered
Plaintiff’s complaint.  However,
Plaintiff has not explained how this prejudiced her.  Accordingly, Defendant has not waived
arbitration.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion to compel
Plaintiff to arbitrate is granted, in part. 
Plaintiff must arbitrate her second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth,
seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh causes of action to the extent they
do not relate to Plaintiff’s claim for sexual harassment. Plaintiff’s first
cause of action is stayed pending arbitration of Plaintiff’s other claims.  
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.
 