  Case Number:  23STCV11090    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  72 SUPERIOR COURT
OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ANTONIO GALLEGOS,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
EMANATE HEALTH MEDICAL
  CENTER, doing business as QUEEN OF THE VALLEY HOSPITAL,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV11090
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 5, 2024
 Calendar Number:  15




 


 



 
            
Defendant
Emanate Queen of the Valley Hospital (“Defendant”) moves for partial judgment
notwithstanding the verdict, or, in the alternative, for a new trial, on the
elder abuse claim brought by Plaintiff Antonio Gallegos (“Plaintiff”).  The Court also set an OSC re reconsideration
of its order of May 28, 2024 concerning the application of the MICRA cap to the
judgment.
 
The
Court grants Defendant’s Motion For Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict on
Plaintiff’s elder abuse claim.  The Court
reconsiders its May 28, 2024 ruling relating to the applicability of the cap
under Civil Code section 333.2, the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act
(“MICRA”). 
 
The
Court will enter judgment in favor of Plaintiff solely on the negligence claim,
with non-economic damages capped at $390,000 under MICRA.  The Court will enter judgment in favor
Defendant on the elder abuse claim. 
Defendant is directed to prepare a form of amended judgment and submit
it to the Court no later than August 6, 2024. 
The form of amended judgment shall include the economic damages awarded
by the jury, non-economic damages of $390,000, and the costs awarded by the
Court.
 
Because the Court has granted Defendant’s
motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, Defendant’s motion for a new
trial of the elder abuse claim is moot.  
 
Motion for Judgment
Notwithstanding the Verdict
 
            Defendant moves for judgment notwithstanding the verdict on
Plaintiff’s elder abuse claim on the ground that, among other reasons, the jury
made a finding that Defendant did not act with recklessness, malice,
oppression, or fraud.  Because
recklessness, malice, oppression, or fraud is an element of Plaintiff’s elder
abuse claim, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion.   
 
Legal Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 629 states that “[t]he
court, before the expiration of its power to rule on a motion for a new trial,
either of its own motion, after five days’ notice, or on motion of a party
against whom a verdict has been rendered, shall render judgment in favor of the
aggrieved party notwithstanding the verdict whenever a motion for a directed
verdict for the aggrieved party should have been granted had a previous motion
been made.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 629.)
 
            A JNOV motion ordinarily challenges whether the evidence
was sufficient to prove the claims or defenses asserted by the opposing party
and now embodied in the jury’s verdict. (Moore v. San Francisco (1970) 5
Cal.App.3d 728, 733-34; see Martin v. Ideal Packing Co. (1957)
156 Cal.App.2d 232, 235 [a JNOV motion is “in the nature of a demurrer to the
evidence”].) It thus has the same function as a motion for nonsuit or directed
verdict, the difference being that the JNOV motion lies after a verdict for the
opposing party has been rendered. (Beavers v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1990)
225 Cal.App.3d 310, 327; CC-California Plaza Assocs. v. Paller &
Goldstein (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 1042, 1050-1051.)   
 
            All evidence supporting the verdict is presumed true, so
the issue is whether the facts constitute evidence of sufficient substantiality
to support the verdict.  (Fountain Valley Chateau Blanc Homeowner's Ass’n v. Department of
Veterans Affairs (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 743, 750.) “The court may not
weigh evidence, draw inferences contrary to the verdict, or assess the
credibility of witnesses. The court must deny the motion if there is any
substantial evidence to support the verdict.” (Begnal v. Canfield &
Assocs., Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 66, 72.  
 
            A JNOV motion is governed by the same standards that
govern a motion for directed verdict or nonsuit. (Hauter v. Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d 104, 110; Rollenhagen
v. City of Orange (1981) 116 Cal.App.3d 414, 417 [disapproved on other
grounds in Brown v. Kelly Broadcasting Co. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 711, 738].)
Further, a JNOV motion “may be granted only if it appears from the evidence,
viewed in the light most favorable to the party securing the verdict, that
there is no substantial evidence in support.” (Sweatman v. Department of
Veterans Affairs (2001) 25 Cal.4th 62, 68; Wolf v. Walt Disney Pictures
& Television (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1107, 1138.) A JNOV in favor of a
defendant is proper “only where, disregarding conflicting evidence on behalf of
the defendants and giving to plaintiff's evidence all the value to which it is
legally entitled, therein indulging in every legitimate inference which may be
drawn from that evidence, the result is a determination that there is no
evidence of sufficient substantiality to support a verdict in favor of the
plaintiff.” (See Reynolds v. Wilson (1958) 51 Cal.2d 94, 99.)  
 
Timing of Motion
 
            The purpose of a JNOV motion “is to allow a party to
prevail as a matter of law where the relevant evidence is already in.”  (DLI
Properties LLC v. Hill (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th Supp. 1, 6; see Sukoff v. Lemkin (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d 740,
743 [“The purpose of a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict is not
to afford a review of the jury’s deliberation but to prevent a miscarriage of
justice in those cases where the verdict rendered is without foundation.”].) 

 
            A motion for JNOV must be decided by the trial court
within 75 days after the clerk’s service of notice of entry of the judgment.
(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 629(b), 659, 660(c); see Palmer v. GTE California, Inc.
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 1265, 1277.)  
 
[Code of Civil Procedure section 629] specifically
limits a trial court’s power to rule on the motion in the following ways:
First, the trial court must enter j. n. o. v. ‘before . . . expiration of its
power to rule on a motion for a new trial,’ otherwise the judgment is
invalid.  Section 660 indicates that ‘the power of the court to rule on a
motion for a new trial shall expire [75] days from and after the mailing of
notice of entry of judgment by the clerk of the court . . .’ Second, on the
trial court's own motion it can grant j. n. o. v., but only after giving five days
notice
to the parties and only in accordance with the procedure just noted. 
Third, the trial court is precluded from ruling on a motion for j. n. o. v.
‘until the expiration of the time within which a motion for a new trial must be
served and filed . . .’ which according to section 659 is 15 days ‘of the date
of mailing notice of entry of judgment . . .’    
 
(Sturgeon v. Leavitt
(1979) 94 Cal.App.3d 957, 963 [decided before January 1, 2019, amendment
extending time period for court to rule on new trial motion to 75-day
period].)  Thus, a trial court “can grant j. n. o. v. so long as it acts
before expiration of its power to rule on a motion for a new trial, [75] days,
and¿after expiration of the time within which a motion for a new trial must be
served and filed, 15 days.” (Id. at 964.)
 
            Judgment was entered in this case on May 28, 2024. Notice
of entry of judgment was mailed that same day. (Certificate of Mailing.) The
Court therefore has jurisdiction to rule on these motions at any time before August
9, 2024. 
 
Scope of Claims
 
            Plaintiff brought claims for elder neglect and
professional negligence against Defendant relating to Plaintiff’s fall at the
hospital and his treatment after the fall.  The jury found that Plaintiff prevailed on
both the claims of elder abuse neglect and negligence.  In answering special questions, however, the
jury also found that Defendant’s conduct was not reckless, malicious,
fraudulent, or oppressive.  The jury
awarded $1,835,688.41 in damages, of which $1.4 Million was non-economic
damages.  
 
            Defendant’s two post-trial motions relate to the elder
abuse claim, and ultimately seek to reduce the non-economic damages to $390,000
under MICRA.  The motions do not
challenge the judgment of negligence against Defendant.   
 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleged elder neglect, which the Elder Abuse Act defines as follows: 
 
(a) "Neglect" means either of the following:
 
(1) The negligent failure of any person having the care or custody
of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a
reasonable person in a like position would exercise.
(2) The negligent failure of an elder or dependent adult to
exercise that degree of self care that a reasonable person in a like position
would exercise.
 
(b) Neglect includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
 
[…] 
 
(2) Failure to provide medical care for physical and mental health
needs. A person shall not be deemed neglected or abused for the sole reason
that the person voluntarily relies on treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone in lieu of medical treatment.
(3) Failure to protect from health and
safety hazards.
 
(Welf. &
Inst. Code, § 15610.57.)  The Elder Abuse
Act further provides:
 
Where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that a
defendant is liable for . . . neglect as defined in Section 15610.57. . . and
that the defendant has been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or
malice in the commission of this abuse, the following shall apply, in addition
to all other remedies otherwise provided by law:
 
(a) The court shall award to the plaintiff reasonable attorney's
fees and costs. The term ‘costs’ includes, but is not limited to, reasonable
fees for the services of a conservator, if any, devoted to the litigation of a
claim brought under this article.
 
(b) The limitations imposed by Section 377.34 of the Code of Civil
Procedure on the damages recoverable shall not apply. However, the damages
recovered shall not exceed the damages permitted to be recovered pursuant to
subdivision (b) of Section 3333.2 of the Civil Code.”
 
(Welf. &
Inst. Code, § 15657.)  (From this point
forward, when this order refers to a statutory section without expressly
mentioning the code, the reference is to the Welfare and Institutions Code.)
 
Plaintiff also alleged
professional negligence, the elements for which are “(1) the duty of the professional
to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession
commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate
causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and
(4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional’s negligence.” (Budd
v. Nixen (1971) 6 Cal.3d 195, 200.) 
 
Requirement of
Recklessness in Elder Abuse Claims
 
            Defendant’s motion, and the Court’s
OSC re reconsideration of its prior order, present the question of whether recklessness,
oppression, fraud, or malice are an element of Plaintiff’s claim for elder
abuse.  
 
Defendant
argues that recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice is an element of
Plaintiff’s elder abuse claim.  Plaintiff
disagrees.  Plaintiff argues that a
showing of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice entitles a plaintiff to
certain enhanced damages under section 15657, but the absence of such a showing
does not defeat the elder abuse claim. 
 
            The Court agrees with Defendant that
recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice is an element of Plaintiff’s elder
abuse claim under current California law. 
The jury explicitly found that Defendant did not act with recklessness,
oppression, fraud, or malice. It follows that Plaintiff did not prevail on his
elder abuse claim, leaving only Plaintiff’s negligence claim in place.  Accordingly, the Court grants Defendant’s
motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict on the elder abuse claim. 
 
            Defendant cites a number of California
Supreme Court cases on the question of whether elder abuse requires a showing
of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice. 
(For ease of reference, the Court will from this point forward use the
term “recklessness” as a shorthand to refer to the entire phrase “recklessness,
oppression, fraud, or malice.”) While the California Supreme Court cases contain
language that may support Defendant’s argument, none of them hold explicitly
that recklessness is an element of an elder abuse claim.
 
For
example, in drawing a line between elder abuse in section 15657 and the professional
negligence referenced in section 15657.2, the Supreme Court stated:
 
Section 15657 provides the way out of this ambiguity: if the
neglect is reckless, or done with oppression, fraud or malice, then the action
falls within the scope of section 15657 and as such cannot be considered simply
based on professional negligence within the meaning of section 15657.2. The use
of such language in section 15657, and the explicit exclusion of ‘professional
negligence’ in section 15657.2, make clear the Elder Abuse Act's goal was to
provide heightened remedies for, as stated in the legislative history, ‘acts of
egregious abuse’ against elder and dependent adults, while allowing acts of
negligence in the rendition of medical services to elder and dependent adults
to be governed by laws specifically applicable to such negligence. That only
these egregious acts were intended to be sanctioned under section 15657 is
further underscored by the fact that the statute requires liability to be
proved by a heightened ‘clear and convincing evidence’ standard.” (Delaney,
supra, 20 Cal.4th at p. 35 [emphasis added, internal citations and
quotation marks omitted, cleaned up].)
 
(Delaney v.
Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23.)  This
quotation emphasizes the importance of recklessness in elder abuse claims.  However, the Supreme Court made this ruling
in the context of deciding that Plaintiff was entitled to enhanced damages, and
the Supreme Court did not say that recklessness is always an element of the
claim.
 
            In another case, the California
Supreme Court stated:  “As we have noted,
the Legislature apparently concluded that the high standard imposed by section
15657—clear and convincing evidence of (i) liability and (ii) recklessness,
malice, oppression or fraud—adequately protects health care providers from
liability under the statute for acts of simple or even gross negligence.”  (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004)
32 Cal.4th 771, 785.)  This statement comes
closer to indicating that recklessness is an element of elder abuse. However,
the Supreme Court made this statement in the complex context of reasoning that elder
abuse claims were not subject to the procedural requirements of Civil Procedure
Code section 425.13, an issue not presented here.
 
            Numerous Court of Appeal opinions,
however, hold explicitly that recklessness is an element of an elder abuse
claim.  Indeed, the holding of many of
these cases turn on the proposition that recklessness is an element of an elder
abuse claim.  Moreover, there is not a
single case that Plaintiff has cited or that the Court was able to find that supports
the proposition that recklessness is not an element.  It is this weight of appellate authority that
compels the conclusion that Defendant is correct that recklessness is an
element of Plaintiff’s claim.      
 
            The issue of a recklessness
requirement for elder abuse claims has arisen in many different procedural
contexts.  For example, it has arisen in
the context of a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict. In Cochrum
v. Costa Victoria Healthcare (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 1034, the Court of
Appeal affirmed a judgment notwithstanding the verdict on an elder abuse claim
because of insufficient evidence of recklessness.  The Court of Appeal stated explicitly that
the elder abuse statute “requires proof of either ‘physical abuse . . . , or
neglect. . ., and that the defendant has been guilty of recklessness,
oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of this abuse.”  (Id. at p. 1045, quoting § 15657.)  Because there was insufficient evidence of
recklessness, the elder abuse judgment could not stand.
 
The
issue has also arisen in the context of demurrers.  In Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise
Valley, LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, the Court of Appeal affirmed an
order sustaining a demurrer to an elder abuse case where there were
insufficient allegations of recklessness. 
There, the Court of Appeal reviewed the elder abuse statutory scheme and
case law and stated:
 
From the statutes and cases discussed
above, we distill several factors that must be present for conduct to
constitute neglect within the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act and thereby
trigger the enhanced remedies available under the Act.  The plaintiff must allege (and ultimately
prove by clear and convincing evidence) that the defendant [among other
elements] “denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or
dependent adult’s basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was
substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff
alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high
probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness).
 
(Id. p.
406-407.)  Similarly, in Worsham v.
O’Connor Hospital (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 331, the Court of Appeal affirmed
an order sustaining a demurrer for insufficient allegations of recklessness.  The Court of Appeal explained that the “Elder
Abuse Act does not apply to simple or gross negligence by health care
providers . . . To obtain the enhanced remedies of section 15657, ‘a plaintiff
must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that defendant is guilty of
something more than negligence; he or she must show reckless, oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious conduct.” (Id. at pp 336-337 [emphasis in
original; citation omitted].)  
 
In
both Carter and Worsham, the Court of Appeal’s holding was not
limited to the issue of enhanced remedies. 
Instead, the Court of Appeal in both cases held that the plaintiff could
not proceed with the elder abuse claim at all because of insufficient
allegations of recklessness. Another case that sustained a demurrer to an elder
abuse cause of action also explained: “to avoid the sustaining of a demurrer
for an elder abuse cause of action, a plaintiff must plead facts that show the
conduct was reckless, not simply assert it was reckless.” (Alexander v.
Scripps Memorial Hospital La Jolla (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th at 206, 223
[citing Carter, supra,198 Cal. App. 4th at p. 410].)  Similarly, in Fenimore v. Regents of
University of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1339, the Court of Appeal
recognized that plaintiffs in an elder abuse claim “had to allege facts showing
that the Hospital acted recklessly, oppressively, fraudulently, or maliciously
in the commission of neglect.”  (Id. at
p. 1349.)  Fenimore reversed the
trial court order sustaining the demurrer only because the Court of Appeal
determined there were sufficient allegations of recklessness. (Ibid.)
 
The
issue of recklessness has arisen in the context of a motion to amend.  In Massey v. Mercy Medical Center Redding (2009)
180 Cal.App.4th 690, the Court of Appeal sustained a denial of a motion to
amend to add a cause of action for elder abuse because of insufficient
allegations of recklessness.  The Court of
Appeal stated that “statutory elder abuse requires more than negligence; the
ticket is reckless, oppressive, fraudulent or malicious conduct.”  (Id.  at p. 700 [citing Delaney, supra, 20
Cal.4th at p.31].)  
 
The
issue of recklessness has also arisen in the context of summary judgment
motions.  In Sababin v. Superior Court (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 81, the Court of Appeal stated that the Elder Abuse Act
“excludes liability for acts of professional negligence. . . Hence it does not
apply to simple or gross negligence by health care providers.” (Sababin,
144 Cal.App.4th at p. 88.)  Sababin reversed
the trial court’s summary adjudication only because “we easily conclude that
there is a triable issue as to whether [defendant’s] employees acted with
recklessness, oppression or malice.”  (Id.
at p. 90.)  
 
The issue of recklessness has arisen in cases
involving jury instructions.  In Conservatorship
of Gregory (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 514, defendants challenged the jury
instructions on the elder abuse claim.  Defendants
argued that the trial court erred by giving jury instructions that did not incorporate
the statutory language of section 15610.57 but instead used a different and
less applicable section of the Welfare and Institutions Code.  (Id. at p. 520.)  The Court of Appeal determined that the instructions
were sufficiently accurate.  (Id. at
pp. 521-522.)  Defendants also argued
that “the jury was misled into believing elder abuse was equivalent to negligence.”  (Id. at p. 521.)  The Court of Appeal rejected this argument
because the court “also instructed the jury on the concept of recklessness as
it applied to ‘reckless neglect.”  (Ibid.)  The Court of Appeal approved of an
instruction in the elder abuse context that properly defined recklessness and
stated that, “Recklessness requires conduct more culpable than mere
negligence.”  (Ibid.) 
 
            In
contrast with the cases discussed above, there is not a single case affirming the
viability of an elder abuse claim without a showing of recklessness.  A trial court must “follow an unambiguous
published  holding of the Court of Appeal,
even if the trial court believes that the appellate opinion was erroneously
decided.”  (Cuccia v. Superior Court (2007)  153 Cal.App.4th 347, 349.)  The appellate decisions have held that
recklessness is an element of an elder abuse claim. Because the jury found that
Defendant was not reckless, the elder abuse judgment against Defendant cannot
stand.  For this reason, the Court
reconsiders its May 28, 2024 order, replacing its reasoning and conclusion with
those in the present order, and grants Defendant’s motion for partial judgment
notwithstanding the verdict as to the elder abuse claim.
 
            Plaintiff
raises a number of arguments concerning the issue of recklessness, none of
which are persuasive.  Plaintiff implies
throughout its July 31, 2024 brief that recklessness may be an element of the
claim for a deceased plaintiff, but not for a living plaintiff.  The statutory language cannot be coherently
read to make such a distinction and it is not mentioned in or supported by the
case law.  Moreover, several of the cases
discussed above—Worsham, Massey, and Conservatorship of Gregory—involved
living elder plaintiffs.  (The plaintiff
in Worsham was alive throughout the trial court proceedings when the trial
court sustained the demurrer to her complaint; she passed away during the
pendency of the appeal.) Plaintiff relies on Bickel v. Sunrise Assisted
Living (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1, 13 which contains a statement that a
“plaintiff is not entitled to attorney fees under section 15657 by merely
proving the existence of elder abuse or neglect.”  While this sentence does logically imply the
existence of an elder abuse claim without a right to attorney’s fees, the Court
of Appeal in Bickel neither focused on nor considered any such
issue.  Instead, the case simply ruled
that attorney’s fees for elder abuse were not waivable in an arbitration
agreement.
 
            Plaintiff
also makes a variety of policy arguments against including recklessness as an
element of elder abuse claims.  The Court
is sympathetic to certain of these arguments but that does not allow the Court to
ignore the appellate authority on this point.
 
Invited Error Doctrine
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant may not assert its request for partial judgment notwithstanding
the verdict because of the doctrine of invited error, which “bars an appellant
from attacking a verdict that resulted from a jury instruction given at the
appellant’s request.”  (Stevens v.
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp.  (1996)
49 Cal.App.4th 1645, 1653.)  In Stevens,
a defendant affirmatively stipulated through the jury instructions that the
jury could award lost pension damages and then argued in post-trial motions and
on appeal that no such damages were allowed as a matter of law.  The Court of Appeal held that argument was
barred by the invited error doctrine.  (Id.
at pp. 1653.)  
 
Plaintiff’s invited error argument presents a close
question, and the Court asks Defendant to carefully address the law of invited
error at the hearing.  The Court,
however, considers the current circumstances different than those in Stevens
and other invited error cases.  It is
correct that the CACI instructions that Defendant requested do not line up
precisely with the legal arguments that Defendant is making—but neither do they
contradict Defendant’s legal arguments in the way that they did in Stevens.  Between CACI 3103 and 3107, the jury was instructed
on all elements of the claim even according to Defendant.  CACI 3103 informs  the jury that to establish his claim of elder
abuse neglect, plaintiff “must prove all the following.”  While the list does not include recklessness,
Defendant would certainly agree that the instruction contains an accurate
statement, and that plaintiff must at least prove all those elements.  CACI 3107  instructs the jury on recklessness, albeit
with language implying that it is for enhanced damages only. 
 
 This case is
also different from an ordinary invited error situation because the jury made a
specific finding of “no recklessness,” and Defendant’s current motion is an
effort to determine the legal effect of that finding.  Moreover, Defendant helped preserve its
current position by asking for the use of a special verdict form and objecting
to the Court’s use of a general verdict form. 
A special verdict form would have simply made findings on each of these
elements—including recklessness—and then left it to the Court to apply these
findings in the legally correct manner. 
For all these reasons, in the context of this case, the Court does not
find that the invited error doctrine bars Defendant’s argument.  
 
Conclusion
            
The Court will and must follow binding appellate
authority.  The Court, however, continues
to have reservations about the principle of law that recklessness is an element
of an elder abuse cause of action.  If it
were writing on a clean slate, the Court might reach a different conclusion. 
 
Whatever the Court of Appeal decides in this case, California
trial courts would benefit from further guidance on this issue.  The cases holding that recklessness is an
element of the claim do not appear to have involved a party who vigorously disputed
that legal proposition as Plaintiff does here. Importantly from a practical
point of view, the form CACI jury instructions for elder abuse claims do not state
with clarity that recklessness as an element of the claim. Trial judges regularly
rely on these instructions. Any inaccuracy in the CACI instructions should be
speedily remedied.
 
            The
Court has reservations about recklessness as an element of an elder abuse cause
of action for the following reasons: 
 
1.      The statutory language and structure do not appear to
support recklessness as an element of the cause of action.  Section 15657, where the recklessness
requirement appears, seems to be a heightened remedies provision, not a
baseline requirement for proving the claim. It states that “Where it is proven
by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant is liable for […]
neglect as defined in Section 15610.57, […] and that the defendant has been
guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of this
abuse, the following shall apply, in addition to all other remedies otherwise
provided by law […]” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657 [emphasis added].) The
language of this section indicates that elder abuse neglect can exist separate
from a showing of recklessness. Moreover, a simple reading of the statute would
be that section 15610.57 (which does not include recklessness) contains all the
elements of elder neglect, and that section 15657 (which refers to
recklessness) specifies heightened requirements for enhanced damages but not
additional elements. 
 
2.      No requirement of recklessness appears to have applied
to elder abuse claims before the 1991 amendments to the Elder Abuse Act.  The legislative history and courts’
interpretation of that history indicates that the Elder Abuse Act was meant to
add to, and not restrict, then-existing law of elder abuse.  “The amendment [adding section 15657] did not
add a cause of action. Elder abuse was first defined by the 1982 act. […] The
amendment in 1991 demonstrates the Legislature's belief civil cases could have
been brought under then-existing law; in 1991 it only made changes designed to
encourage persons to bring such actions. The 1991 amendment did not even
increase the measure of damages for elder abuse. It only partially removed a
limitation which would otherwise have barred a survivor from recovering the
damages on the decedent's behalf.” (ARA Living Centers - Pacific, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 1556, 1563 [emphasis added, internal
citations omitted].  The California
Supreme Court similarly acknowledged that it was possible to bring civil claims
for elder abuse prior to the 1991 amendments: “As was stated in the Senate
Rules Committee's analysis of Senate Bill No. 679, ‘in practice, the death of
the victim and the difficulty in finding an attorney to handle an abuse case
where attorneys fees may not be awarded, impedes many victims from suing
successfully. […] This bill would address the problem by: ... authorizing
the court to award attorney's fees in specified cases; [and by]
allowing pain and suffering damages to be awarded when a verdict of intentional
and reckless abuse was handed down after the abused elder dies.’ [Citation.]” (Delaney
v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 33 [emphasis added].)  
 
3.      One reading of the case law would yield the following
analysis.  The requirement of
“recklessness” for enhanced damages—such as attorney’s fees—over time slipped without
much analysis or debate into becoming a baseline element of the elder abuse
cause of action in general.  Many cases that
discuss the issue emphasize that recklessness is required for enhanced damages.
(See, e.g. Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148
[“The Elder Abuse Act’s heightened remedies are available only in
limited circumstances. A plaintiff must prove . . . that the defendant committed
the abuse with ‘recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice.’”] [emphasis
added].)  Appellate cases then began stating
explicitly that recklessness is an element of the claim but did not explain why
that is the case.  Moreover, the Court
cannot discern from the case law whether the requirement of recklessness as an
element of the claim is limited to cases (like the current one) against medical
professionals, or whether it applies to all claims of elder abuse, even against
non-professionals.
 
4.      The CACI instructions that trial courts routinely use are
not clear that recklessness is an element of the elder abuse cause of action.  The authors of these instructions appear to
have read the language of the statutes as not requiring recklessness as a
baseline element. CACI 3103 (entitled “Neglect—Essential Factual Elements”)
instructs the jury that in order to “establish this claim” of neglect in
violation of the Elder Abuse Act, plaintiff must prove all the elements set
forth in section 15610.57.  These
elements, like section 15610.57 itself, do not include recklessness.  CACI 3104 (entitled “Neglect—Enhanced
Remedies Sought”) then instructs the jury that Plaintiff might also be entitled
to certain enhanced remedies if Plaintiff proves recklessness.  This instruction states, “If [plaintiff]
proves the above [i.e., recklessness], I will decide the amount of attorney
fees and costs.”  The CACI instructions do
not state explicitly that recklessness is an element.
 
Despite
these reservations, the current state of the case law requires that the Court
consider recklessness as an element of Plaintiff’s claim for elder abuse
neglect against medical professionals. 
The jury here made a finding that there was no recklessness.  Accordingly, Defendant is entitled to
judgment on Plaintiff’s elder abuse claim.