 Case Number:  BC624838    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DR. LAUREN PINTER-BROWN,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No:  BC624838
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 5, 2024
 Calendar
  Number:  14




 


 



 
 Defendant
The Regents of the University of California (the “Regents”) moves for a new
trial and vacatur or, alternatively, remittitur of excessive damages.  Plaintiff Dr. Lauren Pinter-Brown
(“Pinter-Brown”) opposes.  
The Regents also makes a
request or suggestion that the Court sua sponte issue judgment notwithstanding
the verdict.  Pinter-Brown objects to
this request as an untimely motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict. 
The Court DENIES the
Regents’ motion for a new trial or, alternatively, remittitur of excessive
damages.
The Court declines the
Regents’ suggestion that the Court issue judgment notwithstanding the verdict
sua sponte.
Pinter-Brown’s Request For Judicial Notice
 
Pinter-Brown requests
notice of various judgments, presumably in order to respond to the Regents’
arguments about comparing the damage award in the current case with other
damage awards.  The Court grants
Pinter-Brown’s request for judicial notice.
 
Motion
for New Trial
 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure
section 657 provides, in pertinent part, as follows: 
 
The verdict may be vacated and any other decision may
be modified or vacated, in whole or in part, and a new or further trial granted
on all or part of the issues, on the application of the party aggrieved, for
any of the following causes, materially affecting the substantial rights of
such party: 
 
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury
or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which
either party was prevented from having a fair trial. 
 
2. Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any one or
more of the jurors have been induced to assent to any general or special
verdict, or to a finding on any question submitted to them by the court, by a
resort to the determination of chance, such misconduct may be proved by the
affidavit of any one of the jurors. 
 
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could
not have guarded against. 
 
4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party
making the application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered and produced at the trial. 
 
5. Excessive or inadequate
damages. 
 
6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the
verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law. 
 
7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted
to by the party making the application. 
 
When a new trial is granted, on all or part of the
issues, the court shall specify the ground or grounds upon which it is granted
and the court’s reason or reasons for granting the new trial upon each ground
stated. 
 
A new trial shall not be granted upon the ground of
insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, nor
upon the ground of excessive or inadequate damages, unless after weighing the
evidence the court is convinced from the entire record, including reasonable
inferences therefrom, that the court or jury clearly should have reached a
different verdict or decision. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 657.) A motion for new trial is a
creature of statute and the Court may grant a new trial only by conforming to
the statutory procedures.¿ (Sanchez-Corea v. Bank of America (1985) 38
Cal.3d 892, 899-900.)
Timing of Motion
A motion for new trial
must be served and filed either “(1) After the decision is rendered and before
the entry of judgment” or “(2) Within 15 days of the date of mailing notice of
entry of judgment by the clerk of the court pursuant to Section 664.5, or
service upon him or her by any party of written notice of entry of judgment, or
within 180 days after the entry of judgment, whichever is earliest.” (Code Civ
Proc. § 659.) However, the Court’s authority to rule on a motion for new trial
expires “75 days after the mailing of notice of entry of judgment by the clerk of
the court pursuant to Section 664.5 or 75 days after service on the moving
party by any party of written notice of entry of judgment, whichever is
earlier, or if that notice has not been given, 75 days after the filing of the
first notice of intention to move for a new trial.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 660.)
Judgment was entered in
this case on May 28, 2024 on a jury verdict. Notice of entry of judgment was
mailed that same day. (Certificate of Mailing.) The Court therefore has
jurisdiction to rule on these motions at any time before August 9, 2024.   
Proof of Constructive
Discharge
The Regents argue that
there is an “insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other
decision” (Civ. Proc. Code § 657(6)) on the issue of constructive discharge.  In a new trial motion challenging the
sufficiency of the evidence, it is the judge’s responsibility to determine the
weight of the evidence, including consideration of the credibility of witnesses
and the inferences to be drawn from the evidence. (David v. Hernandez (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 578, 588;  Casella v.
Southwest Dealer Services, Inc. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1127, 1159-1160.) 
To establish a
constructive discharge, a plaintiff must prove that her employer “either
intentionally created or knowingly permitted working conditions that were so
intolerable or aggravated at the time of the employee’s resignation that a
reasonable employer would realize that a reasonable person in the employee’s
position would be compelled to resign.” (Turner v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc. (1994)
7 Cal. 4th 1238, 1251.) The employer must actually know about the intolerable
working conditions and fail to remedy the situation.  (Id.  at pp. 1249-1250; Simers v. Los Angeles
Times Communications, LLC (2018) 18 Cal.App.5th 1248, 1270.)
Constructive termination
may be shown “by showing a continuous pattern of discriminatory treatment over
a period of years.”  (Valdez v. City
of Los Angeles (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1043, 1056; )  “Under the continuing violation doctrine, a
plaintiff may recover for unlawful acts occurring outside the limitations
period if they continued into that period. 
The continuing violation doctrine requires proof that (1) the
defendant’s actions inside and outside the limitations period are sufficiently
similar in kind; (2) those actions occurred with sufficient frequency; and (3)
those actions have not acquired a degree of permanence.”  (Wassmann v. South Orange County Community
College Distr. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 825, 850-851.)
A plaintiff is required
to prove that gender was a substantial motivating reason for the constructive
discharge.  (Harris v. City of Santa
Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 214-215, 232.)  
The Regents argue that
there was insufficient evidence of intolerable or aggravated conduct at the
time of Pinter-Brown’s resignation. The Regents also argue that there was
insufficient evidence that the Regents knew about the intolerable working
conditions, or that gender was a substantial motivating factor. After weighing
the evidence and the reasonable inferences therefrom, the Court finds that
there is sufficient evidence to support the jury’s verdict.   
The evidence that the
jury was entitled to credit demonstrated intolerable and aggravated working
conditions for Pinter-Brown at UCLA that constituted a continuous pattern of
discriminatory treatment over a period of years, including the 2015 time frame
during which Pinter-Brown was forced to resign. 
There was evidence the jury could credit that Dr. De Vos, who worked
closely with Pinter-Brown, was demeaning to her as a woman, and that he was
also demeaning to a female administrator, Sherri Simpson.  De Vos raged when he was told by his
supervisor that he would have to answer to Pinter-Brown as the director of the
program. Pinter-Brown complained about De Vos’s behavior to her supervisors
Drs. Glaspy and Slamon for several years. 
Not only did they not rectify the problem, but they also began to turn
on Pinter-Brown. In about 2010, Dr. Glaspy told Pinter-Brown that everybody
hates her.  When she brought up pay
equity, Dr. Glaspy raged at her, and Dr. Slamon said that she should go to
county and take care of ovarian cancer. 
Simpson complained directly to Slamon that Pinter-Brown’s treatment was
gender discrimination.  He brushed it
off.  Simpson saw this behavior continue
through at least June 2013 when Simpson retired.
On February 25, 2011,
DeVos threatened Pinter-Brown physically and angrily.  The incident was traumatic, and plays in
Pinter-Brown’s head to this day. 
Pinter-Brown reported this incident under Title IX as a gender
discrimination incident.  Dr. Tillisch,
an administrator who was represented to be the Title IX officer—but who was not
in fact a Title IX officer—received Pinter-Brown’s written complaint.  Tillisch told Pinter-Brown that she had a
reputation for being an angry woman, a diva, and that there was a different
standard for a man at UCLA versus a woman. 
He dropped her statement of complaints in a drawer stating that no one
needed to know about the complaints. 
Pinter-Brown received no profit sharing for 2011, and UCLA interviewed a
male doctor for Pinter-Brown’s position.
De Vos, about whom
Pinter-Brown made the gender discrimination complaint, headed the DSMB.  De Vos wrote Pinter-Brown on February 11,
2011 requesting additional information on various audits. (Ex. 182-2.)  Later, De Vos claimed he did not write the
letter and asked Glaspy to sign it instead. (Ex. 190-2.)  While this took place shortly before the
February 25, 2011 incident, it took place after years of the demeaning treatment
of Pinter-Brown by De Vos and Glaspy’s and Slamon’s reaction to Pinter-Brown’s
complaints relating to DeVos.
Also in February 2011,
the ISPRC expressed concern about violations and missing documents in
Pinter-Brown’s “clinical trials overseen by the. . . DSMB.” (Exh 309-2.)  The DSMB 
was the committee headed by De Vos. In January 2012, Glaspy wrote an
email coming up with a procedure that would enable UCLA to “suspend
[Pinter-Brown] from doing clinical research for a couple of years.” (Exh
295-1.) At about the same time, Pinter-Brown’s proctor, Dr. Chmielowski,
recommended that Pinter-Brown be allowed to continue her research
independently.  In March, 2012,
Pinter-Brown complained to Vice Dean Jonathan Hiatt about the problems she was
experiencing, including hostility from Slamon and Glaspy, that she had reported
problems with De Vos to Slamon and Glaspy, and that she expressed concerns over
the audits.
On April 4, 2012 the
ISPRC voted 4-3 to allow Pinter-Brown to continue her research. (Ex. 417.)  Glaspy was unhappy with the result,
writing:  “Vote was four for purgatory,
three for hell.  Both Bob E. and I voted
for the death penalty.  She missed the
firing squad by one vote.”  (Ex. 461.)
Dr. Meghann Brennan, with whom Glaspy was corresponding, expressed regret that
she had left the meeting early and did not vote against Pinter-Brown. (Ex.
451-1.) On April 9, 2012, Glaspy changed the minutes of the meeting to reflect
a split 4-4 vote on suspending Pinter-Brown, which now included Brown’s vote.
(Ex. 429-1, 433.) Glaspy agreed that Dr. Roth perform an independent revie of
the audits.  Roth did so, and recommended
Pinter-Brown should not lose her research privileges.  (Ex. 496.) 
Nevertheless, in August 2012, the ISPRC voted to suspend Pinter-Brown’s
research privileges.
On August 2, 2012, Slamon
informed Pinter-Brown of her suspension. 
She was later told that she was being stripped of her title as the head
of the lymphoma program.  De Vos was installed
as the lymphoma program’s acting head. 
From that point on, Pinter-Brown stopped attending department meetings,
save for one.  In October 2013,
Pinter-Brown’s research privileges were restored on a limited basis.  In April 2014, UCLA appointed De Vos as
permanent director.  Although Slamon told
Pinter-Brown that this decision would be revisited, it never was.  In October 2014, Pinter-Brown’s research
privileges were restored fully.
Throughout 2015, while
Pinter-Brown continued to see patients, the school did not place fellows into
her clinic any longer.  The only fellows
placed in her clinic was placed in approximately the last two weeks she was
there when she was already saying goodbye to all her patients.  Her relationships with pharmaceutical
companies continued to be disrupted during her final year at UCLA and
beyond.  
At no time in 2015 did
UCLA reconsider reinstating Pinter-Brown as the head of the lymphoma
program.  De Vos continued to supervise
the program.  When Pinter-Brown returned
from vacation in early 2015, she came back to a false accusation of writing a
bad chemo order and placing her patient at risk.  This accusation was not accurate and was
later withdrawn.  In mid-2015, De Vos
interfered with Pinter-Brown’s ability to conduct a clinical trial by
cancelling a site initiation visit.  UCLA
ultimately conducted the trial after Pinter-Brown left. In May 2015, Slamon
admonished Pinter-Brown not to admit so many lymphoma patients to the hospital.
Towards the end of her tenure at UCLA, she ran into Slamon in an elevator.  He said to her:  “You’re still here?” as though he had
expected her to be gone, making Pinter-Brown understand that he thought and
hoped she was already gone.  
A problem with the
Regents’ argument is that it “attempts to slice into separate incidents—and to
evaluate individually—evidence from which the jury could and clearly did find a
‘continuous pattern’ of conduct on the part of” the [the Regents] and its employees.”
(Thompson v. Tracor Flight Systems, Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1156.)
The Regents attempts to focus solely on the incidents in 2015, but these
incidents were the culmination of a years-long campaign to frustrate and impair
Pinter-Brown’s ability to do her job. 
This many year pattern of behavior destroyed Pinter-Brown’s standing in
her profession, her ability to function with her colleagues at UCLA, and her
ability to maintain her mental health. 
The evidence sufficient to support the jury’s finding of constructive
discharge.  
The cases that the
Regents attempts to rely upon are inapposite. 
This is not surprising, but instead is a result of constructive
termination being a fact-specific inquiry. 
Each case must turn on its own facts. 
For example, in Turner v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc. (1994) 7 Cal.4th
1238, the asserted constructive termination consisted only of witnessing
illegal acts of other employees, a reassignment, and low performance
ratings.  (Id. at p. 1254.) In Gibson
v. Aro Corp. (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1628, the Court held that a demotion
alone is not a constructive termination. (Id. at pp. 1634-1637.) In Simers,
the trial court and Court of Appeal concluded that there was no evidence to
support certain of the alleged mistreatment, and others asserted incidents consisted
only of plaintiff’s subjective reaction to standard disciplinary actions.  (Simers, supra, 18 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1271.)  The events in Simers took
place over the course of less than  four
months, and once the plaintiff was demoted he never came back to work.  (Id. at pp.1256-1266.)  
Here, by contrast, there
was credible evidence from which the jury could reasonably find a course of
concerted, hostile, demeaning, actions against Pinter-Brown, both before and
after her demotion, that lasted for years and made her work conditions objectively
intolerable.  (See, e.g. Thompson,
supra,  86 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1168-1169
[describing the ongoing mistreatment that supported the judgment of a
constructive termination].)  The facts of
the case are sufficient to support the jury’s verdict.
The Regents’ related
argument that there is insufficient evidence that the Regents knew about the
intolerable working conditions, or that gender was a substantial motivating
factor, fare no better.  The persons who
committed or knew about the circumstances in which Pinter-Brown worked included
high-ranking officials and supervisors, including Glaspy, Slamon, Tillisch, and
Hiatt.  Slamon was the person who
suggested in 2015 that it was surprising that Pinter-Brown was still there.  There is substantial evidence to support the
jury’s determination that gender was a substantial motivating factor in the
mistreatment of Pinter-Brown that began no later than 2011 and lasted through
2015.  This evidence includes, among many
other things, the testimony of Simpson, Pinter-Brown’s testimony of Slamon’s
and Glaspy’s reaction to her complaints against De Vos, De Vos’s conduct
vis-à-vis Pinter-Brown, and Tillisch’s statements that she was known as an
angry woman and a diva whose gender discrimination claims should be filed away
out of sight.
There are, of course,
other ways the jury could have viewed the evidence.  This was a hard fought trial that spanned
more than twenty trial days.  The Regents
mounted a vigorous defense which, if successful, could have led the jury to
conclude that there had been no constructive termination and no motivation on
account of gender by the Regents or any of the UCLA personnel discussed
above.  After considering the extensive
evidence for both sides, however, the jury ruled for Pinter-Brown.  After weighing the evidence and inferences
that come from the evidence, the Court does not find that the jury lacked sufficient
evidence to do so.


 
 
Whether
Damages are Excessive
The Regents argues that
the jury’s non-economic damages of $9.4 Million ($5 Million for the past and
$4.4 Million for the future) are excessive. 
The Regents also argues that the jury’s economic damages of $4.6 Million
($2.1 Million for the past and $2.5 Million for the future) are excessive.
In deciding a motion for
new trial on the grounds of excessive damages, the Court has the responsibility
and the power to weigh the evidence.  As
the statute provides:  “A new trial shall
not be granted upon the ground of excessive or inadequate damages. .. unless after
weighing the evidence the court is convinced from the entire record,
including reasonable inferences therefrom, that the court or jury clearly
should have reached a different verdict or decision. (Civ. Proc. Code § 657
[emphasis added].) “The judge is not permitted to substitute his judgment for
that of the jury on the question of damages unless it appears from the record
the jury verdict was improper.” (Bigboy v. County of San Diego (1984)
154 Cal.App.3d 397, 406.)
The Court has weighed and
considered the evidence and concludes that no new trial on the grounds of
excessive damages is appropriate.  With
respect to the noneconomic damages, Pinter-Brown submitted extensive credible
evidence of the devastating effect the constructive termination had on her life
and her mental health. She presented substantial credible evidence that her
treatment by her employer was psychologically intolerable and led her to
consider suicide.  
This testimony came from
Pinter-Brown herself, her husband Dr. Spencer Brown, her son Joshua Brown, her
treating psychiatrist, Dr. Stephen Marmer, and her forensic psychologist, Dr.
Anthony Reading.  Pinter-Brown considered
killing herself.  She sobbed while
commuting to her new job at UCI and considered crashing into the median
strip.  Indeed, the Regents’ own forensic
expert confirmed Pinter-Brown’s suicidal ideation.  
Pinter-Brown’s whole
demeanor changed from the time she began experiencing problems at UCLA. While
previously high energy and fun, she became withdrawn and sad. She would often cry.
She experienced loss of sleep and appetite.  She felt like she was being destroyed.  She found it very difficult to go to work and
avoided the UCLA campus.  She had major
depressive disorder and symptoms akin to PTSD. 
She felt her life’s work had been destroyed.  Her physical health has suffered because of
the  stress she underwent.  She still suffers from the loss of her
reputation, and still suffers from the residuals of the depression and the
PTSD.  She still has trouble sleeping and
intrusive, upsetting involuntary thoughts. 
She has a generally negative outlook, which was not the case before her
problems at UCLA.
All of this took place against
the backdrop of the importance that UCLA previously played in Pinter-Brown’s life.
She has had a connection to UCLA all her life, starting from when she spent
time there as a young woman.  In
addition, she lives near UCLA.  Now, she
goes out of her way to avoid it.  Her
career was her identity.  The career
losses she suffered were devastating to her.
The Regents relies on Briley
v. City of West Covina (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 119. There, the Court of
Appeal determined that $3.5 million in noneconomic damages was excessive where
the terminated plaintiff testified broadly about his “distress,” “issues with
[his] sleep,” that he “thought about his termination almost every day” and “the
ordeal impacted almost every aspect of his life.”  (Id. at p. 139.)  The plaintiff also testified that he had
experienced the “gamut of emotions” anyone would experience upon being
terminated.  (Ibid. )  The plaintiff presented no evidence that the
problems plaintiff described were particularly severe.  (Id. at p. 142.)  He reported no mental health issues and only
saw a counselor once or twice.  (Id. at
p. 142.)  Even in this extraordinarily
mild case, the Court of Appeal determined that $1.1 million in noneconcomic
damages were appropriate.  (Id.  at p. 144.) 

By contrast, here the
evidence of non-economic damages is extensive and substantial.  Each case must be decided on its own facts,
and the facts of the current case support the noneconomic damages awarded by
the jury.  
The Regents’ arguments
about the economic damages are the same as its arguments presented at
trial.  These are fact arguments, and the
jury rejected them.  The Regents faults
Pinter-Brown’s economist for utilizing her full time salary at UCLA in her
calculations.  Pinter-Brown, however, stated
that if she had continued to work at UCLA, she would have done so full
time.  The Regents also criticizes the
failure to account for the Covid-19 pandemic, but there is no evidence in the
record establishing that this was an important factor.  This is at most a factual criticism that the
Regents could have raised in cross-examination of Pinter-Brown’s economist.
Suggestion of Sua Sponte JNOV
 
The Regents do not move
for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, but suggest at various points in
their papers that the Court sua sponte enter judgment notwithstanding the
verdict.  The Court does have the power
to enter Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict on a sua sponte basis. (Civ. Proc
Code § 629, subd. (a).)  Here, the Court
sees no basis to enter such an order and declines to do so.
 