 Case Number:  23CHCV01300    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    3/26/24     Case    Name: Kaitlyn Barba v. Volkswagen Group of America, Inc., Galpin Motors,    Inc., and Does 1 through 10     Case    # 23CHCV01300      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    MARCH 26, 2024    MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER  RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 23CHCV01300    Motion  filed: 10/3/23   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Kaitlyn Barba (“Plaintiff”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Volkswagen Group of  America, Inc. (“Defendant” or “VW”)NOTICE: ok   RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order compelling Defendant VW to provide supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s  Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 1-37, within in 10 days.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED IN PART.   BACKGROUND   Plaintiff brings this action under the Song-Beverly Consumer  Warranty Act (“SBA”) (Civil Code §§ 1790 et seq.) over alleged defects in her  2018 Volkswagen Tiguan (the “Subject Vehicle”). Plaintiff alleges that on March  14, 2022, she purchased the Subject Vehicle, for which Defendant VW issued the  manufacturer’s express warranty. (Compl. ¶¶ 5, 9.)   On May 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Complaint against  Defendants VW, Galpin Motors, Inc., and Does 1 through 10. The Complaint  alleges the following four causes of action: (1) violation of the Song-Beverly  Act breach of express warranty; (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act breach of  implied warranty; (3) violation of the Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2(b); and  (4) negligent repair.    On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff propounded Request for  Production of Documents, Set One, on Defendant. Subsequently, on August 1,  2023, Defendant served its Response.   On August 31 and September 29, 2023, the Court granted two  Stipulation and Protective Orders filed by the parties.    On October 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed the  instant Motion (the “Motion”).    On February 13, 2024, VW filed its Opposition. Subsequently,  on February 20, 2024, Plaintiff replied.   ANALYSIS   A motion to compel further responses  to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be brought  based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or  incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly  generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).)    A.     All  Procedural Requirements Are Met   1.       45-Day Time  Limit   Notice of a motion to compel  further responses must be given within 45 days of service of the verified  response, or on or before any specific later date to which the parties have  agreed in writing. If such notice is not given, the propounding party waives  any right to compel a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(c),  2033.290(c).)               Here,  Plaintiff’s counsel states that the parties agreed to extend the deadline for  Plaintiff’s filing of the Motion to October 10, 2023. (Sogoyan Decl., ¶ 20.)  Plaintiff served and filed the Motion on October 3, 2023, thereby meeting the agreed  deadline. (Mot., “Proof of Service.”)    2.       Meet and Confer   Before bringing a motion to  compel further responses to any discovery request, the moving party must make  efforts to meet and confer in good faith and submit a declaration attesting to  those efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.310(b)(2), 2030.300(b), 2033.290(b).)             Plaintiff’s  counsel presents a declaration detailing that he sent Defendant’s counsel a  meet and confer letter, addressing Defendant’s deficient responses to  Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One. (Sogoyan Decl., ¶  19.) On August 22, 2023, after receiving a one-week extension, Defendant responded  to Plaintiff’s meet and confer letter, claiming Plaintiff’s requests as vague,  ambiguous, overbroad, etc., and refused to supplement its responses. (Id.,  ¶ 21.) A second meet and confer letter was served on Defendant on September 19,  2023. (Id., ¶ 22.) Despite these efforts, Defendant has not yet supplied  the supplemental responses as requested by Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 23.)               Given  these circumstances, it appears unlikely that the parties will be able to  resolve their issues through an informal meet and confer process prior to the filing  the instant Motion. Consequently, the Court determines that the meet and confer  requirement under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310 subdivision (b) is  satisfied.   3.       Separate  Statement   A motion to compel further  responses to a demand for production must be accompanied by a separate  statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3).) “A separate statement is a  separate document filed and served with the discovery motion that provides all  the information necessary to understand each discovery request and all the  responses to it that are at issue.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(c).)   Plaintiff has met the above requirement by filing a  separate statement explaining the demand for production at issue, Plaintiff’s  responses, and why further responses are necessary.        B.      Good Cause   Plaintiff seeks to compel VW’s  further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, for  all Request Nos. 1 through 37.   A motion to compel further responses to requests for  production shall “set forth specific facts showing good cause”. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) To establish “good cause,” the moving party must show  (1) the items demanded are relevant to the subject matter and (2) specific  facts justify discovery of the requested items (e.g., why such information is  necessary for trial preparation or to prevent surprise at trial). (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1); see Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th  1113, 1117.) If “good cause” is shown by the moving party, the burden is then  on the responding party to justify any objections made to document disclosure.  (Kirkland v. Sup. Ct. (2002) 95  Cal.App.4th 92, 98.)   For RFP Nos. 1-15, Plaintiff contends  that the document sought are related to Plaintiff’s Subject Vehicle and crucial  for proving a nonconformity that substantially impaired its use, value, or  safety, which Defendant and/or its authorized representative failed to repair  after a reasonable number of attempts. (Sogoyan Decl., ¶ 23.)   For RFP Nos. 16-32,  Plaintiff asserts that these RFPs pertain to Defendant VW’s warranty, vehicle repurchase policy,  procedure, and practices. Specifically, these RFPs seek documents related to  Defendant’s written warranties and the policies and procedures for determining  coverage under said warranties, training related to warranty coverage, etc.  Plaintiff argues that these documents are probative in demonstrating  Defendant’s awareness of a prevalent defect that Defendant and its authorized  repair facilities were unable to repair. (Sogoyan Decl., ¶ 24.)   For RFP Nos. 33-37,  Plaintiff highlights that the SBA allows for a civil penalty of up to two times  the actual damages upon showing that manufacturer willfully failed to comply  with any of its obligations under the SBA. (Mot., at 9.) Plaintiff asserts that  RFP Nos. 33-37 relate to Defendant’s knowledge of the same or similar defects  in other vehicles of the same year, make, and model as Plaintiff’s Subject Vehicle,  as well as Defendant’s internal investigation and warranty records. Plaintiff  argues that these documents are critical for establishing the “willfulness” of  the manufacture through internal investigation and warranty records of other  customers’ complaints regarding similar issues, citing Jensen v. BMW of  N.A., LLC (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 121, 136.)   The  Court finds that Plaintiff has established the relevance of RFP Nos. 1-37.  Furthermore, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that the information sought about complaints  regarding similar vehicles could suggest a pervasive defect or non-conformity,  potentially indicating Defendant’s awareness of the issue or its lack of action  in response. (See Santana v. FCA US LLC (2020) 56.Cal.App.5th 334; Donlen  v. Ford Motor Company (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 154 [“‘other  vehicle testimony was not unduly prejudicial. It did not concern simply other vehicles.  It was limited to the [defective component] in [p]laintiff’s truck and other  vehicles. [plaintiff’s expert] described what Ford itself had done to notify  dealers and technicians about problems with this [defective component] model.  Thus, everything about which they testified that applied to other vehicles  applied equally to [p]laintiff’s vehicle. Such evidence certainly was probative  and not unduly prejudicial.”].)   Based on these arguments, the Court concludes that good cause exists to compel further  responses. The  burden now shifts to Defendant to justify its objections.   C.     VW’s  Responses   Code of Civil Procedure  section 2031.210 provides,  “The party to  whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling has been directed  shall respond separately to each item or category of item by any of the following:  (1) A statement that the party will comply with the particular demand[,] (2) A  representation that the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand[,]  and (3) An objection to the particular demand[.]”     Here, in its Opposition, VW claims  to have provided complete responses to RFP Nos. 1-5, 8-28, 31, and 34-35.  Additionally, VW asserts that it has provided code-compliant responses to RFP  Nos. 6, 7, and 30, representing its inability to comply with these requests.  Furthermore, VW argues that it has properly objected to RFP Nos. 29, and 32-37.  (Opp’n., at 3.)   1.       RFP Nos. 1, 2   VW’s responses to the RFP Nos. 1 and 2 indicate, “Defendant will comply with this  Request in whole. All specifically identified documents - if any - in the  demanded category that are in VWGoA's possession, custody, or control and to  which no objection has been made will be included in the production. See  Exhibits A-H.” (See generally, Def.’s Separate Statement.)   The  Court notes that the initial portion of the response commits to full compliance  with the specific demand. However, Plaintiff argues that the later part of the  response is non-compliant, as it reserves for VW a self-created right not to  produce documents to which it may object. (Pl.’s Separate Statement, at 4.)  Upon reviewing the Demands, the Court finds itself in disagreement with  Plaintiff’s contention.   “All  DOCUMENTS which YOU identified in YOUR response to Plaintiff’s First Set of  Special Interrogatories.” (RFP, No. 1.)   “All  DOCUMENTS which YOU identified in YOUR response to Plaintiff s First Set of  Form Interrogatories.” (RFP, No. 2.)   The  Court observes that these two RFP Nos. seek documents associated with VW’s  responses to other discovery requests, namely the First Set of Special  Interrogatories and First Set of Form Interrogatories. Consequently, if VW has  validly objected to those other requests, it maintains the right to be  consistent in its response to the current RFPs and not to produce the documents  responsive to the underlying discovery request to which valid objections have  been made.     Therefore,  the Court concludes that VW’s responses to RFP Nos. 1 and 2 are compliant with  Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.210 subdivision (a)(1).   2.       RFP Nos. 6, 7,  and 30   VW responses to RFP Nos. 6, 7, and 30 state, “Subject to and without waiving  the foregoing objections, and interpreting the request as excluding privileged  communications between VWGoA and its attorneys, after diligent search and  reasonable inquiry, no documents responsive to this request exist within  VWGoA's custody, possession, or control because the documents have never  existed.”   Plaintiff  contends that these responses also include improper objections. Specifically, VW  objects to RFP No. 6 on the grounds of premature disclosure of expert  information, to RFP No. 7 as being overbroad and irrelevant, and to RFP No. 30  for not sufficiently particularizing each category of item under Code of Civil  Procedure section 2031.030(c)(1), being overbroad, vague, and ambiguous, seeking  disclosure of attorney-client, confidential information, and seeking premature  disclosure of expert information. (See generally, Def.’s Separate Statement.)  However, the Court deems these objections without merits.   For RFP  Nos. 6 and 30, VW’s objections fail to identify with particularity any document  falling within any the category of premature disclosure of expert information,  or protected work product, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.240  subdivisions (b) and (c). For RFP No. 7, a merely assertion of objection does  not overcome the relevance established by Plaintiff as is discussed in the  previous good cause analysis.   Despite  finding these objections groundless, the Court notes VW’s assertion of having conducted  a diligent search and reasonable inquiry to the response but concluded that it  has never been in the possession, custody, or control of the requirement  documents. (See e.g., Def.’s Separate Statement, at 51.) Accordingly, there is  no indication that any objection, albeit deemed invalid, has hindered VW’s  diligent search and reasonable inquiry.    Therefore,  the Court finds VW’s responses to RFP Nos. 6, 7, and 30 to be compliant with  Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.210 subdivision (a)(2).   3.       RFP Nos. 4, 5,  8-29, 31-37   Firstly, VW maintains, in  its Opposition, that it has already produced its documents in response to the  above-listed RFP Nos. (Opp’n., at 11.)   The responses to the RFP  Nos. 4, 5, 8-29, and 31-37 are notably consistent, indicating that “all  responsive documents in the demanded category that are in VWGoA's possession,  custody, or control and to which no objection has been made will be included in  the attached document production. See Exhibits [].” (See generally, Def.’s  Separate Statement.)   In contrast, Plaintiff argues in the Reply that the 73  pages of documents produced by VW, which solely consist of warranty repair  information for the Subject Vehicle, are insufficient. Plaintiff points out  that the absence of documents regarding the defects reported in other vehicles  of the same year, make, and model. (Reply, at 3.)   Given the Court’s determination that information pertaining  to other vehicles of the same year, make and model is relevant and often  ordered for production in other SBA cases, it concludes that VW’s stance is  effectively countered by Plaintiff. Consequently, the Court proceeds to examine  VW’s objections to these RFP Nos.   a)      Relevance,  Overbreadth, Vagueness Objections   “[The]  rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery [Citations], and (contrary to  popular belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases. (Gonzalez  v. Sup. Ct. (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) The key question is whether  a discovery request is “reasonably calculated to lead to discovery of  admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) The court weighs the cost,  time, expense, and disruption of normal business against the probative value of  the material which might be disclosed. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Sup.  Ct. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223.) The burden rests on the propounding  party to provide evidence for a court to determine if these conditions are met.  (Ibid.)     “When discovery  requests are grossly overbroad on their  face, and hence do not appear reasonably related to a legitimate discovery need, a reasonable inference can be drawn of an  intent to harass and improperly burden.” (Obregon v. Superior Court  (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)              The Court finds the following RFP Nos directly relevant  and not overbroad: RFP Nos. 4, 5, and 8-15 (with their scope limited to  information regarding the Subject Vehicle) and RFP Nos. 17, 18, 21, 26, and 31-37  (seeking relevant documents from 2016 or 2018 to the present). Therefore, the  Court OVERRULES objections to RFP Nos. 4, 5, 8-15, 17, 18, 21, 26, and 31-37 on  grounds of relevance or overbreadth.               On the other hand, RFP Nos. 16, 19,  20, 22-25, and 27-29, which request documents related to VW’s internal policies,  procedures, and practices for warranty, replacement, or repurchase, lack a  specified time frame, making them susceptible to overbreadth objections. Consequently,  the Court instructs Plaintiff to specify a time frame for the requested documents,  or otherwise narrow their scope.    Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS VW’s objections to RFP  Nos. 16, 19, 20, 22-25, and 27-29 based on overbreadth.    b)     Attorney  Work Product Privilege and Trade Secret Material              Code  of Civil Procedure section 2031.240 subdivision (c) provides, “If an objection  is based on a claim of privilege or a claim that the information sought is  protected work product, the response shall provide sufficient factual  information for other parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including,  if necessary, a privilege log.”   The  party claiming a trade secret privilege has the burden of establishing its  existence.  (Bridgestone/Firestone, Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 7  Cal.App.4th 1384, 1393 (Bridgestone).) The propounding party must then  make a showing that the discovery sought is relevant and necessary to proving  or defending against an element of one or more causes of action in the case and  that it is reasonably essential to resolving the lawsuit. (Id.) Upon  this showing, it is up to the holder of the privilege to show that a protective  order would be inadequate. (Id.) “Either party may propose or oppose  less intrusive alternatives to disclosure of the trade secret, but the burden  is upon the trade secret claimant to demonstrate that an alternative to  disclosure will not be unduly burdensome to the opposing side and that it will  maintain the same fair balance in the litigation that would have been achieved  by disclosure.” (Id.)    VW uniformly objects to the  RFP Nos. at issue based on claims of attorney work product privilege and trade  secret material. However, VW does not comply with the requirements outlined in  Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.240 subdivision (c), failing to provide  sufficient factual information for Plaintiff to evaluate the merits of the  objection. Moreover, VW does not fulfill its burden to establish the existence  of such trade secret materials per the instruction in the Bridgestone  case.    Therefore, the Court  OVERRULES this objection against all RFP Nos. at issue.   4.       RFP  No. 3   RFP  No. 3 requests, “All DOCUMENTS which evidence, support, refer, or relate to  each of the affirmative defenses as set forth in YOUR Answer to Plaintiff’s  Complaint.”   VW  objects to RFP No. 3, claiming it is overbroad and invades privileged work  product information. The Court OVERRULES these objections for the following  reasons.   The  Court of Appeal, in Liberty Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v. LcL Administrators, Inc.  (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1093 (Liberty), upheld a trial court’s decision  to grant terminating sanctions against a party that failed to provide  meaningful supplemental responses to a form interrogatory. The interrogatory requested  the responding party to state all facts underpinning its denials and  affirmative defenses in the answer, identify all persons all had knowledge of  these facts, and specify all documents that supported its denial and  affirmative defense. (Id., at 1096.     In Liberty, the responding party’s  second supplemental response to the interrogatory referred to “a belief that  contracts of insurance were improperly implemented and interpreted,” and to  answer further would require it to “make a compilation or summary of  information[,]” and to identify the documents require it to “make ... available  further review[.]” (Id., at 1098) The liberty court deemed such  responses to be “evasive and incomplete”, reasoning that “[a] party cannot  intelligently defend itself against affirmative defenses or damage claims when  the other side's discovery responses consist of legal double-talk and provide  no useful information.” (Id., at 1105.)   The  Court finds the ruling in the Liberty case instructive and applicable to  the Request for Production of Documents at hand.    Applying  the Liberty decision’s rationale to the present matter, VW’s objection to RFP  No. 3 is found lacking. VW contends that the request’s language - “evidence,  support, refer, or relate to” - is overbroad and invades the attorney-client  privilege and protected attorney work product.  Moreover, VW fails to comply with the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure  section 2031.240 subdivision (c) to provide sufficient factual information for  Plaintiff to evaluate the merits of the privilege objection. Consequently, the  Court OVERRULES VW’s objections to RFP No. 3, warranting VW to provide further  supplemental responses.    Accordingly,  the Court GRANTS the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for  Production of Documents, Set One, Request Nos. 3-15, 17, 18, 21, 26, and 30-37.   The  Court DENIES the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production  of Documents, Set One, Request Nos. 1, 2, 16, 19, 20, 22-25, and  27-29.   CONCLUSION   Plaintiff’s  Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of  Documents, Set One. is GRANTED IN PART.    Defendant  Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. is ordered to provide  further responses to Requests Nos. 3-15, 17, 18, 21, 26,  and 30-37, within 15 days.   Moving  party is ordered to provide notice of this order.