 Case Number:  20STCV40751    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment filed by  Defendants Doublz Restaurants LLC and PPP Management Group, Inc.   Tentative The motion is granted, subject to the terms  set forth below. Background On October 23, 2020, Gloria Marie Northup  (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Doublz Restaurants LLC, PPP Management  Group Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 50, asserting  causes of action for general negligence and premises liability causes of action  arising out of a slip and fall occurring on December 13, 2018.  After a number of unsuccessful attempts,  default was entered against each of the Defendants on January 20, 2023.  Plaintiff dismissed the Doe defendants on  August 21, 2023, and a default judgment against each Defendant was entered on  August 30, 2023. On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice  of Entry of Judgment. On February 22,  2024, Defendants filed this motion to set aside the default and default  judgment. Plaintiff filed an opposition on May 23, and Defendants filed a reply  on May 29. Legal Standard Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) provides for mandatory and  discretionary relief from dismissal. “The court may, upon any terms as may be  just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,  dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him through his or her  mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  Where such an application for discretionary  relief is made, the motion shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or  pleading proposed to be filed, or the application will not be granted. (Ibid.)  The court must grant relief from dismissal where the application is accompanied  by an attorney affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,  surprise, or neglect. (Ibid.) In either case, the application must be  made within a reasonable time, and in no case exceeding six months after the  judgment. (Ibid.)  “When service of  a summons  has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a  default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action,  he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or  default judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall  be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the  earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her;  or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the  default or default judgment has been entered.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5,  subd. (a).) “The court may, upon motion of the injured party, or its own  motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered, so as  to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of either  party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or order.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (d).) In addition, and separately, even when there  is no statutory basis to set aside a default or dismissal, courts have “the  inherent authority to vacate a default and default judgment on equitable  grounds such as extrinsic fraud or extrinsic mistake.”  (Bae v. T.D. Service Co. (2016) 245  Cal.App.4th 89, 97; see also, e.g., Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8  Cal.4th 975, 981-982.) “Extrinsic fraud” generally involves some act  that kept the party seeking relief “in ignorance of the action or proceeding”  or “fraudulently prevented” the party “from presenting his claim or  defense.”  (Kulchar v. Kulchar  (1969) 1 Cal.3d 467, 471; see also, e.g., Bae, supra, 245 Cal.App.4th at  p. 97.)   “Extrinsic mistake” is defined broadly and encompasses “almost any set of extrinsic circumstances  which deprive a party of a fair adversary hearing.”  (In re Marriage of Park (1980) 27  Cal.3d 337, 342; see also, e.g., Rappleyea,  supra, 8 Cal.4th at p, 981.)  There need not  necessarily be a mistake “in the strict sense.”   (Park, supra, 27 Cal.3d at p. 342.)  But a mistake  is intrinsic, and not extrinsic, when “a party’s own negligence allows the …  mistake to occur.”  (Kramer v.  Traditional Escrow (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 13, 29.)  Intrinsic mistakes relate to the merits of  the case, such that granting relief would improperly allow a party to  relitigate the case.  (Kulchar, supra,  1 Cal. 3d at pp. 472-73.)  Examples of  intrinsic mistakes, or intrinsic fraud, are perjury, failing to complete  discovery, or failing to prepare adequately for trial.  (Ibid.) Courts apply a stringent,  three-part test for equitable relief pursuant to the inherent authority of the  court.  A party seeking relief on  equitable grounds must show (1) “a satisfactory excuse”; (2) “a meritorious  case”; and (3) "diligence in seeking” relief.  (Rappleyea, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p.  982; see also, e.g., Kramer, supra, 56 Cal.App.5th at p. 29; 1 Weil  & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The  Rutter Group 2023), ¶ 5:435.) Discussion Defendants seek relief from default and the default  judgment on the following grounds: (1) service did not result in actual  notice to the party in time to defend, and therefore the default and default  judgment may be set aside under Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5; (2) there  was no valid service, and therefore the judgment is void and may be set aside  under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (d); (3) the failure to  respond was the result of Defendants’ mistake, inadvertence,  surprise, or excusable neglect,” and therefore the Court has discretion to  grant relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b); and  (4) the default and default judgment were the result of “extrinsic mistake,”  and therefore the Court has the inherent, non-statutory authority to grant  relief on equitable grounds.   Beginning with Defendants’  arguments under Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5, that statute provides as  follows:   “(a) When service of a  summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the  action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in  the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the  default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice of  motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event  exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment  against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a  written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered. (b) A  notice of motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to  defend the action shall designate as the time for making the motion a date  prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by  an affidavit showing under oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time  to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or  inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of  the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action. (c) Upon  a finding by the court that the motion was made within the period permitted by  subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of actual notice in time to defend the  action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable  neglect, it may set aside the default or default judgment on whatever terms as  may be just and allow the party to defend the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5.)   The Court has carefully considered the evidence in the  record and the arguments presented by both sides.  The Court concludes that, even assuming that  service was properly effected under the provisions of the Code, Defendants have  made a sufficient showing that they did not receive actual notice in time to  defend the action.  (E.g., Poulis Decl.,  ¶¶ 3-8, 11; Negrette Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.)   Accordingly, the motion to set aside the default and default judgment is  granted.   Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5, subdivision (c),  authorizes the Court to set aside the default and default judgment “on whatever  terms as may be just.”  Here, Plaintiff opposes  the motion in its entirety but also argues, in the alternative, that if the  motion is granted, the Court also set aside the dismissal of the Doe  defendants.  That request for alternative  relief is granted.  The Doe defendants  were dismissed after entry of the default of the named Defendants, and for the  purpose of facilitating entry of the default judgment.  As the Court is setting aside the default  judgment and the default, the Court finds that justice will be served by also setting  aside Plaintiff’s dismissal of the Doe defendants.   As the Court is granting relief under section 473.5, the  Court need not reach, and does not reach, the other grounds for relief stated  in Defendants’ motion.    Conclusion   The Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion.   The Court SETS ASIDE the default of Defendants entered on  January 20, 2023.   The Court SETS ASIDE the default judgments entered on  August 30, 2023.   The Court SETS ASIDE the dismissal of the Doe defendants  entered on August 22, 2023.   The Court ORDERS that Defendants fully comply with Code  of Civil Procedure section 430.41 prior to filing the Demurrer attached to the  moving papers.  As part of the meet and  confer process, the Court ORDERS counsel for all parties to meet and confer  about the potential for naming Doe defendants and for dismissing any improperly  named parties. The Court SETS a Trial Setting Conference in approximately 60 days.  Moving Party is to give notice.