  Case Number:  20STCV09528    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Reopen
Discovery filed by Defendant City of Compton. 
 
Tentative
The motion is denied.
BACKGROUND
On March 6, 2020, Arturio Denise Halloway (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against City of Compton (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 100
for damages arising from a trip and fall on October 1, 2018. Defendant filed
its answer on May 25, 2021.  
The case was originally assigned a trial date of
September 3, 2021.  In July 2021, based
on a stipulation of the parties, the Court continued the trial date to February
3, 2023.  In October 2022, based on a
stipulation of the parties, the Court continued the trial date to August 24,
2023.  In July 2023, on Defendant’s ex
parte application, which Plaintiff opposed in part, the Court continued the
trial date to November 22, 2023. In October 2023, based on a stipulation of the
parties, the Court continued the trial date to May 2, 2024.  At that time, the deadline for fact discovery
was April 2, 2024. 
On April 15, 2024, on Defendant’s ex parte application,
which Plaintiff opposed, the Court continued the trial date to May 16, 2024.  The Court reset the deadlines for expert discovery
but ordered that fact discovery remained closed.
On May 6, 2024, the Court granted the motion (initially
filed as an ex parte application, but then set for a motion hearing) of
Plaintiff for relief of waiver of jury trial. 
As one of the terms of that ruling, the Court continued the trial date
to July 31, 2024.  The Court reset the
deadlines for expert discovery but ordered that fact discovery remained closed
(subject to any future order).
On May 15, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to reopen and
extend discovery. Plaintiff filed an opposition on May 24 and a request for
sanctions; Defendant filed a reply on June 3, along with its own (belated)
request for sanctions.
LEGAL STANDARD 
“On motion of any party, the court may
grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning
discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after
a new trial date has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section
2024.050, subd. (a).)¿ ¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or
deny this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant
to the leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the
discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿  
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen
discovery, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
DISCUSSION
The meet and confer requirement for this motion is
satisfied.  (Patel Decl. ¶¶ 3-6; Exhs. B-D.)

Defendant moves to reopen discovery for the limited purpose of
taking an independent medical evaluation of Plaintiff based on a document that Plaintiff
sent to Defendant on April 16, 2024. 
Defendant describes this document as a “new expert report” from Dr.
Michael Schiffman.  (Patel Decl., ¶ 2
& Exh. A.)  Plaintiff states that it
was not a new expert report but instead an additional medical record from Plaintiff’s
follow-up appointment on April 12, 2024 with Dr. Schiffman, who is both a
treater and a retained expert in this matter. (Narian Decl., ¶¶ 7, 15.)  
In ruling on the motion to reopen discovery, the Court must
consider the four factors set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section
2024.050, subdivision (b).  
The necessity and the reasons for
the discovery.¿
Defendant contends that further discovery
is necessary in light of the new medical information about Plaintiff contained
in the document produced by Plaintiff on April 16.  Defendant seeks to reopen discovery for what
it contends is a “limited” purpose of “follow-up discovery.”  (Mot. at p. 2.)  This includes, at the least, an independent
medical examination (IME) of Plaintiff; it may also include other things,
although that is not clear from the motion.
In a personal injury case, an IME
is fairly standard discovery, available as of right as long as it is a physical
(as opposed to a mental) examination and it is requested in a timely and
procedurally proper manner.  There are
fair reasons for the requested discovery in this matter.
The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿
Defendant asserts that it has
been diligent, as it requested the IME only two days after receiving the new medical
information on April 16.  The Court is
not convinced.  As noted above, an IME is
standard discovery in a personal injury case, Defendant appeared in this case three
years ago, in May 2021, and despite numerous continuances of the trial date Defendant
never noticed an IME.  In February 2024,
following a mediation session that did not resolve the case, Plaintiff raised
the issue of scheduling an IME in an email. 
(Narian Decl., ¶ 9.)  The fact discovery
cutoff was April 2, 2024; Plaintiff had ample opportunity to notice the IME at
that time and chose not to do so.
Moreover, although Defendant states
that its request is based on new medical information contained in the report
produced on April 16, Defendant never explains what was so new and different
about the information contained in the report that an IME was now worth conducting,
when prior to that date Defendant had come to the opposite conclusion.  (See Patel Decl., ¶¶ 1-6.)  Based on this record, it appears that all
that changed was Defendant’s litigation tactics.  A change in tactics after the discovery cutoff,
after almost three years of not seeking an IME, does not establish diligence –
no matter how quickly Defendant acted after changing its tactics.
Any likelihood that permitting
the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going
to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.¿ 
The Court has a substantial
concern that the requested relief will prevent the case from going to trial on
the date set.  This case was filed more
than four years ago, and trial has already been continued six times.  If the motion is granted, Defendant would
then have to give Plaintiff a minimum of 30 days notice for the IME, which
would mean that the earliest date for the IME would be July 9 – just 22 days
before trial – even assuming the examiner and Plaintiff are available on minimum
notice.  And after the IME, the examiner
would need time to prepare a report – a copy of which must be provided to Plaintiff’s
counsel (upon request) at least 15 days before trial.  
Even assuming that there is no additional
fact discovery other than the IME, and even assuming close to minimal notice
and maximum availability, it appears to the Court that it is likely that
granting this motion would lead to a seventh continuance of the trial date. 
The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action. 
The Court has set forth, above,
the history of the various trial dates in this matter.  After several prior continuances, in October
2023 the Court set a trial date of May 2, 2024. 
There were two subsequent continuances, one to accommodate the trial
schedule of Defendant’s counsel and one related to the relief from waiver of
jury trial, but on neither of those occasions did the Court extend or reopen
the deadline for fact discovery.  Trial
is currently set for July 31, 2024.  
The Court has
considered all of the evidence in the record, the arguments of both sides, all
matters relevant to the relief
requested, and each of the factors set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision
(b).  On balance, the Court finds that good
cause has not been shown to reopen discovery. 
The motion is DENIED.
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions
is denied.  Although Defendant’s motion
was unsuccessful, the Court finds that Defendant acted with substantial
justification in bringing the motion.
Defendant’s request for sanctions
is denied.  It was not made in the moving
papers and, in any event, Plaintiff did not unsuccessfully oppose the motion.
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion
to reopen discovery.
The Court DENIES both parties’
requests for sanctions.
Moving Party to provide notice.