 Case Number:  20LBCV00129    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Michael, Injin and
Nicholas Park filed this action against Defendants, Foasberg Laundry and
Cleaners, Inc., Richard D. Foasberg, the Estate of Richard D. Foasberg, Marisa
Foasberg, Lynette Jean Vavrek, and JRJ Limited Partnership for damages arising
out of contamination on Defendants’ property for which Plaintiffs have incurred
removal and/or remedial action costs in connection with the Hazardous Substance
Account Act.  
 
Plaintiffs filed their complaint on
March 3, 2020, and Defendants filed an answer on October 7, 2020.  Plaintiffs’ complaint includes causes of
action for California Superfund Act, Negligence, Trespass, Nuisance, Breach of
Contract, and Declaratory Relief.  The
trial is currently set for April 8, 2024. 
 
Defendants have cross-complained
against, among others, R.R. Street & Co., Inc., contending it is
responsible in whole or in part for the subject contamination.  There are multiple cross-complaints between
the parties.  
 
On January 24, 2024, Foasberg,
Estate of Richard D. Foasberg, and JRJ Limited Partnership (“moving parties”)
filed the instant motion to continue trial and all related discovery and motion
deadlines. On February 7, 2024, R.R. filed an opposition. On February 8, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a notice of non-opposition. On February 14, 2024, moving
parties filed a reply. 
 
On February 5, 2024, Intervenors
Twin City Fire Insurance Company and Hartford Fire Insurance Company filed a
joinder to moving parties’ motion to continue trial. 
 
2.     Motion
to Continue Trial
a.     Legal
Standard to Continue Trial
Trial dates are firm to ensure
prompt disposition of civil cases. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd.
(a).)¿ Continuances are thus generally disfavored.¿ (See id., rule 3.1332,
subd. (b).)¿ Nevertheless, the trial court has discretion to continue trial
dates.¿ (Hernandez v. Superior Court (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1246.)¿ Each
request for continuance must be considered on its own merits and is granted
upon an affirmative showing of good cause.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332,
subd. (c); Hernandez, supra, 115 Cal.App.4th at p. 1246.)¿¿¿ 
 
Circumstances that may indicate
good cause include: (1) the unavailability of an essential lay or expert
witness due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (2) the
unavailability of a party due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3) the unavailability of trial counsel due to death, illness, or other
excusable circumstances; (4) the substitution of trial counsel where there is
an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the interests of
justice; (5) the addition of a new party if (A) the new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial, or (B) the
other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial in regard to the new party’s involvement in the case; (6) a
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or (7) a significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c).)¿¿ 
 
The court must also consider such
relevant factors as: (1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was
any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial caused by any
party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) if the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the court’s calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application.¿ (Id., at rule 3.1332, subd.
(d).) 
 
b.     Parties’
Positions
Moving parties move the Court for
an Order continuing the trial and all related dates by 12 to eighteen 18 months
from the current trial date of April 8, 2024, as the Court’s calendar allows.
In the alternative, they seek an Order vacating the current April 8, 2024 trial
date and setting a status conference for the third quarter of 2024 to check in
with the parties on the status of the environmental investigation and the
litigation as a whole. 
 
Moving parties contend that they
have been working diligently since 2021 to complete the environmental
investigation at the site where the contamination at issue in the lawsuit is
taking place but have faced numerous delays caused by obtaining regulatory
oversight by the Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Board and issues
with the Long Beach Department of Public Works providing permits for the
investigative work. As the result of these delays, moving parties contend that
the case is not ready for trial. They contend that critical elements of the
claims could not be determined at an overly premature trial, damages would not
be fully ascertained, and the result would almost certainly be a mistrial. 
 
In their notice of non-opposition,
Plaintiffs state that they cannot agree to moving parties’ requested time frame
for continuance. Instead, they request the trial be moved to a time between
November, 2024 and February, 2025. Additionally, concurrently with their notice
of non-opposition, Plaintiffs are filing a request to remove the litigation to
the complex department based on the “highly technical issues present in this
matter.”  
 
In opposition, R.R. contends moving
parties have not been diligent in pursuing this litigation. R.R. contends
moving parties did not start the environmental investigation of the site as
early as they should have when, as early as April 3, 2018, nearly six years
ago, Western Environmental Engineers Company submitted a detailed environmental
site assessment of the subject property to Plaintiffs, showing that the levels
of PCE, TCE, and chloroform contained in the soil vapor at the site are above
acceptable levels. According to R.R., moving parties should have aware of this
report when it was delivered to Plaintiffs or at the very latest when this
complaint was filed.  R.R. contends that
given that the current trial date is more than four years after this case was
initiated, it is too late to continue trial. Furthermore, R.R. contends that
any prerequisite requirements to trials concerning claims under the Hazardous
Substance Account Act, including the completion of a Remedial Investigation and
Feasibility Study and the selection of a remedy, do not apply to R.R. in this
case as the HSAA cross-claims against R.R. were disposed of on summary judgment
and the only remaining claims are common-law causes of action. 
 
Moving parties contend R.R. has
failed to adequately participate in the pre-trial discovery process. Moving
parties’ damages for its products liability claim are dependent on the costs to
remediate the site, and those costs cannot be adequately determined at this
stage without a full delineation of the contamination at the site. Moving
parties also dispute that they delayed in beginning the environmental
investigation process.
 
c.     Good
Cause
To grant a request to continue
trial, the court must find good cause. For the reasons described below, the
Court finds that good cause exists to continue trial by 12 months.
 
            i.
Moving Parties’ Diligence
 
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332,
subd. (c) lists seven factors that must be evaluated in order to determine
whether good cause exists. The only factor relevant here is the sixth factor: a
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts. The parties dispute whether moving
parties were diligent in conducting an environmental inspection upon becoming
aware of the environmental problems at the subject property.
 
Moving parties hired environmental
consultant Genesis Engineering & Redevelopment, Inc., to prepare and
conduct an environmental investigation of the accident site for the purpose of
delineating the extent of contamination, conducting a Remedial Investigation
and Feasibility Study (“RI/FS”), and eventually developing, selecting, and
implementing an appropriate and cost-effective remedy. (Van der Hoven Decl., ¶
2.) Genesis created a Soil Vapor and Groundwater Assessment Work Plan
(“SVGAWP”) on February 22, 2021 to assess the extent of the problems and how to
address them. (Van der Hoven Decl., ¶ 5c.) In August 2021, moving parties began
implementing the plan by conducting indoor air vapor intrusion sampling at the
site, which showed no significant indoor vapor intrusion concern. (Van der
Hoven Decl. ¶ 5c.) That same month, they installed four soil vapor borings to
assess the lateral and vertical extent of PCE impacts in soil vapor and
determined that PCE was above concentration levels but TCE detected in one sample
was not above the commercial screening level. (Van der Hoven Decl. ¶ 5d.)
Moving parties contend they subsequently ran into various delays caused by
regulatory oversight that they could not avoid. 
 
First, they went through
significant delays in carrying out aspects of the SVGAWP that required them to
obtain permits from a regulatory agency, such as for the installation of
groundwater monitoring wells. After attempts to use various other agencies, moving
parties eventually obtained the Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control
Board to assume jurisdiction over the environmental investigation of the site.
(Radford Decl. ¶ 6.) The RWQCB did not assign a case manager until November 18,
2022, after which Genesis promptly submitted the SVGAWP to the RWQCB on January
31, 2023. (Radford Decl. ¶ 7.) Subsequently, the RWQCB issued a comment letter
on May 5, 2023, requesting a revised version of the SVGAWP by June, 2023 with
an expanded scope of work. (Radford Decl. ¶ 9.) Moving parties sent a revised
plan on June 9, 2023 and on October 26, 2023, the RWQCB finally approved the
Revised Work Plan. (Radford Decl. ¶ 11.) However, this approval included
recommendations for a second expansion of the SVGAWP, including conducting
public outreach and conducting public crawl space and garage air sampling at
neighboring properties six months apart, in the wet and dry seasons. (Radford
Decl. ¶ 11.) Furthermore, even currently, moving parties are facing hurdles in
implementing the revisions. On November 16, 2023, the City of Long Beach
Department of Public Works denied moving parties’ renewed permit for the
installation of a groundwater monitoring well on a public right-of-way adjacent
to the site, citing for the first time problems with their insurance
information. (Radford Decl. ¶ 12.)
 
The second category of delay moving
parties faced was that they were not able to sit down with the adjacent
property owner, Bob Blair of Blair Properties, until late 2022. (Radford Decl.
¶ 8.) Once they did, Blair required that Genesis and Foasberg’s counsel meet
with him in September, 2022 to provide a presentation regarding the scope of
work called for in the SVGAWP. (Radford Decl. ¶ 8.) When moving parties and
Genesis met with Blair, Blair brought his own environmental consultant, Boyer
Consultants. (Radford Decl. ¶ 8.) After the presentation, Blair demanded that
moving parties significantly expand the scope of the investigation to include
indoor air sampling for all residential units at the neighboring properties.
(Radford Decl. ¶ 8.) Blair took the position that access would not be granted
until such a time as moving parties agreed to the expanded, and costly,
additional scope of work. (Radford Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
Despite these delays, moving
parties contend they are still diligently attempting to carry out the remainder
of the SVGAWP. Genesis anticipates that it will commence field work in February
of 2024. (Van der Hoven Decl. ¶ 5e.) Genesis estimates that, as of the filing
of this Motion, that the environmental investigation at the site is
approximately 35% completed. (Van der Hoven Decl. ¶ 5e.) As such, Genesis
estimates that the delineation of the site will be completed in late 2024 or
early 2025; however, that timeframe could increase if the revised plan
indicates that additional investigation is needed to fully delineate the site.
(Van der Hoven Decl. ¶ 5e.) A study to determine the proper remedy will begin
after that. 
 
R.R.’s contention in opposition
that moving parties contributed to the delay is unsupported by the evidence
described above. Moving parties’ failure to fully complete the inspection by
this time does not evidence a lack of diligence in attempting to complete the
inspection. 
 
Based on moving parties’ arguments,
it appears that they have been diligent in attempting to carry out the
environmental inspection of the subject site. This factor thus weighs in favor
of granting a continuance.
d.     Additional
Factors
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332,
subd. (d) lists additional factors to consider in determining whether good
cause exists to continue trial. 
            
1.    
Proximity of the Trial Date
Here, the current trial date is
April 8, 2024, less than two months away. This is not sufficient time for
moving parties to complete the environmental inspection in order for the jury
to assess the extent of the damages. This factor weighs in favor of granting a
continuance. 
            
2.    
Evidence of Prior Continuances Granted on the
Same Grounds
This Court has previously granted a
trial continuance on virtually the same grounds, on April 8, 2021, when it
granted moving parties’ initial motion to continue trial, vacating the trial
date of August 9, 2021. (Radford Decl., ¶ 4f.) 
            
3.    
Length of Continuance Requested is Reasonable
and Best Serves the Interests of Justice
Here, moving parties request a
continuance of 12-18 months to allow them to finish conducting the
environmental inspection. The length of the continuance requested is directly
tied to the issue that led moving parties to file the request for continuance and
thus is a reasonable request.
 
4.    
The Issues Necessitating Moving Parties’
Continuance Request Cannot Be Addressed by Alternative Means
Moving parties contend there is
currently no other alternative, quicker means to investigate the contamination
of the site and to prepare this matter for trial. (Radford Decl., ¶ 18.) This
factor supports granting a continuance. 
 
5.    
Prejudice to The Parties Will Occur if a Trial
Date Continuance is Denied
Moving parties contend that all
parties will be prejudiced to some degree if the continuance is denied and the
trial proceeds in April, 2024 because they may be forced to participate in two
trials, one based on liability and one based on the costs of the inspection and
remedy. (Radford Decl., ¶¶ 19, 21.) Furthermore, they argue that no parties
will be significantly prejudiced as Plaintiffs have not opposed the motion and
R.R. does not point to any significant prejudice. 
 
In opposition, R.R. fails to
demonstrate that it will be prejudiced if a continuance is granted, other than
that it will incur further legal expenses. This prejudice is not significant
enough to justify the prejudice that would result to moving parties were the
case to proceed to trial before they could complete an environmental
inspection. This factor supports granting a continuance.
 
e.     Ripeness
of Environmental Claims
Moving parties contend that because
this case is based on environmental claims, it is not ripe for trial until such
a time as an RI/FS has been completed and a remedy has been selected. Moving
parties contend that the HSAA expressly incorporates the liability standards
set forth in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act and CERCLA requires the completion of an RI/FS and the
formulation of a remedy.
 
In opposition, R.R. contends that
this argument does not apply to R.R. because the only remaining causes of
action against R.R. are common law causes of action, not claims arising out of
environmental statutes. 
            
As the Court has determined there
are other grounds for granting a continuance, the Court will not consider the
merits of moving parties’ arguments based on ripeness. 
 
f.      Conclusion

The motion to continue the trial is
granted. The trial is continued to February 24, 2025 and FSC to February 21,
2025 at 8:30 AM. 