 Case Number:  22STCV11375    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.        
Background Facts 
 
On April 4, 2022, Plaintiff, ZRP Group, LLC
filed this action against Defendants, City of Long Beach, Sami Kherimi, and
Does 1-20 for damages arising out of a flood that occurred when the City
energized the fire suppression system at Plaintiff’s business location. Kherimi
is the City employee who energized the system.   
 
After Plaintiff’s complaint was filed,
Falls Lake National Insurance Company filed a complaint in subrogation. On
December 12, 2023, the Court dismissed Falls Lake’s complaint with prejudice.
Additionally, the City filed a cross-complaint against Long Beach Acquisitions,
LLC and Shirley Vancamp, Plaintiff’s landlord, for indemnification and related
claims.  Long Beach Acquisitions filed a cross-complaint against the City.
On January 30, 2024, the Court dismissed both cross-complaints without
prejudice.  
 
 
Plaintiff's complaint alleges the following
causes of action:  
 
1.   Breach of Mandatory Duty (Government Code Section 815.6 and
California Plumbing Code, Chapter I Inspections and Testing, Sections 105.3 and
105.3.1) (against the City and Does 1-20) 
 
2.   Negligence (Government Code Section 820.4) (against
Kherimi, employees of the City, and Does 1-20) 
 
2.        
Motion for
Summary Judgment 
 
a.            
Moving Parties'
Positions 
 
On September 20, 2023, the City and Kherimi
(“Moving parties”) filed the instant motion for summary judgment, or in the
alternative, summary adjudication.  
 
i. Breach of Mandatory Duty 
Moving parties contend the claim for breach
of mandatory duty fails as a matter of law for the following reasons:  
o
 California Code
of Regulations (“CCR”) Title 19, § 904.2(h) does not impose a duty, mandatory
or otherwise, on the City,  
o
a City water valve is
not a “fire extinguishing system” and, thus, § 904.2(h) is inapplicable,  
o
Khemiri’s act of
exercising a City water valve does not amount to a fire sprinkler system test
and, thus, there were not duties imposed on Khemiri under § 904.2(h),  
o
CCR Title 19, §
903.2.1.2 does not impose a duty, mandatory or otherwise, on the City,  
o
Under § 903.2.1.2,
Plaintiff was required by law to maintain any existing fire sprinkler system on
its property in operable condition, at all times,  
o
CCR Title 24, § 105.3
does not create any affirmative duty,  
o
§ 105.3 is
inapplicable because Plaintiff’s fire sprinkler system was not set up for
“exhibition purposes”,  
o
§§ 105.3 and 105.3.1
impose no mandatory duty on the City,  
o
the City’s water valve
and Plaintiff’s “fire extinguishing systems” do not amount to plumbing systems
under §§ 105.3 and 105.3.1.  
 
ii. Negligence 
Moving parties contend the claim for
negligence fails as a matter of law for the following reasons:  
o
 As to Kherimi,
the complaint fail to state sufficient facts, 
o
Assuming arguendo that
Plaintiff has pled a viable negligence claim, Khemiri is nevertheless immune
from liability under Government Code §§ 850.2 and 850.4, 
o
Assuming arguendo that
Plaintiff has pled a viable negligence claim, Khemiri is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law because Plaintiff’s negligence was the cause of its own
alleged damages,  
o
As to the City, there
is no evidence that City owed a duty to Plaintiffs and because City has no
vicarious liability.   
 
b.            
Plaintiff’s
Positions in Opposition 
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion for summary
judgment on the following grounds.  
 
i. Breach of Mandatory Duty 
As to the claim for breach of mandatory
duty, Plaintiff contends that a triable issue of fact as to whether there was a
breach of CCR Title 19, § 904.2(h) exists because § 904.2(h) applies to City
Water Department employees, the subject water valve is part of the automatic
fire extinguishing system, and thus Khemiri was performing a fire sprinkler
system test at the time of the accident.   
 
As to liability based on CCR Title 19, §
903.2.1.2, Plaintiff does not dispute that this does not give rise to a cause
of action.  
 
As to liability based on plumbing
regulations, Plaintiff agrees that § 105.3 does not apply because this was not
an exhibition but contends that CCR §105.3.1 applies because it requires an air
test for the sanitary condition of drainage or plumbing where there is reason
to believe that it has become defective and here, moving parties had reason to
believe the plumbing system was defective. 
 
ii. Negligence  
As to negligence, Plaintiff contends that
Khemiri failed to adhere to the Long Beach Water Department Standard Operating
Procedure by failing to call his supervisor for permission to rotate or operate
the water valve on the day of the subject accident and failing to investigate
or inquire further about the valve before operating on it. Plaintiff puts forth
the testimony of Dwayne McGee, a water utility mechanic who has worked with the
City of Long Beach Water Department for 19 years and has supervised Khemiri, to
support its position that Khemiri breached his duty of care.  
 
Plaintiff also contends that immunity under
Government Code Sections 850.2 and 850.4 does not apply because negligence here
is based on Khemiri’s failures, not defective equipment.  
 
c.            
Moving Parties’
Positions in Reply 
 
In reply, moving parties contend that
Plaintiff’s mandatory duty claim fails because the enactments upon which it is
premised do not impose any duty on moving parties.  
 
Moving parties contend the negligence claim
against Khemiri fails because Government Code §§ 850.2 and 850.4 provide
immunity not only to defective fire protection equipment and facilities, but
also extend to acts of negligence by nonfirefighting employees. Thus,
regardless of whether Plaintiff’s injuries are viewed as resulting from the condition
of the subject valve or from the alleged negligent maintenance of the valve,
Khemiri is immune from liability under Government Code §§ 850.2 and 850.4. 
 
d.            
Law Governing
Motions for Summary Judgment 
 
Summary judgment is proper “if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.”  (Id. at §437c(o)(2).) 
A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be
established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the
claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574,
590.)  Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as
to that cause of action or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)   
 
The moving party bears the initial burden
of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that
one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that
there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).) 
A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative
evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the
plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's
case. If a defendant chooses the latter option he or she must present evidence
“and not simply point out that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66, 
 
[A] defendant may simply show the plaintiff
cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by showing that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”
(Id. at p. 854.)  Thus, rather than affirmatively disproving or negating
an element (e.g., causation), a defendant moving for summary judgment has the
option of presenting evidence reflecting the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to prove that element. “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of
action. The defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by
the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has
discovered nothing” to support an essential element of his case. (Aguilar,
supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a defendant's initial evidentiary
showing may “consist of the deposition testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses,
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses, or admissions by the
plaintiff in deposition or in response to requests for admission that he or she
has not discovered anything that supports an essential element of the cause of
action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In
other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to
support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the
plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.) 
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two means by
which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute: “The
defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103. 
 
Until the moving defendant has discharged
its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come forward with
any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden as to a
particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion by
producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a
motion for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are
strictly construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as
to the propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the
motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
e.            
Objections 
 
The objections are moot as they are not
required to reach the conclusion here.  
 
f.             
Analysis 
 
The motion is granted.   
 
1. Breach of Mandatory Duty 
Plaintiff’s first cause of action for
breach of mandatory duty is based on the theory that moving parties’ violations
of various municipal code sections subjects it to liability under Government
Code Section 815.6.   
 
Government Code section 815.6 states:
“Where a public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that
is designed to protect against the risk of a particular kind of injury, the
public entity is liable for an injury of that kind proximately caused by its
failure to discharge the duty unless the public entity establishes that it
exercised reasonable diligence to discharge the duty.” (Haggis v. City of Los
Angeles, 22 Cal. 4th 490, 498, 993 P.2d 983, 987 (2000).) To be liable under
section 815.6 requires that the enactment at issue be obligatory, rather than
merely discretionary or permissive, in its directions to the public entity; it
must require, rather than merely authorize or permit, that a particular action
be taken or not taken. (Id. at 993.) It is not enough, moreover, that
the public entity or officer have been under an obligation to perform a
function if the function itself involves the exercise of discretion. (Ibid.)  
 
Plaintiff claims that one way the City breached
a mandatory duty was by failing to comply with C.C.R. § 904.2(h). Section
904.2(h) provides that “[a]t the time of testing and maintenance [of an
automatic fire extinguishing systems], building management shall be consulted
to avoid unnecessary disturbance of normal business operation, and to contact
the local fire authority prior to testing.” (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 19, §
904.2(a), (h)). Section 904.2(h) places a duty on persons a plaintiff has, or
should have, retained to inspect and test its fire suppression system.  
 
Moving parties contend that CCR § 904.2(h)
does not impose any duty on the City, a public entity, because the statute is
not directed at public entities. They argue that Khemiri is a Water Utility
Mechanic, not a specialty contractor or other licensee authorized to perform
inspection, testing, and maintenance of fire extinguishing systems within the
meaning of Section 901. (19 C.C.R. 5, §§ 901, 905.) They contend that
Plaintiff, not the City or Khemiri, had the duty to have Plaintiff’s sprinklers
routinely inspected, tested, and maintained.  
 
Plaintiff argues that CCR § 904.2(h) does
not limit who has to give notice of testing. However, Plaintiff offers no
support for this contention. Accordingly, moving parties successfully meet
their burden to show there is no triable issue as to whether CCR § 904.2(h)
imposes a mandatory duty on moving parties. Here, it does not.  
 
CCR § 105.3.1 requires an air test for the
sanitary condition of drainage or plumbing where there is reason to believe
that it has become defective. Moving parties also contend that CCR § 105.3.1
does not impose a mandatory duty on moving parties. Plaintiff contends that the
City breached a mandatory duty by failing to comply with CCR § 105.3.1 and that
§105.3.1 does apply to moving parties. However, Plaintiff again supplies no
caselaw for the contention that it CCR § 105.3.1 applies. Accordingly, moving
parties meet their burden of demonstrating there is no triable issue of fact as
to whether CCR § 105.3.1 creates a mandatory duty for moving parties.  
 
Moving parties successfully demonstrate
that they had no mandatory duty regarding the water valve and fire
extinguishing system. Thus, summary judgment is granted as to the first cause
of action for breach of mandatory duty as to the City and summary adjudication is
granted as to the first cause of action against Khemiri for breach of mandatory
duty. 
 
2. Negligence 
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for
negligence is based on the theory that Khemiri breached his duty of care by
failing to provide notice to Plaintiff or the building’s owner prior turning on
the fire suppression system.  
¿ 
“The elements of negligence are (1) a legal
duty to use due care, (2) the breach of such legal duty, and (3) the breach was
the proximate or legal cause of injury.”¿ (Orey v. Superior Court (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 1241, 1255.)¿ “In California, the causation element of negligence
is satisfied when the plaintiff establishes (1) that the defendant's breach of
duty (his negligent act or omission) was a substantial factor in bringing about
the plaintiff's harm and (2) that there is no rule of law relieving the defendant
of liability.”¿ (Leslie G. v. Perry & Associates (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 472,
481.)¿¿“Except as otherwise provided by statute (including Section 820.2), a
public employee is liable for injury caused by his act or omission to the same
extent as a private person.”¿ (Gov. Code § 820(a).)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
“While proximate cause ordinarily is a
question of fact, it may be decided as a question of law if ' “under the
undisputed facts, there is no room for a reasonable difference of opinion.” '
[Citation.]”¿ (Grotheer v. Escape Adventures, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 1283,
1303 [affirming grant of summary judgment on causation].)¿ “To establish the
element of actual causation, it must be shown that the defendant's act or
omission was a substantial factor in bringing about the injury. [Citation.]”¿
(Padilla v. Rodas (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 742, 752 [affirming grant of summary
judgment for plaintiff's failure to establish causation]; see also Leyva v.
Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1104 [“In order for a plaintiff to satisfy
the causation element of a negligence cause of action, he or she must show the
defendant's act or omission was a substantial factor in bringing about the
plaintiff's harm.”].)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
“The law does not require that negligence
of the defendant must be the sole cause of the injury complained of in order to
entitle the plaintiff to damages therefor. All that is required in either
respect is that the negligence in question shall be a proximate cause of the
injury complained of.”¿ (Modica v. Crist (1954) 129 Cal.App.2d 144, 148
[internal quotations and citations omitted]; see also Condon v. Ansaldi, 203
Cal. 180, 182-83 [although driver’s negligence was not sole cause of
pedestrian’s injury, the pedestrian could hold the driver liable if driver’s
negligence was proximate cause of injury].)¿ In certain circumstances, a
plaintiff's conduct can be the “sole” proximate cause of his or her own harm.¿
(See, e.g., Fredette v. City of Long Beach (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 122, 133 [“the
situation ... involved the negligence of plaintiff as the sole and proximate
cause of the accident”]; Bell v. Seatrain Lines, Inc. (1974) 40 Cal.App.3d 16,
29 [jury was correctly instructed there should be no recovery “if plaintiff's
own negligence was the sole proximate cause of his injury”].)¿ 
 
Moving parties contend that Plaintiff fails
to demonstrate Khemiri owed a duty to Plaintiff. In opposition, Plaintiff
contends Khemiri failed to discharge his duty to act like a reasonable water
utility mechanic by investigating or inquiring into the water valve. The
allegations regarding Khemiri sufficiently allege that Khemiri failed to act
with the requisite level of care after discovering that the water valve had not
been turned on for three years. Thus, the negligence claim properly alleges
that Khemiri owed a duty to Plaintiff and breached that duty by failing to
follow the proper protocols.  
 
Moving parties further contend that Khemiri
is immune from liability under Government Code §§ 850.2 and 850.4.  
 
 “Neither a public entity nor a public
employee is liable for failure to establish a fire department or otherwise to
provide fire protection service.”  (Gov. Code § 850.) “Neither a public
entity that has undertaken to provide fire protection service, nor an employee
of such a public entity, is liable for any injury resulting from the failure to
provide or maintain sufficient personnel, equipment or other fire protection
facilities.” (Gov. Code § 850.2.) “Neither a public entity, nor a public
employee acting in the scope of his employment, is liable for any injury
resulting from the condition of fire protection or firefighting equipment or
facilities or . . . for any injury caused in fighting fires.”  (Gov. Code
§ 850.4.)   
 
The fire protection service statutes are
construed to “‘provide for a broad immunity from liability for injuries
resulting in connection with fire protection service.’” Cairns v. County of Los
Angeles (1997) 62 Cal.App.4th 330, 335.  In Varshock v. Department of
Forestry & Fire Protection (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 635, the court
examined the language of Government Code section 850.4 and concluded “that by
relieving public entities and employees of liability ‘for any injury caused in
fighting fires’ under section 850.4, the Legislature intended immunity to apply
to any claim based on death, personal injury, or property damage that results
from an act or omission of a public entity or employee while responding to or
combating an actual fire.”  Varshock, supra, at 642.  Courts
have applied section 850.4 broadly to a wide range of government
activities.  See, e.g., Cairns, supra, 62 Cal.App.4th at 336
(statutory immunity applied to bar nuisance claim stemming from city’s and
county’s continued road closure that made firefighter ingress and egress
virtually impossible); People ex rel. Grijalva v. Superior Court (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 1072, 1078 (statutory immunity applied to bar affirmative defenses
including comparative negligence against complaint filed by California
Department of Forestry and Fire Protection to recoup firefighting costs, even
though the department’s premature demobilization of firefighting resources
caused the fire’s severity); Bettencourt v. State of California (1975) 51
Cal.App.3d 892, 894 (government immunity for loss of cattle that escaped
through wire fence cut by firefighters to fight grass fire). 
 
Here, the fire protection statutes provide
immunity to Khemiri. The subject valve fed the fire line that serviced both
Plaintiff’s property and the property adjacent to it. (UMF 63.) Khemiri feared
that these buildings may have been without adequate fire protection for nearly
three years. (UMF 65, 67.) His decision to exercise the valve, ascertain its
position, and ensure that it still worked brings his actions within the type
contemplated by the immunity statutes. Thus, immunity applies and Khemiri is
entitled to summary adjudication on the second cause of action for
negligence.  
 
Conclusion 
 
The City of Long Beach’s motion for summary
judgment as to the first cause of action for breach of mandatory duty is
GRANTED. Sami Khemiri’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED as to the first
and second causes of action for breach of mandatory duty and negligence. 
 
Moving parties are ordered to give
notice.   
  
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to
submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.¿ If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If
a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case
number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If any party
does not submit on the tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear
remotely at the hearing on this matter.    