 Case Number:  22STCV20346    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  S27 Christopher C. McNatt, Jr.,
attorney for Plaintiff H.E.R. Trucking, Inc., moves to be relieved as counsel
on the grounds that “circumstances have arisen recently, that prevent Counsel
from continuing representation of [Plaintiff],” “this is a mandatory withdrawal,”
and “numerous discretionary grounds for withdrawal also exist.” (Declaration, ¶
2.)
 
 Counsel filed this motion to be relieved as
counsel and related papers on 1/23/24. Counsel’s declaration, ¶ 3, indicates
Counsel served the moving papers on Plaintiff at an address confirmed by
telephone. Counsel gave proper notice of the hearing date on this motion, as
well as the final status conference and jury trial.  The time for opposition to the motion has
lapsed, and there is no opposition to the motion.  In light of the lack of opposition, the
motion is granted; relief is effective upon filing proof of service of the
final order on Plaintiff.  Trial is set
for April 29, 2024, thus Plaintiff has time to obtain new counsel in time to
prepare for trial.  
 
The Court advises Plaintiff that,
because it is an entity, it cannot proceed in pro per, and must retain an
attorney if it wishes to continue to prosecute this action.   
 
Counsel is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to
submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not
submit on the tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely
at the hearing on this matter.   