 Case Number:  21STCV27289    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  74 McBride v. Cohen
Pagano Accountancy, Inc
Plaintiff Kenneth McBride’s Motion for
Leave to Amend Complaint.
 
BACKGROUND 
            The
motion arises from a professional malpractice complaint.
            On
July 26, 2021, Plaintiff filed the Complaint against Cohen Pagano Accountancy,
Inc., Stanley M. Ingel, Laurand Management Co., Inc., Andrea M. Link and Does
1-25.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed
to timely prepare financial statements for tax planning, failed to provide tax
planning consistent with applicable tax laws, and failed to provide proper
advice concerning anticipated tax liability.  

            On
July 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint.
            Trial
is set for February 24, 2025. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
¿¿            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “[t]he court may,
in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time before or after
commencement of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) “[T]he court’s discretion will
usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings. The policy
favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave
to amend can be justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 (internal citations omitted).) “If the motion to amend
is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party, it is error to refuse permission to amend….” (Morgan v. Sup. Ct.
(1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v. Tokai Bank,
Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.) 
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a).) The motion must also state what allegations are proposed to be
deleted or added, by page, paragraph, and line number. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a).) Finally, a separate supporting declaration specifying
the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and the
reason the request for amendment was not made earlier must also accompany the
motion. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.134(b).) 
Delay
is a significant factor in considering the denial of leave to amend.  (Emerald Bay Cmty. Ass’n v. Golden Eagle
Ins. Corp. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1097.)
 
DISCUSSION  
            Plaintiff
includes a copy of the proposed amended complaint, which is serially
numbered.  Plaintiff’s counsel also
submitted a declaration identifying the changes, which are further identified
in the proposed amended complaint by highlighting and capitalizing.  The Declaration also includes the effect of
the amendment, when the facts giving rise to the amendment were discovered and
the reason the request was not made earlier. 
The Plaintiff has met the procedural requirements.
            Defendants
contend that Plaintiff’s delay is inexcusable and will result in prejudice to
the Defendant.  Plaintiff discovered the
facts giving rise to the amendment sometime before they served discovery
responses in August 2022. Plaintiff’s excuse for the failure to amend earlier
is that Plaintiff’s counsel forgot.  Nevertheless,
although Plaintiff did not file this motion until July 30, 2024, nearly two
years later, Plaintiff asserts Defendants were on notice of the new basis for
liability as it was disclosed in Plaintiff’s discovery responses.  
            Defendants
allege that they would be prejudiced by allowing the amendment, but do not
specify in what way they would be prejudiced. 
Defendants allege generally that the scheduling must permit Defendants
to file motions for summary judgement, although none have been filed.  They also allege that it would force
Defendants to engage in new discovery, but do not specify what new discovery
may be required. 
            The
Court grant’s Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend despite the delay because
Defendants fail to show any prejudice that may arise from the Amendment. 
CONCLUSION 
The
court grants Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend. 
Plaintiff
shall give notice.