  Case Number:  21STCV06652    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  74 Fox et al.
v. Equity Residential Properties LLC et al. 
Plaintiffs Keith Fox and Arielle Fox’s
Demurrer to the Mikulec Complaint.
 
BACKGROUND 
This
is a consolidated matter that stems from two separate fires that damaged a Marina
del Rey apartment complex. On September 12, 2020, one of those fires originating
in the apartment of Keith and Arielle Fox injured the Mikulec parties. On
October 6, 2021, plaintiffs Michael Mikulec, Baoyi Huang, and Noah Mikulec, filed
a complaint against defendants Equity Residential Properties, LLC, Equity
Residential Management, LLC, Equity Residential Services, LLC and Does
1-10.  In the Complaint, the Mikulecs
allege (1) Negligence; (2) Premises Liability; (3) Breach of Warranty of
Habitability; (4) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (5) Nuisance; (6)
Constructive Eviction; (7) Negligence Per Se based upon Violations of
California Fire Prevention Laws; and (8) Temporary Relocation Per-Dien
Payments.
On
August 23, 2024, the Mikulecs added Keith Fox and Arielle Fox as Doe Defendants.
The Foxes filed a demurrer, arguing the Doe Amendment was untimely and uncertain
and ambiguous. 
The Relation
Back Doctrine Does Not Save the Untimely Causes of Action
The
California Code of Civil Procedure allows plaintiffs who are ignorant of the
name of a defendant to “state that fact in the complaint… and such defendant
may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true
name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended
accordingly….”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 474.) For
an amendment to relate back, the relation-back doctrine requires that the
amended complaint must (1) rest on the same general set of facts, (2) involve
the same injury, and (3) refer to the same instrumentality.  (Norgart v. Upjohn Co. (1999) 21
Cal.4th 383, 408-09.)  Application of relation
back to a Doe Defendant requires a plaintiff’s genuine ignorance.  “Genuine ignorance” requires that the
Plaintiffs were ignorant when they filed their original complaint of “the
defendant’s identity and the facts giving rise to a cause of action against
that defendant.”  (San Diego Navy
Broadway Complex Coalition v. California Costal Com. (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th
563, 579, citing Fuller v. Tucker (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 1163, 1170.)
Here,
the Mikulec parties knew or should have known that the fire originated on September
12, 2020, in the Foxes’ apartment. Knowledge that the fire began in the Foxes
apartment sufficed to establish that the Mikulecs knew or should have known
both the Foxes’ identity and the facts giving rise to liability, even if the Mikulecs
were unsure about the theories of liability. 
(San Diego Navy Broadway Complex Coalition, supra, 40
Cal.App.5th at 579.) Thus, the relation back doctrine does not apply. Accordingly,
all causes of action other than the third cause of action for breach of
warranty of habitability (Code Civ. Proc. § 337), which has a four-year statute
of limitation, is time-barred.
-         
First
Cause of Action: Negligence
o  
2
years from date of injury (Code Civ. Proc. § 335.1.)
-         
Second
Cause of Action: Premises Liability
o  
2
years from date of injury (Code Civ. Proc. § 335.1.)
-         
Fourth
Cause of Action: Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
o  
3
years from actual or constructive eviction (Code Civ. Proc. § 338.)
-         
Fifth
Cause of Action: Nuisance
o  
3
years from date of nuisance (Code Civ. Proc. § 338.)
-         
Sixth
Cause of Action: Constructive Eviction
o  
3
years from constructive eviction (Code Civ. Proc. § 338.)
-         
Seventh
Cause of Action: Negligence Per Se base upon Violations of California Fire
Prevention Laws
o  
2
years from date of injury (Code Civ. Proc. § 335.1.)
-         
Eighth
Cause of Action: Temporary Relocation Per-Diem Payments
o  
3
years from date of liability (Code Civ. Proc. § 338.)
As
for the third cause of action for breach of the warranty of habitability, the
cause of action is uncertain because it does not allege the Foxes had a
landlord-tenant relationship with the Mikulecs.
            The
court sustains the demurrer without leave to amend to all causes of action except
the third cause of action for breach of the warranty of habitability. For the third
cause of action, the court grants leave to amend.
            The
motion to strike (which apparently was served but not filed with the court) is
moot.
Defendants
shall give notice.