 Case Number:  24STCP02101    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  82 Ara J. Najarian,                                                        Case No. 24STCP02101
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
October 23, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                     
City of Glendale, et al.                                         Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
                        
[Tentative] Order Denying Petition for
Writ of Mandate
            
INTRODUCTION 
 
Ara J. Najarian
(“Petitioner”) filed this petition for writ of mandate under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1094.5 or, in the alternative, section 1085, against the City
of Glendale (“Glendale” or the “City”) and the City Council (the “City Council”)
(collectively,  “Respondents”).  Petitioner is one of five elected members of
the City Council.  Section 2.04.020 of
the Glendale Municipal Code states that the City Council shall appoint as mayor
the councilmember with the longest prior of continuous uninterrupted service
since last serving as mayor unless “the council determines in its discretion
that it is in the best interest of the city not to appoint the councilmember
next in line to serve as mayor.”  Having
found good cause, the City Council appointed Elen Asatryan, not Petitioner, to
be the next mayor.  Now, Petitioner
challenges this decision and seeks a writ of mandate ordering Respondents to
vacate this decision and install him as mayor. 
The court does not have jurisdiction over this matter because  Petitioner’s sole remedy is an action for quo
warranto pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 803.  In the alternative, this action is barred by
the doctrine of laches.  Finally, on the
merits, Petitioner is not entitled to a writ of mandate.  Therefore, this petition is denied.    
 
BACKGROUND 
 
            Glendale “is a local government
entity operating under its Charter.” 
(Petition for Writ of Mandate (“Pet.”) ¶ 2.)  Under City’s charter, the legislative power of
the City is vested in a City Council. 
(Charter, Art. VI, §§ 1, 4; Administrative Record (“AR”) 431.)  Pursuant to section 2.04.020(A) of City’s
Municipal Code, “the
council shall annually select one of its members to be the mayor, in accordance
with the procedures set forth herein.” 
(GMC § 2.04.020(A); AR 482.) “The date and times for appointment shall be
during the first regular meeting of the council after the first Monday in April
of each year.”  (Ibid.)
 
            In relevant part, section
2.04.020(B) states the following procedures for the City Council to select a
new mayor:
 
B. The council
shall select and appoint a mayor to serve for the upcoming year in the
following order of precedence: 
 
1. The
councilmember with the longest, continuous uninterrupted service on the council
since last serving as mayor, and who is not serving as the mayor at the time of
mayoral selection, shall be selected as mayor. 
 
2. In the event of
a tie between councilmembers with the longest continuous service since last
serving as mayor as set forth in subsection (B)(1), the councilmember who
received the most votes in the councilmembers' most recent election shall be
selected mayor. In the event the tie is between councilmembers who were elected
during different elections, then the councilmember with the highest percentage
of votes received in each councilmembers' most recent elections to the city
council shall be selected mayor. Notwithstanding the election votes tiebreakers
set forth in this subsection (B)(2), if either tiebreaker would result in a
councilmember who has previously served as mayor since being elected to the
council being appointed over a councilmember of equal continuous uninterrupted
service who has never served as mayor since being elected to the council, then
the councilmember who has not previously served as mayor shall be appointed
mayor. 
 
3. In the event that
the procedure set forth in subsections (B)(1) and (2) do not control the
selection of mayor, the council shall select the mayor by majority vote.         
 
            ….[¶]
 
H. Notwithstanding
the provisions of this section, in the event the council determines in its
discretion that it is in the best interest of the city not to appoint the
councilmember next in line to serve as mayor in accordance with the procedure
of this section, including, but not limited to, because of reason
of mental or physical incapacity significantly limiting the ability to perform
mayoral duties or a criminal conviction, then the council may appoint the next
qualified councilmember pursuant to subsection (B)(2) to serve as mayor.
 
(AR
482-483, emphasis added.)
 
            The selection of mayor was set on
the April 2, 2024, agenda of the City Council. 
(AR 354.)  As of that date,
Petitioner was the councilmember with the longest service on the Council since
last serving as mayor.  If Petitioner had
been selected as mayor, that would have been his fifth time serving in that
role.  (See AR 497.)  Petitioner concedes that Councilmember Asatryan
“was … ‘the next qualified person’ in line to become mayor in the event
Petitioner was passed over.”  (Opening
Brief 11:9-10.)
 
            At the April 2 meeting, Councilmember
Devine nominated Petitioner for the office of mayor.  (AR 365.) 
Councilmember Kassakhian nominated Councilmember Asatryan for the office
of mayor.  (Ibid.)  After public comment and then discussion by
the City Council, the City Council voted 3-2 to select Councilmember Asatryan
as the next mayor.  (AR 365-366,
417-418.)  Among other reasons for this
decision, a City Councilmember in the majority stated that it was in the best
interest of the City not to appoint Petitioner as the next mayor.  (See AR 418.) 
After the City Council’s vote on April 2, 2024, the City Clerk declared
Councilmember Asatryan as the “duly elected” mayor of City.  (AR 365-366.) 
Councilmember Asatryan has been serving as mayor of City since April 2,
2024.  (Pet. ¶ 11.)


 
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
 
            Petitioner filed this petition on
July 1, 2024.  The first cause of action
is for a writ of administrative mandate pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.5.  The second cause of action is
for a writ of traditional mandate pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1085.  Petitioner seeks a writ “compelling
Respondents to vacate Respondents City Council’s mayoral selection decision of
April 2, 2024, and compelling Respondents to immediately install Petitioner as
Mayor of Glendale as a matter of ministerial duty.”  
 
            On July 11, 2024, Petitioner filed
an ex parte application for a stay. 
The court denied the ex parte application because Petitioner
sought a mandatory preliminary injunction, not a stay, which is rarely
granted.  The court found that Petitioner
did not demonstrate a sufficient likelihood of success on the merits because he
did not sue in quo warranto, and the Glendale Municipal Code gives the
City Council discretion to select a different member.  
            
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Petitioner
Failed to Sue in Quo Warranto 
 
The court lacks
jurisdiction over this matter because the right to public officer can be
challenged only by a writ in quo warranto.  
 
Quo warranto is the specific action by which one challenges “any person
who usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or exercises any public office.”
 (Code Civ. Proc., § 803.)  It is the exclusive remedy in cases where it is available.  Title to an office cannot be tried by
mandamus, injunction, writ of certiorari, or petition for declaratory relief.  
 
. . . 
 
Quo warranto may be brought by the Attorney General “upon his own
information, or upon a complaint by a private party.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 803.) . . . .  Although the Attorney General occasionally
brings a quo warranto action on the initiative of that office, or at the
direction of the Governor, usually the action is files and prosecuted by a
private party who has obtained the consent of the Attorney General, for leave
to sue in quo warranto. . . .  The
Attorney General has an established procedure, embodied in the regulations, for
approving applications by private parties for leave to sue in quo warranto.

 
(Nicolopulos v. City of Lawndale (2001)
91 Cal.App.4th 1221, 1225-1226, 1228-1229, citations omitted.)  “In general, [quo warranto] is the
exclusive means to try the title of a person occupying a public office.”  (Daly v. San Bernardino County Bd. of
Supervisors (2021) 11 Cal.5th 1030, 1051 [citing Nicolopulos].)  Accordingly, when quo warranto is
available, leave to sue from the Attorney General is a jurisdictional
requirement.  (Cooper v.
Leslie Salt Co. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 627, 633.)
 
The Attorney General has concluded that “a
mayor of a general law city holds a public office.”  (102 Ops.Cal.Atty.Gen. 39 (2019); accord 98
Ops.Cal.Atty.Gen. 94, 96-97 (2015); see also Life Care Centers of America v.
CalOptima (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1169, 1178 [“opinions by the Attorney General are entitled to
‘great weight.’”].) Glendale is a charter city, not a general law city.  Nonetheless, Petitioner has not disputed that
the mayor of City of Glendale is a public officer.  (See also AR 365 [nominations for
“Office of the Mayor”].)
 
There is no dispute that Petitioner did not
seek leave from the Attorney General to sue in quo warranto.  Instead, Petitioner contends that he need not
proceed under quo warranto because he “does not ask the Court to decide
who rightfully holds that office” but rather “asks for the Court to review
Respondents’ hearing procedures and, to the extent they were lacking, remand
the matter back to Respondents with instructions.”  (Opening Brief (“OB”) 17.)  This is a distinction without a difference.  Petitioner argues that Councilmember Asatryan is
unlawfully holding public office and asks for an order directing the City
Council to remove her as mayor and “immediately install” Petitioner as
mayor.  (Pet. Prayer ¶ 2.)  This is exactly what quo warranto actions
address.  
 
Petitioner also
argues that quo warranto is an outdated and disfavored procedure.  (OB 17:3-8.) 
Petitioner is incorrect.  The quo
warranto remedy is codified in Code of Civil Procedure section 803 and is
well established in California case law. 
(See e.g. People ex rel. Schlesinger v. Sachs (2023) 97
Cal.App.5th 800, 813; Rando v. Harris (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 868, 875; Nicolopulos, supra, 91 Cal.App.4th at 1225-26.) 
 
 In sum
Petitioner should have proceeded in quo warranto and, therefore, the
court lacks jurisdiction over this action. 
Therefore, the petition is denied on this basis alone.    
 
B.        The Petition
is Barred by Laches 
 
In the alternative, this petition is barred by the doctrine
of laches.  “The defense of
laches requires unreasonable delay plus either acquiescence in the act about
which plaintiff complains or prejudice to the defendant resulting from the
delay.”  (Womack v. San Francisco Community College Dist. (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 854, 865, citation and internal quotations omitted.)  Petitioner challenges the City Council’s decision on April 2, 2024,
selecting Councilmember
Asatryan as mayor for a
one-year term.  (Pet. ¶ 11; AR 365-366.)  Petitioner did not file this writ petition
until July 1, 2024, almost three months into her one-year term.  Petitioner’s attorney was present at the
April 2, 2024, Council meeting and raised his legal objections to the procedure
used by the City Council to select a new mayor on April 2, 2024.  (See, e.g. AR 399, 408-409, 411-412.)  Petitioner articulates no good cause for
waiting until Elen Asatryan
completed 25% of her term before filing this action.  If the court granted relief, it would replace
the mayor with less than six months remaining on the terms.  As a result, the City and its residents are
prejudiced.  The mere fact that
Petitioner complied with the statute of limitations does not save Petitioner’s
claim.  Given the relatively short
mayoral term, Petitioner was required to file this action before the statute of
limitations expired.  
 


 
C.        Petitioner Is
Not Entitled to a Writ of Mandate 
 
            Finally,
reaching the merits, Petitioner is not entitled to a writ of mandate.  The City Council had authority to select
someone other than Petitioner when “the council determines in its discretion
that it is in the best interest of the city” to do so.  The City Council made the requisite determination.  (See AR 418.) 
Petitioner argues that
Respondents erred because the determination was not supported by findings of
fact.  That is not required under section
2.04.020(H).  Moreover, because this decision is necessarily legislative and
political in nature, see generally Blair v. Bethel School Dist. 608 F.3d 540, 543-546 (9th Cir. 2010), judicial
review of such action is extremely deferential. 

 
A legislative act is presumed valid, and a city need not make explicit
findings to support its action.  A court cannot inquire into the wisdom of
a legislative act or review the merits of a local government’s policy
decisions.  Judicial review of a legislative act under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 is limited to determining whether the
public agency’s action was arbitrary, capricious, entirely without evidentiary
support, or procedurally unfair.
 
(Federation of Hillside & Canyon Assns.
v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 126 Cal.App.4th 1180, 1195, citations omitted.)   Furthermore,
the mental processes principle “precludes any judicially authorized inquiry
into the subjective motives or mental processes of legislators.”  (County of Los Angeles v. Superior
Court (1975) 13 Cal. 3d 721, 726.)  
 
            Petitioner
argues that the City Council was required to hold an evidentiary hearing.  Section 2.04.020(H) does not require an
evidentiary hearing.  Nor does Petitioner
have a due process right to a hearing.  Petitioner
does not have a vested property interest in the mayorship.  (See Taylor v. Beckham, 178 U.S.
548, 577 (1900).)  Petitioner was not
denied employment by the City and he still serves as Councilmember.  The City Council’s selection of a new mayor
under section 2.04.020(H) does
not implicate a “liberty interest” of Petitioner.  To the extent Petitioner feels that the City
Council’s decision harmed his reputation, that is the result of his decision to
pursue public office, not some “stigmatizing statement by the government.”  (See OB 8-9, citing Ulrich v. City &
Cty. of San Francisco (9th Cir. 2002) 308 F.3d 968, 982.)  
 
Finally, Petitioner does not show that he was
denied a “fair trial.”  (OB 10-12.)  In a decision of this nature—part of City’s
political process—it is immaterial if the majority of the City Council “prejudged”
the matter or voted against Petitioner because of disagreements about policy or
political views.  
 
It is common for political bodies to have internal leadership structures
and for members of those bodies to be openly partisan in voting for and against
one another for leadership positions. In fact, we expect political
officials to cast votes in internal elections in a manner that is, technically
speaking, retaliatory, i.e., to vote against candidates whose
views differ from their own….. the First Amendment does not succor casualties
of the regular functioning of the political process.
 
(Blair v. Bethel School Dist., 608 F.3d
540, 544-545 (9th Cir. 2010.)  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the forgoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The petition for writ of mandate is
denied.
 
            2.         The parties shall meet-and-confer and
lodge a proposed judgment.
 
            3.         The court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED 
 
 
Dated: October 23,
2024                                            ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    