  Case Number:  22VECV00179    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  107  


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Shahnaz
  Ostad Kalimi,
 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Tarzana
  Five Properties, LLC, et al.,
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
 22VECV00179                     107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
Compel
  PMQ for Deposition
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
The following factual background consists
of allegations drawn from the Complaint (as defined below).
 
Between March 1, 2020 and August
31, 2021, plaintiff Shahnaz Ostad Kalimi (“Plaintiff”) lived in a third-floor
apartment at a certain real property (the “Property”), which she leased from
defendants Tarzana Five Properties, LLC (“Opposing Party” and, together with
Plaintiff, “Parties”) and Peyman Jacob Yadegar. (Complaint pp. 5–6.) Throughout
Plaintiff’s tenancy at the Property, the apartment building’s elevator did not
work. (Ibid.) Although Plaintiff notified Defendants of the inoperable
elevator, Defendants did not repair it. (Id. at p. 5.) Plaintiff was
thereby forced to use the apartment building stairs to access her apartment,
causing her to become seriously injured after a fall and confining her to her
apartment. (Id. at p. 6.)
 
On February 7, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging six causes of action: (1) breach
of the implied warranty of habitability, (2) breach of contract, (3)
negligence, (4) constructive eviction, (5) violation of California Civil Code
section 1942.4, and (6) violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code section 92.010.
 
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff
served Opposing Party with a notice of deposition seeking to depose the person
most qualified to testify as to 29 categories of information relating to the
Property and Opposing Party. (Motion p. 4, Exh. 6.) On February 27, 2024, Opposing
Party produced and Plaintiff deposed Sergio Romero (“Romero”), but Romero was
unable or unqualified to testify as to multiple categories of information that
had been listed in the notice of deposition. (Motion pp. 4–5.)
 
On April 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a motion to compel (the “Motion”) Opposing Party to produce its person or
persons most qualified to testify at a deposition. On May 10, 2024, Opposing
Party opposed the Motion, and on May 16, 2024, Plaintiff replied to Opposing
Party’s opposition.
 
II.
LEGAL STANDARD
 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.230 permits a party to serve another party who is not a natural
person with a deposition notice naming that non-natural person party as the
deponent and setting out “with reasonable particularity the matters on which
examination is requested.” “In that event, the deponent shall designate and
produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents,
employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to
those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to
the deponent.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.230.) A motion to compel a
deposition may be properly brought where a corporation’s person most
knowledgeable “knew very little about the topics specified in the notices” at
the deposition and the corporation lacked proof that the person endeavored to
get access to information and documents reasonably available within the
corporation. (Maldonado v. Superior Court (2002) 94 Cal.App.4th 1390,
1396–97.)
 
“Management of discovery generally
lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Lipton v. Superior
Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1612.) Although the party subject to or opposing a motion to compel
serves a late response to the discovery on the moving party, the court retains
the authority to hear the motion to compel and to rule on it. (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 409 [addressing the filing of untimely interrogatory responses
with a motion to compel pending] (hereafter, Sinaiko).) Sinaiko, supra,
at 409 emphasizes the trial court’s broad discretion in the range of actions it
may take in such a scenario, including “deny[ing]
the¿motion¿to¿compel¿responses¿as essentially unnecessary, in whole or in part,
and just impos[ing] sanctions.”
 
III.
DISCUSSION
 
Opposing Party argues that by,
between when Plaintiff filed the Motion and the hearing on the Motion, agreeing
to produce for depositions the two deponents that Plaintiff identified as
likely having responsive information related to those categories of information
identified in the deposition notice, it has rendered the Motion moot.
(Opposition p. 2.) Plaintiff contends that the Motion must therefore be denied
as such. (Ibid.) In response, Plaintiff observes that the two additional
depositions have not yet taken place and one has yet been scheduled between
Parties. (Reply p. 2.)
 
The informal resolution of a
discovery motion between parties before its hearing, while commendable, does
not deprive the court of the authority to rule on the discovery motion. We
agree that the Motion remains at issue until the depositions of Opposing
Party’s persons most qualified and therefore decline to deny the Motion as
moot. Plaintiff seeks in its reply to Opposing Party’s opposition an order much
more restrictive that the order Plaintiff seeks in the Motion. We decline to
grant an order that was not sought in the moving papers, but we agree that,
like in Maldonado v. Superior Court, supra, 94 Cal.App.4th 1390
at 1396–97, an order is appropriately issued here where the original deponent
produced as a person most qualified lacks the requisite knowledge.
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS the
Motion. Opposing Party is ordered to produce those of its officers, directors,
managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its
behalf as to those categories of information identified in the deposition
notice Plaintiff served on February 6, 2024. 
 
 
Dated:  May 23,
2024                                                          _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                          Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court