  Case Number:  23CHCV00923    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  F51 MOTION TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV00923    Motion Filed: 6/30/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendant D L English Design  (“Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Stephanie Gissell Penaloza (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendant  moves to strike the prayer for punitive damages in Plaintiff’s first amended complaint  (“FAC”).   TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied. Defendant shall file and serve an  answer to Plaintiff’s FAC within 30 days of this hearing date.   BACKGROUND    This is a  personal injury action in which Plaintiff alleges that on 4/9/21, she was a  passenger in a parked United States Postal Service (“USPS”) truck when it was  struck by a 2018 Ford commercial-grade van owned by Defendant and driven by nonmoving  Defendant Moses Garcia within the scope and course of his employment with  Defendant. (FAC p. 5.)   Plaintiff  alleges that she was “in the process of sorting through packages in the back of  her vehicle when Defendant-driver … collided into the rear of said USPS  vehicle.” (Ibid.) “The force of this rear-end collision was so severe as  to propel the parked USPS truck forward and to the right with such speed and at  such distance that Plaintiff’s vehicle collided with a third (non-party)  vehicle legally parked on street near the curb and unoccupied at the time.” (Ibid.)  “Defendant-driver then fled the scene of the crash in violation of California  Vehicle Code sections 20001 and 20002.” (Ibid.)   On 4/3/23,  Plaintiff filed her original complaint against Defendant, alleging the  following causes of action: (1) Personal Injury – Motor Vehicle; (2) General  Negligence; and (3) Willful Misconduct. On 6/2/23, Plaintiff filed her FAC,  alleging the same causes of action against Defendant. On 9/18/23, Plaintiff  named Moses Garcia as previously unnamed Doe defendant 1.   On 6/30/23,  Defendant filed the instant motion to strike. On 9/18/23, Plaintiff filed her  opposition. On 9/25/23, Defendant filed its reply.   ANALYSIS   The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its  discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or  improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in  conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id. at subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear  on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)¿Here,  Defendant moves to strike all references of punitive damages from Plaintiff’s  FAC.   A.    Meet and Confer   “Before filing a motion to  strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in  person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to  the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be  reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).) The parties are required to meet and  confer at least five days before the date a motion to strike must be filed,  otherwise the moving party is granted a 30-day extension to file the motion. (Ibid.)¿    Here, Defendant’s counsel declares that on 6/27/23, she sent  Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer email regarding the issues raised in the  instant motion but received no response. (Decl. of Zojeila I. Flores ¶¶ 8–9.)  Therefore, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary  meet-and-confer requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5,  subdivision (a).) ¿¿  B.     Punitive Damages    Punitive damages may be  recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression by clear and  convincing evidence. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as  conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with  a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others. (Turman  v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)  “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust  hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud”  is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact  known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property, rights or  otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)    Punitive damages must be supported by factual allegations.  Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to  support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith  v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171  Cal.App.4th 598, 643.) // // // 1.       Malice   Here, Plaintiff alleges that  punitive damages are warranted because “Defendants, including  Defendant-driver, made the deliberate decision to flee the scene after the subject  crash. After colliding into the back of Plaintiff’s truck, seeing Plaintiff  hurl out of the USPS truck, strike the Defendant’s commercial van, and collapse  to the hard roadway, and feeling the impact on Defendants’ vehicle to such an  extent that it broke off the front license plate and frame and caused  substantial fluid leakage from Defendants’ vehicle, Defendant-driver fled the  scene of the incident Defendants caused, leaving Plaintiff lying on the ground  outside, unprotected, severely injured, and vulnerable.” (FAC p. 6, ¶ 5.)   Plaintiff further alleges that thereafter, Defendant  attempted to cover up the incident by requesting, obtaining, and affixing a new  license plate with a new license number onto the subject vehicle, denying any  involvement with the collision, and refusing to cooperate with law enforcement  or Plaintiff. (Id. at p. 7, ¶¶ 8–11.)   Defendant argues that  Plaintiff has insufficiently alleged facts to support her prayer for punitive  damages because she has not alleged facts to support a finding of malice, fraud  or oppression. Defendant argues that “there are no allegations of pre-incident  evil motive with intent to injure Plaintiff. Further, there are no factual  allegations of actual knowledge before the incident that there was a  substantial risk of harm to Plaintiff and Defendant knowingly failed to take  actions to eliminate that risk before the incident occurred.” (Def.’s Mot. 9:21–24  [emphasis in original].)   The Court notes that Defendant does not cite to any legal  authority that requires a plaintiff’s allegation of malicious conduct pertain  to pre-incident conduct. Moreover, the Court agrees with  Plaintiff that the facts alleged, taken in context as a whole, demonstrate “Defendants’  conscious disregard for the safety of Plaintiff … (which has been specifically  plead) by Moses Garcia’s flight and failure to render aid despite the facts Mr.  Garcia caused the strong rear-end collision, observed the resulting side impact  with a parked vehicle and ejection of Plaintiff from the back of the USPS truck  onto Defendants’ van and thereafter onto the ground.” (Pls.’ Opp. 4:11–15.)    Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s factual assertions are  sufficient at the pleading stage to allege malicious conduct warranting a  prayer for punitive damages. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Accordingly, the  motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages is denied on this  basis.   2.       Employer Liability   “An employer shall not be liable for  [punitive] damages … based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the  employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed  him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or  authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded  or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a  corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,  authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on  the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civ.  Code § 3294, subd. (b).)   Here, Defendant argues that “while there  is a conclusory allegation that it had notice that the unknown driver was unfit  or incompetent to operate the vehicle, there are no factual allegations as to  why D L ENGLISH DESIGN knew the driver would cause an accident before he left  Defendant’s place of business.” (Defs.’ Mot. 11:15–18.) Defendant further  argues that “the purported allegations regarding a cover up contain no factual  averments about when or to whom alleged fraudulent and deceitful statements  were made, or the substantive content thereof. The only factual allegation is  that Defendant ordered a new license plate for its vehicle as it was required  to do.” (Id. at 11:24–27.)   Here, Plaintiff alleges in her FAC that  prior to the collision, Defendant entrusted Garcia with the vehicle “despite their notice and/or knowledge that  Defendant-driver was unfit and incompetent to operate their vehicle.  Nevertheless, Defendants allowed their vehicle to be driven by Defendant driver,  thereby endangering Plaintiff, and other members of the driving public in Los  Angeles County.” (FAC p. 7, ¶ 7.) Plaintiff further alleges  that Defendant ratified Garcia’s conduct through its “deliberate,  callous, and egregious attempt to hide their culpability in the subject  incident, to mask the involvement of their van in said crash, and to evade the  attention of any law enforcement, such as the local police department  investigating the subject crash. (Id. at p. 7, ¶ 8.)   Defendant asserts that “requesting a license plate for  a vehicle that needs a license plate to operate on the road demonstrates  compliance with motor vehicle laws, not a scheme to endanger the public.” (Defs.’ Reply 4:16–18.) The Court declines to make such a factual  determination at the pleading stage. Moreover, Plaintiff’s allegations of  malice and employer liability go beyond the scope of Defendant’s replacement of  the subject vehicle’s license plate and include failure to report the incident  to law enforcement, denial of involvement, and refusal to name the driver. (FAC  p. 7, ¶¶ 10–11.)   Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s  allegations are sufficient to warrant a prayer for punitive damages against  Defendant for its employee’s conduct under Civil Code section 3294, subdivision  (b). Accordingly, the motion to strike Plaintiff’s  prayer for punitive damages is denied on this basis.   CONCLUSION    The motion is denied. Defendant shall file and serve an  answer to Plaintiff’s FAC within 30 days of this hearing date.