  Case Number:  22AVCV00693    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is an insurance bad faith
case. On September 6, 2020, the Bobcat wildfire ignited in the San Gabriel
Mountains, and its smoke permeated plaintiff Lawrence Simpson and Phyllis Price’s
residence.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 2,
4.) As a result, Plaintiff hired a carpet cleaning company and paid $11,000.00
to replace all the carpets in his residence. (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff submitted a claim to defendant California Automobile Insurance
Company for the damage to the residence, and California Automobile Insurance
Company denied it. (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 33.) 
 
Plaintiff filed the First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) on February 14, 2023 alleging causes of action for the
following: (1) breach of contract; and (2) breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing. 
 
On April 17, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, for Summary
Adjudication. Plaintiff opposed on November 19, 2024.  Defendant replied on November 25, 2024. 
 
Analysis
 
Standard
for Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication – A party may move for summary
judgment in any action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no
merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c subd. (a).)  Similarly, a party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action, if the party contends that the
cause of action has no merit.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c subd. (f)(1).)  Summary
adjudication will be granted if it completely disposes of a cause of action, affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty. (Id.) A motion for
summary adjudication may be made in the alternative to a motion for summary
judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c subd.
(f)(2).)  To prevail on a motion for
summary judgment, the evidence submitted must show there is no triable issue as
to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c subd. (c).)  
 
The defendant moving for summary
judgment does not need to conclusively negate an element of the plaintiffs’
cause of action, but only to show “that one or more elements of the cause of
action. . .cannot be established. . .or that there is a complete defense to
that cause of action. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Ridgefield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849 (citing Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c subd. (o)(2).)  Once the moving
party has met the respective burden, the burden shifts to the responding party
who must demonstrate that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Code Civ.
Proc. §437c subd. (p).)  The responding
party must not rely on allegations or denials in the pleadings or answer alone,
but “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Id.)
 
When ruling on a
summary judgment motion, the trial court must consider all inferences from the
evidence, even those contradicted by the moving party’s evidence.  The motion cannot succeed unless the evidence
leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts; the court has
no power to weigh one inference against another or against other evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Foods, Inc. (1998)
65 Cal.App.4th 833, 841.)  In determining
whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of material fact, “‘[a]ll doubts
as to whether any material, triable, issues of fact exist are to be resolved in
favor of the party opposing summary judgment . . . .’” (Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198–1199, as modified
on denial of reh'g (Feb. 10, 2004).)  “In other words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary
judgment and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.”  (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.)
-----
 
Request for Judicial Notice – Judicial notice may not be taken of any
matter, unless authorized or required by law.  (Evidence Code §
450.)  “Judicial notice is the recognition and acceptance by the court,
for use by the trier of fact or by the court, of the existence of a matter of
law or fact that is relevant to an issue in the action without requiring formal
proof of the matter.” (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich,
Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 882.)
 
Here, Defendant requests judicial notice of the following: (1)
the original complaint; and (2) the first amended complaint. A
court may take judicial notice of the contents of its own records. (Dwan v.
Dixon (1963) 216 Cal.App.2d 260, 265.)
 
Thus, the Court grants the requests. 
 
-----
 
First Cause of Action (Breach
of Contract) ¿ Defendant argues that no breach of contract occurred on the
ground that the claim was properly excluded because there was no direct
physical loss. 
 
When an issue of coverage exists,
the burden is on the insured to prove facts
establishing that the claimed loss falls within the coverage provided by the
policy's insuring clause. (MRI Healthcare Center of Glendale, Inc. v. State
Farm General Ins. Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 766, 777.) Once the insured
has made that showing, the burden shifts to the insurer to prove the claim is
specifically excluded. (Ibid.)
 
The precondition to coverage under the policy's first party
coverage is “direct physical loss” to insured property. (SSUMF No. 2.) The
direct physical loss requirement is part of the policy’s insuring clause and
thus falls within Plaintiff’s burden of proof. (MRI
Healthcare Center of Glendale, Inc. v. State Farm General Ins. Co., supra,
187 Cal.App.4th 766 at pg. 778.) 
 
To show
that Plaintiff cannot meet this burden, Defendant submits as evidence a
declaration by Jeffrey Graf, Supervisor of Property Large Loss at California
Automobile Insurance Company. (SSUMF No. 21.) In
addition, it submits a report by Forensic Analytical Consulting Services. The
report made the following findings: (1) no wildfire smoke odors were observed;
(2) no indications of smoke impact were identified; (3) unusual corrosion of
metal, plastic or other materials that could be directly attributed to smoke
impact was not observed; (4) sample results from representative surfaces at the
property (exterior, interior, contents, HVAC system (i.e. registers), attic
space and garage) indicated levels of combustion related particulate (char, ash
& soot) ranging from 1 to 2 percent of the total dust sample, with 12 of
the 15 samples having less than 1 percent combustion related particulate
present; and (5) based on assessment findings collected during the
investigation, Forensic Analytical Consulting Services did not recommend
cleaning of the property (exterior, garage, interior, contents, attic space or
HVAC system.) (SSUMF No. 25.) 
 
The policy at issue does not define “direct physical loss.”
(SSUMF No. 2.) In modern policies, “physical loss or damage” is the
trigger for coverage. (MRI Healthcare Center of Glendale, Inc. v. State Farm
General Ins. Co., supra, 187 Cal.App.4th 766 at pg. 778.) This threshold is
met when an item of tangible property has been “physically altered” by perils
such as fire or water. (Id., at pg. 779.) But when the structure of the property remains unchanged
to the naked eye and the insured claims its usefulness for its normal purposes
has been destroyed or reduced, it is less clear if the threshold is met. (Ibid.) That the loss needs
to be “physical,” given the ordinary meaning of the term, excludes alleged
losses that are intangible or incorporeal, and thus precludes any claim against
the property insurer when the insured merely suffers a detrimental economic
impact unaccompanied by a distinct, demonstrable, physical alteration of the
property. (Ibid.) A direct physical loss “contemplates an actual change in
insured property then in a satisfactory state, occasioned by accident or other
fortuitous event directly upon the property causing it to become unsatisfactory
for future use or requiring that repairs be made to make it so.” (Ibid.)
 
Given the report’s findings, Defendant has established there
was no distinct, demonstrable, physical alteration of the dwelling. Thus,
Defendant has established that there is no direct physical loss and hence, no coverage.
Defendant has met the burden of proof that there is no triable issue of
material fact as to breach of contract cause of action. The burden shifts to
Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff argues that Plaintiff paid the monthly premiums
and after Phyllis Price became ill from inhaling smoke during the Bobcat
wildfire. Plaintiff also argues that Defendant disregarded the impact the smoke
had on Phyllis Price’s health and the opinions of carpet cleaning professionals
that Plaintiff contacted in favor of their biased vendors. Plaintiff further
argues that Defendant did not meet their obligations under the policy and did
not perform any further investigation after FACS had provided their report.
 
None of Plaintiff’s arguments
support that the claimed loss falls within the coverage provided by the
policy's insuring clause. Thus, Plaintiff has not met its burden. 
 
The Court grants summary judgment
as to this cause of action. 
 
-----
 
Second Cause of Action (Breach of Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing) The second cause of action is moot because an
insured cannot maintain a claim for tortious breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing absent a covered loss. (Benavides v. State Farm
Gen. Ins. Co. (2006) 136 Cal. App. 4th 1241, 1249–50.)
 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Moving
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the alternative for Summary
Adjudication.