 Case Number:  23AVCV00370    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a wrongful death action. Plaintiffs
Susan Ekdahl, individually, and as Administrator of the Estate of Edward A.
Ekdahl (“Susan”[1]);
and Edward A. Ekdahl, by and through his Successor in Interest, Susan Ekdahl
(“Decedent” and collectively “Plaintiffs”), allege that on (1) January 02,
2022, Decedent was transported to Defendant 
Lancaster Hospital Corporation dba Palmdale Regional Medical Center,
erroneously sued as Palmdale Regional Medical Center (“PRMC”)’s Emergency
Department by ambulance for chest main and shortness of breath; (2) Decedent
was admitted shortly after midnight on January 03, 2022, with Defendant Sonia
P. Sethi, M.D. (“Dr. Sethi”) as his attending physician; (3) while in the
patient room Decedent was connected to an intravenous line, heated high-flow
oxygen, and some vital sign monitoring cables; (4) at around 6:00 pm on January
03, 2022, as a result of failure to provide medial and non-medical services,
including supervision, Decedent was able to remove various lines and cables
from his body and proceeded to the bathroom unattended without supervision; (5)
there was no alerting device in place or protocol to alert Dr. Sethi and
attending medical staff in real-time that a patient was exiting the bed alone
without supervision; (6) Decedent collapsed and went into cardiac arrest while
in the bathroom; (7) when medical staff discovered Decedent, they were unable
to retrieve him because the bathroom door was locked; (8) Decedent was
unresponsive when medical staff reached him; (9) Decedent was transferred to PRMC’s
Intensive Care Unit (“ICU”); and (10) Decedent never came back to consciousness
and passed away on January 13, 2022, as a result of Defendants’ acts and
omissions.
 
On April 05, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint alleging three causes of action against PRMC. 
 
On June 14, 2023, PRMC filed a
Demurrer with Motion to Strike. 
 
On July 21, 2023, before the
Demurrer with Motion to Strike was heard, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC added Dr. Sethi as a defendant and alleged three
causes of action for: (1) Wrongful Death against all defendants; (2) Survivor
Cause of Action – Medical Negligence against all defendants; and (3) Survivor
Cause of Action – Negligence: Premises Liability against PRMC.
 
On August 23, 2023, PRMC filed
this Demurrer. 
 
On September 12, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed their Opposition. 
 
On September 19, 2023, PRMC filed
its Reply. “. . .[A]ll reply papers [shall be filed with the court and a copy
served on each party] at least five court days before the hearing.” (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 1005(b).) “Section 1013, which extends the time within which a
right may be exercised or an act may be done, does not apply to a notice of
motion, papers opposing a motion, or reply papers governed by this section.” (Ibid.)
Here, the hearing is set for September 26, 2023. There is a holiday on
September 22, 2023. Accordingly, five court days before the date of the hearing
is Monday, September 18, 2023. PRMC’s Reply is untimely. “No paper may be
rejected for filing on the ground that it was untimely submitted for filing.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1300(d).) The Court, in its discretion, does not
consider the untimely Reply. (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1300(d) [“If the
court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a late filed paper, the minutes
or order must so indicate.”].)
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable,
plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on
the demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003)
31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿
 
-----
 
Meet and Confer Requirement–
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or moving party
is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred
to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purposes of
determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended
pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5.) The Court notes that counsel for PRMC,
Amenda K. Crawley (“Crawley”), has provided that the requirement was satisfied.
(See Decl. Crawley ¶ 6.)
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – PRMC
demurs only to the Third Cause of Action (Survivor Cause of Action –
Negligence: Premises Liability). 
 
PRMC presents that the Third
Cause of Action (Survivor Cause of Action – Negligence: Premises Liability) is
duplicative of Plaintiffs’ Second Cause of Action (Survivor Cause of Action –
Medical Negligence) and fails to add any additional facts or theories of
recovery, subjecting it to a Demurrer. PRMC cites to Bellamy v. Central
Valley General Hospital (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 797 (“Bellamy”) for
the holding that the same set of facts cannot give rise to separate and
distinct claims for negligence, as a defendant has only one duty that can be
measured by one standard of care under any given circumstance and argues that,
as both of Plaintiffs’ survival causes of actions are premised on the same general
allegations, the Bellamy holding applies. PRMC asserts that the only
difference between the two survival causes of action are legal conclusions and
“buzzwords” that reference an unreasonable and/or dangerous condition on the
premises. PRMC further presents that Plaintiffs fail to plead sufficient facts
to support this cause of action as the allegations speak solely to the
hospital’s duties to care for and supervise Decedent while he was a patient in
the hospital and the breach of which would subject the hospital to a claim for
medical negligence at most. PRMC further presents: (1) Plaintiffs’ FAC does not
contain any facts demonstrating that there was a dangerous and/or defective
condition to all persons at the premises, but rather, as plead, Plaintiffs
allege that PRMC staff failed to supervise him and/or failed to retrieve him
while he was locked inside the bathroom; (2) it is uncertain as to what exact
defective condition Plaintiffs are alleging existed on the premises; and (3) no
information is given as to notice of the alleged dangerous condition. 
 
Plaintiffs argue that the Third
Cause of Action (Survivor Cause of Action – Negligence: Premises Liability) is
a separately pled claim that allows for an alternative claim for relief. Plaintiff
emphasizes that e Premises Liability Claim asserts negligence for failure
“provide a safe, suitable, and adequate premises for the health and safety of
all persons (visitors, guests, medical and non-medical staff, and patients)
lawfully on said Premises.” (FAC ¶¶ 69-73). Specifically, Plaintiffs argue that
this cause of action is an attempt to hold PMRC liable for ordinary and not
professional negligence. (Opp. 6:13-15.) Plaintiffs direct the Court to Johnson
v. Open Door Community Health Centers (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 153 (“Johnson”),
arguing that a separate claim for ordinary negligence is allowed and that this
case is analogous to that of Johnson. Plaintiffs re-emphasize that this
cause of action does not implicate a professional duty of care and that it is
an alternative theory. Plaintiffs further argue that the Third Cause of Action
(Survivor Cause of Action – Negligence: Premises Liability) states a cause of
action as it specifically pleads all elements required of a premises liability
claim; that nowhere in the CACI No. 1000, Premises Liability is the pleading of
a “faulty, dangerous or defective” condition required as a pleading requisite;
and whether a the bathroom door, which did not have a keypad/key and whether
PRMC knew about this dangerous condition are issues for discovery.
 
First, the Court notes that CACI,
the Judicial Council of California Civil Jury Instructions, is neither statute
nor binding case precedent. 
 
“The elements of a negligence
claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a legal duty of care, breach
of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury. Premises liability ‘ “is
grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control
and manage the premises” ’; accordingly, ‘ “mere possession with its attendant
right to control conditions on the premises is a sufficient basis for the
imposition of an affirmative duty to act.” ’ But the duty arising from
possession and control of property is adherence to the same standard of care
that applies in negligence cases. In determining whether a premises owner owes
a duty to persons on its property, we apply the Rowland [Rowland v.
Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108 [70 Cal.Rptr. 97, 443 P.2d 561]] factors.
Indeed, Rowland itself involved premises liability.’ ” (Kesner v.
Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159 [internal citations omitted].)
 
It appears that the FAC is
alleging that the lack of protocols or preventative measures, such as a keypad
and/or a ready access key is what constitutes the dangerous condition. (See FAC
¶¶ 74-75.) 
 
Johnson is distinguished
from the action at hand as: (1) it is a discussion of the trial court's
application of the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act's (“MICRA”) (Code
Civ. Proc., § 340.5) one-year statute of limitations for professional
negligence; and (2) at issue was a scale, considered medical equipment used for
treatment, in a public hallway outside of a treatment room that caused a trip
and fall incident. (See Johnson, supra, 15 Cal. App. 5th 153
[generally].) The Court notes that the appellate court in Johnson stated:
“Unlike the plaintiff Flores, who was injured during the provision of medical
care, through the breach of a duty owed only to patients, Johnson was injured
after her care was completed, allegedly as a result of a breach of duties owed
generally to all visitors to the Open Door clinic.” (Id. at 160.) This
is yet another distinguishing factor as, here, Decedent was injured while
receiving his treatment. A reading of Johnson leads to a conclusion that
this is a case for professional negligence and not ordinary negligence. 
 
Bellamy recites California
Supreme Court ruling which provides: “a plaintiff cannot, on the same facts,
state causes of action for ordinary negligence as well as professional
negligence, as a defendant has only one duty that can be measured by one
standard of care under any given circumstances.” (Bellamy, supra,
50 Cal.App.4th 797 [citing Flowers v. Torrance Memorial Hospital Medical
Center (1994) 8 Cal. 4th 992, 1000].) Bellamy is cautioned only as
to Johnson, discussed ante, and as to Estate of Curtis v. S.
Las Vegas Med. Inv’rs, LLC (Nev. 2020) 466 P.3d 1263, a Nevada state court case,
which has no bearing on this Court. 
 
Here, the cases cited by both
parties support an interpretation that the claim Plaintiffs seek to recover on
is one of professional negligence, not ordinary negligence. 
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy¿(1976), 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under California law leave to
amend is liberally granted, “leave to amend should not be granted where, in all
probability, amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette v. Fireman's Fund Ins.
Co. (1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial court does not abuse its
discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the
facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it
is probable from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts
to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution
Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.)¿¿The pleadings, in conjunction
with the case law presented by both parties, show that an amendment would not
rectify the deficiencies within this cause of action.  
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Lancaster Hospital Corporation dba Palmdale
Regional Medical Center’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.


