 Case Number:  MC027634    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a personal injury action.
Plaintiff Valarie Nolte (“Valarie”[1])
and Richard Nolte (“Richard” and collectively “Plaintiffs”) alleges on January
06, 2016. that Defendant negligently, carelessly and recklessly owned,
entrusted, managed, and maintained their premises so as to allow a dangerous
condition to exist, specifically an unsafe ride with steps that negligently did
not have a handrail for patrons to use, causing a Plaintiff, not specified, to
fall and sustain physical injuries.
 
On January 04, 2018, Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint alleging three causes of action: (1) General Negligence,
(2) Premises Liability, and (3) Loss of Consortium.
 
On April 05, 2018, Defendant CEC
Entertainment, Inc. dba Chuck E Cheese (“CEC”) filed its Answer.
 
On April 27, 2018, CEC filed its
Cross-Complaint. 
 
On March 25, 2019, CEC filed its
First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”).
 
On December 17, 2020, CEC
dismissed several defendants from its FACC. The remaining defendants are:
Guangdong UNIS Technology Co., LTD. (“Guangdong UNIS”), UNIS Technology Canada
(“Canada UNIS”), UNIS USA (“USA UNIS”), and Shiyu Group (“Shiyu”). 
 
On December 30, 2020, Plaintiffs
dismissed all defendants except CEC.
 
On December 30, 2020, the matter
was stayed due to CEC’s bankruptcy proceedings. 
 
On January 05, 2022, the Court
lifted the stay on this case in its entirety. 
 
On April 01, 2022, filed this
Motion to Quash Service of Summons (“Motion to Quash”).
 
After the Motion to Quash was
filed, jurisdictional discovery issues ensued and various motions came before
the Court. 
 
On September 12, 2023, a
stipulation was filed by the parties, striking Paragraph 11 from the Li Wen
Hao’s Declaration in Support of Motion to Quash, but leaving all other aspects
of the declaration in effect and unchanged.
 
On September 12, 2023, CEC filed
its Opposition to the Motion to Quash. 
 
 “. . .[A]ll reply papers [shall be filed with
the court and a copy served on each party] at least five court days before the
hearing.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1005(b).) The hearing is set for September
26, 2023. There is a holiday on September 22, 2023. Accordingly, five court
days before the hearing is Monday, September 18, 2023. On September 19, 2023,
Guangdong UNIS filed its untimely Reply. “No paper may be rejected for filing
on the ground that it was untimely submitted for filing.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1300(d).) The Court will
consider the untimely Reply due to the nature of this motion. The Court reminds
counsels to be cognizant of holidays affecting its filings, especially
regarding such detailed motions. 
 
-----
 
Analysis
 
Standard for Quashing Summons – Cal. Code of Civil Procedure
section¿418.10¿subdivision¿(a)(1)¿provides¿that: “A defendant, on or before the
last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court
may for good cause allow, may serve or file a¿notice of¿motion…[t]o quash
service of summon on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her.”¿¿(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(a)(1).) 
¿ 
“California
courts may exercise jurisdiction over a nonresident on any basis consistent
with the federal or state Constitution. To comport with federal and state due
process, California may only exercise jurisdiction when a defendant has
sufficient minimum contacts with the state to satisfy ‘traditional notions of
fair play and substantial justice.’¿Under the minimum contacts test, we examine
the quality and nature of a defendant’s action to determine whether requiring
him to submit to jurisdiction in California is reasonable and fair.’”¿¿(Zehia
v. Superior Court of San Diego County¿(2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 543,
551–552¿[citing Cal. Code Civ. Proc.¿§ 410.10].) ¿ 
¿ 
“Personal
jurisdiction may be had on either a general (all-purpose) or specific
(case-linked) basis. A nonresident defendant is subject to the general
jurisdiction of the forum if the defendant is ‘essentially at home in the forum
State,’¿which, for corporations, is commonly the place of incorporation or
where the corporation maintains its principal place of business.”¿(Halyard
Health, Inc. v. Kimberly-Clark Corp.¿(2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 1062, 1070, as
modified (Jan. 2, 2020) [citing¿Daimler AG v. Bauman¿(2014) 571 U.S.
117, 137-139].) “A defendant is subject to general jurisdiction when it has
substantial, continuous, and systematic contacts in the forum state, i.e., its
contacts with the forum are so wide-ranging that they take the place of a
physical presence in the state. [Citations.] In assessing a defendant's
contacts with the forum for purposes of general jurisdiction, [courts] look at
the contacts as they existed from the time the alleged conduct occurred to the
time of service of summons. [Citations].” (Strasner v. Touchstone Wireless
Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215, 222.)  
¿ 
“‘Personal
jurisdiction may be either general or specific.’ [Citations.]¿. . .¿‘When
determining whether specific jurisdiction exists, courts consider¿the
‘relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation.’ [Citations.]
A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant only
if:¿(1) ‘the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum
benefits’; (2) ‘the¿‘controversy is related to or ‘arises out of’ [the]
defendant’s contacts with the forum’; and (3)¿‘the assertion of personal
jurisdiction would comport with ‘fair play and substantial justice.’
[Citations.]¿‘When a defendant moves to quash service of process’¿[on
jurisdictional grounds],¿‘the plaintiff¿has the initial burden of demonstrating
facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.’ [Citations.]¿‘The plaintiff
must do more than merely allege jurisdictional facts. It must present evidence
sufficient to justify a finding that California may properly exercise
jurisdiction over the defendant.’ [Citations.] ‘If the plaintiff meets this
initial burden, then the defendant has the burden of demonstrating ‘that the
exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.’ [Citations.]”¿¿(Zehia, supra,¿45
Cal.App.5th¿at¿551–552¿[internal citations omitted] [alterations in
original].)¿ 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
As an initial matter, the
Court notes that CEC’s exhibits, including articles taken from the internet and
depositions are not text searchable. This has consumed a tremendous amount of Court
time and resources as the exhibits total 148 pages. The Court informs all
parties that such text heavy exhibits must be text-searchable or it will not
address any future motions until text-searchable documents are provided. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice – For the sake of the judicial economy, the Court address only
requests for judicial notices that are pertinent to the determination of this
motion. All requests regarding documents within this court case are GRANTED.
(See RJN Nos. 1, 8, 18, 20, 21, and 22.) 
 
CEC’s Request for Judicial Notice No. 4 [The fact that
https://www.unistechnology.com/ website may be accessed by users within the
State of California, a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto
Exhibit 4.] – GRANTED.
 
CEC’s Request for Judicial Notice No. 10 [A printout of the
State of California Secretary of State showing that Betson Coin-Op Distributing
Company, Inc. is active and in good standing, a true and correct copy of which
is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.] – GRANTED. 
 
CEC’s Request for Judicial Notice No. 11 [A printout of the
State of California Secretary of State showing that Player One International,
LLC is active and in good standing, a true and correct copy of which is
attached hereto as Exhibit 11.] – GRANTED.
 
Evidentiary Objections
– For the sake of the judicial economy, the Court address only objections that
are pertinent to the determination of this motion.
 
i.                   
Objections
to Requests for Judicial Notice 
 
As to objections related to requests for judicial notices regarding
documents within this Court case, such objections are DENIED. Judicial notice
of court records is allowed under Cal. Evid. Code §§ 452(d) and 453.
 
As to the objection regarding the
request for judicial notice related to the UNIS website, the objection is
DENIED. Judicial notice is allowed under Cal. Evid. Code §§ 452(h) and 453.
Also, as the Court can access the UNIS website, it is clear that residents
within California are able to and this is a fact that is not reasonably subject
to dispute. 
 
As to objections regarding requests
for judicial notice of Secretary of State filings, the objections are DENIED.
Judicial notice of the Secretary of State filings are allowed under Cal. Evid.
Code §§ 452(c), 452(h), and 453.
 
No other Requests for Judicial
Notice were used by this Court. Other documents used were exhibits and
declarations (i.e., Decl. Li Wen Hao, Decl. Tom Ward). 
 
ii.                 
Objections to the Declaration of Tom Ward
The Court used only paragraphs 7
and “8”[2]
for its determination on this motion. 
 
The only objection to any of the
paragraphs used by the Court is Objection No. 6, which seeks to object to Tom
Ward’s statement that he personally observed ads from UNIS Technology, Ltd. Co.
in major amusement game magazines. 
 
This objection is OVERRULED. The
Court discusses the use of “UNIS Entities,” infra, and such a statement
by Tom Ward is related to his personal knowledge. The Court also notes that,
per its records, Guangdong UNIS is responding when it was sued as “UNIS
Technology, Ltd. Co.” which is substantially similar to the name that Tom Ward
addresses the company by in his declaration.
 
Application – Guangdong
UNIS breaks their Motion to Quash into four arguments: (1) personal
jurisdiction, (2) general jurisdiction, (3) specific jurisdiction, and (4) a
public policy argument. 
 
Guangdong UNIS presents that personal
jurisdiction over a defendant can be established by a defendant’s (1) presence
in the forum state, (2) domicile in the forum state, or (3) consent; and argue
that none of these bases apply to it, directing the Court to the declaration of
Li Wen Hao (“Li”). Guangdong UNIS contends that, as the previous bases do not
apply, the only basis left for personal jurisdiction is minimum contacts. Guangdong
UNIS further argues that minimum contacts do not exist and jurisdiction is
improper as: (1) it is a corporation that exists exclusively under the laws of
the People’s Republic of China (Decl. Li ¶ 2); (2) it has its principal place
of business in Guangdong China (ibid.); (3) it is not licensed or
registered to business by the State of California (id. at ¶ 5); (4) does
not maintain a bank account or telephone listing in the State of California (id.
at ¶ 7); (5) does not have a registered agent for service of process in
California (ibid.); (6) does not pay taxes in the State of California (ibid.);
(7) it has never owned, leased, rented, purchased, or controlled real property
in the State of California (ibid.); (8) is not registered as a
corporation with the California Secretary of State (ibid.); (9) it has
no assets in California (id. at ¶ 8); and (10) it has not maintained a
website that is utilized to solicit or obtain sales directly from California
residents. Guangdong UNIS highlights that even if it maintained a website where
customers can order products directly for delivery in California, it would not
constitute minimum contacts under the holding of Vibration Isolation
Products, Inc. v. American Nat. Rubber Co. (1972) 23 Cal.App.3d 480. 
 
CEC first presents a general
argument that applies to all jurisdictional issues raised by Guangdong UNIS:
(1) that Guangdong UNIS and the other UNIS entities present themselves as
separate and distinct entities in order to shield themselves from liability
(Decl. Kimberly Hisa ¶ 4 [including reference to Steven Tan (“Tan”)’s
deposition regarding construction of Guangdong UNIS’ website]); (2) there was
no distinction on the website between the UNIS entities nor was any distinction
presented to CEC when UNIS entities marketed to CEC (see Decl. Tom Ward ¶ 8[3]);
(3) the UNIS website presented an organizational chart which included US Sales
Manager, Debbie Gonzalez (“Gonzalez”), as well as the other UNIS entities and
their functions within the UNIS group, and said chart was taken off from the
website during the scope of this litigation during the course of this
litigation (Decl. Kimberly Hisa, Exhs. 5 and 7); (4) Gonzalez has testified
that she sold UNIS products from her home offices in Los Angeles County,
California and Orange County, California for over 11 years (id., Exh. 8
[Gonzalez Depo, 11:21-12:1, 17:19-21, 20:4-22]). The Court notes that CEC
presents that, as with the organizational chart, Gonzalez has since been
replaced. (Id., ¶ 5.)
 
Next, CEC argues that Guangdong
UNIS, as a UNIS entity, did have minimum contacts within the State of
California. CEC points out that Guangdong UNIS: (1) maintained a website that
can be accessed and viewed by California residents which allowed California
residents to purchase UNIS products; (2) UNIS entities have consistently and
continuously marketed to California residents for at least over 11 years (RJN,
Exh. 4; Decl. Kimberly Hisa, Exh. 8 [Gonzalez Depo.]); (3) Gonzalez testified
that she was the sole US Sales Manager for UNIS entities, was responsible for
the sale of UNIS products in the US, performed her services in the State of
California, maintained a California phone number, and her territory was the
entire US which includes California (Decl. Kimberly Hisa, Exh 8 [Gonzalez Depo
at 12:5-11, 17:14-24,18:16-2, 20:4-22, 27:23 – 28:6, 28:18 –29:3, 44:15 -17],
Exh. 13); and (4) Gonzalez also testified as to her interactions with Canada
UNIS and others which included: firsthand knowledge of Tan conducting business
with distributors in California at least twice in the last few years (ibid.
[98:20 – 100:9]), communication with distributors in California in order to
sell UNIS products (ibid. [29:4 – 24]), sales with distributors in
California (ibid. [29:25-30:2]), sales included shipment to Betson
Coin-Op Distributing Company, Inc. (“Betson”) and Player One Amusement Group
(“Player One”) who both do business within the State of California and are
active and in good standing with the California Secretary of State (ibid.
[29:19 – 30:23]; RJN, Exhs. 10 and 11)[4],
and yearly attendance to the California Entertainment Machine Association
(“CEMA”) conferences held in Cerritos, California (ibid. [58:9 – 60:8]; id.,
Exhs. 14 and 26). CEC also highlights that Gonzalez testified that UNIS
products were specifically marketed, advertised, and promoted for California
markets at these CEMA conference (ibid. [59:18 – 60:8]), this testimony
is consistent with CEC’s interactions with UNIS as CEC would find advertisements
in popular amusement game magazines (Decl. Ward ¶ 7), and Gonzalez both knew
that UNIS products are available for use by California residents (Decl.
Kimberly Hisa, Exh. 8 [55:3-6]). Based on the above, CEC argues that the Motion
to Quash must be denied as minimum contacts exist, Guangdong UNIS, purposefully
availed itself (and continues to do so) to the benefits and protections of the
State of California while simultaneously maintaining systematic and continuous
contacts over at least the last 11 years, and jurisdiction over Guangdong UNIS
comports with the notions of fair play and substantial justice.
 
CEC further argues that the representative
services doctrine is included within the purview of personal jurisdiction and
such a theory bypasses the foreign defendant’s direct minimum contacts with
California as the contacts of that company are imputed via the presence of a
local agent, through which the foreign principal acts under principles of
agency and such a theory applies in this case. CEC directs the Court to Paneno
v. Centres for Academic Programmes Abroad Ltd. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1447
(“Paneno”) and argues that the relationship between the UNIS entities is
analogous to that of the foreign defendant in Paneno. 
 
The Court notes that while CEC
presents “as UNIS US Sales Manager, Ms. Gonzalez would visit California
businesses in California where UNIS products she marketed and sold would be
available for consumer play and use[,]” this argument is not supported by the description
of  the cited exhibits, Exhibits 15 and
16, in Kimberly Hisa’s declaration as the declaration states only that the
exhibits were pulled from searches run by CEC’s counsel’s office (See Opp.
5:10-13; Decl. Kimberly Hisa, Exhs. 15 and 16 and relevant paragraphs
describing the exhibits.) However, Exhibit 15 is pulled from the UNIS website
and depicts an opening of a Big Al location in Rancho Cucamonga, California to
which Gonzalez was present; and Exhibit 16 is pulled from the UNIS website and
depicts a general entity named “UNIS” that works with Luv 2 Play, a franchise
operated by Indoor Playgrounds International that is located in Lake Forest,
California. For clarity, the Court notes that such items would be allowed in at
trial as a statement of a party opponent. (See Cal. Evid. Code § 1220.)
 
“When a motion to quash is
properly brought, the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish
the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc.
v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568; see also Elkman v. National
States Ins. Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1312-13 [“Where a nonresident
defendant challenges jurisdiction by way of a motion to quash, the plaintiff
bears the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that
minimum contacts exist between the defendant and the forum state to justify
imposition of personal jurisdiction.”].) Evidence of the facts giving rise to
personal jurisdiction or their absence may be in the form of declarations. (Arensen
v. Raymond Lee Organization, Inc. (1973) 31 Cal.App.3d 991, 995; see also In
re Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 110 [plaintiff
must come forward with affidavits and other competent evidence to carry this
burden and cannot simply rely on allegations in an unverified complaint].) The
Court should exclude evidence that would be inadmissible at trial. (See, e.g., Judd
v. Superior Court (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 38, 43-44 [Court of Appeal excluded
inadmissible hearsay evidence offered in support of affirmation of trial
court's denial of motion to quash, and subsequently reversed the trial court's
denial].) If the plaintiff satisfies the first two prongs of the test, the
burden shifts to the defendant to present a compelling case that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable. (Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz
(1985) 471 U.S. 462, 476-78.)
 
As
mentioned, ante: 
 
“Personal
jurisdiction may be had on either a general (all-purpose) or specific
(case-linked) basis. A nonresident defendant is subject to the general
jurisdiction of the forum if the defendant is ‘essentially at home in the forum
State,’¿which, for corporations, is commonly the place of incorporation or
where the corporation maintains its principal place of business.”¿(Halyard
Health, Inc. v. Kimberly-Clark Corp.¿(2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 1062, 1070, as
modified (Jan. 2, 2020) [citing¿Daimler AG v. Bauman¿(2014) 571 U.S.
117, 137-139].) “A defendant is subject to general jurisdiction when it has
substantial, continuous, and systematic contacts in the forum state, i.e., its
contacts with the forum are so wide-ranging that they take the place of a
physical presence in the state. [Citations.] In assessing a defendant's
contacts with the forum for purposes of general jurisdiction, [courts] look at
the contacts as they existed from the time the alleged conduct occurred to the
time of service of summons. [Citations].” (Strasner v. Touchstone Wireless
Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215, 222.)  
 
As such, a determination of personal jurisdiction necessarily entails
analysis on the parties’ general jurisdiction and specific jurisdiction
arguments. 
 
i.                   
General Jurisdiction
 
Guangdong UNIS describes general
jurisdiction and argues that it does not meet the standard as “it has not
engaged in ‘continuous and systematic corporate activities’ in California.”
(Motion to Quash 13:20-21.) It directs the Court to Li’s declaration. Guangdong
UNIS next highlights Cassiar Mining Corp. v. Superior Court of Orange County
(1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 550 (“Cassiar Mining Corp.”), comparing and
contrasting itself with the asbestos manufactory within Cassiar Mining Corp.
Guangdong UNIS argues that if a defendant who sold materials directly to
California manufacturing plants over a 38-year period did not have continuous
and systematic contact, then general jurisdiction is improper in this case. 
 
CEC directs the court to its
general argument for personal jurisdiction, presenting that the factors for
general jurisdiction in California case law are present here. CEC highlights
the UNIS website and Canada UNIS’ involvement in marketing. CEC argues that
everything it has presented shows that Guangdong UNIS and UNIS Entities have
made significant efforts to bring their products to the State of California and
that, though Guangdong UNIS and UNIS Entities attempted to take steps to avoid
being subject to California’s jurisdiction, he fact still remains that
Guangdong UNIS and the UNIS Entities do market directly to California consumers
and many of its products are admittedly available for use by California
residents. 
 
General jurisdiction exists when
a defendant is domiciled in the forum state or his activities there are
substantial, continuous, and systematic. (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. v. Sup.
Ct. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796.) “In such circumstances, it is not
necessary that the specific cause of action alleged be connected with the
defendant's business relationship to the forum.” (Id.) “The standard for
establishing general jurisdiction is ‘fairly high,’ [citation] and requires
that the defendant's contacts be of the sort that approximates physical
presence.” (Elkman, supra, 173 Cal.App.4th at 1315.) “Factors to
be taken into consideration are whether the defendant makes sales, solicits or
engages in business in the state, serves the state's markets, designates an
agent for service of process, holds a license, or is incorporated there.” (Id.)
 
First, the Court discusses the
representative services doctrine. Paneno summarizes the holding in Sonora
Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 83 Cal.App.4th 523 (“Sonora
Diamond”) regarding this doctrine:
 
“Agency may confer
general jurisdiction in the forum state over a foreign corporation.” ( Sonora
Diamond, supra, 83 Cal.App.4th at p. 540.) In the context of
parent-subsidiary corporation relationships, “neither ownership nor control of
a subsidiary corporation by a foreign parent corporation, without more,
subjects the parent to the jurisdiction of the state where the subsidiary does
business.” (Ibid.) The “more” exists “where the nature and extent of the
control exercised over the subsidiary by the parent is so pervasive and
continual that the subsidiary may be considered nothing more than an agent or
instrumentality of the parent, notwithstanding the maintenance of separate
corporate formalities.” ( Id. at p. 541.) In those circumstances,
“jurisdiction over the parent may be grounded in the acts of the
subsidiary/agent.” (Ibid.) In other words, “if a parent corporation
exercises such a degree of control over its subsidiary corporation that the
subsidiary can legitimately be described as only a means through which the
parent acts, or nothing more than an incorporated department of the parent, the
subsidiary will be deemed to be the agent of the parent in the forum state and
jurisdiction will extend to the parent.” (Ibid.; see also DVI, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1080, 1093–1094 [128 Cal. Rptr. 2d
683] (DVI); Chan v. Society Expeditions, Inc. (9th Cir. 1994) 39
F.3d 1398, 1405–1406 (Chan) [defining a general agent as when its forum
representative provides services beyond mere solicitation and these services
are sufficiently important to the foreign corporation that if it did not have a
representative to perform them, the corporation's own officials would undertake
to perform substantially similar services].)
 
The “
‘representative services’ ” doctrine, a species of agency, “supports the
exercise of jurisdiction when the local subsidiary performs a function that is
compatible with, and assists the parent in the pursuit of, the parent's own
business.” (Sonora Diamond, supra, 83 Cal.App.4th at p. 543.) In
other words, “ ‘[i]f a parent uses a subsidiary to do what it otherwise would
have done itself, it has purposely availed itself of the privilege of doing
business in the forum.’ ” (Ibid.)
 
(Paneno, supra, 118
Cal.App.4th at 1455-56.)
 
The Court finds CEC’s
presentation that Guangdong UNIS’ relationship with the other UNIS entities is
analogous to that of the foreign company in Paneno compelling. In Paneno,
two companies were at issue, CAPA-UK and CAPA-USA, and it was held that, though
CAPA-UK was a distinct entity from CAPA-USA and CAPA-UK did not have contact
with California directly (i.e., CAPA-USA has never owned, operated, or managed
CAPA-UK; CAPA-UK and CAPA-USA have separate offices, officers, and employees;
CAPA-UK and CAPA-USA have identical board of directors, CAPA-UK never loaned
money to, signed, or cosigned any notes on behalf of, or guaranteed loans
of,  or otherwise financed CAPA-USA;
CAPA-UK maintains no offices in California and does not employ any persons in
California; CAPA-UK does not pay any taxes to California; CAPA-UK has never
owned, operated, or managed any entity located or doing business in California;
CAPA-UK does not have any bank accounts, real or personal property, telephone
numbers, mailing addresses, or post office boxes in California; etc.), CAPA-USA
functions as the United States sales, marketing, and pre-departure
administration arm for CAPA-UK in the provision of international educational
programs. (See id. at 1451-56.) That is, “[w]ithout CAPA-USA performing
in that capacity [the United States sales, marketing, and pre-departure
administration arm for CAPA-UK], CAPA-UK would have had to handle such
activities itself.” (Id. at 1456.) The Paneno court also
discussed (1) brochures supplied to potential program participants, including
the plaintiff who resided in the US, in which “the entity generically referred
to as ‘CAPA,’ indicated that it would ‘coordinate all of the logistics of [the]
program including … accommodations,’ a function ascribed solely to CAPA-UK[;]”
and (2) how the program fee the plaintiff paid included monies for arrangements
made exclusively by CAPA-UK. (Ibid.)
 
Here, Guangdong UNIS’
relationship with the other UNIS entities in nearly identical. The
organizational chart CEC has taken from the UNIS website shows: (1) Guangdong
UNIS (the manufacturer, “Head Office & Main Factory”); (2) UNIS TECHNOLOGY;
and (H.K.) LTD. CO. (“UNIS Hong Kong”) (the importer and exporter, “Shipping
& Receiving”); and
(3) UNIS Canada (“International
Sales, Research & Development, Contract Manufacturing”). Gonzalez, the UNIS
Entities’ US Sales Manager, testified that she is an independent contractor with
UNIS (Decl. Kimberly Hisa, Exh. 8 [17:19-20]), and, that despite being the only
US sales manager for UNIS, she only represents UNIS Canada (ibid.
[28:18-22]). As presented by CEC, with relevant citations, ante,
Gonzalez also testified as to what she did, which included discussions with
product purchasers, attending conferences, among other actions. It is patent
that each UNIS entity functions as a part of a whole leading, ultimately, to
the sale and distribution of a product to an end buyer, including those that
reside in California. This is akin to the relationship CAPA-USA and CAPA-UK had
in Paneno. Further, like the reference to “CAPA” in Paneno,
marketing advertisements such as those from the UNIS website address only an
entity named “UNIS.” Arguably, the UNIS entities go even further than CAPA-UK
and CAPA-USA in that they have employed a US Sales Manager who lives, works,
and sells products in California. (See Decl. Kimberly Hisa, Exh. 8
[generally].) Accordingly, following binding case precedent, the representative
services doctrine applies to Guangdong UNIS and the evidence provided by CEC
supports the exercise of general jurisdiction over it. 
 
CEC has met its initial burden
regarding general jurisdiction. The burden shifts to Guangdong UNIS to present
a compelling case that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.
 
The Court briefly discusses the
bullet pointed “falsehoods” on page four in Guangdong UNIS’ Reply as it is
necessary prior to analysis. The use of the blanket term “UNIS Entities” must
be considered with regards to marketing or published materials as it is a clear
factor that California appellate courts have looked at. (See discussion of Paneno,
ante.) The Court has noted Guangdong UNIS’ other bullet points and takes
them into consideration when conducting its analysis, infra.
 
Guangdong UNIS presents: (1) the
evidence affirms the statements from the Li’s declaration, (2) Gonzalez has
testified that she does not work for Guangdong UNIS (citing Deposition of
Debbie Gonzalez, 40:17-41:1), and (3) CEC’s discussion of discovery includes
misrepresentations and confuses the true issue at hand. Guangdong UNIS
re-emphasizes legal standards it presented in its moving papers (International
Shoe Co. v. Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310; Burger King Corp. v.
Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462; Vibration Isolation Products, Inc. v.
American Nat. Rubber Co. (1972) 23 Cal.App.3d 480) and emphasizes Li’s
declaration. Guangdong UNIS argues that CEC mistakenly groups Guangdong UNIS
with Canada UNIS, and that it has no control over Gonzalez. Guangdong UNIS
further argues that the representative services doctrine does not apply,
comparing the case at hand to that of Sonora Diamond and F.
Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd. v. Sup. Ct. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782 (“F.
Hoffman-La Roche”) and arguing that they are more akin to both of these
cases rather than Paneno. Guangdong UNIS re-emphasizes that it has not
had continuous and systematic contacts with California. 
 
Guangdong UNIS’ argument is not
persuasive. First, the information that Guangdong UNIS provided in Reply
enumerated above was considered upon the application of Paneno in the
Court’s analysis of CEC’s evidence. Further, the companies in Paneno did
not have a parent-subsidiary relationship, but it was still held that the
representative services doctrine applied. As such, though Guangdong UNIS
attempts to distinguish itself from the other UNIS entities, the evidence
provided does not overcome the interpretation that Guangdong UNIS utilizes the
other UNIS entities to do what it otherwise would have done itself to bring its
products to California.[5]
In Diamond, Diamond was a holding company whose business was not mining
but rather its investment in Sonora Mining. (See Sonora Diamond, supra,
83 Cal.App.4th at pp. 544–545.) As in Paneno, Guangdong UNIS is far
different from that of the parent corporation in Sonora Diamond. Specifically,
the evidence shows that each UNIS entity performs a function – Guangdong UNIS
is the manufacturer, H.K UNIS the shipper, and Canada UNIS who contracts with
Gonzalez is responsible for marketing, including in the State of California. With
respect to the facts in the instant case, all sales in California could not
occur without marketing from Canada UNIS and shipping from H.K. UNIS and,
without either, Guangdong UNIS would be performing these functions on its own. So
too is the case at hand distinguished from F. Hoffman-La Roche. In F.
Hoffman-La Roche, the only theory for the exercise of jurisdiction over
either Swiss defendant was agency via application of the representative
services doctrine and it was held that the requisite level of pervasive and
continual control that defines the principal/agent relationship for purposes of
jurisdiction under California law was lacking as to each of them as the record
did not evidence that either Swiss defendant did not function as independent
entities, but rather that each entity had only bilateral, collaborative
involvement or corporate integration by the U.S. Roche defendants in the area
of drug safety. (F. Hoffman-La Roche, supra, 130 Cal.App.4th at 799-800.)
Here, the record shows that there is more to the relationship between Guangdong
UNIS and the other UNIS entities that mere collaborative involvement or
corporate integrate. Rather, the record supports that each UNIS entity acts as
a part to make up a whole. 
 
Thus, Guangdong UNIS has not met
its burden to show that jurisdiction over it would be unreasonable as its
actions and relationships fall squarely within the binding case precedent set
out by Paneno. 
 
Because the Court concludes that Guangdong
UNIS is subject to general jurisdiction, the Court does need to address whether
Guangdong UNIS is also subject to specific jurisdiction.
 
                   
i.           
Specific Jurisdiction
 
Guangdong UNIS argues that, to
determine whether specific jurisdiction exists, (1) the causes of action
alleged by Guangdong UNIS must arise out of an act done or transaction
consummated in California; or (2) Guangdong UNIS must perform some other act by
which it purposefully avails itself of the privilege of conducting activities
in California, thereby invoking the benefits and protections of California’s
law. Guangdong UNIS contends that the actions alleged by the FACC do not arise
out of any act done or transaction consummated in California. Guangdong UNIS
highlights that it was formed as a business eight years after the ride that
makes up the basis of this action was sold and shipped and, even if it had any
involvement in the design or manufacturing of the ride, it would not have
engaged in such activity in California. Guangdong UNIS presents: (1) the
contracts for the purchase of the product between CEC and other companies were
consummated in Kansas (FACC, Exh. A) and delivery occurred in Kansas (ibid.).

 
CEC presents that Guangdong UNIS
has purposefully availed itself of California as it advertises its products on
the UNIS website, which is accessible to California customers; marketed its
product through direct contact and/or trade shows to California customers; marketed
its products through magazines available to California customers, sold products
by a US sales manager whose office was located in the State of California,
ensured that its sales manager maintained ongoing relationships with end users,
and UNIS Entities maintains a parts and services support center that can be
contacted from the State of California thereby establishing channels for
providing regular service and advice to customers regarding products
manufactured by Guangdong UNIS (see Decl. Kimberly Hisa, Exh. 29.) CEC further
argues that Guangdong UNIS marketed its products in California, a specifically
targeted forum, and by purposefully and successfully soliciting profits from
California businesses, Guangdong UNIS could reasonably anticipate being subject
to litigation in California in the event their solicitations and sales caused
an injury to a California resident and the exercise of specific jurisdiction
over Guangdong UNIS is not only warranted; it is fair, reasonable, and just as (1)
Guangdong UNIS at least admits that it has knowledge with regard to the design,
manufacture, and sale of the subject ride; (2) if Guangdong UNIS were to
prevail on this MTQ, it would deprive CEC of its rights to due process in the
prosecution of its cross-claims against the manufacturer; (3) CEC’s interest in
obtaining relief far outweighs any inconvenience that may arise by Guangdong
UNIS’s participation in litigation; and (4) , UNIS products are available for
use by California residents throughout the entire state and are easily
accessible and California has an interest in exercising jurisdiction over
Guangdong UNIS and related UNIS Entities to protect its residents. 
 
The Court again notes that the
argument that Guangdong UNIS ensured that its sales manager maintained ongoing
relationships with end users relies on exhibits that do not fully reflect this
argument (i.e., Exhibits 10-12 and 15-16). Exhibits 15 and 16, discussed ante,
anything reflecting that UNIS worked with locations in California and Gonzalez visited
Big Al, but does not show that Gonzalez maintained ongoing relationships with
end users. Exhibits 10 and 11, which the Court believes are the Request for
Judicial Notice Exhibits, are Secretary of State filings. Exhibit 12 shows only
communication related to sale(s) to which both Gonzalez and Canada UNIS were a
part of and which, like Exhibits 15 and 16, do not reflect an ongoing
relationship between Gonzalez and end users. 
 
As general jurisdiction has been
established, the Court need not address the issue of specific jurisdiction. 
 
 
                 
ii.           
Public Policy
 
Finally, Guangdong UNIS presents
that asserting jurisdiction over it would not comport with the notions of fair
play and substantial justice. Specifically, Guangdong UNIS presents that even
if it was involved with the allegations against specially appearing, arguably
some defect in design and/or manufacture of the subject product, such actions
would not have occurred in California. Guangdong UNIS emphasizes that forcing
it to adjudicate a claim regarding a product (i.e., ride) manufactured in
China, assuming the product was made by them, that was sold and purchased
between parties unrelated to it would unduly and unfairly burden it. Guangdong
UNIS contends that every substantive fact regarding the involvement of it in
relation to this case occurred in China. Thus, Guangdong UNIS concludes that
the burden that defending this action would impose on specially appearing it
far outweighs any interest California has in adjudicating the allegations
against it and public policy dictates that this court has no jurisdiction over
specially appearing it as to do so would be unfair, unreasonable, and unjust in
light of the facts presented. 
 
The Court believes that CEC’s
arguments regarding specific jurisdiction subsumes its response to this topic. As
mentioned, ante, as general jurisdiction has been established, the Court need
not address the issue of specific jurisdiction. 
 
 
-----
 
 
Conclusion
 
Guangdong UNIS Technology Co., LTD’s Motion to Quash
is DENIED.


