 Case Number:  22AVCV01098    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a is a personal injury
action stemming from a motor vehicle incident. Plaintiffs Nisha Norberg
(“Norberg”) and Gaige Woolfield, a minor by and through his Guardian ad Litem,
Amberlynn Peterson (“Woolfield” and collectively “Plaintiffs”) allege that on November
13, 2021, Norberg was driving her vehicle, with Woolfield in a rear child
restraint seat, northbound on Avenue G, approaching the intersection of Avenue
G and 30th Street East in Lancaster, CA when a vehicle pulled directly into her
path of travel when as she entered the intersection, causing an accident.
Plaintiffs present that all parties to the accident agree that there was a
visibility issue due to poor lighting at the intersection and the poor lighting
was known by Defendants County of Los Angeles (“COLA”) and City of Lancaster
(“Lancaster”) know of said issue prior to the incident. 
 
On December 30, 2022, Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint alleging two causes of action for: (1) Premises liability[1],
and (2) General Negligence. 
On January 20, 2023, Plaintiffs dismissed
Lancaster without prejudice. 
 
On February 14, 2023, COLA filed
its Answer and a Cross-Complaint, naming Alexander de Leon Giron (“Giron”) as
Cross-Defendant.
 
On June 13, 2023, Cross-Defendant
filed his Answer to the Cross Complaint. 
 
On July 18, 2023, Giron filed an
Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement. 
 
On August 17, 2023, COLA filed
this Motion Contesting Application by Alexander De Leon Giron for Determination
of Good Faith Settlement (“Motion to Contest Good Faith Settlement”).
 
On August 18, 2023, COLA filed an
Ex Parte Application for an order permitting County to late file the Notice of
Motion and Motion Contesting Giron’s Application for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement, granted on August 21, 2023. 
 
No Opposition has been filed to
Motion to Contest Good Faith Settlement. Regarding motions contesting the good
faith of the settlement, “the notice by a nonsettling party shall be given in
the manner provided in subdivision (b) of Section 1005.” (SeeCal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 877.6(a)(2) [excluding settlements in which a confidentiality agreement
has been entered into regarding the case or the terms of the settlement].) Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 1005(b) provides: “All papers opposing a motion so noticed
shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine
court days. . .before the hearing.” “Section 1013, which extends the time
within which a right may be exercised or an act may be done, does not apply to
a notice of motion, papers opposing a motion, or reply papers governed by this
section.” (Ibid.) The hearing is set for September 26, 2023.
Accordingly, an Opposition was due by September 12, 2023, accounting for the
holiday on September 22, 2023. Should an Opposition be filed, it is now untimely.

 
On September 19, 2023, COLA filed
a Notice of Non-Opposition.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Legal Standard for Good Faith Settlement– Under Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §877.6,
“[a]ny¿party to an action in which it is alleged that two or more parties are
joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a
hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the
plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or
co-obligors.”¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.§ 877.6(a)(1).)¿ Alternatively, “a settling
party may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together
with an application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed
order.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §877.6(a)(2).) Such an application shall include
“the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the settlement” and
“[t]he notice, application, and proposed order shall be given by certified
mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service.” (Id.) “The
issue of the good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the
basis of affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any¿counter-affidavits¿filed
in response, or the court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the
hearing.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.§ 877.6(b).)¿ “A determination by the court that
the settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or
co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.”¿ (Code Civ.
Proc.§ 877.6(c).)¿¿The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the
burden of proof on that issue.¿¿(Code Civ. Proc.§ 877.6(d).)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
The courts consider the so-called¿Tech-Bilt¿factors
when determining whether a settlement is made in good faith:¿ 
¿ 
“[T]he intent and policies underlying
section 877.6 require that a number of factors be¿taken into account¿including
a rough approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.¿
Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests
of¿nonsettling¿defendants.¿[citations omitted]¿Finally, practical
considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement. . . . The party asserting the
lack of good faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue (§ 877.6,¿subd.
(d)), should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so
far “out of the ballpark” in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent
with the equitable objectives of the statute.”¿ 
¿ 
(Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates¿(1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499–500 (“Tech-Bilt”). See also¿id.¿at¿499 [“a
disproportionately low settlement figure is often reasonable in the case of a
relatively insolvent, and uninsured, or underinsured, joint tortfeasor”].)¿¿¿ 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – COLA
seeks the Court deny Cross-Defendant’s Application of Good Faith Settlement on
the basis that Tech-Bilt factors are not met due to his degree of
culpability and/or responsibility for the accident and resulting injuries.
 
The Tech-Bilt factors are: 
 
·        
a rough
approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's proportionate
liability, 
·        
the amount
paid in settlement, 
·        
the
allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, 
·        
a
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial, 
·        
the
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, 
·        
the as
the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of¿nonsettling¿defendants, and 
·        
practical
considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement. 
 
(Tech-Bilt, Inc, supra, at
499-500.) 
 
COLA argues that Giron has not
made any showing that the settlement was within the good faith range as it
states that (1) a settlement was reached for a $30,000, and (2) states that the
$30,000 settlement is “not grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person
at the time of the settlement would estimate Giron’s exposure to be.” (See
Application for Good Faith Settlement 6:9-10.) COLA emphasizes that no analysis
has been done under Tech-Bilt.
 
COLA next argues that the
settlement amount of $30,000.00 is not within the good faith ballpark.
Specifically, COLA directs the Court to the presentation of damages set forth
in Plaintiffs’ government claim and presents that the $30,000.00 is only a
fraction of Plaintiffs’ estimated injuries, leading to a disproportionate
amount as to what a reasonable person at the time of settlement would estimate
Giron’s exposure to be.
 
For clarity, the Court notes that
this is an action in which it is alleged two are more parties are joint
tortfeasors due to COLA’s cross-complaint. 
 
Here, the Court has been provided
with the following information on the settlements:
 
·        
$15,000.00 for Woolfield; and 
·        
$15,000.00 for Norberg
 
(Application of Good Faith Settlement
6:9-10.) 
 
The Court notes that Plaintiffs
had filed a separate probate case, 23AVPB00135, for a Minor’s Compromise
between Giron and Woolfield, set for hearing on June 15, 2023, approximately
three months prior to the determination of good faith settlement. Counsel for
Plaintiffs in both cases, Kenneth King (“King”), neither filed a notice of
related case nor informed the Court that there was a determination of good
faith settlement related to the Minor’s Compromise that remained pending. As
such, the Court vacated its order related to the Minor’s Compromise in 23AVPB00135.
(See 23AVPB00135 09/19/2023 Order.) Giron’s attorney, Varduhi Rose Petrosyan, attempts
to discuss 23AVPB00135 as support for the Application for Good Faith
Settlement. Such discussion is now moot.
 
                               
i.           
Rough Approximation of Plaintiffs' Total
Recovery and the Settlors' Proportionate Liability
 
The first Tech-Bilt factor
consists of two parts — a rough approximation of Plaintiffs' total recovery and
the settlors' proportionate liability. When approximating a plaintiff's total
recovery or the settling defendant's proportionate liability, “judges should .
. . not yearn for the unreal goal of mathematical certainty. Because the
application of section 877.6 requires an educated guess as to what may occur
should the case go to trial, all that can be expected is an estimate, not a
definitive conclusion.” (North County Contractor's Assn. v. Touchstone Ins.
Services (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1085, 1090 (“North County”).)
 
Additionally, “a court not only
looks at the alleged tortfeasor's liability to the plaintiff, but it must also
consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged to
be responsible for the same injury. Potential liability for indemnity to a
nonsettling defendant is an important consideration for the trial court in
determining whether to approve a settlement by an alleged tortfeasor.
[Citation.]” (TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007)
149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.)
 
Here, the Court need not make an
educated guess as to actual damages. COLA has provided the government claims
filed by King on behalf of Plaintiffs. They show that Woolfield has actual
damages of $250,000.00 (Decl. Erik Pogosyan, Exh. A) and Norberg has actual
damages of $500,000.000 (id., Exh. B.) The Court notes that both claims
state that the total estimated prospective damages for each Plaintiff to be
$1,500,000.00; however, this is not an accurate reflection of plaintiff’s total
recovery. (See Id., Exhs. A and B.) At the minimum, based on Plaintiffs’
own claims, Plaintiffs’ recovery will be over $750,000.00. 
 
The case also arises, as
presented by the allegations, due to Giron pulling directly into Plaintiffs’
path of travel. (See Complaint, Premises Liability and General Negligence attachments.)
Both Plaintiffs and Giron believe that some culpability was due to lighting
issues at the intersection. (See ibid.)
 
While Plaintiffs did not sue
Giron as a defendant, COLA has alleged 
Implied Indemnity, Contribution, and Declaratory Relief against Giron,
including a prayer of relief for (1) total and complete indemnity for any
judgments rendered against COLA; (2) judgment in proportionate share to COLA
and Giron; and (3) a judicial determination that Giron was the legal cause of
Plaintiffs’ injuries and indemnification of COLA, partially or in whole. (See
Cross-Complaint [generally].)
 
Good faith is not affected by the
fact the parties did not have access to all the evidence ultimately offered at
trial on the disputed issues. (Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc. v. Sup.Ct.
(Lee) (1990) 220 Cal.3d 864, 878.) However, there must be some evidence
to support the determination and it is an abuse of discretion to find good
faith based on a critical assumption as to the settling defendant's liability
for which there is no evidence at all. (Id. at pp. 877-878.) Here,
Plaintiffs have conceded in their Complaint that Giron pulled into their path
of travel leading to the accident, though lighting was also at issue. (See
Complaint, Premises Liability and General Negligence attachments.) 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that
this factor does not support a determination of good faith.
 
                             
ii.           
The Amount Paid in Settlement
 
“[A] defendant's settlement
figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the
time of the settlement, would estimate the defendant's liability to be.'
[Citation.]” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) However,
even though “an offer of settlement must bear some relationship to one’s
proportionate liability, bad faith is not ‘established by a showing that a
settling defendant paid less than his theoretical proportionate or fair share.’
[Citation.]" (North County, supra, 27 Cal.App.4th at
p.1090.) “Such a rule would unduly discourage settlements” and “convert the
pretrial settlement approval procedure into a full-scale mini-trial.” (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) Rather, in order to meet the
proportionality requirement, “all that is necessary is that there be a ‘rough
approximation’ between a settling tortfeasor's offer of settlement and his
proportionate liability. [Citation.]” (North County, supra, 27
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1090-1091.) In determining whether the settling defendant's
settlement figure is “within the ballpark” of his fair share of liability, the
Court may rely on “the judge's personal experience” and the experience of “experts
in the field.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 500.)
 
Giron’s application states only that,
“[t]he settlement figure of $15,000 for each Plaintiff, total $30,000, is not
grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person at the time of the
settlement would estimate GIRON’s exposure to be. The amount is a fair and
reasonable consideration for the compromise, release and waiver of the claims
of Plaintiffs, as GIRON had no excess liability insurance nor was he in the
course and scope of employment at the time of the accident.” (Application for
Good Faith Settlement 6:9-14.) Giron also emphasizes that Plaintiffs did not
sue him; however, this does not absolve his proportionate liability as COLA has
brought this issue within the Court’s purview with its Cross-Complaint. 
 
Neither party provides experts. 
 
The total amount of settlement
reached between Plaintiffs and Giron is $30,000.00, with $15,000.00 going to
each plaintiff.  (Id. 6:9-14, Decl.
Varduhi Rose Petrosyan ¶¶ 3-6.) The settlement will release Giron in full from
all claims and rights stemming from this incident. (See ibid.) Section
877.6 is rooted in the concern that a piecemeal settlement may prejudice
non-settling defendants if it is unreasonably low, which would expose the
remaining defendants to a judgment exceeding their fair share of the liability.
(Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 494-497.) COLA shows that a
settlement of $30,000.000 is so low as to expose it to an unfair share of
liability as, using the actual damages claimed by Plaintiffs in their
government claim only, it would result in at least $720,000.00 placed onto
COLA. 
Accordingly, the Court finds that
this factor does not support a determination of good faith.
 
                           
iii.           
The Allocation of Settlement Proceeds Among
Plaintiffs
 
Where defendants are potentially
liable for separate injuries, or a “sliding scale"” settlement is
involved, the settling parties must include in their agreement a joint
allocation or valuation of the amount of the offset. (Alcal Roofing &
Insulation v. Superior Court (Sears) (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 1121,
1124.)
 
This factor is not applicable to
the case at hand. (See id. at 1124 [“In the typical one-plaintiff,
multiple-defendants, personal injury action each tortfeasor is potentially
liable for the same injury to the plaintiff. Therefore the full settlement by
one defendant will offset a judgment against other tortfeasors; no allocation
of the settlement is required.”]
 
                           
iv.           
A Recognition that a Settlor Should Pay Less
Than if Found Liable at Trial
 
The Court expressly recognizes
that a settlor should pay less in settlement that he would if he were found
liable after trial. This factor supports a determination of good faith as the
settlement appears to show that Giron is paying less than if found liable at
trial based on the settlement amount and the claims filed by Plaintiffs. 
 
                             
v.           
The Financial Conditions and Insurance Policy
Limits of Settling Defendants
 
An exception to the
proportionality requirement described above is that “a disproportionately low
settlement figure is often reasonable” when the settling defendant is “relatively
insolvent” and uninsured or underinsured. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38
Cal.3d at p. 499; see Schmid v. Superior Court (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d
1244, 1245—6 [holding that “a settlement of a personal injury lawsuit is in ‘good
faith[]’ . . . where a defendant pays the plaintiff the limit of the
defendant's insurance policy and has no assets, even though the amount paid in
settlement is far less than the likely amount of a judgement against the
defendant were the case to go to trial’]; see also County of Los Angeles v.
Guerrero (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1157—8 [finding that the settling
defendant's ‘modest’ financial condition and insurance limits ‘are necessarily
controlling and effectively override the other Tech-Bilt factors’].)
 
Here, there is no presentation
that Giron is uninsured, underinsured, lacks assets, or has modest financial
conditions. Rather, the application states only that Giron has “no excess
liability insurance nor was he in the scope of employment at the time of the
accident.” (Application for Good Faith Settlement 6:12-13.)
 
Thus, as COLA has shown that settlement
amount between Giron and Plaintiffs is disproportionately low, the lack of
evidence of Giron’s financial information and insurance policy limits weighs
against a good faith determination.
 
                           
vi.           
The Existence of Collusion, Fraud, or Tortious
Conduct Aimed to Injure the Interests of the Non-Settling Defendants
 
“Any negotiated settlement
involves cooperation, but not necessarily collusion. It becomes collusive when
it is aimed to injure the interests of an absent tortfeasor. Although many
kinds of collusive injury are possible, the most obvious and frequent is that
created by an unreasonably cheap settlement.” (River Garden Farms, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 986, 996.) “Prevention of collusion is
but a means to the end of preventing unreasonably low settlements which
prejudice a nonparticipating tortfeasor. The price of a settlement is the prime
badge of its good or bad faith. Construed in the light of [section 877.6's]
objectives, the good faith release clause extends the obligation of good faith
beyond the parties to the negotiations, embracing an absent tortfeasor.” (Ibid.)
 
Settling parties contend that the
settlement was not entered into for any improper reason and there is no collusion,
fraud or other tortious conduct. (Application for Good Faith Settlement, Decl.
Varduhi Rose Petrosyan ¶ 14.) However, COLA has evidenced that the settlement
of $30,000.00 is unreasonably low, which prejudices COLA, a nonparticipating
tortfeasor. Thus, this factor does
not support a good faith determination.
 
-----
 
The Court notes that neither
Giron nor Plaintiffs filed an Opposition to COLA’s Motion to Contest Good Faith
Settlement and that a failure to oppose a motion may be construed as a
concession on the merits. (See D.I. Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court (1964)
60 Cal.2d 723, 728, fn. 4 [where nonmoving party fails to oppose a ground for a
motion “it is assumed that [nonmoving party] concedes” that ground].)
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant County of Los Angeles’
Motion Contesting Application by Alexander De Leon Giron for Determination of
Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED.


