  Case Number:  24AHCV00275    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CYBER ON DEMAND, INC., a California Corporation, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ZWICK CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, a Utah corporation; APPA
  COLORADO, LLC, a Delaware corporation; APPA REAL ESTATE LLC, a California
  corporation; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24AHCV00275
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: OVERRULING DEFENDANT
  APPA REAL ESTATE, LLC’s DEMURRER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 2, 2025



 
This case arises
from an alleged breach of an agreement (the Agreement) wherein Plaintiff Cyber
on Demand, Inc. (Plaintiff), who was a subcontractor, agreed to install an
Emergency Responder Radio Communication System (the System) at a certain
property (the Property) purportedly owned by Defendant APPA Real Estate LLC
(APPA Real Estate). (Compl., ¶¶ 10-11.) According to the terms of the
agreement, upon completion of Plaintiff installing the System, Defendant Zwick
Construction Company (Zwick), who was a contractor, was to pay Plaintiff a
total of $90,000.00. (Id. at ¶ 13.) APPA Real Estate then issued Zwick a
“Notice of Abandonment and Stop Work Notice,” (Notice of Abandonment) and that
“now assuming the work on behalf of Zwick and consequently sought the
contractors to provide them (1) current amount owed, (2) outstanding change
orders or back charges to Zwick; (3) a copy of punch list received from Zwick,
and (4) a complete close out package documents per the Agreement.” (Id. at
¶ 14; Exhibit 2.) Plaintiff alleges that it had not been paid. (Id. at
¶¶ 18-19.) 
On February 8,
2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Zwick Construction Company, APPA
Colorado, LLC (APPA Colorado), and APPA Real Estate LLC, alleging causes of
action for (1) breach of contract, (2) common counts, (3) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (4) conversion.
On June 5, 2024, APPA
Real Estate filed a demurrer.
On December 18,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
On December 24,
2024, APPA Real Estate filed a reply.
Judicial Notice 
            APPA
Real Estate requests the Court to take judicial notice of the following
document: A true and correct copy of the Grant Deed, recorded December 5, 2019,
as Instrument Number 20191342275, whereby COLORADO QUIGLEY, LLC, a Delaware
limited liability company transferred to APPA COLORADO, LLC, a Delaware
corporation the real property in the City of Los Angeles, County of Los
Angeles, State of California, described in the attached Exhibit A, including
APN 5755-030-010, 011, 012 & 013.
            Pursuant
to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c), APPA’s request is granted. 
Discussion
Before filing a demurrer or motion to strike,
the moving party must meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video
conference with the party who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an
agreement that would resolve the objections to the pleading. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 430.41, 435.5.) “Any determination by the court that the meet and confer
process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer” or to grant or deny a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.41(a)(4), 435.5.) 
Here, on March 14, 2023, an attorney previously employed
with APPA’s counsel’s firm sent Plaintiff a meet and confer letter, which
outlined the grounds upon which APPA planned on demurring to Plaintiff’s
complaint. (Lockard Decl., ¶ 3.) After some back and forth, the parties could
not come to an agreement regarding the claimed deficiencies with Plaintiff’s
complaint. (Id. at ¶¶ 5-9.) Thus, the meet and confer requirement has
been met. 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency
of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “‘treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded,
but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . ..’” (Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) 

            When a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to
show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.; Lewis
v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.)
APPA Real Estate
demurs to each cause of action alleged in the complaint on the grounds that
each cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against APPA Real Estate primarily contends that each of the causes of
action alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint fails because APPA Real Estate is not a
party to the underlying Agreement nor does it own the Property.
“The general rule is that the mere
assignment of rights under an executory contract does not cast upon the
assignee the obligations imposed by the contract upon the assignor. (Citation.)
The rule is otherwise, however, where the assignee assumes such obligations. (Citation.) ‘[W]hether
there has been an assumption of the obligations is to be determined by the
intent of the parties as indicated by their acts, the subject matter of the
contract or their words.’ (Citation.)” (Enter. Leasing Corp. v. Shugart
Corp. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 737, 745.) “Where the
obligations of a contract are assumed, the creditor under the original contract
may sue the assuming party on the theory that he is an express beneficiary of
the assumption contract. The creditor may join both the assuming party and the
original debtor.” (Dick v.
Woolson (1951) 106 Cal.App.2d 415, 419.)
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
alleged sufficient facts to show that APPA Real Estate assumed the obligations
of Zwick pursuant to the Agreement, including the obligation of payment. 
APPA Real Estate argues that it is not
a party to the Agreement, and thus cannot be held liable under the Agreement,
because APPA Real Estate’s Notice of Abandonment sent to Plaintiff on September
14, 2023 does not state that APPA Real Estate is assuming the contract. (Opposition,
page 7.) However, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that APPA Real Estate
assumed the obligations of Zwick under the Agreement. Plaintiff alleged, and
the Court must accept as true, that APPA Real Estate sent its Notice of Abandonment
and is now “assuming the work on behalf of ZWICK and consequently sought
the contractors to provide them (1) current amount owed, (2) outstanding change
orders or back charges to ZWICK; (3) a copy of punch list received from ZWICK,
and (4) a complete close out package documents per the AGREEMENT.” (Compl., ¶
14.) 
Further, the
Notice of Abandonment, which is attached as an exhibit to Plaintiff’s
complaint, shows that the Notice of Abandonment was sent from a representative
of APPA Real Estate, and states that “we are exercising our rights to complete
the Work on Zwick’s behalf. In order to better facilitate the completion of
your scope of work, please send us the following and be sure to copy Zwick on
all communication: 1. Current amount owed as both a progress payment (if any)
and retention. 2. Any outstanding change orders or back charges sent to you
from Zwick. 3. A copy of the Punch list you received from Zwick. 4. A complete
close out package documents as required by your subcontract, and the
specifications for your scope of work. Once we receive all of the above
information, we will reach out and schedule a punch list walk to review the
status of your work. Once your scope of work and punch list is complete, and we
have received all the required documentation and required waivers, we will
release your retention.” (Compl., Exhibit 2.) These are alleged facts
sufficient to support that APPA Real Estate either expressly assumed, or at the
least, intended through its actions to assume the obligations of Zwick pursuant
to the Agreement.  (Heppler, supra, 73 Cal.App.4th at p. 1289 [“an
assumption of obligations
may be implied from acceptance of benefits under the contracts.”]; Hearn Pac. Corp. v. Second Generation Roofing, Inc.
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 117, 136 [“an assignee's voluntary acceptance of the
benefits of a contract may obligate the assignee to assume its obligations as a
matter of law, even if the assignment agreement expressly excludes the obligations.”].)  Thus,
Plaintiff has alleged facts to survive the instant demurrer. 
While APPA Real
Estate contends that Plaintiff alleged that the Notice of Abandonment only
states that APPA Real Estate is now assuming the work on behalf of Zwick,
and that “[n]owhere does the notice say that APPA [Real Estate] is assuming the
subcontract that Zwick has with Plaintiff.” (Motion, page 6.) APPA Real
Estate’s argument is not for the lack of sufficiency of the facts in the
pleadings but as to the interpretation of the notice, which is beyond the scope
of a demurrer. Plaintiff has otherwise sufficiently shown that APPA Real
Estate, through its conduct, assumed Zwick’s obligations under the Agreement
though both the allegations within the complaint as well as the complaint’s
attachment of the Notice of Abandonment. 
Accordingly, APPA
Real Estate’s demurrer is OVERRULED. APPA Real Estate is ordered to file an
answer or other responsive pleading within 20 days’ notice of this order.
Moving party to give
notice.
Parties who intend
to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  Parties intending
to appear are  encouraged to appear remotely.
 
         Dated this 2nd day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D.
  Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 