 Case Number:  22STCV03944    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT










 




YOGI SECURITIES HOLDINGS, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
FLOYD MAYWEATHER JR., et al.,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                            


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV03944
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date: February 9, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: January 13, 2025
 
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants Jona Rechnitz, Robert Rechnitz, Alan Golombeck (“Golombeck”),
Ayal Frist (“Frist”), and JSR Capital, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
The currently operative second amended complaint
(the “SAC”), which was filed on May 3, 2023, alleges: (1) breach of contract
(count 1); (2) breach of contract (count 2); (3) breach of fiduciary duty; (4)
breach of guaranty; (5) conversion; (6) negligent misrepresentation; and (7)
fraud and concealment; and (8) civil theft under Penal Code section 496.
 
On
January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a third amended
complaint (the “Motion”).  The proposed
third amended complaint (the “TAC”) includes allegations stating conspiracy and
aiding and abetting theories of liability against Defendants.  (See Declaration of Geoffrey Long
(“Long Decl.”) ¶ 3, Exhibit A.)  
 
DISCUSSION
California
Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 473 permits the trial court in
its discretion to allow amendments to pleadings in the furtherance of
justice.  (See CCP § 473, subd.
(a).)  CCP section 576 provides that any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading
or pretrial conference order.  (CCP §
576.)  There is a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the pleadings at any stage of the
proceeding.  (Berman v. Bromberg (1997)
56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945.)  An application
to amend a pleading is addressed to the trial judge’s sound discretion.  (Id.) 
If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion
will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to
amend and where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right
to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not
only error but an abuse of discretion.  (Morgan
v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los Angeles County (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  Where no prejudice
is shown to the adverse party, the liberal rule of allowance prevails.  (Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 558, 564.) 
 
Under
California Rules of Court (“CRC”) rule 3.1324, a motion for leave to amend
a pleading must be accompanied by a declaration that sets forth: (1) the effect
of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made sooner.  (CRC, r. 3.1324(b).)
 
In
support of the Motion, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that Plaintiff obtained the
facts underlying the proposed allegations of conspiracy and aiding and abetting
when Frist and Golombeck provided discovery responses on December 28,
2023.  (Long Decl. ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff filed the Motion in light of the
trial continuance that was granted on January 4, 2024.  (Long Decl. ¶ 7.)[1]
 
Defendants
argue that the discovery responses recently provided Golombeck and Frist do not
include “new facts” as represented by the Motion.  (See Declaration of Robert W. Hirsh
(“Hirsh Decl.”) ¶ 8.)   Defendants
further contend that they will be prejudiced by the filing of the TAC because
of the additional cost of defending against the new theories of liability.  (Hirsh Decl. ¶ 4.)  
 
            The Court finds that the Motion sets forth sufficient
facts to permit the filing of the TAC. 
The Court notes that the proposed TAC does not include the specific
information that was learned from Defendants’ discovery responses.  The new allegations in the TAC solely pertain
to the inclusion of conspiracy and aiding/abetting theories of liability which
arise out of the underlying facts already alleged in the operative SAC.  (See Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton
Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510-11.)  Given the new trial date, the Court finds
that the inclusion of alternative theories of liability in the TAC will not
prejudice Defendants.  The Court
therefore GRANTS the Motion with five days leave to file the TAC.  
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
    
Dated this 9th day of February 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



 
 


