  Case Number:  21STCV33381    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 
 



ROBERT LEATHERMAN,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
NEMESIO AZUL, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  21STCV33381
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER AND
  MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Date: 
  February 9, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



AND RELATED
CROSS-ACTION
 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s of
London (“Moving Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Caring Heart In
Home-Care Services, Inc. (“Caring Heart”)
 
The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises
from alleged misconduct by Plaintiff’s home-care providers.  Plaintiff’s complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleges: (1) breach of contract; (2) negligence; (3) elder abuse – financial
abuse; and (4) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
The currently operative first amended
cross-complaint (the “FAXC”) alleges: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach of fiduciary duty;
and (4) declaratory relief. 
 
In relevant part, the FAXC alleges: Caring Heart
has had a professional liability insurance policy (the “Policy”) with Moving
Defendant since August 2016.  (FAXC
¶ 16.)  The Policy sets forth Moving
Defendant’s responsibilities to insure and indemnify Caring Heart in the event
of a professional liability incident.  (See
FAXC ¶¶ 20-24.)[1]  In response to the claims raised in the
Complaint, Caring Heart tendered its defense to Moving Defendant on or about
June 7, 2022.  (FAXC ¶ 26.)  In October of 2022, Moving Defendant denied
Caring Heart’s claim and has since refused to defend Caring Heart in this
action.  (FAXC ¶¶ 26-27.)
 
Moving Defendant filed a demurrer (the
“Demurrer”) on the grounds that the first and second causes of action are
uncertain due to Caring Heart’s failure to attach a copy of the Policy to the
FAXC and fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action, and
the FAXC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action with
respect to the third and fourth causes of action.  Moving Defendant also filed a motion to
strike (the “Motion”) portions of the FAXC concerning several forms of damages
requested in the FAXC.[2] 
 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Moving Defendant’s
Requests for Judicial Notice are GRANTED as to the existence of the court
documents, but not to the truth of the matters stated therein.  (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General
Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113.) 

 
DEMURRER
Meet and Confer
The meet and
confer requirement has been met for the Demurrer and Motion.
 
Legal Standard
A demurrer tests
the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  The court accepts as true all material
factual allegations and affords them a liberal construction, but it does not
consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions, speculation, or allegations
contrary to law or judicially noticed facts. 
(Shea Homes Limited Partnership v.
County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)  With respect to a demurrer, the complaint
must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts
pleaded.  (Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 513, 517.)  A demurrer will be sustained without leave to
amend if there exists no reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  
 
Demurrers for
uncertainty are disfavored.  (Chen v.
Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822.) 
A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint
is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under
modern discovery procedures.  (Id.)
 
 
First
and Second Causes of Action
The elements of a claim for breach of contract are: (1) the contract; (2)
the plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) the defendant’s
breach; and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom. 
(Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New
York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)  A plaintiff may plead the legal effect
of the contract rather than its precise language.  (See Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Insurance Co.
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-99.)  
 
Moving Defendant’s arguments regarding the sufficiency of the first
and second causes of action are based on Caring Heart’s failure to attach a
copy of the Policy to the FAXC.  The
Court finds that the absence of the Policy’s full text from the FAXC does not
render the first and second causes of action uncertain. The FAXC identifies and
quotes relevant provisions of the Policy that Moving Defendant allegedly
breached.  Accordingly, the Court finds
that the omission of a full copy of the Policy is not fatal to Caring Heart’s
contractual claims because the FAXC sufficiently alleges the legal effect of
the Policy’s terms.  (See Miles v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402; Construction Protective Services, Inc. v.
TIG Specialty Insurance Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-99.)  The Court therefore OVERRULES the Demurrer to
the first and second causes of action. 
 
 
 
Third
Cause of Action
To state a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty, a plaintiff must allege: (1) the existence of a fiduciary
relationship; (2) breach of that relationship; and (3) damages.  (Shopoff & Cavallo LLP v. Hyon (2008)
167 Cal.App.4th 1489, 1509.)  
 
A fiduciary relationship is
any relation existing between parties to a transaction wherein one of the
parties is in duty bound to act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of
the other party.  (Wolf v. Superior
Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 25, 29.)  Such a relation ordinarily arises where a
confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity of another, and in such a
relation the party in whom the confidence is reposed, if he voluntarily accepts
or assumes to accept the confidence, can take no advantage from his acts
relating to the interest of the other party without the latter's knowledge or
consent.  (Id.)  Before a person can be charged with a
fiduciary obligation, he must either knowingly undertake to act on behalf and
for the benefit of another or must enter into a relationship which imposes that
undertaking as a matter of law.  (Hasso
v. Hapke (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 107, 140.) 
Fiduciary duties are imposed by law in certain technical, legal
relationships such as those between partners or joint venturers, trustees and
beneficiaries, principals and agents, and attorneys and clients.  (Id.) 
An insurer is not a fiduciary, and owes no obligation to consider the
interests of its insured above its own. 
(Morris v. Paul Revere Life Ins. Co. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 966,
973.)  An insurer's breach of its
“fiduciary-like duties” is adequately redressed by a claim for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing implied in the insurance contract.  (Tran v. Farmers Group, Inc. (2002)
104 Cal.App.4th 1202, 1212.)
 
Moving Defendant argues that
the FAXC fails to allege the existence of a fiduciary relationship because an
insurer and its insured are not fiduciaries as a matter of law.  The Opposition does not raise arguments that refute
or respond to Moving Defendant’s position, and the Court accordingly finds that
Caring Heart has conceded this issue to Moving Defendant.  (See Nelson v. Pearson Ford Co. (2010)
186 Cal.App.4th 983, 1021.)  Nor does the Opposition provide facts that
suggest this deficiency in the FAXC may be cured by further amendment.  The Court therefore SUSTAINS the Demurrer to
the third cause of action without leave to amend. 
 
Fourth
Cause of Action
Under CCP section 1060, any person interested under a written
instrument, excluding a will or a trust, or under a contract, or who desires a
declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect to another, or in
respect to, in, over or upon property, or with respect to the location of the
natural channel of a watercourse, may, in cases of actual controversy relating
to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties, bring an original
action or cross-complaint in the superior court for a declaration of his or her
rights and duties in the premises, including a determination of any question of
construction or validity arising under the instrument or contract.  (CCP § 1060.) 
The remedy of declaratory relief is cumulative and does not restrict
other remedies.  (See id.)


To
state a declaratory relief claim, the plaintiff must allege a proper subject of
declaratory relief and an actual controversy involving justiciable questions
relating to the party’s rights or obligations. 
(See Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 872, 909.)  Declaratory
relief operates prospectively, serving to set controversies at rest before
obligations are repudiated, rights are invaded or wrongs are committed.  (Kirkwood v. California State Automobile
Assn. Inter-Ins. Bureau (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 49, 59.)  Thus, the remedy is to be used to advance
preventive justice, to declare rather than execute rights.  (Id.) 

 
The
Demurrer argues that the declaratory relief claim is insufficient because it is
duplicative of the first and second causes of action.  CCP section 1060 permits declaratory relief
as a cumulative remedy.  Furthermore, as
discussed above, the contractual dispute at the heart of the declaratory relief
claim is sufficiently alleged.  The Court
therefore OVERRULES the Demurrer to the fourth cause of action. 
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE
Under CCP section 436, a motion to strike
either: (1) strikes any irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any
pleading; or (2) strikes any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or order of court.  (CCP
§ 436, subds. (a)-(b).)  “Irrelevant” matters include: allegations not essential to
the claim, allegations neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or a demand for judgment requesting relief not support by the
allegations of the complaint. (CCP § 431.10, subd. (b).) 
 
            Moving
Defendant seeks to strike allegations concerning emotional damages, punitive
damages, and attorney’s fees from the FAXC. 

 
 
 
            As an
initial matter, emotional damages are only alleged in connection with the
breach of fiduciary duty cause of action. 
In light of the Court’s analysis of the sufficiency of this claim in its
consideration of the Demurrer, the Motion is MOOT with respect to the damages
alleged in connection with the third cause of action. 
 
Punitive Damages
Under Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (a), a plaintiff may recover punitive
damages in an action for breach of an obligation not arising from contract when
the plaintiff proves by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. 
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) 
Malice is conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff, or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with
a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) 
Despicable conduct is conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable,
wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by
ordinary decent people.  (Mock v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co.
(1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 306, 331.)  Oppression is defined as despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person’s rights. 
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)  To state a claim for
punitive damages against an employer based upon the acts of the employees, the
plaintiff must plead that the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness
of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for
which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b).)  With respect to a corporate employer, the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.  (Id.)
 
To state a
prima facie claim for punitive damages, the plaintiff must both allege the
elements set forth in Civil Code section 3294 and include specific allegations
showing that the defendant’s conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or
malicious.  (See Today’s IV, Inc. v.
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83
Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.)  Punitive
damages may not be pleaded generally.  (Id.)  In order to
survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate
facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.  (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
1253, 1255.)  In passing on the
correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.  (Id.)  
 
The
allegations regarding punitive damages are conclusory and are insufficient to
satisfy the heightened standard for alleging an entitlement to punitive
damages, particularly against a corporate entity.  (See FAXC ¶ 47.)  The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion with
respect to the allegations concerning punitive damages.[3]
 
Attorney’s Fees
            Attorney’s
fees are generally not recoverable unless authorized by a contract, statute or
law.  (CCP § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)  When an insurer's tortious conduct reasonably compels the
insured to retain an attorney to obtain the benefits due under a policy, it
follows that the insurer should be liable in a tort action for that expense.
The attorney's fees are an economic loss—damages—proximately caused by the
tort.  (Brandt v. Superior Court
(1985) 37 Cal.3d 813, 817 (“Brandt”).)  These fees must be distinguished from recovery
of attorney's fees qua attorney's fees, such as those attributable to
the bringing of the bad faith action itself.  (Id.) 

 
            Attorney’s
fees are alleged with in connection with the first and second causes of
action.  Caring Heart may allege
attorney’s fees as an element of damages with respect to the breach of good
faith and fair dealing claim under Brandt.  With respect to the breach of contract claim,
the FAXC does not allege that the Policy includes a provision providing for
recoverable attorney’s fees in the event of a dispute concerning its terms.  The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion with
respect to the allegation regarding attorney’s fees stated in connection with
the first cause of action with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 
 
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
 
 Dated this 9th day of February 2024
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 
 


