 Case Number:  23STCV05027    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant
Inland Empire Health Plan’s Motion to Continue Trial
Defendant
Inland Empire Health Plan moves to continue the trial and all pretrial
deadlines.  “To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the dates assigned for
a trial are firm.”  (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring” it.  (Rule 3.1332(c).)  
Defendant does not show good cause to continue the
trial.  “A party’s excused inability to
obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts” indicates good cause. 
(Rule 3.1332(c)(6).)  Defendant
does not show diligent efforts to conduct discovery.  It states it served written discovery in 2023
but has not deposed anyone or subpoenaed any records.  (Nye Decl., ¶ 10.)  
Defendant argues it has not had enough time to
conduct discovery because, due to several successful challenges to plaintiffs’
complaint, the case was not at issue until two years after plaintiff filed it.  It vaguely refers to “several new
allegations” in the second amended complaint (Motion, p. 3) that it could not
investigate earlier.  Defendant does not
identify the discovery it needs. 
Assuming the operative complaint includes new allegations warranting
additional discovery, the court overruled defendant’s final demurer on April 5.  Defendant shows no efforts to conduct
discovery since then.  
            Defendant also states it moves to
continue the trial to “allow the parties to explore resolution over the next
few months.”  (Motion, p. 1.)  The parties agreed to mediate but have not
agreed on a mediator.  (Nye Decl., ¶ 6;
Jackson Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)  If the parties
submit a stipulation and proposed order to continue the trial that includes (1)
the name of a mediator and a mediation date and (2) the names of all
individuals that must be deposed and a schedule for the depositions, the court
would be inclined to continue the trial. 
Disposition
            Defendant
Inland Empire Health Plan’s motion to continue trial is denied.