 Case Number:  23LBCV00268    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background Facts
Plaintiff, Raul Field Escandon
filed this action against Defendants, Universal Iron Works, Appleby Property
Management, Olive Crest Homeowners Association, Ara Agopian, and HOA Board of
Directors on 2/21/23.  Plaintiff’s operative
First Amended Complaint includes various causes of action and spans 78
pages.  Plaintiff seeks an injunction
providing for various forms of relief, and also seeks compensatory
damages.  
 
2.     Motion
for Terminating Sanctions 
Defendant propounded form
interrogatories (FROGs), special interrogatories (SROGs), requests for
production of documents (RPDs), and requests for admissions (RFAs) on Plaintiff
on 9/19/23.  On 2/13/24, because
Plaintiff had not responded to the discovery, the Court granted Defendant’s
motion to compel responses to FROGs, SROGs, and RPDs, and deemed the RFAs
admitted.  
 
To date, Plaintiff has not complied
with the order; at this time, Defendant seeks an order imposing terminating
sanctions.  Pursuant to Deyo v. Kilbourne
(1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 776, the Court should typically impose lesser
sanctions prior to awarding terminating sanctions.  However, there are circumstances where
imposition of terminating sanctions is appropriate without first imposing issue
and/or evidentiary sanctions.  See Laguna
Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exch. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 481, 490-91.  
 
Terminating sanctions are imposed
at this time for two reasons.  First, Defendant
cannot meaningfully prepare for trial without Plaintiff’s deposition, and
therefore an issue or evidentiary sanction would be tantamount to a terminating
sanction.  Second, Plaintiff has not
opposed this motion and appears to have abandoned the case against Moving
Defendant.  
 
Plaintiff’s case against Moving
Defendant is dismissed.
 
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   