 Case Number:  23LBCV00818    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Betty Jo Crawford filed
this action against Defendant, Costco Wholesale Corporation for damages arising
out of a trip and fall.  Plaintiff’s
complaint, filed on 5/04/23, includes causes of action for negligence and
premises liability.  
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment
a.     Parties’
Positions
Defendant moves for summary
judgment on the complaint.  It contends
it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law because it had no actual or
constructive notice of any dangerous condition on its property, and because
acts by non-party, Parisa Faroutan were intervening and superceding causes of
Plaintiff’s injury, such that Defendant cannot be held liable for the
injuries.  In the alternative, it seeks
adjudication of the cause of action for premises liability on the ground that
there is no defect in the premises alleged, and instead the allegation at issue
is based on conduct, which cannot be the subject of a claim for premises
liability.  
 
b.    
Burdens
on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
c.     Evidentiary
Objections
Defendant filed evidentiary
objections with its reply papers.  The
objections are directed at Plaintiff’s expert, Mark J. Burns’s
declaration.  The objections are
overruled.
 
d.     Undisputed
Facts
The basic facts relating to the
subject incident are not disputed.  The
Court has used the reply separate statement of disputed and undisputed facts,
filed on 6/07/24, to review the pertinent facts of the case.  Plaintiff was at Costco when she fell over a
trellis in the cart of a patron named Ms. Faroutan.  Faroutan is not a party to this action.  Faroutan had been pushing the cart with the
trellis positioned on the bottom of the cart for at least five minutes before
the incident.  Notably, a helpful photo
of the cart with the trellis is found on page 9 of Defendant’s reply
papers.  
 
Foroutan had, prior to the
incident, asked a Costco employee to place the trellis at the cash register,
but the employee instead put the trellis on the bottom of Faroutan’s cart.  
 
e.     Initial
Note
The parties, in the opposition and
reply papers, make much of whether the trellis was dangerous or not.  Defendant’s notice of motion did not seek
summary judgment on the ground that the trellis was not dangerous, and the
moving points and authorities did not meaningfully address this
contention.  As noted above, the motion
was made on the grounds that Defendant lacked notice of the condition, that the
condition was caused by a third party, and that the condition does not
constitute premises liability.  The Court
therefore need not determine whether the trellis was dangerous, and assumes it
was for purposes of this motion.  
 
f.      Actual
or Constructive Notice
Defendant’s first argument is that
it cannot be held liable for Plaintiff’s injuries because it lacked actual or
constructive notice of any dangerous condition on its property.  Defendant’s argument is misplaced, however,
because Plaintiff provides evidence that a Costco employee is the one who
placed the trellis on the bottom of the cart. 

 
Defendant’s moving papers defeat
its own argument.  Defendant cites
Getchell v. Rogers Jewelry (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 381, 385, which it
admits stands for the position that notice is not necessary when the employee
creates the dangerous condition. 
Defendant argues Getchell is distinguishable because the Getchell Court
considered a situation where the defendant had exclusive control of the
dangerous condition, whereas, in this case, Faroutan had the ultimate control
over her own cart.  
 
The evidence, however, is to the
contrary.  The evidence is that Faroutan
asked a Costco employee to place the trellis at the front of the store, and the
employee refused to do so, instead placing the trellis on the bottom of her
cart.  How, exactly, did Faroutan “retain
control” of the trellis?  What were her
reasonable options?  Should she have
proceeded immediately and carefully to the register to pay for the trellis,
taken it to her car, then come back into the store to continue her
shopping?  
The Court finds lack of notice is
irrelevant where, as here, there are triable issues of material fact concerning
whether a Costco employee created the allegedly dangerous condition.
 
g.     Intervening
and Superceding Cause
Defendant next argues that
Faroutan’s conduct was an intervening and superceding cause of the incident,
such that Costco is not liable for the incident.  Specifically, Defendant argues, “Ms. Faroutan
inexplicably chose to stop her shopping cart directly at the corner of two
Store aisles for an unspecified period of time in a crowded store – despite her
stated concerns over how far the trellis was sticking out from the cart.”  
 
Again, however, this would, at
most, be contributory negligence.  In
Defendant’s cited case, Tarasoff v. Regents of the University of California
(1976) 17 Cal.3d 425, 435, the Court held that a defendant is not liable for
its own negligence where a “highly unusual or extraordinary” event breaks the
chain of causation.  A reasonable juror
could find that a Costco patron stopping her cart after being instructed to
leave the trellis in the bottom of the cart is not highly unusual or
extraordinary.  
 
h.     Conclusion
Defendant’s summary judgment motion
is denied because Defendant failed to show there are no triable issues of
material fact concerning notice and/or intervening/superceding cause.  
 
i.      Alternative
Motion for Summary Adjudication
In the alternative, Defendant seeks
summary adjudication of the second cause of action for premises liability.  Defendant contends there was no dangerous
condition of the premises itself, as a trellis on a cart is not a part of the
premises.  
 
Defendant relies on Juarez v. Boy
Scouts of America, Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, wherein the
plaintiff sued the BSA and the church where he attended meetings for premises
liability, contending they were liable for the sexual assaults he suffered as a
minor.  The Court of Appeals held that there
was nothing about the nature of the property itself that caused the abuse to
occur, and therefore the premises liability cause of action could not survive
summary judgment.
 
Plaintiff, in opposition, relies on
various cases, all of which collectively stand for the position that a
defendant store can be held liable, under a premises liability theory, for a
temporal condition of their property, such as spilled milk, a misplaced cement
box, liquid soap, wet toilet papers, etc. 

 
Defendant, in reply, argues that
all of the cases cited involve falls on stationary, rather than moving,
conditions of property.  Defendant is
correct.  The Court, however, finds that
a moving condition on the property is more similar to a stationary condition on
the property than it is to sexual assault. 
In light of the lack of cited applicable authority in the moving papers,
the Court finds Defendant failed to meet its moving burden to show it is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law on the premises liability cause of
action because the condition was not stationary.  
 
The alternative motion for summary
adjudication is denied.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   