 Case Number:  23LBCV00427    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Michael Read filed this
action against Defendant, General Motors, LLC for violations of the
Song-Beverly Act, breach of implied warranty, and fraudulent inducement –
concealment.  The operative complaint is
the First Amended Complaint, which Plaintiff filed on 10/05/23.
 

Demurrer 

a.    
Legal Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares he “attempted
to meet and confer telephonically with Plaintiff’s counsel…but…were
unsuccessful in our attempts.”  The
declaration is unclear concerning whether the meet and confer was unsuccessful
because it never took place, or whether it took place but the attorneys were
unable to agree.  The Court has noted
this problem with Defense Counsel’s declaration previously in connection with
other cases.  Defense Counsel MUST
clarify this in future meet and confer declarations.
 
c.     Parties’
Positions
Defendant demurs to the fraud-based
causes of action, contending they are barred by the statute of limitations, are
not pled with the necessary specificity, and do not allege a transactional
relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose. 

 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
complaint is timely, all essential elements are pled, and a transactional
relationship is not required under California law to find a duty to disclose.    
 
d.     Statute
of Limitations
CCP §338(d) provides for a
three-year statute of limitations on a fraud claim.  Defendant argues ¶¶11, 20, and 21 of the FAC
show the action is time-barred.  ¶11 of
the FAC alleges the subject defects manifested themselves during the warranty
period.  ¶20 does not appear to be
relevant.  ¶21 alleges Plaintiff first
brought her vehicle in for repairs, including electrical and brake concerns on
3/15/19, and that the authorized repair facility performed warranty repairs and
represented that the vehicle had been repaired. 
Notably, Plaintiff purchased the vehicle on 3/12/19, such that she began
experiencing problems very quickly after purchase.
 
Plaintiff filed the complaint on
6/05/23, more than three years after it was purchased and first repaired.  Plaintiff argues the statute of limitations
does not act as a bar because (a) Plaintiff had not discovered facts
constituting fraud at that point, (b) the fraudulent inducement continued every
time he brought the vehicle in for repairs and was told it had been repaired,
(c) the delayed discovery rule applies, (d) Defendant’s ongoing concealment
tolls the statute of limitations on the claim, and (e) the claim is tolled
under the delayed repair doctrine.  
 
Defendant conflates a problem with
a vehicle with knowledge of fraud.  The
mere fact that a vehicle has been purchased and has a problem would not lead a
reasonable person to suspect fraud. 
Nothing on the complaint’s face leads to the conclusion that Plaintiff
must have known, at least three years prior to filing suit, that Defendant had
committed fraud.  Notably, pursuant to
Union Carbide v. Superior Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d 15, 25, a demurrer on statute
of limitations grounds will only lie if the defect is clearly disclosed on the
face of the complaint.  Such is not the
case here.
 
The demurrer on this ground is
overruled.
 

Specificity

Defendant’s second argument is that
Plaintiff failed to plead fraud with specificity.  Ordinarily, fraud claims are subject to
strict requirements of particularity in pleading which necessitate pleading
facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were tendered." (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)  However, the specificity rule is intended to
apply to affirmative misrepresentations and not to concealment. (Alfaro v.
Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 89
Cal.Rptr.3d 659).  Notably, the idea that
a plaintiff could allege who concealed something, where the thing was
concealed, when it was concealed, etc., is nonsensical; the nature of the claim
is a failure to speak, which cannot possibly include these details.
 

Transactional
     Relationship

The elements of a fraud claim based
on concealment are: “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–311).  
 
There are “four circumstances in
which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.” (Id. at 311). If a fiduciary relationship does not exist,
but the latter three circumstances are present, Plaintiff must still show “the
existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant from
which a duty to disclose can arise.” (Id. at 311). 
 
            A duty to
disclose may arise as a result of a transaction between the parties. However,
the transaction "must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the
plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the
public at large." (Bigler-Engler at 312 [noting that the duty of a
manufacturer to warn consumers of a product’s hazards and faults applies in the
context of strict products liability actions but does not apply in a suit for
intentional misrepresentation.]).
 
            The Court
is aware of the Court of Appeals’ decision in Dhital v. Nissan North America,
Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, wherein the plaintiffs sued Nissan North
America, Inc. (Nissan), alleging a transmission defect.  The plaintiffs alleged claims under the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and a common law fraud claim alleging that
Nissan fraudulently concealed the defects and induced them to purchase a car.
(Dhital at 838). 
 
            The
California Supreme Court granted review of Dhital on February 1, 2023, however,
the request for depublication was denied. (Dhital v. Nissan North America (Cal.
2023) 304 Cal.Rptr.3d 82, 83). Since review is pending and the Supreme Court
did not otherwise order, Dhital does not having binding effect, however, “it
may be cited for potentially persuasive value only.” (Cal Rules of Court, Rule
8.1115 (e)(1). 
 
            The Dhital
court concluded that allegations were sufficient to support the existence of a
buyer-seller relationship between the parties as “Plaintiffs alleged that they
bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an
express warranty, and that Nissan's authorized dealerships are [the
manufacturer’s] agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to
consumers. In light of these allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim
is barred on the ground there was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose
known defects." (Dhital at 845).
 

Conclusion

The Court finds the complaint
adequately states a claim for fraud by concealment.  The demurrer is overruled.
 

Motion to Strike

Defendant moves to strike
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages from the complaint.  The prayer for punitive damages is made in
connection with the fraud cause of action only. 
A well-pled cause of action for fraud supports a claim for punitive
damages.  The motion to strike is
therefore denied.    
 

Final Note

The parties are that the FSC in
this case is scheduled for 7/30/24 and trial is scheduled for 8/06/24.  Time is of the essence.  Defendant is ordered to file an answer to the
FAC within ten days.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   