 Case Number:  23LBCV02071    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Weston Spiro filed this
action against Defendants, Jeremy and Bridget Matthews for damages arising out
of the parties’ landlord-tenant relationship. 
Plaintiff’s complaint includes causes of action for:
1.     Breach
of Contract
2.     Breach
of Warranty of Habitability
3.     Breach
of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
4.     Negligence
5.     Nuisance
6.     Constructive
Eviction
7.     Wrongful
Eviction
8.     Failure
to Provide Requisite Notice for Eviction
9.     Failure
to Pay Relocation Assistance
10.  Failure
to Return Security Deposit
 
The crux of the complaint is that Plaintiff’s
property suffered from various defects, all of which are detailed at ¶¶10-16 of
his complaint; the defects include backed-up pipes and water intrusion, mold,
and vermin.  Plaintiff alleges he made
repeated requests and complaints, but Defendants failed to effectuate necessary
repairs to the property and/or take necessary measures to render the property
in a habitable condition.  On the
contrary, Defendants demanded Plaintiff take steps to remedy the defects, and
ultimately told him he must vacate the premises and blamed the defects on
him.    
 
2.     Motion
to Strike
Plaintiff’s complaint includes a
prayer for punitive damages and related allegations, which Defendants move to
strike.  The motion is denied.  The Court notes a dearth of authority presented
by either side in the landlord-tenant context, and notes that it is not
independently aware of any authority decided in this context.  
 
The Court finds a reasonable trier
of fact, upon presentation of evidence that Defendants failed, despite repeated
notice, to cure the numerous serious problems at the property, including black
mold growth, defective and clogged plumbing, and infestation, and then told
Plaintiff to fix the problems himself and/or move out (without proper notice,
without paying relocation, and without return of or accounting for his security
deposit) could conclude that Defendants acted despicably and with a conscious
disregard of Plaintiffs’ health and safety, which is the definition of “malice”
set forth in Civil Code §3294.  This is
particularly true at the pleading stage, when all inferences must be in favor
of Plaintiff.  
 
Defendants are ordered to file an
answer to the complaint within ten days. 

 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.