  Case Number:  22LBCV00043    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiffs, Leilani Lacusong and
Anthony K. Turner filed 23LBCV02308 against Defendants, Milan V. Balejka, et
al. on 12/05/23.  The case was ultimately
consolidated with 22LBCV00432, resulting in this pleading challenge being filed
in 22LBCV00432.  Lacusong and Turner’s
complaint, in its caption, indicates it is for fraud – individually, fraud –
concealment, breach of fiduciary duty, and breach of contract.  The body of the complaint, however, indicates
it is for intentional infliction of emotional distress, constructive fraud,
fraud – misrepresentation, and breach of contract.  
 

Demurrers

a.    
Procedural History
Defendants, Kiat Chan and Theresa
Hertzog filed demurrers and motions to strike on 3/06/24.  Any opposition to the pleading challenges was
due on or before 5/13/24.  Plaintiffs have
not filed timely opposition to the pleading challenges, and the Court will not
consider any late-filed opposition papers. 

 
b.     Standard
on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §
430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
c.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel, Ptere R. Haven,
filed a declaration in support of the demurrer. 
In his declaration, he indicates he attempted to meet and confer by
sending a letter to Plaintiffs.  The Code
requires meet and confer attempts in person or by phone.  Because Plaintiffs appear to have abandoned
this litigation, the Court will rule on the pleading challenges on their
merits.  
 
d.     Analysis
Defendants correctly note that the
complaint is defective in numerous respects. 
As indicated above, the causes of action in the caption do not match the
causes of action in the body of the complaint. 
Additionally, there are no meaningful factual allegations in the
complaint.  Plaintiffs repeatedly state
that they “incorporate by reference the allegations contained in paragraphs
1-8,” but there are no paragraph numbers in the complaint.  See, for example, page 3, lines 17-18, page
4, lines 3-4, and page 5, lines 9-10.  
 
Finally, and most importantly, the
causes of action plead nothing more than mere conclusions.  By way of example, the first cause of action
alleges Plaintiff was forced to endure great mental anguish, economic loss and
emotional distress, but no facts detailing any of those allegations are
included in the complaint.  Similarly,
the second cause of action alleges the parties were in a fiduciary relationship
and fraud was committed, but no factual allegations are included.  The third cause of action, at page 4, line
20, indicates Plaintiffs “incorporate by reference the Fraud.”  It is not clear what fraud is being
incorporated by reference, as no fraud allegations appear anywhere in the
complaint.  Finally, the fourth cause of
action alleges various facts and the existence of a lease agreement, but does
not allege the terms of the agreement or what term(s) of the agreement was
breached.
 
The demurrer is sustained.  As noted above, the burden is on the
complaining party to show how she would amend if given leave to do so.  Because there is no opposition to the
demurrer, that burden is necessarily not met. 
Leave to amend is denied.  
 

Motion to Strike

Defendants’ motions to strike are
moot in light of the ruling on the demurrer. 

 

Case Management
     Conference

The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar today concurrently with the hearing on the above demurrers
and motions to strike.  Counsel are asked
to make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the pleading
challenges.  