 Case Number:  23STCV09536    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
California Credits
  Group, LLC,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
23STCV09536




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Foster Poultry
  Farms, LLC f/k/a Foster Poultry Farms, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: July 10, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion To Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents
Moving Party: Plaintiff
California Credits Group, LLC
Responding Party: Defendant
Foster Poultry Farms, LLC
 
T/R:     THE MOTION IS GRANTED IN PART.
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE
NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:30 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
            The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff California Credits Group, LLC sued defendants Foster Poultry
Farms, LLC and Foster Farms, LLC on April 28, 2023 for breach of contract and
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
As alleged in its complaint, Plaintiff provides “tax credit services
with a primary focus on California ‘Enterprise Zone’ credits.” (Compl., ¶ 9.)
Defendant Foster Poultry was one of Plaintiff’s clients; Defendant Foster Farms
acquired Foster Poultry in June 2022. (Id., ¶¶ 11-13.) Under the
contract, Plaintiff would locate employees for Foster Poultry who, once
employed, would generate tax credits for Foster Poultry based on Enterprise
Zone economic incentives. (Ibid.) Foster Poultry agreed to pay Plaintiff
a portion of the credits generated when the credits were “utilized”, that is,
when they were actually applied to reduce Foster Poultry’s tax obligations. (Id.,
¶ 14-15, Exhs. A-B [initial 2005 and amended 2007 contracts].)
 
The Contract anticipated the possibility that Foster Poultry might be
acquired, and there may be tax credits that had been generated by Plaintiff’s
recommended hires, but not yet utilized. (Id., ¶ 20.) Those
credits’ utility might be cut off by an acquisition. (Id., ¶¶ 21-22.)
In that case, the contract required that all pending credits be deemed
“utilized”, and Plaintiff paid for their use, upon Foster Poultry’s acquisition.
(Id., ¶ 22.) 
 
The private equity firm Atlas Holdings, Inc. acquired Foster Poultry in
June 2022. (Id., ¶¶ 4-5.) The transaction was structured so that Foster
Poultry’s co-defendant, Foster Farms, acquired Foster Poultry, and Atlas in
turn acquired Foster Farms. (Id., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff alleges that when
Atlas acquired Foster Poultry, it cut off $70 million in outstanding,
unutilized tax credits generated by Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 30.) 
 
On May 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel further
responses to its Requests for Production (Set One) propounded on Foster Poultry.

 
ANALYSIS
 
            Plaintiff
moves for further responses to its Requests for Production (“RPDs”)
Nos. 9-11 and 40. Plaintiff frames these as requests for “communications
relating to the June 2022 reorganizing transactions that suspended the tax
credits allocated by [Plaintiff].” (MPA, 4:22-23.) Plaintiff contends these
documents must be produced “because they are critical to understanding the
scope and significance of the June 2022 transactions and determining whether
they constitute a ‘Reorganization’ under the parties’ Agreements.” (Id.,
26-28.)
 
            Defendant
argues that communications involving the June 2022 transactions are irrelevant
to whether the transaction was a “Reorganization” for purposes of the parties’
contract. Defendant contends that all Plaintiff needs are the documents
governing the transactions – namely, the June 2022 Purchase Agreement (“2022
Agreement”). Defendant already has produced the 2022 Agreement. Defendant also
objects that the requests are unduly burdensome, Plaintiff has not properly met
and conferred about them, and, to the extent some portion of the materials
might be relevant, Plaintiff’s Requests should be narrowed after Plaintiff
obtains its still-outstanding, more reasonable discovery.
 
            Defendant
has produced to Plaintiff excerpts of the 2022 Agreement that Plaintiff
contends triggered the “reorganization” provisions of the Contract. Defendant
contends this satisfies Plaintiff’s asserted need to evaluate whether
Defendants’ reorganization triggered the Contract.
 
Defendant cannot unilaterally identify
what evidence Plaintiff needs. “For discovery purposes, information is relevant
if it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for
trial, or facilitating settlement.’ [Citation.] ... [T]he scope of discovery
extends to any information that reasonably might lead to other evidence that
would be admissible at trial. ‘Thus, the scope of permissible discovery is one
of reason, logic and common sense.’ ” (Lipton v. Superior Court (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1611–1612, 56 Cal.Rptr.2d 341.)
 
Communications surrounding the execution
of the 2022 Agreement may lead to admissible evidence about how its execution
was expected to impact the terms of the Contract. Plaintiff may explore
evidence of how the 2022 Agreement was executed, and whether those facts are
relevant to the alleged breach. 
 
Defendants have not shown undue
burden. 
 
Some of the phrasing of Plaintiff’s
requests is overbroad; the Court will sustain Defendant’s objections in part:
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s
motion and orders Defendant to provide Code-compliant responses to all the
disputed requests within thirty (30) days of this ruling, except:
 
1. Defendant need only produce
documents created between June 1, 2021 and the filing of the complaint, and
 
2. The terms “in connection with”
and “in connection with or following” are narrowed to “as a result of” for
purposes of this order.
 
            The
Court finds Defendant was substantially justified in opposing Plaintiff’s
motion. The Court awards no sanctions.


 