  Case Number:  19STCV32212    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling    HEARING DATE:                 January 3, 2025  CASE NUMBER:                  19STCV32212  CASE NAME:                       Tanda Orelia Rucker  v. Fernando Pineda, et al. MOVING PARTY:                Defendant,  Executive Car Leasing Company   RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,  Tenda Orelia Rucker    TRIAL DATE:                        February 5, 2025  MOTION:                              (1) Motion for Summary  Judgement, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication                                                   Tentative Rulings:                 (1) MSJ denied, but MSA as to  negligent entrustment cause of action granted.        I. BACKGROUND    A.    Factual   On September 11, 2019,  Plaintiff, Tanda Orelia Rucker (“Plaintiffs”)  filed a complaint against Defendants, Fernando Pineda, and DOES 1 through 50. The  complaint alleges one cause of action for Negligence. The complaint is based on  the allegation that on October 10, 2017, Plaintiff was lawfully traveling  westbound on Manchester Blvd/, approaching the intersection at West Blvd., when  her vehicle was involved in a collision caused by Defendant, Fernando Pineda’s  vehicle. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Pineda was  traveling directly behind her and failed to observe the red light facing him  and Plaintiff’s vehicle ahead of him, causing a rear-end collision with  Plaintiff. (Plaintiff, ¶ 12.) The complaint also states that Defendant Pineda was  intoxicated at the time of the collision, was arrested by the police at the  scene of the collision and was charged with a felony count of driving under the  influence. (Plaintiff, ¶ 12.)    On November 16, 2020, Plaintiff filed a  Doe Amendment naming Defendant, Executive Car Leasing Company as DOE 1. Now,  Executive Car Leasing Company has filed a Motion for Summary Judgment or, in  the alternative, Summary Adjudication. Mr. Pineda, the alleged driver of the striking  vehicle, is represented separately form Executive Car Leasing.     B.     Procedural   This litigation was pending for years in the PI hub  court downtown, and was recently reassigned to the Southwest District.  On October 17, 2024, Executive Car Leasing Company  filed a Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary  Adjudication. On December 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On  December 27, 2024, Defendant Executive Car Leasing Company filed a reply brief.     II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS   Plaintiff’s Objections to  Defendant’s Moving Evidence:  Sustain: none. Overrule: all.   Defendant’s Objections to  Plaintiff’s Opposing Evidence:  Sustain: 1, 2, 3, 5 to Pineda  depo excerpts Overrule: remainder     III. ANALYSIS    A.    Legal Standard    The function of a motion for summary  judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing  party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an  order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic  Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the  trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all  inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other  inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material  fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler  v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function  of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of  the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose  whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the  pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,  citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,  381-382.)¿    As to each claim as framed by the  complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial  burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to  establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)  128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in  support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning  the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)  39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿    Once the defendant has met that burden,  the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more  material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿  To establish a triable issue of material  fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive  evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)          B.     Whether Defendant Pineda was Acting in  The Course and Scope of His Employment with Defendant ECL at The Time of The  Accident.   Here, Defendant, Executive Car Leasing Company (“ECL”) moves for  summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication, on the grounds  it argues Defendant, Fernando Pineda, was not acting within the course and  scope of his employment for Defendant the time of the incident, and because ECL  argues it has no liability to Plaintiff arising from the motor vehicle accident  involving Plaintiff and Mr. Pineda.    An employee is generally not acting  within the “course and scope of employment” when commuting to or from the  workplace at the beginning or end of a work day. Thus, accidents caused during  the employee's normal transit between home and work generally cannot support  respondeat superior liability (so-called “going and coming” rule).  (See,  e.g., Caldwell v. A.R.B., Inc. (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 1028, 1035),  holding that an employee sent home early because of heavy rain making work  conditions difficult and unsafe fell within the “going and coming” rule; Henderson  v. Adia Services, Inc. (1986) 182 Cal.App.3d 1069, 1076-1078, holding that  an employee for a temporary employment agency was within “going and coming”  rule while commuting to a temporary job assignment.) This principle is based on  the theory that the employment relationship is suspended from the time  employees leave their jobs until they return; and on the theory that during  normal commutes, employees are not rendering services directly or indirectly to  their employers.  (See Pierson v. Helmerich & Payne Int'l Drilling  Co. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 608, 618.)      There are, however, various exceptions to  the going-and-coming rule.  For example, the result is otherwise if the  employee is not simply in normal transit to or from work, but is “coming or  going” on a special (business) errand incident to his or her regular duties or  at the employer's specific order or request. When there is an additional  business purpose to the activity, employees are deemed to be in the scope of  employment from the time they commence the “errand” until they return or  deviate therefrom for personal reasons.  (See Sumrall v. Modern Alloys,  Inc. (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 961, 968, holding that whether an employee was  on special/business errand ordinarily is factual issue for jury to  decide.)  The “special errand” rule covers any activity that indirectly or  incidentally benefits the employer: e.g., picking up or returning tools used on  the job; or a trip during which the employee responds to a service call for the  employer's business; or a trip to attend an out-of-town business  conference.  (See Caldwell v. A.R.B., Inc. (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d  1028, 1036-1037.)    Another exception to the “going and  coming” rule applies where the employer furnishes, or requires the employee to  furnish, a vehicle as an express or implied condition of employment. In such  event, the employee is in the scope of employment while commuting to and from  the place of employment even if the employee's actual use of the vehicle for  work-related purposes is infrequent.  (See Moradi v. Marsh USA, Inc.  (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 886, 895.)                                       i.             The Halliburton Test   In ECL’s moving papers, it more specifically asserts that Mr.  Pineda was not in the scope and course of his employment under Halliburton  Energy Services, Inc. v. Department of Transportation (2013) 220  Cal.App.4th 87 (“Halliburton”)    In  Halliburton, the Court of Appeal for the Fifth District described a test  for determining whether an employee’s conduct was within the scope of his or  her employment by analyzing whether: “(1) the act performed was either required  or incident to his duties or (2) the employee’s misconduct could be reasonably  foreseen by the employer in any event.” (Halliburton, supra, 220  Cal.App.4th at 94.) The Halliburton Court described that foreseeability  meant that in the context of a particular enterprise, an employee’s conduct is  not so unusual or startling that it would seem unfair to include the loss  resulting from it among the costs of the employer’s business. (Id. at  95.) “An example of this tyle of foreseeability occurs when an employer  requires an employee to drive his own vehicle to and from its office so  the vehicle is available for company business during the workday.” (Moreno  v. Visser Ranch, Inc. (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 568, 581 (“Moreno”).) In  this example, “ ‘accidents on the way to or from the office are statistically  certain to occur eventually, and, the business enterprise having required the  driving to and from work, the risk of such accidents are risks incident to the  business enterprise.’” (Halliburton, supra, 220 Cal.App.4th at 96.) The  Court in Halliburton reasoned that the rationale for this is that “ ‘[t]he  employer is liable not because the employer has control over the employee or is  in some way at fault, but because the employer’s enterprise creates inevitable  risks as part of doing business.’” (Id. at 94.)    1.      Required  Acts    Under  the Halliburton Test, “[w]hether the act performed by the Driver was  required turns on how the act is described or characterized.” (Moreno,  supra, 30 Cal.App.5th at 581.) In Halliburton, the employee who  lived near Bakersfield, California - where he worked 50 percent of the time - was  assigned by his employer to work 12-hour shifts on an oil rig near Seal Beach,  California, approximately 140 miles from Bakersfield. (Halliburton, supra,  220 Cal.App.4th at 92.) Between one of his shifts, the employee used a company  truck to make a personal errand when he drove back to Bakersfield to meet his  wife and daughter at a car dealership to purchase a vehicle for his wife. (Ibid.)  However, on his return trip to Seal Beach, he was involved in an automobile  accident in the company truck. (Ibid.) The Court of Appeal in Halliburton  held that the doctrine of Respondeat Superior did not apply because the  employee’s trip to Bakersfield “was entirely personal” an was “not made in the  furtherance of any business activity of the employer.” (Id. at 102.) The  Halliburton Court found that the risk of the automobile accident was  “not a risk inherent in, or’ “ ‘typical of or broadly incidental’ to” Halliburton’s  enterprise.” (Ibid.)   Here,  ECL maintains that similar to the  accident in Halliburton,  the  accident in the case at bar, was not a required or incidental act of Mr.  Pineda’s employment as the accident took place at 11:50 p.m., over  six-and-a-half hours after Mr. Pineda completed his workday, and only took  place after he was watching soccer with his brother at a sports bar, became  intoxicated there, and drove his brother home – actions that were not required  by nor incidental to his duties as a service manager for ECL. (ECL’s SSUMF No.  20, Pineda Depo at 64:25-67:18, 68:20-73:7, & 85:9-25.) Based on these  facts, this Court believes that Defendant ECL has carried its initial burden.    In Plaintiff’s opposition, Plaintiff argues that triable issues  of material fact exist as to whether driving ECL’s vehicle during personal time  was “either required or incident to” Pineda’s use of ECL’s vehicle.” Plaintiff  provides evidence that Pineda stated in his deposition that both a benefit and  responsibility of his position as Service Manager was that each evening, he  selected a different vehicle of Defendant ECL’s fleet of loaner vehicle to take  home and conduce a “test drive” (Plaintiff’s SSDMF Nos. 1-5, Pineda Depo. at 27:4-25,  29:5-10, 29:20- 30:1, 40:5-17, 44:7-19, 46:11-14, 51:7-18, 54:11-55:2.) As  reviewed by the Court, Pineda stated in his deposition, that he was tasked with  test driving loaner and leased vehicles to ensure that they were operating  correctly before being provided and/or returned to customers as well as  reporting back to ECL what, if any, repairs needed to be performed. Pineda  confirmed that the test driving did not include going to a track to drive those  vehicles. Instead, Pineda answered in the affirmative, that the test-driving  included acts such as driving home or driving to the grocery store to  determine, for instance, whether the lights in the vehicle came on, or whether  the brakes came on. (Pineda Depo. at 54:20-55:2.)    Based  on Pineda’s deposition regarding test-driving, Plaintiff argues that ECL was  provided an incidental benefit from Pineda simply driving the vehicles  generally. Plaintiff also asserts that Pineda’s deposition testimony was  corroborated by the testimony of Defendant ECL’s PMQ, their insurance  department supervisor, Laura Bracken, who confirmed that part of Pineda’s job responsibilities  was to make sure the loaner vehicles were running properly and safely. (Bracken  Depo. at 106:12-23.) Further, Plaintiff also submits that David Godman,  President of ECL, testified that the company benefited from allowing employees  to drive company owned vehicles because it helped attract employees by giving  them perks. (Plaintiff’s SSDMF Nos. 4, Goldman Depo.  at 10:19-22, 98:7-25.)   Plaintiff argues that the case at bar is much more analogous to Moradi  v. Marsh USA, Inc. (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 886 (“Moradi”). In Moradi,  the Court of Appeal for the Second District recognized an exception to the “going and  coming” rule where the employer furnishes, or requires the employee to furnish,  a vehicle as an express or implied condition of employment. In such event, the  employee is in the scope of employment while commuting to and from the place of  employment even if the employee's actual use of the vehicle for work-related  purposes is infrequent.  (219 Cal.App.4th at 895.) In Moradi, the employer required the  employee to use her personal vehicle to travel to and from the office and make  other work-related trips during the day. Therefore, the employee was acting  within the scope of her employment when she was commuting to and from work. (Id.)  The Court found that the planned stops were only a minor deviation due to the  fact that she used her vehicle for work. (Id.)    Thus, the Court finds that the crux of the issue  presented here was whether Pineda’s acts of meeting his brother at a sports bar  and subsequently driving after being intoxicated was a minor deviation from his  work activities. In the reply brief, ECL draws on the Fourth District Court of  Appeal Decision of Le Elder v. Rice (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1604 (“Le  Elder”) to make this same determination. In Le Elder, an employee,  who was required to be available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, was using  his personal vehicle to return home after dropping his children off at school  when he struck plaintiff on her bicycle. (Id. at 1606-1607.) The Court  concluded that the employee was not acting in the scope of his employment at  the time of the accident, despite technically being on call.    However, many of the factors the Court in Le  Elder relied on to come to its determination are distinguishable from the  case at bar. In fact, many of these factors from Le Elder, were  distinguished in Moreno v. Visser Ranch Inc. There, the Moreno Court  concluded that there existed a triable issue of material fact as to whether the  employee-driver was engaged in purely personal business at the time of the  incident.    In fact, the Moreno Court distinguished  that case from both Halliburton and Le Elder, reasoning that  unlike Halliburton, “where the employee was not required to use  the company truck for his personal business and had not gotten permission to  use the company truck for the personal trip in question,” the employee-driver  there was required to use the vehicle at all times. (Moreno, supra, 30  Cal.App.5th at 584.)  Because of this  secondary business purpose, the Moreno Court held that it would not  “conclude as a matter of law that Driver was engaged in purely personal  business when the accident occurred.” (Ibid.)    The Court finds this case, at the summary  judgment stage, to have the same conclusion. Here, Plaintiff has presented disputed  issues of material fact as to whether Pineda could have also had a secondary  business purpose of testing the vehicles at the time of the incident. Therefore,  as to the issue of whether Pineda as acting in the course and scope of his  employment with ECL at the time of the accident, the Court DENIES the Motion  for Summary Judgment.                                   ii.             Negligent Entrustment    ECL also asserts that this Court should resolve summary judgment  in its favor with respect to the negligent entrustment issue.    “Every owner of a motor  vehicle is liable and responsible for the death or injury to person or property  resulting from a negligent or wrongful act or omission in the operation of the  motor vehicle, in the business of the owner or otherwise, by any person using  or operating the same with the permission, express or implied, of the owner.”  (Veh. Code, § 17150.) “Liability arises solely from the owner’s status as owner  of the vehicle, now from any independent fault or wrongdoing on the owner’s  part.” (Galvis v. Petito (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 551, 555 (emphasis  omitted).)¿ To hold a defendant liable for negligent entrustment, the  plaintiff must prove that (1) the driver was negligent in operating the  vehicle; (2) that the defendant was an owner of the vehicle operated by the  driver; (3) that the defendant knew, or should have known, that the driver was  incompetent or unfit to drive the vehicle; (4) that the defendant permitted the  driver to use the vehicle; and (5) that the driver’s incompetence or unfitness  to drive was a substantial factor in causing harm to the plaintiff. (Jeid-Wen,  Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 863-64.)    ECL provides evidence that Pineda had worked for it for  approximately 17 years prior to the subject accident and had been a model  employee with a valid driver’s license. (ECL’s SSUMF No. 19.) Prior to hiring  Pineda, ECL checked Pineda’s driving record by utilizing a DMV Pull List that  would notify ECL if Pineda ever had any activity on his driving record. (ECL’s  SSUMF No. 16.) ECL also provided evidence that prior to the accident in the  case at bar, Pineda had never been involved in an accident involving driving  under the influence, had never been charged with a DUI, had never been involved  in any at-fault accidents or accidents involving driving under the influence,  or had been involved in any accidents that would cause ECL to not allow him to  drive their vehicles. (ECL’s SSUMF Nos. 13-14, 17.)    In opposition, Plaintiff argues that ECL failed to perform a  criminal background check on Pineda, which would have revealed that he pleaded guilty  to a misdemeanor violation of California Penal Code section 273.5(a). Plaintiff  also argues that after the accident ECL conceded to Pineda experiencing prior  to the accident in question, ECL should have performed another investigation or  re-evaluation of Pineda. The Court disagrees that either of these arguments  raise triable issues of fact regarding negligent entrustment of Pineda’s  ability to drive ECL vehicles safely.  As  such, the Court GRANTS the MSA motion as to the negligent entrustment issue.    IV. CONCLUSION  For the foregoing reasons, ECL’s  Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication is  DENIED as to the issue of Pineda being in the course and scope of his  employment at the time of the accident. However, the Court GRANTS the motion as  to the issue of negligent entrustment.   Defendant ECL is ordered to  give notice.