  Case Number:  20GDCV00722    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      July 8, 2024                                        TRIAL DATE: Disposed (3/22/24)
                                                           
CASE:                         Leafire, Inc., et
al. v. CADM, Inc., et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 20GDCV00722
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR RECONSIDERATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants CADM, Inc., Jianqiang
Gu, Caxyh, LLC, Cayfd, LLC, Camyg, LLC, Camg, LLC, and Cajyong, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiffs
Leafire, Inc. and Llulllu, LLC
 
SERVICE:                              Filed on May 13, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed on June 18, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   None filed
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendants CADM, Inc.,
Jianqiang Gu, Caxyh, LLC, Cayfd, LLC, Camyg, LLC, Camg, LLC, and Cajyong, LLC seek
an order vacating or correcting the May 1, 2024 in part as to the ruling that
this Court has in rem jurisdiction of the two real estate properties located in
the county of Riverside. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On April 3, 2023, Plaintiffs
LEAFIRE, INC. and LLULLLU, LLC (“Plaintiffs”) filed the operative Fifth Amended
Complaint (“5AC”) against Defendants CADM, INC.,  JIANQIANG
GU, CAXYH, LLC, CAYFD, LLC, CAMYG, LLC, CAMG, LLC, CAJYONG, LLC, HFE, LLC, WEE
HIN, ROBERT CHEN, VANESSA LE, YING LIU, and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive. The
5AC asserted eight causes of action for:
 
            1. Fraud
            2. Investment Fraud under Corp. Code
§§ 25000-25707
            3. Breach of Written Contract
            4. Breach of Oral Contract
            5. Money Had and Received
            6. Damage to Personal Property
            7. Infliction of Emotional Distress
            8. Civil Extortion
            9. Unfair Competition
            10. Avoidance of Fraudulent Transfer
            11. Avoidance of Fraudulent Transfer
            12. Avoidance of Fraudulent Transfer
            13. Avoidance of Fraudulent Transfer
            14. Avoidance of Fraudulent Transfer
            15. Avoidance of Fraudulent Transfer
            16. Avoidance of Fraudulent Transfer
            17. Avoidance of Fraudulent Transfer
            18. Avoidance of Fraudulent Transfer
 
On March 22, 2024, this Court entered
Judgment in favor of Plaintiffs on the first, third through fifth, tenth
through fifteenth, and seventeenth causes of action and awarded compensatory
and punitive damages, prejudgment interest of ten percent, ad litigation
related costs.
 
On April 8, 2024, Defendants CADM,
Inc., Jianqiang Gu, Caxyh, LLC, Cayfd, LLC, Camyg, LLC, Camg, LLC, and Cajyong,
LLC (“Defendants”) filed a Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict. The
matter was fully briefed and came for hearing before the Court on May 1, 2024.
This Court denied the motion on both procedurally and substantive grounds. 
 
On May 13, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion
for reconsideration of the May 1, 2024 order. On June 18, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed an opposition. No reply has been filed. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
             Defendants
CADM, Inc., Jianqiang Gu, Caxyh, LLC, Cayfd, LLC, Camyg, LLC, Camg, LLC,
and Cajyong, LLC’s Motion for Reconsideration of May 1, 2024 Order is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1008, subdivision (a), “[w]hen
an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that
made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(a).)¿ 
 
As it relates to new or different facts, circumstances, or law under Code
of Civil Procedure Section 1008, subdivision (a), “the moving party must
provide a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce that evidence at
an earlier time.”¿ (Shiffer v. CBS Corp. (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 246,
255.) Furthermore, “facts of which the party seeking reconsideration was aware
at the time of the original ruling are not “new or different.” (In re
Marriage of Herr (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1468.)¿ 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants CADM, Inc., Jianqiang Gu,
Caxyh, LLC, Cayfd, LLC, Camyg, LLC, Camg, LLC, and Cajyong, LLC (“Defendants”)
move for this Court to reconsider and vacate in part the May 1, 2024 order as
to the ruling that this Court has in rem jurisdiction of the two real estate
properties located in the county of Riverside because venue was proper and
conclude in part this ruling was made in error. 
 
            “Subject to
subdivision (b), if a defendant has contracted to perform an obligation in a
particular county, the superior court in the county where the obligation is to
be performed, where the contract in fact was entered into, or where the
defendant or any defendant resides at the commencement of the action is a
proper court for the trial of an action founded on that obligation, and the
county where the obligation is incurred is the county where it is to be
performed, unless there is a special contract in writing to the contrary.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 395(a).) However, “[t]he [main relief] rule comes into
operation when the court is required to select between inconsistent venue rules
because the complaint prays for two distinct types of relief, one local and one
transitory.” (Dow AgroSciences LLC v. Superior Court (2017) 16
Cal.App.5th 1067, 1078 (Dow AgroSciences LLC).) “[I]f the main relief
requested is personal, fraud damages as an example, and a real property right
is only incidentally involved such that it does not change the transitory
character of the action, the section 392(a) exception will not be applied.” (Id.)
 
            Here, the
May 1, 2024 order denying Defendants Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the
Verdict and Alternatively, Motion for New Trial were denied on two grounds.
First, this Court found that the underlying motions were untimely. The Court
notes that Defendants did not move for reconsideration on the grounds related
to the timeliness of the underlying motions, thus present no new or different
facts to remedy this defect. Second, this Court found that jurisdiction over
this action was proper and the judgment was supported  by sufficient evidence, which constituted
substantive grounds for denial of the underlying motions. Now, Defendants
contend that this Court made an error in finding that jurisdiction over the
action was proper because two real properties are located in Riverside, CA and
Defendant Gu has been a resident of Riverside County since commencement of this
lawsuit. However, like in Dow AgroSciences LLC and as noted previously
by this Court the main relief sought in this action was more transitory in nature
than local because most of Plaintiffs’ claims sought personal relief for fraud
and breach of contract. Also, Plaintiff asserts only two out of six parcels of real
property that were subject to dispute in this case were located in Riverside
County, whereas the majority of the real property were located in Los Angeles
County. Defendants provide no response or evidence refuting this argument. As
such, the venue rule set forth in Code of Civil Procedure Section 395(a)
applied and provided this Court with jurisdiction over the entire action.
Moreover, Defendants fail to meet their burden under Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1008(a) because they admit that it was known to at least Defendant Gu
that he was a resident of Riverside County since the filing of the lawsuit, so
it is not a new or different fact for purposes of reconsideration. Even if it
did constitute a new of different fact, Defendants provide no explanation as to
why this was not disclose at an earlier time including during the filing of the
underlying motions. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants CADM, Inc., Jianqiang Gu, Caxyh, LLC, Cayfd, LLC,
Camyg, LLC, Camg, LLC, and Cajyong, LLC’s Motion for Reconsideration of May 1,
2024 Order is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   July 8, 2024                                       ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
