  Case Number:  22STCV10827    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  JULIANA PAYNE,Plaintiff, vs. NAIMA RICHARDSON, et al., Defendants.  Case No.:  22STCV10827 Hearing Date:  June 28, 2024  [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: PLAINTIFF JULIANA PAYNE’S MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION OF THE JULY 31, 2023 ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT RYAN CHARLES’S MOTIONS TO SET ASIDE AND VACATE DEFAULT AND TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS FOR LACK OF PERSONAL JURISDICTIONPlaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is DENIED.Moving party to provide notice.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On March 30, 2022, Plaintiff filed her Complaint against Naima Richardson.On April 15, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint, adding a cause of action for negligence.On October 7, 2022, Plaintiff filed a doe amendment naming Ryan Charles as a defendant in this action.On December 29, 2022, default was entered against Defendant Charles.On July 31, 2023, the Court granted Defendant Charles’s motions to set aside default and quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for reconsideration.DISCUSSION Plaintiff moves for the Court to reconsider its July 31, 2023 order granting Defendant Charles’s motions to set aside and vacate default and to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 provides, in pertinent part:  “(a) When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make an application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. (b) A party who originally made an application for an order which was refused in whole or in part, or granted conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on an ex parte motion.  …(e)¿This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless made according to this section.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 1008, subds. (a), (b), (e).)  A motion for reconsideration under Section 1008 requires that the moving party present new or different facts that were not previously considered by the Court. (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13.) However, the burden under Section 1008 “is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.” (Id.; Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 833 [finding that Section 1008 imposes the special requirement of having to not only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but also to “show diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the new or different information earlier…”].)  A disagreement with a ruling is not a new fact that will support the granting of a motion for reconsideration. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.) Plaintiff fails to allege new facts, law, or other circumstance which would justify reconsideration. The Court previously granted Charles’s motions because he is a resident of Maryland, the FAC makes no allegations linking Charles with California, and because Plaintiff failed to meet her burden of demonstrating by a preponderance of the evidence that all necessary jurisdictional criteria are met. Plaintiff now moves for reconsideration, arguing that (1) Charles voluntarily participated as a streamer on Twitch, which is a California company and agreed to subject himself to California jurisdiction, (2) Charles streamed to a global audience, including to users in California, (3) Charles’s streams attracted viewers from California and targeted a California audience, and (4) Charles had substantial interactions with California viewers. Plaintiff testifies that she and Charles are affiliate streamers on Twitch who earn money from subscriptions, ads, and bit revenue. (Payne Decl., ¶¶3-4.) Users must agree to accept the terms and conditions set forth by Twitch. (Id., ¶5.) Although Payne testifies she attached a copy of the Twitch streamer agreement, no agreement was attached.Plaintiff fails to show she was diligent in this matter and fails to explain how these are new matters which the Court did not consider previously. Plaintiff raised the same issues using the same language here as in her opposition to Charles’s motion. The Court previously granted Charles’s motion because Plaintiff failed to support the arguments with relevant evidence. Plaintiff only submits an unauthenticated screenshot of a Twitch stream in support of this motion. This screenshot does not support Plaintiff’s assertions that Charles attracted viewers from California, targeted a California audience, or that Charles had substantial interactions with California viewers. Plaintiff offers no other new evidence in support of this motion. Therefore, Plaintiff fails to set forth new facts which would justify reconsideration. Plaintiff’s motion is denied.DATED: June 28, 2024                                                                     ________________________________ Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court 