 Case Number:  22STCV32453    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  RODRIGO SANGUINO,Plaintiff,  vs. COPART, INC., et al., Defendants.  Case No.:  22STCV32453 Hearing Date:  June 28, 2024   [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION FILED BY DEFENDANTS DANIEL LAMOTTE AND PAUL STEWART    The motion to compel arbitration filed by Defendants Lamotte and Stewart is GRANTED.The case is stayed pending arbitration.The Court sets a status conference re: arbitration for January 30, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. Moving party to provide notice.DiscussionDefendants Daniel Lamotte and Paul Stewart move to compel arbitration. This motion concerns the same arbitration agreement as in the motion to compel arbitration filed by Defendant Copart, Inc., which the Court granted on August 25, 2023. Plaintiff makes the same arguments here with respect to the authenticity of his signature as in Copart’s motion. The Court finds that an arbitration agreement exists, and that Plaintiff’s signature is authentic for the same reasons as in Copart’s motion. The Court’s previous ruling is incorporated herein by reference.The scope of the agreement also covers Plaintiff’s claims against Movants. “A third party beneficiary may enforce a contract expressly made for his benefit. [Citation.] And although the contract may not have been made to benefit him alone, he may enforce those promises directly made for him. [Citations.]” (Murphy v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1976) 17 Cal.3d 937, 943.) With regard to arbitration clauses, a third party beneficiary wishing to invoke an arbitration clause has to show that the arbitration clause itself was made expressly for its benefit. (Ronay Family Limited Partnership v. Tweed (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 830, 838.) Here, section 2 of the arbitration agreement states the agreement covers any claims “arising out of or related to…employment, and/or the termination of…employment that the Company may have against [Plaintiff] or that [Plaintiff] may have against Company and/or…Company’s officers, directors, employees, or agents.” (Santosuosso Decl., pdf p.96.) Lamotte and Stewart are both agents of Copart. (FAC ¶¶3, 4.) Movants benefit directly from the arbitration agreement because claims against agents of Copart arising from Plaintiff’s employment with Copart are expressly covered by the agreement. Therefore, Movants are third party beneficiaries of the agreement and may enforce the agreement. Plaintiff does not dispute this point in his opposition.Movants Lamotte and Stewart argued for the first time on reply that the parties delegated decisions regarding the enforceability of the agreement to the arbitrator. At the June 14, 2024 hearing on this matter, the Court ordered the parties to file supplemental briefing on the issue of delegation. Movants filed their supplemental briefing on June 20, 2024, and Plaintiff filed a response on June 24, 2024.The enforceability of an arbitration agreement is generally determined by the court. See¿Aanderud¿v. Superior Court¿(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 891;¿Ajamian¿v. CantorCO2e, L.P.¿(2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 781. However, parties may agree to arbitrate gateway questions of arbitrability such as the enforceability of an arbitration agreement and whether claims are covered by the arbitration agreement. See¿Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson¿(2010) 561 U.S. 63, 68-69;¿Aanderud, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at 891-92;¿Ajamian, supra, 203 Cal.App.4th at 781. “To establish this exception, it must be shown by ‘clear and unmistakable’ evidence that the parties intended to delegate the issue to the arbitrator.” Ajamian, supra, 203 Cal.App.4th at 781 (citing¿First Options of Chicago, Inc. v. Kaplan¿(1995) 514 U.S. 938, 944).¿ “‘There are two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be effective.’” Aanderud, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at 892 (quoting¿Tiri¿v. Lucky Changes, Inc.¿(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 242).¿ “‘First, the language of the clause must be clear and unmistakable.’” Id. “‘Second, the delegation must not be revocable under state contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.’” Id. Here, the language of the delegation clause states: “[T]he Arbitrator, and not any federal, state, or local court or agency, shall have the exclusive authority to resolve any dispute relating to the interpretation, applicability, enforceability, or formation of this agreement.”(Santosuosso Decl., Exh. 4, pdf p. 119.)A. Whether the language of the delegation clause is clear and unmistakable. The language of the delegation clause clearly and unmistakably states issues of enforceability are to be adjudicated by the arbitrator. Therefore, the agreement satisfies the first prong. Plaintiff argues in his supplemental opposition that the arbitration agreement does  not unmistakably state issues of enforceability are to be adjudicated by the arbitrator because the agreement states at various points that the Court may be involved in the enforcement of the agreement. Plaintiff cites Dennison v. Rosland Capital LLC (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 204, 209-210; Hartley v. Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1249, 1257; Parada v. Superior Court (2009), 176 Cal.App.4th 1554, 1566; and Baker v. Osborne Development Corp. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 884, 893-894 in support of this argument. However, each of these cases involved agreements which contained provisions stating a court or “trier of fact of competent jurisdiction” may determine issues of enforceability.Here, Plaintiff essentially argues that if the agreement contains any provisions allowing court intervention, the delegation clause is not effective. However, none of the cases Plaintiff cited support this assertion. Rather, where there are other provisions in an agreement which would allow a court to determine enforceability, there is ambiguity as to whether the agreement reserved issues of enforceability for the arbitrator. Plaintiff points to provisions which state that the parties may apply to a court for temporary or preliminary injunctive relief and to determine whether the Class Action Waiver in the agreement is enforceable. However, these provisions, unlike the provisions in the cases cited above, do not give the courts power to determine issues of enforceability. Rather, the delegation clause specifically reserves issues of enforceability for the arbitrator. Therefore, there is no ambiguity as to whether enforceability is reserved for the arbitrator.Plaintiff next argues that Defendants waived the delegation clause because they did not raise the issue with Copart’s earlier motion to compel arbitration. A party waives its right to arbitrate a threshold issue of unconscionability by submitting the question to the court. Here, although Copart did not raise the delegation clause in its motion, Movants are different parties seeking to enforce the delegation clause. Although Movants and Copart are represented by the same counsel, they are still different parties who have not had the opportunity to litigate these issues. Therefore, the Court finds Movants have not waived their right to enforce the clause. B. Whether the delegation clause is unconscionable or revocableAs for the second prong, Plaintiff argues that the delegation clause is unconscionable. The doctrine of unconscionability refers to “an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.”¿¿(Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013)¿57 Cal.4th 1109, 1133.) It consists of procedural and substantive components, “the former focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly harsh or one-sided results.”¿¿Id.¿ Although both components of unconscionability must be present to invalidate an arbitration agreement, they need not be present to the same degree.¿(Armendariz v. Found. Health¿Psychcare¿Servs., Inc. (2000)¿24 Cal.4th 83, 114 (abrogated in-part on other grounds by¿Concepcion, 563 U.S. 333).)¿¿¿   “Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.¿ [Citations.]¿ In other words, the more substantively unconscionable the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”¿¿(Id.) “The party resisting arbitration bears the burden of proving unconscionability.”¿(Pinnacle Museum Tower¿Ass’n¿v. Pinnacle Market Dev. (US) (2012) LLC,¿55 Cal.4th 223, 247.¿  Critically, delegation clauses are generally enforceable unless the party resisting arbitration can show the delegation clause specifically—not the arbitration agreement as a whole—is unconscionable.  (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 244; see also Malone v. Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1551, 1559 [“whether the arbitration agreement as a whole is . . . unenforceable will have no bearing on the enforcement of the delegation clause itself”]; see also Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. V. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 73 [delegation clause must be treated as valid unless the party resisting arbitration “challenge the delegation provision specifically”].)  “If the party’s challenge is directed to the agreement as a whole—even if it applies equally to the delegation clause—the delegation clause is severed out and enforced; thus, the arbitrator, not the court, will determine whether the agreement is enforceable.”  (Malone, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at 1559.) 1. Procedural unconscionabilityProcedural unconscionability “pertains to the making of the agreement.”  (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.)  Procedural unconscionability “focuses on two factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from an inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an absence of meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.”  (Zullo v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484.) “The circumstances relevant to establishing oppression include, but are not limited to (1) the amount of time the party is given to consider the proposed contract; (2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed contract; (3) the length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity of the challenged provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and (5) whether the party's review of the proposed contract was aided by an attorney.”¿¿(Grand Prospect Partners, L.P. v. Ross Dress for Less, Inc.¿(2015) 232 Cal.App.4th 1332, 1348, fn. omitted.)¿A contract of adhesion typically denotes a standardized contract imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength which relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at 113.)  The adhesive nature of a contract is one factor that the courts may consider in determining the degree of procedural unconscionability.  (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 fn.4.)  Here, the Court previously ruled in its first minute order on Copart’s motion to compel arbitration that the contract at issue was one of adhesion presented on a take-it-or-leave-it basis and therefore procedurally unconscionable, though to a minimal degree. (See minute order dated May 23, 2023.) The delegation clause at issue is minimally procedurally unconscionable because it is a contract of adhesion.2. Substantive UnconscionabilityAn agreement is substantively unconscionable if it imposes terms that are “overly harsh,” “unduly oppressive,” “unreasonably favorable,” or “so one-sided as to ‘shock the conscience.’”¿(Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC¿(2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 910-911¿(Sanchez).)¿“All of¿these formulations point to the central idea that unconscionability doctrine is concerned not with ‘a simple old-fashioned bad bargain’ [citation], but with terms that are ‘unreasonably favorable to the more powerful party.’ [Citation.]”¿(Id. at p. 911.)¿“These include ‘terms that impair the integrity of the bargaining process or otherwise contravene the public interest or public policy; terms (usually of an adhesion or boilerplate nature) that attempt to alter in an impermissible manner fundamental duties otherwise imposed by the law, fine-print terms, or provisions that seek to negate the reasonable expectations of the¿nondrafting¿party, or unreasonably and unexpectedly harsh terms having to do with price or other central aspects of the transaction.’ ”¿(Id. at p. 911.) Here, Plaintiff, citing Cook v. University of Southern California (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 312, argues that the agreement is substantively unconscionable because (1) the clause is infinite in duration, (2) the clause lacks mutuality, and (3) the agreement contains an illegal confidentiality provision. However, each of Plaintiff’s arguments references other sections of the agreement and not the delegation clause itself. As Movants point out, because Plaintiff’s challenges are directed to the agreement as a whole, the delegation clause must be severed from the rest of the agreement. The plain language of the delegation clause itself does not appear to be substantively unconscionable. Plaintiff cannot point to any part of the delegation clause independent from the agreement as a whole which is substantively unconscionable. Therefore, the Court finds the clause is not substantively unconscionable. There being no substantive unconscionability and minimal procedural unconscionability, the Court finds the delegation clause is not unconscionable. Additionally, there are no other reasons why the delegation clause would be revocable under state contract defenses. Therefore, the second prong of the delegation clause analysis is met. The Court finds the delegation clause is enforceable. Issues of enforceability must go to the arbitrator.The motion to compel arbitration is granted.DATED:  June 28, 2024___________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court