 Case Number:  20STCV43588    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  29 Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice filed by Defendants Venco Power Sweeping, Inc and Menahem Roberto Solares. TentativeThe motion is denied without prejudice.BackgroundOn November 13, 2020, Carlos Rivera (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Menahem Roberto Solares and Venco Power weeping, Inc. (collectively “Defendants”) for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence causes of action arising out of an automobile accident occurring on June 16, 2020. Defendants filed an answer on January 20, 2021. On May 3, 2024, Defendants filed the application for Stephen C. Haynes (“Mr. Haynes”) to appear Pro Hac Vice. No opposition has been filed. Legal StandardAny attorney licensed to practice before the bar of any United States court or the highest court in any state, and who has been retained to appear in a particular cause pending a court of this State, but who is not a licensee of the California State Bar may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by submitting his or her written application and mailing notice to all interested parties, as well as notice and a $50.00 application fee to the State Bar Association in San Francisco.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 (a), (c), (e).)  An applicant may neither reside nor work in California and may not perform regular or substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State.  (Id. at Rule 9.40 (a).)  DiscussionMr. Haynes is an attorney barred in the State of Texas and admitted to practice in the federal courts of the Western and Southern Districts Court of Texas.  (Haynes Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4.) He is a resident of Texas. (Id., ¶ 1.) As to each court admitted, he is a member in good standing and is not currently suspended or disbarred. (Id., ¶¶ 4, 5.) Mr. Haynes provides that he has been retained by Defendant, and provides active member of the California State Bar who is the counsel of record in this matter. (Id., ¶ 8.)  Mr. Haynes has not applied to appear pro hac vice in the preceding two years. (Id., ¶ 7.)  William R. Johnson attests that a copy of the application and a check for $50.00 will be served on the State Bar of California. (Johnson Decl., ¶ 7.) No proof of service on the State Bar of California is filed with this application.  This is a mandatory requirement.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(e).) Therefore, the Court must deny without prejudice this motion to be admitted pro hac vice. Conclusion The Court DENIES without prejudice this motion to be admitted pro hac vice. Moving party to give notice.