 Case Number:  23STCV12414    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  29 Motions to Compel Non-Party Docs Surgery Center to Comply
with Two Deposition Subpoenas for Production of Business Records filed by Defendant
Caliber Holdings, LLC. 
 
Tentative
The motions are denied.
The request of Docs Surgery Center for
sanctions is granted in part.
Background
On June
1, 2023, Louis Michael Javier and Maria De Jesus Javier (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Ivan Ramon Martinez Perez, Wand Topco,
Inc., and Caliber Holdings Corporation for general negligence and motor vehicle
negligence arising out of an automobile accident occurring on June 15, 2021. 
 
On
September 18, 2023, Caliber Holdings, LLC (erroneously sued as Caliber Holdings
Corporation) (“Caliber”) and Wand Topco, Inc. (“Wand Topco”) filed an answer. 
 
On
October 19, 2023, the Court, on the request of Plaintiffs, dismissed without
prejudice the causes of action asserted against Wand Topco in the complaint.
 
On
November 2, 2023, Ivan Ramon Martinez Perez filed an answer.
 
On
October 10, 2023, Defendant Wand Topco issued a deposition subpoena to non-party
Docs Surgery Center (“Docs Surgery”) for the production of business records relating
to Plaintiff Louis Michael Javier. 
(Dunkel Decl., ¶ 5 & Exhs. B-1.) 
The subpoena was served on October 23, 2023.  (Id., Exh. B-1.)
 
On January
3, 2024, Defendant Wand Topco issued a deposition subpoena to Docs Surgery for
the production of business records relating to Plaintiff Maria de Jesus Javier.  (Dunkel Decl., ¶ 5 & Exhs. B-2.)  The subpoena was served on January 16,
2024.  (Id., Exh. B-2.) 
 
Docs
Surgery produced some documents and objected to the production of other
documents.  (Id., ¶¶ 6-8 &
Exh. C; Fleming Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
On February
21, 2024, Defendant Caliber filed this motion to compel Docs Surgery to comply
with the deposition subpoenas.  Docs
Surgery filed an opposition on May 15, and Caliber filed a reply on May 21.
 
Legal Standard
The process by
which a party may obtain discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action is through a deposition subpoena. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (b).)  “A deposition subpoena may command any of the following: (a) Only
the attendance and testimony of the deponent …. (b) Only the production of
business records for copying …. (c) The attendance and the testimony of
the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.020.)
“If a deponent on whom a deposition subpoena has been served fails
to attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as a witness, the court may
impose on the deponent the sanctions described in Section 2020.240 [contempt
and an action for civil damages under section 1992].” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.440, subd. (b).)
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (a).)  “This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after
the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., subd. (b).)
“If the
court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery,
it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the
resumption of the deposition.  (Id., subd. (i).)
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (Id., subd. (j).)  
In Chapter 7 of the Civil
Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the
discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.”  Where a
party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may
impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Except as specifically modified by the
Civil Discovery Act, the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure sections 1985
through 1997 apply to deposition subpoenas. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.030.)¿ 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides: “If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a), states, in relevant part, that in connection with an order
directing compliance with a subpoena, quashing it, or modifying it, “the court
may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification.”¿ 
Discussion
Caliber seeks to compel compliance with a
subpoena issued by a different entity, Wand Topco.  Absent evidence that Caliber and Wand Topco
are the same entity, the Court must deny the motion on this basis alone: Caliber
provides no authority or explanation as to why it has the authority to enforce
(or not enforce) a subpoena issued by someone else.
Indeed, the subpoenas themselves appear to be
void.  One of the subpoenas was issued by
Wand Topco more than two months after it was dismissed.  Except in very limited circumstances not
applicable here, a non-party cannot commence discovery, whether by subpoena or any
other method of discovery authorized by the Civil Discovery Act.  The other subpoena was issued while Wand
Topco was still a party, but it was served after Wand Topco was dismissed.  Once Wand Topco was dismissed, the subpoenas
were no longer of any force and effect. 
Docs Surgery had no obligation to produce documents pursuant to subpoenas
issued by a dismissed party.  (Cf. Bates
v. John Deere Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 40, 53 [“A person who was a party,
but by dismissal ceased to be, is without legal standing as a litigant or as an
appellant.”].)
Accordingly, the motions to compel are
denied.
The Court need not reach, and does not reach,
the disputed issue of whether the subpoenaed documents are within the scope of
discovery under Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 and/or subject to an
applicable privilege or other protection from disclosure.
 
The request of Docs Surgery for sanctions is granted
in part.  Caliber has not acted with
substantial justification in seeking to enforce subpoenas that are both void
and issued by another entity.  The Court
sets sanctions in the amount of $1,400, calculated based on counsel’s billing
rate of $560 per hour multiplied by 2.5 hours of attorney time for drafting the
opposition.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Caliber’s motion to compel compliance with the two deposition subpoenas for the production
of business records issued by Wand Topco to Docs Surgery.
The Court GRANTS
in part the request of Docs Surgery for sanctions.
The Court ORDERS
Caliber Holdings, LLC and its counsel of record Tyson & Mendes, LLP to pay
monetary sanctions to Docs Surgery under the Civil Discovery Act and Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.2 in the amount of $1,400 within 30 days of the
hearing.
Moving party to give
notice. 