 Case Number:  23NWCV03670    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  C BELTRAN v. OCHOA
CASE NO.: 23NWCV03670
HEARING:  January 2,
2024 @ 9:30 a.m.
 
#5
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendant Carlos Ochoa’s
Motion to Strike is GRANTED with leave to amend. Plaintiff to file amended
complaint within 20 days.
 
Defendant to give
notice. 
 
Background
 
This is a personal injury action. On November 13, 2023,
Plaintiff Lourdes Beltran (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Carlos Ochoa
(“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 25. Emily Mercado and Richard Mercado were later
named as Doe Defendants 1 and 2. The Complaint alleges that on April 27, 2022,
Defendant’s dog bit and injured Plaintiff while she was lawfully on Defendant’s
property to deliver food. The Complaint alleges the following causes of action:
1) Strict Liability under Civil Code Section 3342 and 2) Negligence. 
 
Defendant now moves to strike portions of the Complaint
pertaining to punitive damages—specifically, paragraphs 33, 34, 41, and prayer
for relief paragraph 5. 
 
The Motion is unopposed as of December 27, 2024. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 436 permits trial courts to
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in a
pleading:  
 
 “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper:  
(a)¿Strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  
(b)¿Strike out all
or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436.)  
 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Parties must meet and confer “in person or by telephone”
before filing a motion to strike. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).)
Defense counsel attempted to meet and confer via letter to Plaintiff’s counsel
to discuss the purported deficiencies in the Complaint. (Gamboa Decl., ¶ 3,
Exh. B.) Plaintiff’s counsel responded, arguing that punitive damages were
supported by the allegations in the Complaint. (Gamboa Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. C.) The
Court finds the meet and confer requirement has not been met because the
parties did not meet and confer “in person or by telephone.” (Code of Civ.
Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).) Nevertheless, the Court will assess the merits of
the Motion in interests of judicial efficiency.
 
Discussion
 
Defendant argues the allegations in the Complaint do not
support a finding of oppression, malice, or fraud—rather, they are conclusory.
For example, the Complaint does not allege facts to show why the dog was a “vicious
dog with vicious and dangerous propensity” or how Defendant “knew that the
vicious dog had a dangerous propensity to attack other people or animals.”
(Compl., ¶¶ 35-36.) Defendant argues the Complaint alleges no facts to
establish Defendant’s “evil motive” or “conscious disregard” of the safety of
Plaintiff that would justify a punitive damages award. Plaintiff has filed no
opposition. 
 
“‘In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive
damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general
punitive damage statute, Civil Code section 3294.’ [Citation.]” (Today IV’s
Inc. v. Los Angeles County MTA (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) Civil
Code section 3294 provides that on a non-contract cause of action, a plaintiff
may recover punitive damages when they prove “by clear and convincing evidence
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code
§ 3294, subd. (a).) In a negligence action, plaintiffs must allege facts
in the complaint demonstrating malice—conclusory allegations that simply
characterize defendant's conduct as “malicious” are insufficient and subject to
motion to strike. (See Smith v. Sup.Ct. (Bucher) (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th
1033, 1036, 1042 (finding, in a legal malpractice claim, plaintiff’s conclusory
allegations that the attorneys' conduct was “intentional, knowing, malicious,
fraudulent, false and deceitful” and in “conscious and knowing disregard of the
interest and rights of plaintiff” were deficient as a matter of law to show
entitlement to punitive damages).)
 
The Court finds the Complaint contains conclusory
allegations of malice and oppression, which are insufficient to support a
punitive damages award. A complaint must plead facts demonstrating malice or
oppression, as opposed to characterizing allegations as malicious or
oppressive. (See Smith, supra, 10 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1036, 1042.)
 
As to paragraph 34 and prayer for relief paragraph 5 of the
Complaint which seek punitive damages based on Civil Code section 3340, the
Court finds such section inapplicable to the instant case. Civil Code section
3340 awards exemplary damages for “wrongful injuries to animals being
subjects of property.” (Civ. Code, § 3240) (Italics added). Here,
Plaintiff, not an animal, was allegedly injured. The section is thus
inapplicable, and the portions should be stricken.
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Defendant’s Motion to Strike. 