  Case Number:  21STCV24940    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
21, 2024                           TRIAL
DATE:  March 10, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Gus
Murra v. LAPRAAC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV24940
 





















 
MOTION
FOR NEW TRIAL AFTER SUMMARY JUDGMENT



 
MOVING PARTIES:           Plaintiffs Gus Murra, Jacob Palacios, Victor Brown, Jerry
D. Fritz, Louie Gener 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant City of Los Angeles
 
 
I.          FACTUAL
AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
This is a consolidated action
involving allegations that the City of Los Angles (City) and the Los Angeles
Police Department (LAPD) by and through their actual and/or ostensible agent, Los
Angeles Police Revolver and Athletic Club (LAPRAAC), negligently purchased and
sold firearms and negligently supervised LAPRAAC’s employees who purchased and sold
firearms. Plaintiffs Gus Murra (Murra), Jacob Palacios (Palacios), Victor Brown
(Brown), Jerry D. Fritz (Fritz), and Louie Gener (Gener) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”),
were sworn officers of the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD).  LAPRAAC is a private entity that sells
firearms and police equipment, among other items.  LAPRAAC operates a gun store at the LAPD
Police Academy campus located at 1880 North Academy Drive, Los Angeles, CA
90012.  LAPRAAC is a federally licensed
firearms dealer.  The City and LAPD are
not.
 
Between 2018 and 2020, each
Plaintiff separately purchased firearms from LAPRAAC in private sales
transactions.  During that same time period,
the manager of LAPRAAC’s gun store was allegedly trafficking in stolen weapons
and/or stealing guns from LAPRAAC’s inventory and selling them on the side.  In 2020, LAPD’s Commercial Crimes Division,
Burglary Section (CCD) contacted each Plaintiff regarding their respective
firearms purchases from LAPRAAC.  CCD
informed each Plaintiff the firearm they purchased from LAPRAAC had been
reported stolen.  Criminal investigations
ensued.  
 
During the pendency of the criminal
investigation, Murra, Palacios, and Gener were indefinitely stripped of their
LAPD badges and placed on residential assignment; Brown was reassigned to
another department with work restrictions. 

 
Plaintiffs allege LAPRAAC acted
negligently in its oversight of its firearms sales. As relevant here, Plaintiffs
allege LAPRAAC was the actual and/or ostensible agent of the City and the LAPD.[1]  And if so, the City is liable for the
negligent acts of its agent (actual or ostensible) and its employees.  Plaintiffs further allege having suffered
economic damages, emotional distress, and reputational harm.
 
            Plaintiffs’
Complaints
 
On July 7, 2021, Murra filed a
Complaint against LAPRAAC, the City, and LAPD. 
Murra’s Complaint is the lead case. 
On August 16, 2021, Brown, Fritz, and Gener each filed a Complaint
against Defendants.  Murra, Brown, Fritz,
and Gener’s respective complaints each allege three causes of action: (1)
Negligence, (2) Negligence (Gov. Code §§ 815.2 and 820), and (3) Negligent
Supervision, Hiring, or Retention (Gov. Code §§ 815.2 and 820).  Plaintiffs’ First Cause of Action for
Negligence is asserted against LAPRAAC. As relevant here, Plaintiffs’ Second
and Third Causes of Action are asserted against the City and LAPD.  
 
Palacios filed his Complaint
against Defendants on August 16, 2021. 
Palacios’s First Amended Complaint (FAC), filed on September 8, 2022, is
his operative pleading.  The FAC asserts the
same first three causes of action and adds a fourth cause of action against the
City for Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5. 
 
Motions for Summary Judgment
 
The City filed five motions: four
motions for summary judgment against Murra, Brown, Fritz and Gener, and a fifth
motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication against
Palacios’s FAC.  Palacios asserted a
retaliation claim.  With the exception of
Palacios’s retaliation claim, Plaintiffs bring identical negligence and
negligent supervision, hiring, or retention claims against the Defendants.  Because the negligence claims all turned on
the issue of whether LAPRAAC was the agent or ostensible agent of the City or
LAPD with respect to LAPRAAC’s firearms sale and transactions, the court addressed
the arguments together. 
 
On August 19, 2024, the court granted each of the City’s motions
for summary judgment.
 
The Instant Motion
 
On October 14, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed this Motion for New Trial After Summary Judgment.  
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            A motion for new trial asks the
trial court to reexamine one or more issues of fact or law after a trial and
decision by judge or jury.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 656, 657.)¿ A new trial motion
is also available to challenge judgments disposing of an action without trial
where an issue of fact or law has been decided, such as in the case of summary
judgment.¿ (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
858.)  “The right to a new trial is purely statutory, and a motion for a
new trial can be granted only on one of the grounds enumerated in the
statute.”  (Fomco, Inc. v. Joe Maggio, Inc. (1961) 55 Cal. 2d 162,
166.)  “As the motion for a new trial finds both its source and its
limitations in the statutes, the procedural steps prescribed by law for making
and determining such a motion are mandatory and must be strictly followed.” 
(Mercer v. Perez (1968) 68 Cal.2d 104, 118 [cleaned up]; Pacific
Trends Lamp & Lighting Products, Inc. v. J. White Inc. (1998) 65
Cal.App.4th 1131, 1135.) 
 
As set forth in Code
of Civil Procedure section 657, the grounds upon which a new trial may be
ordered include: 
 
1.     
Irregularity
in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the
court or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a
fair trial. 
2.     
Misconduct
of the jury; and whenever any one or more of the jurors have been induced to
assent to any general or special verdict, or to a finding on any question
submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the determination of chance,
such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any one of the jurors. 
3.     
Accident
or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against. 
4.     
Newly
discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he
could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the
trial. 
5.     
Excessive
or inadequate damages. 
6.     
Insufficiency
of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or
other decision is against law. 
7.     
Error in
law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party making the
application. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
657.) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiffs argue
a new trial is warranted for two reasons: (1) the court improperly shifted the
burden to Plaintiffs of proving an ostensible agency relationship between
LAPRAAC and the City, and (2) Plaintiffs offered evidence to create a triable
issue of fact as to the existence of an ostensible agency.  In essence, Plaintiffs move for a new trial
based on irregularity in the proceedings.[2] 
“A new trial may be granted where there is an ‘[i]rregularity in the
proceedings.’ (§ 657, subd. (1).) An ‘irregularity in the proceedings’ is a
catchall phrase referring to any act that (1) violates the right of a party to
a fair trial and (2) which a party cannot fully present by exceptions taken
during the progress of the trial, and which must therefore appear by
affidavits.
(Montoya v. Barragan (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1229–30, citations
omitted.). For the reasons stated herein, Plaintiffs fail to show a new trial
is warranted.3  
 
A. 
Whether the City Held LAPRAAC as its Ostensible Agent
 
To establish ostensible agency, a
plaintiff must show (1) that the defendant intentionally or carelessly created
the impression of agency; (2) that plaintiff reasonably believed such agency;
and (3) that plaintiff was harmed because he or she reasonably relied on the
belief.  (CACI No. 3709; Civ. Code §
2300; Associated Creditors’ Agency v. Davis (1975) 13 Cal.3d 374, 399 [“There
are three requirements necessary before recovery may be had against a principal
for the act of an ostensible agent. The person dealing with the agent must do
so with belief in the agent's authority and this belief must be a reasonable
one; such belief must be generated by some act or neglect of the principal
sought to be charged; and the third person in relying on the agent’s apparent
authority must not be guilty of negligence.”].)   “Ostensible agency cannot be established by
the representations or conduct of the purported agent; the statements or acts
of the principal must be such as to cause the belief the agency exists.”  (American Way Cellular, Inc. v. Travelers
Property Casualty Co. of America (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 1040, 1053.)
 
In ruling in the City’s favor, the
court narrowed the issue to whether the City or the LAPD presented LAPRAAC as
its ostensible agent for the sale of firearms.  After reviewing the briefing and holding two
hearings, the court concluded LAPRAAC was not the City’s nor the LAPD’s
ostensible agent for this narrow purpose. 
Moreover, the court concluded that Plaintiffs’ belief in LAPRAAC’s
ostensible authority was not reasonable as a matter of law.
 
Now, Plaintiffs argue “the City did
not meet its initial burden of negating Plaintiffs’ claims that LAPRAAC was the
ostensible agent of defendant City.” 
(Mot. pg. 1.)  Not so.  The City offered evidence to establish the
following: “LAPRAAC is a separate entity (City’s Undisputed Material Facts
(UMF) 22, 26); LAPRAAC’s gun store is located on LAPRAAC property, and is
wholly owned, operated and staffed by LAPRAAC (UMF 13, 15); with respect to the
LAPRAAC gun store which is the subject of this lawsuit, including the sale of
guns, LAPRAAC is not an agent of the City (UMF 18); LAPRAAC is not authorized
by the City to contract for the City, nor is it authorized to do any acts for
the City with respect to the gun store (UMF 24, 25); the City is not involved
in LAPRAAC’s operations in any way (UMF 26); and each Plaintiff admitted in
responses to the City’s Request for Admission that there are no documents
pertaining to the purchase of the subject firearms which identifies the City as
the seller. (UMF 23 (Murra); UMF 23 (Brown); UMF 40 (Palacios); UMF 40 (Fritz);
UMF 33 (Gener).)  In short, the City
showed LAPRAAC and the City are separate entities, the City plays no role in
LAPRAAC’s operations, and LAPRAAC did not have authority to act as the City’s
agent, ostensible or otherwise.”  (Minute
Order, 8/19/24.)  
 
The City met its initial burden to
show no triable issue of material fact existed. 
And once the burden shifted, Plaintiffs failed to make a prima facie
showing there was triable issue on the existence of an ostensible agency.  Plaintiffs did not point to any statements
made by the City or the LAPD to create the impression that LAPRAAC was
authorized to sell firearms on the LAPD’s behalf.  Similarly, no evidence was submitted to show
the City or the LAPD were authorized to sell firearms.  Given the foregoing, any belief in an
ostensible agency for the sale of firearms was unreasonable.  The court arrived at this conclusion after
the parties were afforded an opportunity to submit additional briefing and the
benefit of two hearings.  Plaintiffs did
not submit any evidence to direct a different result.  
 
In sum, the court did not
improperly shift the burden to Plaintiffs.  And, as before, Plaintiffs do not offer any
new arguments (and certainly no new evidence) to demonstrate the existence of a
triable issue.[3]  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION

 
            The Motion
for a New Trial is DENIED.
 
            Defendant
to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   November 21,
2024                           
 




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the
  Superior Court


 




 
 


