 Case Number:  24STCV13371    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling 
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
21, 2024                           TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Lorraine Flores v. Casey’s
Cars, Inc., et al.
 
ASE NO.:                    24STCV13371
 

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL BINDING ARBITRATION AND STAY ALL PROCEEDINGS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Casey’s Cars, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Lorraine
Flores
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
            On May 29,
2024, Lorraine Flores (Flores or Plaintiff) filed this action against Casey’s Cars,
Inc. (Defendant), among others, for (1) Violations of the Consumers Legal
Remedies Act, (2) Intentional Misrepresentation, (3) Concealment, (4) Negligent
Misrepresentation, and (5) Violations of the Unfair Competition Law.  Flores alleges she purchased a used 2020 Land
Rover Range Rover (the Vehicle) from Defendant based on Defendant’s
representations that there were no issues with the Vehicle.  The Vehicle came with an extended
warranty.  However, shortly after the
purchase, the Vehicle presented with issues which needed $4,509.19 in
repairs.  Defendant declined to help
Flores with the repairs, claiming the issues were not covered by extended
warranty.  
 
            On September
24, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to compel arbitration and stay all
proceedings.
 
            On November
7, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  
 
On November 15, Defendant filed a reply. 
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability.  (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.)  Under
both the FAA and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding
a contract.  (Winter v. Window
Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  Arbitration agreements can be invalidated by “generally
applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.”  (AT&T Mobility LLC v.
Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)
 
“California
law strongly favors arbitration.  Through
the comprehensive provisions of the California Arbitration Act (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1280 et seq.), the Legislature has expressed a ‘strong public policy
in favor of arbitration as a speedy and relatively inexpensive means of dispute
resolution.  As with the FAA (9 U.S.C. §
1 et seq.), California law establishes a presumption in favor of
arbitrability.  An agreement to submit
disputes to arbitration “is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such
grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 125 (OTO).)

 
The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of
a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, the party
opposing the petition then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate the agreement should not be
enforced, and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final
determination on the issue.  (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, the court can compel parties to an
arbitration agreement to arbitrate their dispute.  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            There is no dispute Plaintiff signed an agreement for
purchase of the Vehicle which contains an arbitration clause.  There is also no dispute the Federal
Arbitration Act governs the arbitration clause. 
Plaintiff argues several terms in the agreement are unconscionable.  Because the court finds there is a valid
delegation clause, the court will compel Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration.  
 
A.    The Delegation Clause
 
“Although threshold questions of¿arbitrability¿are
ordinarily for courts to decide in the first instance under the [Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA)], the ‘[p]arties to an¿arbitration agreement¿may agree
to¿delegate¿to the arbitrator, instead of a court, questions regarding the
enforceability of the agreement.’”  (Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group,
Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 227, 239 (Pinela) quoting¿Tiri v.
Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 241.)  “Just as the
arbitrability of the merits of a dispute depends upon whether the parties
agreed to arbitrate that dispute, … so the question who has the primary power
to decide arbitrability turns upon what the parties agreed about that
matter.”  (Aanderud v. Superior Court
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 891 (Aanderud).)  The delegation issue is a “gateway”
question.  (Rent-A-Center, West, Inc.
v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 69 (Rent-A-Car).)   
 
“There are two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be
effective.  First, the language of the
clause must be clear and unmistakable. Second, the delegation must not be
revocable under state contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or
unconscionability.  The ‘clear and
unmistakable’ test reflects a ‘heightened standard of proof’ that reverses the
typical presumption in favor of the arbitration disputes.”  (Aanderud, supra, 13¿Cal.App.5th
at p. 892 (cleaned up).)  Thus, “[u]nless
the parties clearly and unmistakably provide otherwise, the question of whether
the parties agreed to arbitrate is to be decided by the court, not the
arbitrator.’”  (Pinela, supra,
at pp. 239-40 (cleaned up).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff clearly and unmistakably agreed to commit
questions of arbitrability to the arbitrator. 
The Agreement states, in relevant part, “Any claim or dispute, whether
in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope
of this Arbitration Provision, any allegation of waiver of rights under this
Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute) . . . between
you and us …, which arises out of or relates to your credit application,
purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting
transaction or relationship . . . shall, at your or our election, be resolved by
neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action.”  (Humphries Decl., Ex. A, p. 5.)
 
The language is clear and unmistakable.  The delegation clause reserves to the
arbitrator the issue whether the agreement is enforceable.  For this reason, the court compels
Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration. 
Plaintiff may present his unconscionability argument to the arbitrator.[1] 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
             Given the foregoing, Defendant Casey’s Cars,
Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay All Proceedings is GRANTED.  The action is stayed pending the conclusion
of the arbitration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)  The court sets a post-arbitration status
conference for August 21, 2025, at 9:00 a.m.  
 
Defendant to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   November 21,
2024                            




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior
  Court 




 


