 Case Number:  24STCV13786    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
21, 2024                                       TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                                Malibu Psychic, a d.b.a. of George
Merino, et al. v.
Malibu Psychic, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      24STCV13786
 





















 
MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS
      


 
MOVING
PARTY:              Defendants Malibu Psychic
Spiritual Center, Inc., Alexus Miller, 
                                                and
Carol Stanton
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Plaintiff Malibu Psychic, a dba of
George Merino, and George Merino
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On May 31, 2024, plaintiffs Malibu Psychic, a d.b.a. of
George Merino, and George Merino (collectively, Plaintiff) commenced this
action against defendants Malibu Psychic Spiritual Center, Inc. (erroneously
sued as Malibu Psychic) (MPSC), Alexus Miller (erroneously sued as Alexis
Miller) (Miller), Andrew Adams (Adams), Carol Stanton (Stanton), and Diane Ray
(Ray) (collectively, Defendants).  
 
On July 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Verified First
Amended Complaint (FAC against Defendants for (1) Violation of Common Law
Trademark Rights Under Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 14245; 92) Trademark
Dilution and Injury to Business Reputation Under Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §§
14330 to 14335; (3) Unfair Competition and False Advertising Under Cal. Bus.
& Prof. Code §§17200 and 17500, et seq., (4) Trespass to Land; (5) Trespass
to Land; (6) Conversion by Vandalism; (7) Conversion by Vandalism; (8)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (9) Application and Request
for Injunctive Relief.
 
            On September
18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Proof of Service of Summons showing “Alexis Miller”
was served with the summons and complaint by personal service on August 2,
2024.  On the same day, Plaintiff filed
Proofs of Service of Summons showing MPSC, Stanton, Adams, and Ray were served
with the summons and complaint by substituted service on August 2, 2024.
 
On September 23, 2024, MPSC, Miller, and Stanton (hereafter,
Moving Defendants) filed this Motion to Quash Service of Summons.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  Moving Defendants filed a reply.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            Personal
service may be accomplished by personally delivering a copy of the summons and
complaint to the person to be served.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.) 
If a copy of the summons and complaint cannot, with reasonable diligence, be
personally delivered to the person being served, substitute service may be
effected by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s
“dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual
mailing address ... in the presence of ... a person apparently in charge ...
and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint by first-class
mail ... to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons
and complaint were left.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).)  
 
A defendant must file a motion to quash service of summons
on or before the last day on which the defendant must plead unless the time is
extended by stipulation or by a judge’s order for good case.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  Although the notice of motion must
designate a hearing date not more than 30 days after the notice is filed,
scheduling a hearing date beyond the 30-day time period does not deprive the
court of jurisdiction to consider the merits of the motion.  (Olinick
v. BMB Entertainment (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1286, 1295-96.) 
 
Filing a proof of service by a registered process server
creates a rebuttable presumption that service was proper.  (American
Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390 (Zara);
Evid. Code, § 647 [“The return of a process server registered pursuant to ...
the Business and Professions Code upon process or notice establishes a
presumption, affecting the burden of producing evidence, of the facts stated in
the return”].)  This evidentiary presumption also applies in unlawful
detainer actions and is “consistent with the purpose of the unlawful detainer
procedure to afford a relatively simple and speedy remedy for specific
landlord-tenant disputes.”  (Palm Property Investments, LLC v. Yadegar
(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1419, 1427 (Palm Property).) However, the
presumption only arises if the proof of service complies with the statutory
requirements regarding such proofs.  (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1441-42.)  Proof of service of summons may
be impeached by evidence that contradicts it. 
(City of Los Angeles v. Morgan (1951) 105 Cal.App.2d 726,
731.) 
 
When a defendant moves to quash service of summons, the
plaintiff has “the burden of proving the facts that did give the court
jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective service.”¿  (Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245
Cal.App.2d 866, 868.) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            Moving Defendants
seek an order quashing service of the summons and FAC on the following grounds:

 
1.     
The Proof of Service forms indicate
the complaint in this action was filed.  However,
the complaint was superseded by a First Amended Complaint, and there is no
proof of service for that amended complaint.
2.     
The service package was given to
Jennifer Dimitro, a relative of Ms. Miller, who was present at the business
location while Ms. Miller stepped out. Ms. Dimitro does not work at Malibu
Psychic Spiritual Center, Inc. and is not a proper person for substitute
service.
3.     
Ms. Miller was never personally
served; the service package was given to Ms. Dimitro.
4.     
Mr. Adams, Ms. Stanton and Ms. Ray
are neither shareholders nor employees of Malibu Psychic Spiritual Center,
Inc., and that business location is not proper to serve them. In fact, Mr.
Adams primary residence is in Washington state, Ms. Adams resides in Nevada,
and Ms. Stanton resides in Nevada.
 
(See Notice of Motion.)  
 
            At the
outset, the court notes the proof of service forms and the attached declaration
states Plaintiff’s process server Alexandra R. Rista (Rista) served the
Complaint, not the FAC.  Defendants argue
this is a fatal blow to Plaintiffs’ argument. 
Not so. Rista submitted another declaration in support of Plaintiff’s
opposition which indicates she served and mailed a copy of the FAC to MPSC, Adams,
Stanton, and Ray.  While not an ideal
situation for Plaintffs, Rista’s subsequent declaration provides sufficient
ballast to keep the Plaintiffs’ case afloat. 
 
            Because each
defendant is situated differently, the court addresses each defendant in turn.
 
            Defendant
Alexus Miller
 
            Plaintiff
filed a proof of service stating Miller was personally served with process.
Moving Defendants argue otherwise.  In
support, Moving Defendants offer the declaration of Miller and her cousin,
Jennifer Dimitro.  Miller states she
stepped out of the business to attend to her children when Rista purportedly
effectuated personal service.  Dimitro,
who was visiting MPSC at the time, was left alone at the shop to greet Rista
and to ask Rista to wait.  The legal
papers were left at the shop.  (Miller
Decl., ¶ 2.)  Dimitro confirms this
version of events, and further states that she explained to Rista that she was
not Miller.  (Dimitro Decl., ¶¶
2-6.)  
 
            Plaintiff contests
each of the foregoing points.  In support,
Plaintiff offers the declaration of their registered process server, Rista, who
states she first met Miller on July 31, 2024, at MPSC; Miller identified
herself as “Alexus Miller.”  (Rista
Decl., ¶ 3.)  Thereafter, Rista returned
to MPSC on August 2, 2024, and personally served Miller with the summons and
FAC on that date.  (Rista Decl., ¶ 5.)  
 
The affidavits are in conflict.  Miller states unequivocally that she was not
personally served. Her position is supported by Dimitro.  Rista states unequivocally that she
personally served Miller.  Rista submits
text messages with Miller and a photo purportedly of Miller opening the front
door of MPSC.  (See Rista Decl., Exs. 5
and 6.). However, the text messages do not provide a physical description of
Miller or demonstrate that the person Rista met at the store was Miller.  The texts do provide some circumstantial
evidence in support of Plaintiff’s point. 
But Rista does not provide a physical description of Miller.  Further, the purported photo of Miller
opening the door at MPSC is not helpful. 
The door obscures a view of the person. 
If there is an individual in the photo, the court cannot tell who it is,
let alone glean the person’s physical characteristics.  
 
In short, the court cannot resolve this conflict based on
the affidavits alone.  An evidentiary
hearing is necessary.  The court will
discuss with counsel possible dates for the evidentiary hearing.  The court will allocate forty-five minutes to
each side to cross-examine witnesses on the narrow issue whether Miller was
personally served.  The parties are to
submit declarations (which can be the same ones or new ones) which shall serve
as the direct testimony for each witness to be called.  The parties are to provide the court with their
declarations and all exhibits, excluding impeachment and rebuttal exhibits.  The declarations and exhibits shall be
provided to the court in a three ring notebook at least 5 court days in advance
of the hearing.  Counsel are to exchange
notebooks at least seven court days in advance of the hearing.  
 
Defendant MPSC
 
Plaintiff filed a proof of service stating MPSC was served
by substituted service.  Moving
Defendants contend MPSC was not properly served because (1) Dimitro, and not
Miller, was served with process, (2) Dimitro is not MPSC’s agent for service of
process, and (3) there is no proof of service of the FAC. 
 
The court is not persuaded.  “If a copy of the summons and complaint cannot
with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served, …,
a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the
person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or
usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office
box, in the presence of a competent member of the household or a person
apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual
mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, at
least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by
thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class
mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of
the summons and complaint were left.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20(b), emphasis
added.) 
 
Here, Rista attached a declaration of diligence indicating
she attempted personal service on July 24, 2024, July 31, 2024, August 1, 2024,
and August 2, 2024.  (See Declaration of
Diligence, Proof of Service (Stanton), 9/18/24.)  Based upon Dimitro’s Declaration, MPSC was
served by substitute service because Dimitro was apparently in charge of the place
of business when Rista arrived and served her with the papers.[1]  Rista thereafter mailed a copy of the summons
and FAC to MPSC’s address.  Plaintiff
properly effectuated substituted service on MPSC.  
 
Accordingly, the motion to quash as to MPSC is DENIED.
 
Defendant Andrew Adams
 
Plaintiff purportedly served Adams by substituted
service.  Moving Defendants argue Adams
is neither a shareholder nor employee of MPSC. 
The point is supported by Miller’s declaration.  (Miller Decl., ¶ 3.)  Miller further states that Adams resides primarily
in Washington state where he does construction work.  (Id.). 
 
Plaintiff argues to the contrary.  In support, Plaintiff offers Rista’s
declaration wherein she states that she conducted an internet search regarding Adams
which revealed that he resided with Miller at 1509 South Wooster Avenue, Apt.
#1, Los Angeles, California 90035, was 
Miller’s husband, and the registered owner of defendant
MPSC.  (Rista Decl., ¶ 7.)(emphasis
added.)  Plaintiff offers his own
declaration wherein he states that he hired a team of private investigators who
determined Adams was an owner of MPSC. 
(Merino Decl., ¶ 5.)  
 
The court finds the presumption of proper service as to
Adams is rebutted.  Rista does not
provide any evidence to corroborate the results of her internet search regarding
Adams.  The reliability of that
information cannot be determined.  Further, Plaintiff’s evidence regarding
Miller’s ownership interest was obtained in June of 2023.  The information is stale.  In other words, Plaintiff does not submit any
proof to indicate Adams owned or worked at MPSC at the time this lawsuit was
filed.  
 
Accordingly, the motion to quash as to Adams is GRANTED.
 
Defendant Carol Stanton 
 
Plaintiff purportedly served Stanton by substituted
service.  Moving Defendants argue Stanton
is neither a shareholder nor employee of MPSC. 
The point is supported by Miller’s declaration.  (Miller Decl., ¶ 4.)  Miller further states that Stanton resides primarily
in Texas.  (Id.)
 
Plaintiff argues to the contrary.  In support, Plaintiff offers his declaration wherein
he states that he hired a team of private investigators who determined Stanton
was an owner of MPSC.  (Merino Decl., ¶
5.)  Further, Stanton personally placed her
name on a business card to the private investigators, which demonstrates that
Stanton worked at MPSC.  (Merino Decl., ¶
6, Ex. 8.)  Plaintiffs also include a
photo of Stanton working the storefront counter of MPSC.  (See Merino Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 9.)
 
The court finds the presumption of proper service as to
Stanton is rebutted.  As Plaintiff
acknowledges, the name “Jackie” appears on the business card, not “Carol”.  Plaintiff does not provide any proof to show
“Jackie” is Carol Stanton.  Further,
Plaintiff’s evidence regarding Stanton’s ownership interest and working the
storefront counter of MPSC was obtained in June of 2023.  The information is stale.  In other words, Plaintiff does not submit any
proof to show Stanton owned or worked at MPSC at the time this lawsuit was
filed in 2024.  
 
Accordingly, the motion to quash as to Stanton is GRANTED.
 
 Defendant Diane
Ray
 
Plaintiff purportedly served Ray by substituted
service.  Moving Defendants argue Ray is
neither a shareholder nor employee of MPSC. 
The point is supported by Miller’s declaration.  (Miller Decl., ¶ 5.)  Miller further states that Ray resides primarily
in Nevada.  (Id.)
 
Plaintiff argues to the contrary.  In support, Plaintiff offers his declaration
wherein he states that he hired a team of private investigators who determined
Ray was an owner of MPSC.  (Merino Decl.,
¶ 5.)  According to Plaintiff, Ray
personally placed her name “Diane” on a business card to the private
investigators, which demonstrates that Ray worked at MPSC.  (Merino Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 8.)  
 
The court finds the presumption of proper service as to Ray
is rebutted.  Plaintiff’s evidence
regarding Ray’s ownership interest and working the storefront counter of MPSC was
obtained in June of 2023.  The
information is stale.  In other words, Plaintiff
does not submit any proof to show Ray owned or worked at MPSC at the time this
lawsuit was filed in 2024.  
 
Accordingly, the motion to quash as to Ray is GRANTED.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Quash is Granted in Part, Denied
in Part.  The motion is granted as to
Andrew Adams, Carol Stanton, and Diane Ray.  The motion is denied as to Malibu Psychic
Spiritual Center, Inc.  
 
The court will discuss possible dates for an evidentiary
hearing with respect to Alexus Miller.  The
hearing is limited to the narrow question whether Miller was personally served
with process.  
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
Dated:   November 21,
2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of
  the Superior Court 




 
 


