 Case Number:  21STCV27613    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  31 Order after Submission
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
21, 2024                           TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Jeff Baoliang
Zhang, Ph.D v. Los Angeles Police Department, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV27613
 





















 
MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS FOR SETTING UP A CASE TRIAL SCHEDULE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Jeff Baoliang Zhang, Ph.D.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
             On July 28, 2021, Plaintiff, Jeff Baoliang Zhang,
Ph.D., who is self-represented, filed this action against the City of Los
Angeles (sued as the “Los Angeles Police Department”) (hereafter, the “City”).¿
On March 25, 2022, the court sustained the City’s demurrer, in part, without
leave to amend as to Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for Willful Perjuries,
the Serious Violation of the Federal Laws.
 
On January 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”).¿ The FAC alleges causes of action for (1) Willful
Perjuries, the Serious Violation of the Federal Laws; (2) Violation of the
United States Constitution; and (3) Theft and Robbery of Plaintiff’s Property, Willful
Perjuries, the Serious Violation of the Federal Laws.¿ The FAC also adds
Kenneth Bryant (“Bryant”), Jesse Hinchman (“Hinchman”), Albert Delarocha
(“Delarocha”), Charlie Beck (“Beck”), Michel Moore (“Moore”), and Ibanks as
defendants.  Defendants
Delarocha, Beck, and Ibanks have not appeared in this action.  ¿ 
 
On February 9, 2023, the City, Hinchman, Moore, and Bryant filed
a demurrer.  On August 11, 2023, the
court sustained the demurrer to the FAC, without leave to amend.  
 
On October 26, 2023, the court denied Plaintiff’s motion for
reconsideration but, on its own motion, reconsidered the August 11, 2023
ruling, only as to the Second Cause of Action. 
As such, the only remaining cause of action is the Second Cause of
Action for Violation of the United States Constitution.
 
On January 19, 2024, the City, Hinchman, Moore, and Bryant filed
a motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the Second Cause of Action.  On February 15, 2024, the court granted the
motion.  Judgment was entered in the
City, Hinchman, Moore, and Bryant’s favor on February 15, 2024.  As such, the only remaining defendants in
this case are Delarocha,
Beck, and Ibanks.
 
On September 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed this “Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings For Setting Up a Case Trial Schedule.”
 
The motion was heard on November 21, 2024.  After taking the matter under submission, the
court now rules as follows.
 
II.        DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff’s motion is a procedurally anomaly.  There is no such motion for judgment on the
pleadings “for setting up a case trial schedule.”  To the extent Plaintiff seeks judgment on the
pleadings, the motion is improper.  A
motion for judgment on the pleadings contemplates a judgment against defendants
who have appeared.  “If the moving party
is a plaintiff, that the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a
cause or causes of action against the defendant and the answer does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc. 438, subd. (c)(1)(A),
emphasis added.). Here, the only remaining defendants are defendants Beck,
Delarocha, and Ibanks.  These defendants
have not appeared in this action.
 
III.       CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.
 
Clerk of the court to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   November 22,
2024                                   




¿ 


¿¿¿ 




¿ 


¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ 
¿ Judge of the Superior
  Court¿ 




 
 
 