  Case Number:  24TRCV01412    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka  Wednesday, November 6, 2024
Department M               Calendar No. 13  



 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Jonathan
Alfredo Argento v. BMW of North America, LLC, et al.
24TRCV01412
1.     
Jonathan Alfredo
Argento’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of
Documents, Set One 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Jonathan Alfredo Argento’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, is denied, in part,
granted, in part, and moot, in part. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on April 26, 2024. This
is a “Lemon Law” case brought by Plaintiff concerning a 2024 BMW 750c.
Plaintiff alleges that the vehicle suffers from widespread defects, including check
engine light, emission, electrical, and
engine system defects. Defendant has been unable to repair their vehicle within
a reasonable number of attempts. 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents 
 
A party responding to an inspection demand shall
respond to each demand with one of the following:  a statement the party will comply with the
demand, a representation the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand,
or an objection.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210, subd. (a).)  A response to an
inspection demand may be inadequate because it is evasive or incomplete;
contains an incomplete statement of compliance; an inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive representation of inability to comply; or meritless or overly general
objections to a demand.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
If a demanding party believes the responding party
responded inadequately, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)  “Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).)   
 
Meet and Confer
 
            Plaintiff set forth a meet and
confer declaration in substantial compliance with CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).  (Declaration, Luis A. Serrano, ¶¶ 18-20.) 
 
            Motion to Compel 
 
Plaintiff seeks further responses to Request for
Production of Documents Nos. 1-5, 7, 9-11, 13-22, 23-29, 30, and 31.
 
As to Requests 14, 23-29, and 31, it appears that the
motion is moot as Defendant served further responses. (Opposition, page 6,
lines 6-10; Ex. 2.)
 
As to Requests 1, 2, 4-5, 9-10, and 13, the motion is
denied. While some of the requests are overly broad, Defendant served code-compliant
responses stating that it will produce non-privilege documents responsive to
the requests.
 
As to Requests 3, the motion is denied. 
 
Request 3 states: “All DOCUMENTS which evidence,
describe, refer, or relate to any inspection of the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
The request is overly broad.
 
As to Requests 15-22, the motion is granted. 
 
The responses do not comply with CCP 2031.230 which
states: “A representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search
and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.
This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because
the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been
lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”
 
The substantive portion of Defendant’s responses
merely stated: “After diligent search and reasonable inquiry, Responding Party
does not have any relevant and non-privileged documents currently in its
possession, custody or control.”
 
As to Requests 7 and 11, the motion is granted. 
 
Request 7 states: “Produce all DOCUMENTS that refer or
relate to all diagnostic trouble codes that are electronically stored by YOU or
YOUR authorized repair facility as result of any inspections or repairs
conducted on the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
Request 11 states: “Produce all DOCUMENTS that refer
to or relate to any summaries of all amounts paid by YOU for warranty repairs
performed on the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
The Requests are sufficiently clear and adequately
stated to allow Defendant to respond with a code-compliant response. Defendant
has failed to justify its objections.
 
As to Request 30, the motion is denied.
 
Request 30 states, in relevant part: “All DOCUMENTS,
in the form of a list or compilation, of other Customer Complaints in YOUR
electronically stored information of database(s) that are SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR
to complaints made by Plaintiff with respect to the SUBJECT VEHICLE in other
2024 BMW 750e vehicles.”
 
The request is vague and overly broad.
 
As to the portion of the motion which was granted, Defendant
is ordered to serve further documents in compliance with the requests within 20
days of this date. 
 
The Court further notes that Department M requires an
informal discovery conference prior to any motion to compel further responses
to written discovery requests. The Court waived this requirement for this
motion only due to the Court’s extensive calendar schedule, holiday schedule,
and vacation schedule at the end of November and throughout December.  However, for future motions, the parties are
required to schedule an informal discovery conference prior to the hearing date
of such a motion.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 