 Case Number:  21STCV43258    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  C A.P. v. MEAVE
CASE NO.:  21STCV43258
HEARING:  10/17/24
 
#1
 
Defendant GUADLUPE MEAVE’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Fourth
Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED. (Cal.
Ev. Code §452.) 
 
Plaintiff’s Opposition was untimely filed on October 10,
2024. (Due by October 4, 2024. (CCP §1005(b).) In the absence of prejudice to
the Moving Party, the Court exercises its discretion to consider the untimely
filed Opposition. 
 
This personal injury action was filed on November 23, 2021.  
 
On July 10, 2024, the operative Fourth Amended Complaint
(“4AC”) was filed. The 4AC alleges that Plaintiff A.P. (“Plaintiff”) was
sexually assaulted on multiple occasions by Defendant JUAN VICENTE MEAVE (“Mr.
Meave”), beginning when Plaintiff was approximately 10 years old, and it
continued until approximately November 2020. Mr. Meave owns a home behind his
residence which he rents to Plaintiff and his family. Mr. Meave is married to
Defendant Guadalupe Meave (“Mrs. Meave”) and they are the parents of Defendant
Leida Meave (“Ms. Meave”). 
 
Plaintiff, by and through his GAL, Maria Roman, asserts the
following causes of action: (1) Sexual Battery; (2) Negligence; and (3)
Fraudulent Transfer. 
 
Defendant Mrs. Meave specially and generally demurs to the
second cause of action for Negligence. 
 
The elements of a cause of action for negligence are (1) a
legal duty to use due care, (2) a breach of that duty, (3) a reasonably close
causal connection between that breach and the plaintiff’s resulting injury, and
(4) actual loss or damage to the plaintiff. (People v. Young (1942) 20 Cal.2d
832).
 
Here, the 4AC alleges, “Defendant Mrs. MEAVE was aware of
the inappropriate contact because of a specific incident that occurred in which
she walked into the room and saw Defendant MEAVE rubbing
and touching A.P. inappropriately on the knee. In response to this
inappropriate touching, Mrs. MEAVE told Defendant MEAVE to, “stop that!” Mrs.
MEAVE’S response was to her witnessing the inappropriate contact between
Defendant MEAVE and A.P. At this moment, Mrs. MEAVE should have known that
inappropriate contact existed between Defendant MEAVE and A.P. Mrs. MEAVE’s
response of, “stop that,” shows that she was keenly aware that the rubbing and touching of a minor’s leg was
inappropriate sexual contact.” (4AC, ¶35.)

 
Where a “complaint alleges injuries resulting from the
criminal acts of third persons ... ‘the common law, reluctant to impose
liability for nonfeasance, generally does not impose a duty upon a defendant to
control the conduct of another [citations], or to warn of such conduct
[citations], unless the defendant stands in some special relationship either to
the person whose conduct needs to be controlled, or to the foreseeable victim
of such conduct. [Citations.]’ ” (Chaney v. Superior Ct., (1995) 39 Cal. App.
4th 152, 157.) Regarding the extent of a wife's duty to her minor invitees to
prevent sexual assaults allegedly perpetrated by her husband (even if for the
sake of argument plaintiff was an invitee), Chaney held that the wife's duty of
reasonable care to the injured child depends on whether the husband's behavior
was reasonably foreseeable. Although a wife's knowledge may be proven by
circumstantial evidence, such inference must reflect the wife's actual
knowledge and not merely constructive knowledge or notice. “[A]ctual knowledge
can be inferred from the circumstances only if, in the light of the evidence,
such inference is not based on speculation or conjecture. Only where the
circumstances are such that the defendant ‘must have known’ and not ‘should
have known’ will an inference of actual knowledge be permitted.” (Chaney, at
157, citations omitted.)
 
On June 11, 2024, the Court determined that the
“inappropriate contact” Mrs. Meave is alleged to have witnessed was not
described with sufficient specificity to permit an inference that she had
knowledge of Mr. Weave’s deviant sexual desires.  Here, in the 4AC, Plaintiff adds that Mrs.
Meave observed Mr. Meave “rubbing and touching A.P. inappropriately on the knee.”  Standing alone, this allegation is
insufficient to infer actual knowledge of sexual misconduct.  However, in considering the 4AC as a whole, the
Court determines Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged negligence against Mrs.
Meave.  The demurrer raises factual
issues that may not be resolved at the pleading stage.  
 
Thus, the demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.

 