  Case Number:  19NWCV00417    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  C THEE AGUILA, INC. v.
BLACKWOOD 
CASE
NO.:  19NWCV00417
HEARING:  10/17/24
 
#4
 
    
I.       
Defendants
WOLF BASCHUNG and DTLA REAL ESTATE, INC.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
The alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is MOOT.  
 
   
II.       
Cross-Complainants
MERCURY BOWL, LLC and GREEN RIVERA, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.  The alternative Motion for Summary
Adjudication is MOOT.
 
Moving
Party(s) to give notice. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts
with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine
whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their
dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c),
requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment “has
met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the
party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot
be established.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . .
to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Id.)  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.) 
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must
consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which
the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences
that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party
opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th
at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
 
I.            
Defendants Wolf Baschung and DTLA Real Estate,
Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or alternatively, Summary Adjudication
 
BACKGROUND

 
On
May 17, 2019, Plaintiff THEE AGUILA, INC. (“Plaintiff” or “TAI”) filed the
instant action against Defendants BLACKWOOD, LLC; FORWARD BEVERLY HILLS, INC.
dba Keller Williams Realty and Keller Williams Commercial; WOLF BASCHUNG (of
DTLA REAL ESTATE, INC.), GURU THAPAR, PICO RIVERA FIRST MORTGAGE INVESTOR, LP;
MORTGAGE CO. OF SANTA BARBARA, INC.’ and CARLO LINDROS. 
 
On
December 2, 2019, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
in case No. 19NWCV00417 (lead case). 
 
The
FAC alleges the following relevant facts: “For many years, Plaintiff was the
owner of real property located at 8825 Washington Blvd., Pico Rivera, CA 90660
(hereinafter ‘the Property’). The Property had a Conditional Use Permit
(hereinafter ‘CUP’) issued by the City of Pico Rivera (hereinafter the ‘City’)
which allowed the Property to be used as a restaurant/nightclub.” (FAC ¶11.)
“On or about May 25, 2017, Defendants Baschung, Thapar, and Keller Williams
executed a Listing Agreement with Plaintiff to list the Property for sale for
$10,500,000; in doing so Defendants Baschung, Thapar, and Keller Williams
collectively (hereinafter collectively ‘Broker/Agents’) and individually became
the real estate agents/brokers for and on behalf of Plaintiff.” (Id. ¶14.) “By
way of combined efforts of Plaintiff and the Broker/Agents, the parties brought
Blackwood, a qualified buyer to see the Property; after comprehensive and
extensive negotiations, Blackwood submitted a Letter of Intent to purchase the
property on or about November 12, 2017.” (Id. ¶15.) “In or about February of
2015, the [DEA] seized the liquor license for the Property after it was
discovered that the tenants were using the Property to launder money for the
Mexican drug cartel. As a result, the tenant’s business was shut down, the City
rescinded the CUP, and ABC refused to process any liquor license application
for the Property. Without a CUP or liquor license, Plaintiff was unable to
secure a new tenant for the Property…. [¶] Due to the 2 ½ year delay… Plaintiff
failed to pay certain sums due under the Note, and PFMI initiated foreclosure
proceedings on the Property.” (FAC ¶¶16 and 18.) “Prior to any foreclosure sale
taking place, Plaintiff began negotiations with PRFMI to work out a mutually
beneficial agreement…. [¶] The parties reached an oral agreement… which gave
Plaintiff a post foreclosure right of redemption (hereinafter ‘Option
Contract’). (Id. ¶20.) “On or about January 15, 2018, Plaintiff learned, that
despite direct and undeniable knowledge of the Option Contract between Plaintiff
and Defendants PRFMI and Lindros, Defendants Baschung, Thapar, and Keller
Williams, individually and in connections with each other, perpetrated a scheme
with Defendants PRFMI and Lindros to interfere and circumvent Plaintiff’s
Option Contract….” (Id. ¶36.) “Plaintiff confronted Defendants PRFMI and
Lindros about the Letter of Intent. Defendants PRFMI and Lindros denied they
had signed a letter of Intent with Defendants… in order to induce Plaintiff to
continue to the keep the Property maintained and in legal compliance until the
sale was complete.” (Id. ¶38.) 
 
Plaintiff
asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1)
Breach of Oral Contract (against Defendant
PRFMI; LINDROS; and DOES 1-10); 
(2)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty (against ALL
DEFENDANTS); 
(3)
Fraud and Deceit (against Defendants PRFMI;
LINDROS; and DOES 1-10); 
(4)
Intentional Misrepresentation (against
Defendants PRFMI; LINDROS; and DOES 1-10); 
(5)
Unfair Business Practices (against ALL
DEFENDANTS); 
(6)
Intentional Interference with Prospective
Relations (against Defendants BASCHUNG, THAPAR, and KELLER WILLIAMS); 
(7)
Intentional Interference with Contractual
Relations (against Defendants BASCHUNG, THAPAR, and KELLER WILLIAMS); and 
(8)
Constructive Trust (against Defendants PRFMI
and LINDROS)
 
On
December 6, 2019, Defendants filed a Notice of Related Case. The Notice
indicates that there is another pending action, case number 18CV04958, Pico
Rivera First Mortgage Investor, LP v. Henry Aguila, in Santa Barbara Superior
Court (“Santa Barbara case”). The notice further indicates that the Santa
Barbara case was filed on October 10, 2018. On January 27, 2020, the Court
deferred on ruling on the Notice of Related case, as the Santa Barbara Superior
Court case was the earlier filed case. 
 
In
the Santa Barbara case, Henry Aguila filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint
against Baschung, Thapar, and Keller Williams Realty. 
 
On
October 1, 2020, this Court abated this action (Case No. 19NWCV00417) until the
conclusion of the Santa Barbara case. The Court made the following ruling:
“Here, the instant action and the Santa Barbara action is between the same
parties. The cross-complainant in the Santa Barbara action is Henry Aguila.
Henry Aguila is the sole shareholder of Thee Aguila, Inc. [Cite.] The plaintiff
in the instant action is Thee Aguila, Inc. Similarly, the cross-defendants in
the Santa Barbara action includes the Defendants here. [Cite.] Additionally,
the two actions are based on same causes of action. Both actions arise out of
an oral post-foreclosure option agreement between the parties to repurchase the
real property located at 8825 Washington Boulevard, Pico Rivera, California.
[Citations.] The causes of action are asserted against the same defendants,
i.e., breach of oral contract, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud and deceit,
intentional misrepresentation, etc. [Cite.] Moreover, Plaintiff here seeks
substantially the same redress as in the Santa Barbara action, i.e., specific
performance, damages, attorney fees, and costs of suit. [Citations.]” (10/01/20
Order). 
 
On
June 8, 2020, the Santa Barbara Superior Court sustained Cross-Defendants
Baschung, Thapar, and Keller Williams Realty’s demurrer without leave to amend
as to the Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Fraud and Deceit as to the Oral Option
Contract, Negligent Misrepresentation, and Unfair Business Practices causes of
action, and overruled Baschung’s demurrer to the Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage cause of action. (MSJ RJN Ex. 4.) 
 
On
December 14, 2021, TAI filed a separate action for breach of contract against
Defendants FORWARD BEVERLY HILLS, INC; and DTLA REAL ESTATE, INC.(Case No.
21NWCV00836). The operative breach of contract Complaint asserts the following
causes of action: 
 
(1)
Breach
of Written Contract; and 
(2)
Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good faith and Fair Dealing
 
On
November 17, 2022, cases 19NWCV00417 and 
21NWCV00836 were consolidated, and 19NWCV00417 was designated as the
lead case. 
 
On
May 16, 2022, the Santa Barbara Court granted Baschung’s Motion for Summary
Judgment on the remaining cause of action, Intentional Interference with
Economic Advantage. (MSJ RJN Ex. 7.) 
 
On
September 22, 2022, this Court ended the abatement of this lead action (Case
No. 19NWCV00417) since the Santa Barbara case had concluded with respect to the
parties before the Court. 
 
The
Subject Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication was FILED on July 11,
2023.  Defendants WOLF BASCHUNG and DTLA
REAL ESTATE, INC. (collectively “Defendants” or “DTLA”) move for summary
judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication of the following issues: 
 
(1) 
The
Santa Barbara case is res judicata, and thus, this case is barred; 
(2) 
Plaintiff
cannot prevail on its cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty in the 19NWCV00417
case; 
(3) 
Plaintiff
cannot prevail on its cause of action for unfair business practices in the 19NWCV00417
case;  
(4) 
Plaintiff
cannot prevail on its cause of action for intentional interference with
prospective economic relations in the 19NWCV00417 case; 
(5) 
Plaintiff
cannot prevail on its cause of action for intentional interference with
contractual relations in the 19NWCV00417 case;  
(6) 
Plaintiff
cannot prevail on its cause of action for breach of written contract in the 21NWCV00836 case; 
(7) 
Plaintiff
cannot prevail on its cause of action for breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing in the 21NWCV00836 case. 
 
However,
after this Motion was filed, Aguila filed an appeal of the Judgment in the
Santa Barbara Action. Therefore, this matter was CONTINUED until after the
Appellate Court issued a Decision on Aguila’s appeal in the Santa Barbara
action. 
 
A
Remittitur was issued in the Santa Barbara Action on August 5, 2024. 
 
This
matter was CONTINUED from September 25, 2024 to October 17, 2024 in order to
give the parties the ability to file and serve updated briefs addressing the
Santa Barbara Court of Appeal ruling. 
Having
reviewed the parties originally filed documents; and Supplemental Briefs filed
on October 4, 2024; October 9, 2024; and October 11, 2024, the Court is now
prepared to issue a ruling on the merits. 
 
DISCUSSION

 
In
support of each claim, TAI alleges that DTLA knew about TAI’s oral agreement
with PRFMI granting TAI certain rights to the property following the trustee’s
sale conducted in December 2017. 
 
A.  
Issues 2 and 3 – Breach of Fiduciary Duty and Unfair
Business Practices 
 
TAI
alleges “Defendant PRFMI and Lindros breached their fiduciary duties when they
failed to uphold their obligations according to the terms of the Option
Contract… when they acted in concert with Defendants Baschung, Thapar, and
Keller Williams to cut Plaintiff out of the sale of the Property, and thereby
depriving Plaintiff of any benefit under the Option Contract, the Property
itself, and/or sale of the Property. [¶] By virtue of the Listing Agreement
Defendants Baschung, Thapar and Keller Williams, and Plaintiff entered into a
fiduciary relationship…. [¶] Defendant Baschung, Thapar and Keller Williams
breached their fiduciary duty, as well as their duty of good faith and fair
dealing, as Broker/Agents by acting contrary to the interests of their principal,
when they knowingly sought to circumvent Plaintiff’s option contract, by
entering into an agreement with Defendants PRFMI and Lindros to sell the
Property without Plaintiff’s knowledge or consent, thereby depriving Plaintiff
of any benefit of the Property and/or its sale.” (FAC ¶¶51-54.) 
 
TAI
further alleges that “Defendants…concocted a scheme by which Plaintiff would
expend time, money and energy in the upkeep and maintenance of the Property,
increasing the Properties fair market value, all the while believing and
relying on the representation it could exercise the Option Contract and either
sell or reacquire the property. [¶] Unbeknownst to Plaintiff the Defendants
were working together to sell the Property without Plaintiff’s knowledge or
consent, in violation of the terms of the Option Contract, in order for the
Defendants, individually and as a group, to earn a profit from Plaintiffs time,
money, experience, skill and hard work without allowing Plaintiff to reap any
benefit or profit from the sale of the Property. [¶] All parties know of the
Option Contract and Plaintiff’s acts in reliance on the contract.” (FAC
¶¶75-77.) 
 
“The
elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are: (1) existence
of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty; and (3) damage
proximately caused by the breach.” (Tribeca Companies, LLC v. First American
Title Insurance Company (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1114.) 
 
“[A]
business practice need only meet one of the three criteria to be considered
unfair competition.” (Durrell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th
1350, 1359.) Section 17200’s “unlawful” prong “borrows violations of other
laws… and makes those unlawful practices actionable under the UCL.” (Klein
v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1383.) “[V]irtually
any law or regulation—federal or state, statutory or common law—can serve as
[a] predicate for a… [section] 17200 ‘unlawful’ violation.’” (Ibid.) “A
business practice is ‘fraudulent’ within the meaning of section 17200 if it ‘is
likely to deceive the public.’ (Id. at p. 1380.) A business practice is
‘unfair’ within the meaning of the UCL if it violates established public policy
or if it is immoral, unethical, oppressive or unscrupulous and causes injury to
consumers which outweighs its benefits. (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1407-1408.) The determination of
whether a business practice is unfair involves an examination of that
practice’s impact on its alleged victim, balanced against the reasons,
justifications and motives of the alleged wrongdoer. (Ibid.) Also, a
plaintiff must demonstrate economic injury. “There are innumerable ways in
which economic injury from unfair injury may be shown. A plaintiff may (1)
surrender in a transaction more, or acquire in a transaction less, than he or
she otherwise would have; (2) have a present or future property interest
diminished; (3) be deprived of money or property to which he or she has a
cognizable claim; or (4) be required to enter into a transaction, costing money
or property, that would otherwise have been unnecessary. [Citation.]” (Kwikset
Corp. v. Sup. Ct. (2011) 21 Cal.4th 310, 323.) 
 
In
support of the Motion, DTLA proffers evidence to show that Mr. Aguila admitted
that he never told Baschung the terms of the option contract; and that Mr.
Aguila believed that the only people who needed to know about the option
contract were he and Lindros. (SS Nos. 18-20.) Similarly, during his
deposition, Mr. Aguila admitted that he did not tell Baschung about the Option
Contract. (SS 19-20.) DTLA has made a prima facia showing that they did not
know about the oral agreement between TAI and PRFMI. Accordingly, the burden
shifts to TAI to prove any breach of a fiduciary duty and of DTLA’s involvement
in an unlawful business practice. 
 
In
Opposition, TAI relies on the declaration and excerpts of deposition testimony of
Henry Aguila, which suggests that Baschung may have known about the existence
of the oral agreement on December 7, 2017. (Aguila Decl., ¶20.) Mr. Aguila’s
declaration states, in relevant part, “On December 7, 2017, I received a
telephone call from Baschung. He appeared to already know about the Option
Contract and its provision giving TAI and me the exclusive right to continue to
sell the Property even after the purported foreclosure because he told me that
he understood from Carl Lindros from PRFMI that all offers and LOI’s were to go
solely to me. I instructed Baschung to cease and desist from any further
communications with Carl Lindros and PRFMI and he agreed to abide by my
instructions. [¶] The initial subsequent actions of Baschung affirmed that this
was Baschung’s understanding in that he forwarded me an LOI from Blackwood on
or about December 23, 2017 and his co-broker forwarded me another LOI from
Blackwood on or about December 29, 2017.” (Aguila Decl., ¶¶20-21.) Motions for
summary adjudication are limited to issues that are framed by the pleadings.  Based on TAI’s own allegations, the claim for
breach of fiduciary duty requires that DTLA had actual knowledge of TAI’s
purported oral agreement with PRFMI. Mr. Aguila’s speculations do not show that
Baschung or DTLA had actual knowledge of the Option Contract. TAI has failed to
present evidence sufficient to raise a triable issue in this regard. Therefore,
these causes of action cannot be maintained. 
 
Summary
adjudication is GRANTED as to the claims for Breach of Fiduciary Duty and
Unfair Business Practice.  
 
B.  
Issues 4 and 5 – Intentional Interference with Prospective
Economic Relations and Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations
 
TAI
alleges that “Defendants Baschung, Thapar, and Keller Williams individually and
in concert with each other, acted to disrupt the business and financial
relationship [and the contractual relationship] between Plaintiff, and PRFMI
and Lindros, by working with PRFMI and Lindros to sell the Property without
Plaintiff’s knowledge or consent, and in violation of the terms of the Option
Contract.” (FAC ¶¶84 and 91.) 
 
To
prevail on a cause of action for intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage, a plaintiff must plead: (1) an economic relationship
between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability of future
economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the
relationship; (3) the defendant’s intentional acts designed to disrupt the
relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm
to the plaintiff proximately caused by the defendant’s acts. (Reeves v.
Hanlon (2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1152, fn. 6.) A plaintiff that chooses to
bring a claim for interference with prospective economic advantage has a more
rigorous pleading burden since it must show that the defendant’s conduct was
independently wrongful. (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134; Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
(1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 393.) 
 
The
elements for intentional interference with contractual relations are: (1) that
a valid contract existed between plaintiff and a third party; that (2)
defendant knew of the existence of the contract; and (3) defendant
intentionally engaged in conduct which induced the third party to breach the
contract with plaintiff; (4) defendant intended to induce a breach of the
contract; and (5) the acts or conduct of the defendant caused plaintiff
damages. (See Dryden v. Tri-Valley Growers (1977) 65 Cal.App.3d 990,
995.) 
 
Both
causes of action require knowledge on the part of the defendant of the
purported contract (here, the Option Contract). (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart
Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 55.) As indicated above, DTLA
submits evidence to show that they had no knowledge of the oral Option Contract
between TAI and PRFMI. For the reasons stated above, TAI fails to submit
sufficient evidence to raise a triable issue. 
 
Summary
adjudication is GRANTED as to the claims for Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Relations and Intentional Interference with Contractual
Relations. 
 
C.  
Issues 6 and 7 – Breach of Written Contract and Breach of
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
In
the 21NWCV00836 breach of contract action, TAI alleges that “[o]n or about May
25, 2017, Plaintiff and Defendants entered into a Listing Agreement which
provided for Defendants to list the Property for sale for $10,500,000 and be
the exclusive broker for the Property on behalf of Plaintiff for the period May
25, 2017 through May 24, 2018.” (Complaint ¶9.) “On or about December 6, 2017,
a trustee sale purportedly occurred with respect to the Property, pursuant to
which the Property supposedly reverted to [PRFMI], the beneficiary under a deed
of trust relating to a $5,700,00 original principal amount loan made by PRFMI
to Plaintiff in July, 2015. [¶] Defendants were aware that at the time the
Property could not legally be foreclosed upon, that any purported foreclosure
was void, and that therefore the Listing Agreement was still in effect
notwithstanding the purported trustee’s sale, because Defendants had actual
knowledge of a then pending bankruptcy petition of a junior lienholder of the
Property.” (Complaint ¶¶12-13.) “On or about January 15, 2018, Plaintiff
learned that, in violation of the Listing Agreement, Defendants circumvented
Plaintiff by entering into an agreement with PRFMI to list and sell the
Property on behalf of PRFMI, and excluded Plaintiff.” (Complaint ¶19.) “The
Property has since been sold to a third party by PRFMI and Plaintiff did not
receive any of the proceeds of that sale.” (Complaint ¶21.) 
 
The
elements for a breach of contract claim are: (1) contract; (2) plaintiff’s
performance; (3) breach; and (4) damages. (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. N.Y.
Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) 
 
“The
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, implied by law in every contract,
exists merely to prevent one contracting party from unfairly frustrating the
other party’s right to receive the benefits of the agreement actually made. (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 349.) 
 
The
issue is whether DTLA and Baschung breached the Listing Agreement by listing
the Subject Property on behalf of PRFMI after the December 2017 trustee sale,
even though the terms of the Listing Agreement ran through May 25, 2018. 
 
In
support of the Motion, DTLA submits evidence to show that DTLA was not aware of
a pending bankruptcy petition on the Subject Property or that the Subject
Property could not be foreclosed upon. Wolf Baschung declares that he was never
aware of a pending bankruptcy petition of a lienholder or that the Subject
Property could not be foreclosed upon. (SS No.43; Baschung Decl., ¶10.) DTLA
also submits the deposition transcript of Henry Aguila, wherein Mr. Aguila
testified that he spoke with Baschung at the foreclosure sale where Baschung
asked “Did you file for bankruptcy?” Aguila responded “I said no. That was it.”
(SS No. 45.) Also at his deposition, Mr. Aguila was asked if he told Baschung
that the third trust deed holder had filed for bankruptcy and Aguila said “No.”
(SS No. 46.) This, DTLA meets its initial burden on summary judgment, and the
burden of persuasion shifts to TAI to raise a triable issue of material fact. 
 
In
Opposition, TAI argues that DTLA breached the Listing Agreement and was obligated
to continue good faith and reasonable efforts to sell the Subject Property
after the foreclosure of the Property on December 6, 2017 because the trustee’s
sale was void since it violated the terms of an automatic bankruptcy stay,
which Defendants had actual knowledge of. 
In support of the Opposition, TAI submitted a declaration by Henry
Aguila; a copy of the Listing Agreement; and a Preliminary Title Report for the
Subject Property showing that TAI was still the owner of the Subject Property.
(See Response to SS No. 43.) 
 
Here,
it is undisputed that, once the foreclosure took place, TAI lost title to the
Subject Property. PRFMI became the new owner, and the Listing Agreement was no
longer valid as to TAI because TAI was no longer the owner of the Subject
Property. In fact, TAI acknowledges the extinguishment of its ownership to the
Subject Property in ¶27 of the FAC in the 19NWCV00417 action: “On or about
December 7, 2017, Plaintiff’s title to the Property was extinguished through
foreclosure proceedings, and legal title of the Property was transferred to
PRFMI.” (FAC ¶27.) 
 
Summary
adjudication is GRANTED as to the claims for Breach of Written Contract and
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. 
 
Where
there are no remaining issues, summary judgment is GRANTED. 
 
D.  
Issue 1 – Res Judicata 
 
For
the reasons stated above, DTLA is entitled to summary judgment and the issue of
res judicata/claim preclusion need not be addressed. 
 
E.  
Defendants Baschung and DTLA Real Estate, Inc.’s
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Henry Aguila
 
Objection
No. 1. Overruled 
 
II.           
Cross-Complainants Mercury Bowl, LLC and Green
Rivera, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary
Adjudication
 
BACKGROUND

 
On
March 24, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants MERCURY BOWL, LLC and GREEN
RIVERA, LLC’s filed the subject Cross-Complaint (“XC”) against Cross-Defendants
THEE AGUILA, INC.; and HENRY AGUILA. 
 
Cross-Complainants
are the owners of the property located at 8825 Washington Blvd., Pico Rivera,
CA 90660 (“Subject Property”). (XC ¶1.) TAI is a former owner of the Subject
Property. (XC ¶7.) Cross-Complainants purchased the Subject Property from PRFMI
in November 2019, and currently own the Subject property. (XC ¶10.) “On
December 7, 2022, Plaintiff filed the Complaint in this matter, alleging that
the foreclosure was void because it violated a Bankruptcy stay, a settlement
agreement, and a city COVID moratorium on foreclosures. (XC ¶11.)
“Cross-Complainants are informed and believe, and based thereon allege, that
previous courts have rejected Plaintiff’s claims that the foreclosure was
void.” (XC ¶13.) “Cross-Complainants… allege, that the foreclosure sale of the
Property was valid, Plaintiff has no interest in the Property, and
Cross-Complainants own the Property free and clear of any alleged interest by
Cross-Defendants.” (XC ¶15.) 
 
The
XC asserts two causes of action for: 
 
(1)
Quiet
Title; and 
(2)
Declaratory
Relief 
 
Cross-Complainants
move for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication of the first
and second causes of action. 
 
In
Opposition, Cross-Defendants TAI and Henry Aguila (collectively
“Cross-Defendants”) argue that Cross-Complainants are not bona fide purchasers
and that the transfer from PRFMI to Cross-Complainants is void. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
a.   
Issues
One and Two – Quiet Title and Declaratory Relief 
 
An
action for quiet title must include: (1) a description of the property that is
the subject of the action, including both the legal description and its street
address or common designation if the subject property is real property; (2) the
cross-complainant’s title as to which determination is sought and basis of the
title; (3) the adverse claims to title against which determination is sought;  (4) the date of which the determination is
sought; and (5) a prayer for the determination of the title of the plaintiff
against the adverse claims. (CCP §761.020.) “An action to quiet title is akin
to an action for declaratory relief in that the plaintiff seeks a judgment
declaring his rights in relation to a piece of property.” (Ciara v. Offner
(2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 12, 24.) 
 
“A
buyer is a bona fide purchaser if it bought property in good faith, for value,
and had no knowledge or notice of the asserted rights of another. (612 South
LLC v. Laconic Limited Partnership (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1278.) “The
notice necessary to defeat bona fide status may be actual (express information
of a fact), or constructive (imputed by law). [Citation.] To have constructive
notice, a person must have notice or knowledge of the circumstances, ‘which
upon reasonable inquiry, would lead to that particular fact.’ [Citation.]” (Id.)
 
 
Here,
it is undisputed that the Option Agreement concerning TAI’s purported interest
in the Subject Property was oral, and not recorded. The existence of any oral
Option Agreement is insufficient to confer constructive notice onto
Cross-Complainants. Similarly, it is also undisputed that no Notice of
Bankruptcy Stay was ever filed or given to the parties to stop the non-judicial
foreclosure sale. Moreover, on December 8, 2020, the Malley Bankruptcy Stay was
retroactively annulled. “Retroactive relief validates acts that violate the
automatic stay and otherwise would be void.” (In re Badax, LLC (2019)
608 B.R. 730, 737.) 
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds that Cross-Complainants establish that they were a bona fide
purchaser of the Property and that Cross-Defendants have not satisfied their
corresponding burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists. 
 
The
Motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  
 
The
Motion for summary adjudication is MOOT. 
 
The
parties’ Requests for Judicial Notice are GRANTED. 