 Case Number:  VC065473    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  C WNG CONSTRUCTION JV, INC. v. AAA
SOLAR ELECTRIC, INC. 
CASE NO.:  VC065473 
HEARING:  10/17/24
 
#8
 
     I.       
Defendants’ Motion to Enter Order for Return of
Judgment Debtors’ Overpayment of Judgment is placed OFF-CALENDAR
pursuant to this Court’s August 19, 2024 Order. 
 
    II.       
Plaintiff’s Motion for Attorneys Fees is CONTINUED
to Thursday, December 5, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C. to be heard
in conjunction with Defendants’ Motion to Tax or Strike Plaintiffs’
Post-Judgement Attorneys Fees. 
 
  III.       
Defendants’ Motion to Tax or Strike Plaintiffs’
Post-Judgment Attorneys Fees is ADVANCED from Tuesday, May 13, 2025 to today’s
date and CONTINUED to Thursday, December 5, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in
Dept. SE-C to be heard in conjunction with Plaintiff’s Motion for Attorneys
Fees. 
 
Defendants to give notice. 
 
 
Motion to Enter Order for Return of Judgment Debtors’
Overpayment of Judgment 
 
On August 19, 2024, this Court issued the following Order:
“Because the amount in dispute is relatively small compared to the amount which
has been paid, the Court determines that an acknowledgement of partial
satisfaction of judgment is warranted. 
If the parties cannot agree upon the amount that is unpaid or overpaid,
the Court is inclined to appoint an accountant pursuant to CCP § 639 to resolve the issue, with
costs divided evenly between Judgment Creditor and Judgment Creditor…. [¶]The
parties are ORDERED to meet and confer regarding the amount Judgment Debtor has
underpaid or overpaid, if any.  If the issue
cannot be resolved without court intervention, the parties are ordered to show
cause… why the Court should not appoint an accountant pursuant to CCP § 639.” (Order 08/19/24)
 
On August 23, 2024, Defendants/Cross-Complainants AAA
NETWORK SOLUTIONS, INC.; PHILADELPHIA INDEMNITY INSURANCE COMPANY; and SAFETY
NATIONAL CASUALTY CORP. (collectively “AAA”) filed a Notice of Agreement on
Overpayment of Judgment, which states: “Rather than spend more attorneys fees
to determine the correct and lager amount of the overpayment, Defendants accept
the calculation from WnG. The overpayment is in the sum of $414.92” (Notice of
Agreement 2:8-9.) 
 
However, on September 23, 2024, Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor
WNG CONSTRUCTION JV, INC. (“Wng”) filed Plaintiff’s Supplement to Opposition to
Motion for Refund of Judgment Overpayment. Notwithstanding AAA’s representation
that the parties reached an agreement concerning the amount overpaid or unpaid,
Wng contends that the parties were not able to resolve the outstanding payment
dispute and that Wng is still owed $32,289.69.
 
Given the parties’ conflicting statements, it is clear that
no agreement was reached regarding resolution of the underpayment/overpayment issue
without Court intervention. 
 
CCP §639(a)(1) allows the court to appoint an accounting
referee “[w]hen the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of a
long account on either side; in which case the referees may be directed to hear
and decide the whole issue, or report upon any specific question of fact
involved therein.” CCP §639(a)(2) allows the court to appoint an accounting
referee “[w]hen the taking of an account is necessary for the information of
the court before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into effect.” 
 
“The reference is allowed because a trained accountant is
generally better able to efficiently and inexpensively examine a ‘long account’
than a trial court judge is able to do through adversarial court proceedings.”
(De Guere v. Universal City Studios (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 482, 499.) 
 
The Court finds that the appointment of an accounting
referee would promote judicial economy and speed up the resolution of this
matter. However, the Court will confer with the parties at the hearing before
reaching a final determination as to whether an accountant should be appointed
to resolve the underpayment/overpayment dispute under CCP §639. 
 
Motion for Attorneys Fees
 
On August 16, 2024, AAA filed a Motion to Tax or Strike
Wng’s Motion for Post-Judgment Attorneys Fees. Since the Motion to Tax/Strike
was timely filed in response to Wng’s Motion for Attorneys Fees, the Court
finds that both matters should be heard on the same date. As such, the Motion
for Attorneys Fees is CONTINUED as indicated above, and the Motion to
Tax/Strike is ADVANCED to today’s date and CONTINUED as indicated above. 