 Case Number:  23STCP01811    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  82 Oscar Rojas                                                               Case No. 23STCP01811
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
October 16, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                     
City of Los Angeles, et al.                                                Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
                                     
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Petition for
Writ of Mandate
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
             Petitioner Oscar Rojas (“Petitioner”) was a
police officer with the Los Angeles Police Department (the “LAPD” or
“Department”).  On August 15, 2018, Petitioner’s
then-girlfriend, who identifies as African-American, sent him texts saying that
she was “cutting watermelon” and had “four Tupperware full of watermelon.”  (AR 271.) 
In response, Petitioner texted: “Porch monkey 4life.”  (Ibid.)  Eventually, these text messages came to the
attention of the LAPD, which charged Petitioner with making an “inappropriate
ethnic remark” while off-duty.  (“Count
One”).   The LAPD also charged Petitioner
with inappropriately loaning his Department cell phone to his then-girlfriend during
an unrelated incident.  (“Count Two”).  Petitioner had a prior disciplinary record,
having previously been suspended for 22 days for photographing partially nude
models dressed in his unform and with his equipment and posting them to his
social media account, and for sharing inappropriate photographs of arrestees in
police custody.  
 
            Petitioner
appeared before the Board of Rights (the “Board”) and pleaded guilty to Count
Two but not guilty to Count One.  During
the hearing, Petitioner testified that he did not realize the term was a racist
term for African-Americans.  (AR
30.)  Petitioner testified that “it just
sounded cute” and he “thought it was funny,” having heard the term in the movie
“Clerks 2.”  (Ibid.)  At the hearing, the LAPD introduced the
relevant part of the movie, which made “abundantly clear that the term was
racist.”  (AR 127.)  The Board did not find that Petitioner had
“any ill intent in making the comment” and noted that his girlfriend “did not
complain about the statement.”  (Ibid.)  Nevertheless, the Board disbelieved
Petitioner’s testimony that he was unaware of the derogatory nature of the
term.  (Ibid.)  The majority of the Board found Petitioner
guilty and recommended a penalty of termination.  The dissenting member of the Board found
Petitioner not guilty on Count One and recommended a suspension of 65 days on
Count Two.  The Chief of Police adopted
the majority’s recommendation and terminated Petitioner.  
 
Petitioner filed a petition for writ
of mandate against the City of Los Angeles and the Chief of Police
(collectively, “Respondents”). 
Petitioner challenges his guilt on Count One and the penalty, arguing
there is insufficient evidence that his remark was “inappropriate” because he purportedly
did not know it was a racist term; he was not motivated by racial animus; and
the remark was made during a private conversation while off-duty.  In fact, there was sufficient evidence to support
the Board’s adverse credibility finding; the LAPD can discipline officers for
off-duty conduct of this nature; the LAPD need not show racial animus to
terminate Petitioner; and the penalty did not reflect an abuse of discretion.   Therefore, the petition for writ of mandate is
denied.
BACKGROUND 
 
            A.        The Text Conversation  
 
            Petitioner
was hired by the Department in or about May 2017.  (AR 282.) 
In 2018, Petitioner held the rank of Police Officer II.  (Ibid.)  In or around August 2018, Petitioner began a
dating relationship with Kelsie Mathews, which lasted approximately seven
months.  (AR 14, 26.)  Mathews testified that she is
“African-American” and “Afro-Latina.”  (AR
13-14.)  On August 15, 2018, Petitioner
and Mathews exchanged the following text messages:  
 
            Mathews: No. going to cut this
watermelon to detox what I ate and watch my show
 
            ….[¶]
 
            Petitioner: How’s ur show going
 
Mathews: Haha yup
lmao. I haven’t started yet, I have been cutting watermelon this whole time
 
Mathews: It was
huge lmao
 
Petitioner: Wtf
lol really lol … huge lol
 
Mathews: Lol
 
Mathews: Yeah I
said huge in my head like Trump lol
 
Mathews: But four
Tupperware full of watermelon 
 
Petitioner: What
lol how does trump say huge lol…
 
Petitioner: Wow
lol that’s a lot of watermelon lol
 
Petitioner: Porch
monkey 4life
 
(AR
270-271, 281.)
 
            B.        Petitioner’s
Department Cell Phone 
 
In
or about October 2018, Petitioner loaned his Department cell phone to Mathews,
who was not a Department employee, for less than 12 hours.  (AR 34-35, 41.)  Petitioner acknowledged that it was against
Department policy to loan his phone to Mathews, and that doing so would prevent
him from “tagging” his body-worn camera videos at the end of the day.  (AR 34-36.) 
Petitioner told Mathews that he would “take the hit for not tagging my
videos” if he got audited.  (AR 36.)  Petitioner testified that he loaned his phone
to Mathews because he wanted to keep Mathews safe and provide her an ability to
get to and from work using its GPS capabilities.  (AR 39.)  Because he was “doing it for the right
intention,” Petitioner felt at the time he did not commit “serious”
misconduct.  (AR 39.)  Petitioner testified that the sensitive and
confidential information on his Department phone, such as his email and the
application “evidence.com,” were password protected and inaccessible to
Mathews.  (AR 40, 41, 43.)  Petitioner testified that “there’s really no
possibility, at least that I did assume, there’s no possibility that she has
access to anything else within the Department besides G.P.S., text messages or
phone calls.”  (AR 43.)
 
C.        The
Administrative Charges and Decision 
 
At a hearing before the Board of Rights, Petitioner was charged with the
following two counts of misconduct: 
 
1.    
On or about August 15, 2018, you, while off
duty, made an inappropriate ethnic remark via text message to your
ex-girlfriend, Kelsie Matthews.  (“Count
One”) 
 
2.    
On October 2, 2018, you, while on duty,
inappropriately loaned your Department cellular phone to your ex-girlfriend,
Kelsie Matthews.  (“Count Two”)  
 
(AR 8.)  Petitioner pleaded guilty
to Count Two but not guilty to Count One. 

 
The majority of the Board found Petitioner guilty on both counts and
recommended termination with total loss of pay, effective May 6, 2022.  (AR 126-128, 259-261.)  The dissenting member of the Board found
Petitioner not guilty on Count One and recommended a 65-day suspension on Count
Two.  (259-261.)  The Chief of Police adopted the Board’s
recommendation and executed the order terminating Petitioner’s employment on
February 22, 2023.   (AR 308.) 
            
            D.        The Prior Board of Rights Proceeding 
 
Petitioner previously was charged
with seven counts of misconduct.  Count
One alleged that, while off duty, Petitioner photographed partially nude models
who were dressed in his Department-issued uniform and with his equipment, and
posted the photographs to his social media account.  (AR 283-306.) 
Count Two alleged that Petitioner, while off duty, sent inappropriate
photographs of arrestees in police custody. 
(Ibid.)  Counts Three
through Six  alleged that Petitioner
committed sexual assaults on his ex-girlfriend, Kelsie Mathews.  (Ibid.)  Count Seven alleged that Petitioner
forcefully kissed Veronica Brooks after being told to stop.  (Ibid.)  The Board of Rights found Petitioner guilty on
Count One and Count Two and not guilty on the remaining counts.  The 
Board imposed a 22-day suspension. 
(AR at 302-303; see also AR 157, 259 [references to the prior
Board decision and suspension].)  
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are whether the
respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial,
and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b).)
 
Because the termination
of Petitioner’s employment with Department concerns a fundamental vested right,
the court exercises its independent judgment on the administrative
findings.  (See Wences v. City of Los Angeles (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 305, 314; Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal.3d 130,
143.)  Under the independent judgment
test, “the trial court not only examines the administrative record for errors
of law, but also exercises its independent judgment upon the evidence disclosed
in a limited trial de novo.”  (Bixby
v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130, 143.) 
The court may draw its own reasonable inferences from the evidence and
make its determinations as to the credibility of witnesses.  (Morrison
v. Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles Board of Commissioners
(2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.)  “In
exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong
presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the
party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing
the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the
evidence.”  (Fukuda v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817.)
 
Petitioner bears
the burden of proof to demonstrate, by citation to the administrative record,
that the weight of the evidence does not support the administrative
findings.  (Shenouda v. Veterinary Medical Bd. (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 500, 513; Steele v. Los
Angeles County Civil Service Commission (1958) 166 Cal.App.2d 129, 137.) A
reviewing court “will not act as counsel for either party to an appeal and will
not assume the task of initiating and prosecuting a search of the record for
any purpose of discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d
740, 742.)  
 
The court has
limited authority to disturb a penalty.  “The
propriety of a penalty imposed by an administrative agency is a matter vested
in the discretion of the agency, and its decision may not be disturbed unless
there has been a manifest abuse of discretion.” 
(Williamson v. Board of Medical
Quality Assurance (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1343, 1347.)   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        Summary of the Issues 
 
            Petitioner
contends that the weight of the evidence does not support the Board’s finding
of guilt on Count One.[1]  Petitioner argues: (1) He did not use the term with the “requisite knowledge and understanding of
its meaning to constitute as misconduct;” (2) The comment was made in a private
text message with Petitioner’s then-girlfriend; and (3) the Board did not find
and the evidence does not show that Petitioner made the comment with “ill
intent.”  (OB 8-13.)  


 
            B.        Petitioner
Knowingly Used a Racist Term
 
            Petitioner testified before the
Board and argues now that he did not know the term “porch monkey” was a racist
term for African-Americans.  The Board
unanimously found that this testimony was not credible and that he knew he was
using a racist term: 
            
[T]he Board agreed on certain findings: one, the
accused officer made the remark, “porch monkey 4 life,” via text message to Kelsey
Mathews; two, the remark was ethnic in nature; three, Officer Rojas was or
should have been reasonably aware that “porch monkey 4 life” was a derogatory
ethnic term towards African Americans. 
Officer Rojas’ testimony that he was unaware that
porch monkey was a derogatory term was not believed by any of the Board
members, particularly in light of its use by Rojas in response to Ms. Mathews’
comments regarding eating watermelon.  Officer
Rojas’ explanation that he learned this expression from watching the movie Clerks
II did not help his cause, as the clip of the movie viewed by the Board made it
abundantly clear that the term was racist. 

(AR 126-127.)  Exercising its independent
judgment, the court concludes that this finding is supported by the weight of
the evidence for the reasons stated by the Board.  In addition, Ms. Mathews never referenced
sitting on her “porch” in her text messages to Petitioner, and she is
African-American, further establishing that Petitioner knew the true nature of
the term.        
 
            C.        The LAPD Can Impose Discipline for a
Racist Comment in a Private Conversation   
 
            The Board acknowledged that this was
a private conversation between Petitioner and his then-girlfriend, stating:
“The Board’s only conflict was in determining whether this statement in a
private conversation between [Petitioner] and his girlfriend should be the
subject of Department disciplinary action.” 
(AR 127.)  It is well-established
that police officers may be disciplined for off-duty misconduct that has a
reasonable nexus to their public employment. 
(See Anderson v. State Personnel Bd. (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 761,
768-769; Cranston v. City of Richmond (1985) 40 Cal.3d 755; Blake v. State of
Personnel Board (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 541, 550-551; Yancey v. State Personnel Bd. (1985) 167
Cal.App.3d 478, 481-483.)  
 
The nature of the misbehavior and its
effect on the public service rather than the time or place of its occurrence
should be the determinative factors.  If
the misconduct bears some rational relationship to the employment and is of a
character that can reasonably result in the impairment or disruption of public
service, it should be no less a cause for discipline … simply because it
occurred outside of duty hours. In determining whether an employee should be
disciplined, whatever the cause, the overriding consideration is whether the
conduct harms the public service.  
 
(Blake v.
State of Personnel Board (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 541, 550-551, citations
omitted.)  
 


 
Petitioner argues
that “[t]his is not a situation where Petitioner was making a comment in public
or in a public forum that would risk the Department to scrutiny.”  (OB 10:26-27.)  The 
court disagrees.  In relevant part, the Code of Ethics
states:   
 
Actions and Conduct Designed to Build Public
Confidence
 
Persons in public service shall not only be ever
conscious that public service is a public trust but also shall be impartial and
devoted to the best interests of the City, and shall so act and conduct
themselves, both inside and outside the City’s service, as not to
give occasion for distrust of their impartiality or of their devotion to the city’s
best interests.
 
(AR 273, emphasis
added.)  The use of racist comments
“give[s] occasion for distrust of [Petitioner’s] impartiality” and undermines
“public confidence.”  (Ibid.)  There are also concerns that its use
undermines efforts to create a non-hostile workplace.  (See AR 88.) 
Petitioner’s use of a racist term affects his ability to perform his
duties—which require interacting with members of the African-American community
and working with African-American police officers—because police officers “are the
guardians of the peace and security of the community, and the efficiency of our
whole system, designed for the purpose of maintaining law and order, depends
upon the extent to which such officers perform their duties and are faithful to
the trust reposed in them.”  (Hankla v. Long Beach Civil Service Comm. (1995)
34 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1224.)  Indeed, Petitioner’s use of a racist term suggests
racial insensitivity and raises question about his ability to serve,
with impartiality, all members of the community and his fellow officers.  (See AR 273.)  The mere fact that the comment was made in a private
conversation matters not.  Petitioner
knew, or reasonably should have known, that his text messages, while initially
private, could become public (which they did). 
  
 
            Not
only does Petitioner’s use of a racist term potentially undermine public confidence
and morale within the LAPD, it may impact future criminal prosecutions.  A prosecutor must disclose evidence that is
material to guilt or punishment.  (Brady
v. Maryland, 373 U.S. 83, 87 (1963.) 
A prosecutor’s duty to disclose evidence favorable to the defense
extends to evidence reflecting on the credibility of a material witness, e.g.,
an arresting officer or an officer who witnesses a crime.  (See Giglio v. United States, 405 U.S.
150, 154 (1972).)  Accordingly,
Petitioner may be placed on the “Brady List” for disclosure of the Board’s
finding to the defense in relevant cases. 
(See
AR 190-194; Oppo. 9, fn. 4.)  The
existence of this information may dissuade prosecutors from charging cases in
which Petitioner is a witness or may force prosecutors to offer lenient
dispositions to avoid trials on Petitioner’s cases.  
 
            In sum, the court finds that the
Board could impose discipline on Petitioner for use of a racist term during a
private conversation.  There was a
sufficient nexus with his employment.   
 
            C.        The
LAPD Need Not Establish Ill Intent  
 
            Petitioner focuses on the Board’s
comment: “It should be noted  that the
Board does not opine that [Petitioner] had any ill intent in making the comment
. . . .”  (AR 127.)  Petitioner argues that there must be a
showing of racial animus to support guilt on Count One.  The court disagrees.  Petitioner’s knowing use of a racist term
gives the impression of bias and raises credibility issues.  Not only does this violate Department policy,
it results in “the Department’s inability to utilize [Petitioner] as a police
officer,” as discussed.  (AR 261.)  Petitioner relies on the testimony of
Commander Ruby Flores, arguing:
 
Commander Ruby Flores’ testimony made clear that in
order for the use of terms to be considered racially motivated or in this case “inappropriate”
under Count 1 (misconduct under the Department Policy), the “intent” of the
person is a “critical” factor in the determination.
 
(OB 8, citing AR
90-98.)  Although Commander Flores
acknowledged that “intent” is a consideration, she did not opine that a racist
intent is a necessary factor in determining whether a police officer may be
disciplined for using a racial slur.  (See
AR 90-91.)  In fact, Commander Flores
also testified: 
 
If we wait until there are multiple incidents,
especially when it comes to issues of race, I think those are instances that we
can’t afford to let things pile up and to escalate … as you can’t unring the
bell.  When you say something or do
something that is not in alignment with our values and the Department mission,
then those are things you can’t walk away from and we can’t change.
 
(AR 94.) This
testimony supports, and does not detract from, the Board’s findings of guilt
for Count One.
 
            D.        The
Penalty Does Not Reflect a Manifest Abuse of Discretion 
 
            Having found that the findings on
Count One are supported by the evidence, and that the verdict is supported by
the findings, the court considers the penalty. 
The court has limited authority to overrule the penalty of termination:
 
[T]he propriety of a penalty imposed by an
administrative agency is a matter vested in the discretion of the agency and
its decision may not be disturbed unless there has been a manifest abuse of
discretion.  In reviewing the penalty
imposed by an administrative body which is duly constituted to announce and
enforce such penalties, neither a trial court nor an appellate court is free to
substitute its own discretion as to the matter; nor can the reviewing court
interfere with the imposition of a penalty by an administrative tribunal
because in the court’s own evaluation of the circumstances the penalty appears
to be too harsh.  Such interference, in
the light of the foregoing authorities, will only be sanctioned when there is
an arbitrary, capricious or patently abusive exercise of discretion.  
 
(Cadilla v.
Board of Medical Examiners (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 961, 966, internal quotes,
internal alterations, and citations omitted.) 
In considering whether an abuse of discretion
occurred, “the overriding consideration … is the extent to which the employee’s
conduct resulted in, or if repeated is likely to result in, harm to the public
service.  Other relevant factors include
the circumstances surrounding the misconduct and the likelihood of its
recurrence.”  (Skelly v. State Personnel Bd. (1975) 15 Cal.3d 194, 218, internal quotes, internal
alterations, and citations omitted.)  “If reasonable
minds may differ with regard to the appropriate disciplinary action, there is
no abuse of discretion.”  (County of Los Angeles v. Civil Service
Commission (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 620, 634.) 

 
Here, in its determination of penalty, the Board considered the
testimony of the former captain of the Department’s risk management division,
Robin Petillo, as well as several character witnesses.  The Board also considered Petitioner’s background
and personnel files, including his commendations and prior discipline, as well
as the Department’s policies and penalty guide. 
All Board members agreed that Count One, standing alone, should not
result in termination.  However, the
majority concluded that discharge was the appropriate penalty under the
totality of the circumstances, which included Petitioner’s misconduct for Count
One and Count Two, and the lack of judgment shown in the prior Board of Rights.  (AR 259-261.) 
In challenging the penalty, Petitioner reiterates arguments already
considered by the court and the court rejects them for the same reasons
discussed above.  
 
Based upon the foregoing, Petitioner does not establish that the penalty
of termination reflects a manifest abuse of discretion.  Therefore, the petition is denied on this
basis, as well.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The petition for writ of mandate is
denied. 
 
            2.         The parties shall meet-and-confer and
lodge a proposed judgment.
 
            3.         The court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED 
 
 
Dated: October 16,
2024                                            ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


