 Case Number:  24PSCV00137    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Manuel
Fernandez, trustee of the Pena Family Revocable Trust dated November 9, 2022 v.
Shmuel Y. Mahgerefteh, et al. 
Motion
of Charles O. Agege to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES the motion of Charles O. Agege to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiff without prejudice. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a real property loan dispute. On January 12, 2024,
plaintiff Manuel Fernandez, trustee of the Pena Family Revocable Trust dated
November 9, 2022 (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Shmuel Y.
Mahgerefteh, Law Offices of Richard G. Witkin APC (collectively, Defendants)
and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for declaratory relief, unfair
and unlawful business practice, injunctive relief, cancellation of instruments,
rescission based on unconscionability, and accounting. 
On
April 19, 2024, Charles O. Agege of Law Offices of Charles O. Agege, counsel
for Plaintiff, moved to be relieved as counsel. The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
The Court has
discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be
granted, provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 403-407.) 
A motion to
be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of
Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite
forms must be served “on the client and on all parties that have appeared in
the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
Charles
O. Agege of Law Offices of Charles O. Agege (Counsel) seeks to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiff. Counsel contends Plaintiff breached the fee agreement. (Agege
Decl., ¶ 2.) 
The Court does not find Counsel provided sufficient information to
determine whether the purported breach of the fee agreement is material and
whether Counsel gave Plaintiff a reasonable warning of intent to withdraw
unless Plaintiff fulfilled the fee agreement or performed his obligations, as
is required under Rule 1.16, subdivision (b)(5), of the California Rules of
Professional Conduct. (Cal. Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16, subd.
(b)(5).) The Court does not expect Counsel to provide any more detail than is
necessary so as to preserve duty of confidentiality owed to Plaintiff, but simply
claiming Plaintiff breached the fee agreement is insufficient.  (See Id.; Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362, subd. (c).) 
The Court also notes that Counsel’s supporting declaration and
proposed order do not identify the time and location of the next hearings in
this matter.  (See Agege Decl., ¶ 4,
subd. (b); Proposed Order, ¶ 7, subd. (a).) Moreover, the Court finds Counsel’s
declaration does not set forth sufficient information to determine whether
Counsel adequately confirmed Plaintiff’s last known address within 30 days of
filing of the motion. “Communications between attorney and client” is too
vague. (Agege Decl., ¶ 3, subd. (b)(1)(d).) Additionally, the Court notes that the
Notice omits part of the name of Plaintiff’s trust, i.e., the words “dated
November 9, 2022.” (See Notice; Proposed Order, ¶ 1.) 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the motion without prejudice. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion of Charles O. Agege to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiff without prejudice. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days.