  Case Number:  22PSCV00257    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  City of El  Monte v. Lino James Ibarra, et al.  City of Covina’s Motion for Leave to Intervene  TENTATIVE RULING  The Court  GRANTS City of Covina’s motion for leave to intervene as a matter of right.  City of Covina must file the proposed complaint in intervention within five  days of the Court’s order and properly serve it thereafter.  City of  Covina is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of  service of same within five days of the Court’s order.  BACKGROUND  This  is a nuisance action relating to alleged illegal sales of cannabis. On March 16,  2022, plaintiff City of El Monte (Plaintiff) filed this action against  defendants Lino James Ibarra (Ibarra), Michael Atencio, Manuel Aquino, Joseph  Hernandez, Jung Hsiang Chen, Ya Fen Hsu, Tucker Lincoln (Lincoln), Philip  Gonzales, Shane Sapp, H.C. Rue Royale Partner LLC (Rue Royale) (collectively,  Defendants) and Does 1 through 100. On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed the  operative Second Amended Complaint against the same Defendants, alleging causes  of action for narcotics abatement (Health and Safety Code section 11570 et  seq.), public nuisance (Civil Code section 3479 et seq.), violation of El Monte  Municipal Code (EMMC Chapters 5.18 and Ch. 1.19), and violation of MAUCRSA  (Business and Professions Code section 26000 et seq.)  On May 1,  2024, nonparty City of Covina (Covina) moved for leave to intervene. On May 15,  2024, Lincoln opposed the motion on limited grounds. The other Defendants did  not oppose the motion. On May 21, 2024, Covina replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD  “An  intervention takes place when a nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a party  to an action or proceeding between other persons by doing any of the following:  (1) Joining a plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint. (2)  Uniting with a defendant in resisting the claims of a plaintiff….” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 387, subd. (b)(1), (2).) To intervene in an action, “[a] nonparty  shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or ex parte  application.” (Id., § 387, subd. (c).)  A nonparty  must be permitted to intervene if either of the following conditions are  satisfied: (1) a provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene;  or (2) the person seeking intervention claims an interest related to the  property or transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so  situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s  ability to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately  represented by one or more of the existing parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 387,  subd. (d)(1)(A)-(B).) A court has discretionary authority to allow a nonparty  to intervene “if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in  the success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.” (Id.,  § 387, subd. (d)(2).)  DISCUSSION  Summary of Arguments  Covina contends it has a right to intervene here because its foundational  police power and authority to enjoin unlawful activity at the subject property,  i.e., 558 East Rue Royale Street, Covina, CA 91723 (the Property), within its  jurisdiction constitutes sufficient interest relating to the property to  warrant intervention by right. Covina contends the existing parties do not  adequately represent its interest in enforcing the law with respect to nuisance  within its own boundaries, and that even if Plaintiff prevails against Rue  Royale, Plaintiff may not have a sufficiently compelling interest in enforcing  that resolution. Covina also contends its interest are not adverse to  Plaintiff’s and are otherwise generally aligned, but not coextensive or equal.  Covina then contends its motion is timely because this case is still in the  pleading stage.  Covina alternatively argues that if it is not entitled to intervene as a  matter of right, the Court should grant permissive intervention. Covina  contends it has a direct and immediate interest in this matter given its  authority to address the unlawful maintenance and use of properties within its  boundaries and its duty to abate nuisances for the benefit of the public.  Covina contends that if intervention is denied, Plaintiff and Rue Royale may  arrive at a resolution contrary to Covina’s interests. Covina then contends its  intervention will add no new legal issues since Covina only wishes to prosecute  the same claims Plaintiff asserts against Rue Royale, and does not seek to  allege new claims against any party. Covina anticipates that Lincoln will  oppose the motion, but Covina indicates that the proposed complaint in  intervention states no claim against Lincoln. Covina further contends it has  followed the proper procedures.  In opposition, Lincoln contends Covina cannot be substituted in for  Plaintiff. Lincoln contends Covina has not established the elements for  intervention as a matter of right, arguing that Covina does not cite a statute  conferring an unconditional right to intervene and that Covina cannot claim an  interest relating to the property as Covina does not own or have a legal  interest in the Property. Lincoln contends Covina has not explained how the  disposition of Plaintiff’s case would impede Covina from protecting any  interest because neither of them have an interest in the Property and Covina’s  description of any such impairment is inadequately described. Lincoln also  contends Covina has not established the timeliness of this intervention, as  timeliness is not based on the stage of the pleadings, but instead is measured  from the time Covina knew or should have known its interests in the litigation  were not being adequately represented.  With respect to permissive intervention, Lincoln does not oppose a  permissive intervention based on Covina’s representation that it does not seek  to intervene to join as a plaintiff against Lincoln. Lincoln further requests  that the Court order such intervention be limited to Rue Royale and the cause  of action set forth in the proposed complaint in intervention, and that any  expansion of the causes of action or substitution of Doe defendants only be  allowed upon leave of the Court.  Analysis – Intervention as a Matter of  Right  “[T]o establish a right to mandatory intervention, the  nonparty must: (1) show a protectable interest in the subject of the action,  (2) demonstrate that the disposition of the action may impair or impede its  ability to protect that interest; and (3) demonstrate that its interests are  not adequately represented by the existing parties. [Citation.]” (Carlsbad Police Officers Ass'n v. City of Carlsbad  (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 135, 148.)  The Court finds that Covina is entitled to  intervention as a matter of right. The Property is located within the  boundaries of the City of Covina, thereby entitling Covina to address nuisances  occurring within its boundaries. “If there is reason to believe  that a nuisance, as described in Section 11570, is  kept, maintained, or exists in any county, the district attorney or county counsel of the county, or the city attorney  of any incorporated city or of any city and county, in the name of the people,  may, or any citizen of the state resident in the county, in his or her own  name, may, maintain an action to abate and prevent the nuisance  and to perpetually enjoin the person conducting or  maintaining it, and the owner, lessee, or agent of the building or place in or  upon which the nuisance exists from directly or indirectly maintaining or  permitting the nuisance.” (Health &  Safety Code, § 11571; see also Cal. Const., art. XI, § 7 [“A county or city may make and  enforce within its limits all local, police, sanitary, and other ordinances and  regulations not in conflict with general laws.”])  Moreover, the language of Code of  Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (d)(1)(B), provides that a party has a  right to intervene when that party claims an interest “relating to the  property or transaction that is the subject of the action…” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(1)(B), italics added.) Covina’s proposed complaint in  intervention seeks solely to address the alleged nuisance at the Property.  (Sanchez Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 3.) The Court finds the language of Code of Civil  Procedure section 387, subdivision (d)(1)(B) sufficiently broad to confer upon  Covina the right to intervene and address the nuisance at the Property; thus,  it is irrelevant whether Covina owns the Property.  Furthermore, it is clear that Plaintiff’s  and Covina’s interests here are not one and the same, as they are different  municipalities governing different jurisdictions. While their interests may  align to some extent in this particular action, i.e., regulating illegal drug  activity, that is not sufficient for Plaintiff to adequately represent and  ensure protection of Covina’s interests in this action. (See Carlsbad Police Officers Ass'n v. City of Carlsbad, supra, 49  Cal.App.5th at p. 148.)  Finally, while the Court agrees with  Lincoln that Covina did not provide any indication as to when it first knew its  rights were not being adequately represented, the Court exercises its  discretion and finds Covina’s motion is timely given this action is still only  in the pleading stage and the case is not yet at issue. (See Lofton v. Wells  Fargo Home Mortgage (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 1001, 1013; Lohnes v. Astron  Computer Products (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1153.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Covina is entitled to  intervention as a matter of right.  Analysis – Permissive Intervention  “Permissive  intervention is appropriate if: “(1) the proper procedures have been followed;  (2) the nonparty has a direct and immediate interest in the action; (3) the  intervention will not enlarge the issues in the litigation; and (4) the reasons  for the intervention outweigh any opposition by the parties presently in the  action. [Citations.]” (Carlsbad Police Officers Ass'n v. City of  Carlsbad, supra, 49 Cal.App.5th at p. 148.)  Even assuming for the sake of  argument that Covina was not entitled to intervene as a matter of right, the  Court finds Covina would be entitled to permissively intervene. Covina clearly  has a direct and immediate interest in regulating the subject nuisance since it  is located within the boundaries of the City of Covina, and nuisance regulation  falls within Covina’s scope of authority. (SAC, ¶ 2; Sanchez Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 3;  Health & Safety Code, § 11571.) Covina’s participation in this action does  not appear that it will enlarge the issues in the case since it only alleges  one cause of action for nuisance, which is already a cause of action in this  case, regarding the same Property, and against an already named defendant,  i.e., Rue Royale. (See SAC, ¶¶ 63-76; Sanchez Decl., Ex. A, ¶¶ 12-24.)  Lincoln largely does not oppose intervention on permissive grounds, provided  the Court imposes some limits on the intervention. (Opp., 4:2-20.) As for  proper procedures, Covina followed the proper procedure by requesting permission  from the Court to intervene. (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(2).)  With respect to the Lincoln’s  request for conditioning permissive intervention, the Court finds such  conditions unnecessary here given the Court’s finding that Covina is entitled  as a matter of right to intervene. (See Carlsbad  Police Officers Ass’n v. City of Carlsbad, supra, 49 Cal.App.5th at pp. 149-150 [when intervention is as a matter of  right, the court generally may not condition that intervention, even if  intervention enlarges the issues in the case].) Even if this Court granted  Covina permissive intervention, the Court would still find that there is  nothing in the proposed complaint in intervention that implicates Lincoln’s  concerns, as Covina only seeks to litigate a nuisance claim against Rue Royale,  not Lincoln. (See Sanchez Decl., Ex. A, ¶¶ 3-4, 12-24.) The Court therefore declines  to condition Covina’s intervention on Lincoln’s requested conditions.  Based upon the foregoing, the Court  GRANTS the motion.  CONCLUSION  The Court  GRANTS City of Covina’s motion for leave to intervene as a matter of right.  City of Covina must file the proposed complaint in intervention within five  days of the Court’s order and properly serve it thereafter.  City of  Covina is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of  service of same within five days of the Court’s order.