 Case Number:  23STCV19317    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Parkwood Entertainment, LLC’s Demurrer to
First Amended Complaint 
Defendant Parkwood
Entertainment, LLC demurs to the entire first amended complaint by plaintiff
Ellana Bland.
1st Cause of Action:
Copyright Infringement
Plaintiff does not allege
sufficient facts for copyright infringement because this court has no subject
matter jurisdiction over such a claim.  “The
federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction over copyright infringement causes
of action.”  (Benitez v. Williams
(2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 270, 275.)  A
state court does “not have subject matter jurisdiction over [a] plaintiff’s
copyright infringement claim.”  (Ibid.)
 Federal preemption requires two
conditions: “ ‘first, the subject of the claim must be a work fixed in a
tangible medium of expression and come within the subject matter or scope of
copyright protection ..., and second, the right asserted under state law must
be equivalent to the exclusive rights contained in’ ” federal copyright law.  (Kabehie v. Zoland (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 513, 520.)
The subject of plaintiff’s
claim falls within the scope of copyright protection.  “The first prong of this test is satisfied
wherever the works at issue come within the ‘subject matter of copyright,’ … even
where the works at issue (or some parts of those works) may not actually be
protected, or even protectable, under the Copyright Act.”  (Idema v. Dreamworks, Inc. (C.D. Cal.
2001) 162 F.Supp.2d 1129, 1189.)  “[T]he
scope of preemption is broader than the scope of protection.”  (Ibid.)  
Plaintiff’s claim arises
from the design of a dress.  Even if not
actually protectable under copyright law, it is within the subject matter of
copyright.  The United States Supreme
Court has held that some aspects of clothing designs may be copyrighted.  (Star Athletica, L.L.C. v. Varsity Brands,
Inc. (2017) 580 U.S. 405, 414-419.) 
“[A] feature incorporated into the design of a useful article [i.e., a
garment] is eligible for copyright protection only if the feature (1) can be
perceived as a two- or three-dimensional work of art separate from the useful
article and (2) would qualify as a protectable pictorial, graphic, or
sculptural work—either on its own or fixed in some other tangible medium of
expression—if it were imagined separately from the useful article into which it
is incorporated.”  (Id. at p.
408.) 
Plaintiff’s first amended
complaint alleges, “The first cause of action is copyright infringement.” (FAC,
p. 1.)  Plaintiff alleges she “is the
original curator and producer of what became the ‘Blues Dress’ ”, and “the
illustration was used without consulting and was not permitted by the
plaintiff.”  (Ibid.)  She thus alleges sufficient facts to conclude
that her “illustration” or design of a dress falls within the subject of
copyright law, even if it cannot be protected by copyright.  Answering that question requires applying the
test established in Star Athletica, L.L.C. v. Varsity Brands, Inc.—which
is part of the substantive law of copyright. 

The right plaintiff asserts
is equivalent to the exclusive rights contained in federal copyright law.  “ ‘[A] right that is “equivalent to copyright”
is one that is infringed by the mere act of reproduction, performance,
distribution, or display.’ ”  (Kabehie
v. Zoland, supra, 102 Cal.App.4th at p. 520.)  Plaintiff alleges Parkwood Entertainment is
liable for copyright infringement because its “representative Beyonce Knowles
Carter … wore a blue dress that was created from a design” by plaintiff.  (FAC, p. 1.) 
She further alleges, “Parkwood will forever have this dress as a part of
one of the largest grossing tours of all time.” 
(Id., p. 2.)  Plaintiff
thus alleges defendants infringed on her rights by displaying her dress when Beyonce
Knowles Carter wore it in public.  
Plaintiff’s claim meets both
conditions required for federal preemption. 
She therefore fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action for copyright infringement.   
2nd Cause of Action:
Respondeat Superior
            Plaintiff does not allege sufficient facts for this
purported cause of action.  Rather than a
cause of action, the doctrine of respondeat superior means “an employer is
vicariously liable for the torts of its employees committed within the scope of
the employment.”  (Lisa M. v. Henry
Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 296.)  Plaintiff alleges Parkwood Entertainment is
vicariously liable because Kelvin “KJ” Moody appropriated the design of her
dress.  In other words, she alleges
Parkwood Entertainment is vicariously liable for copyright infringement.  An employer cannot be vicariously liable for
an underlying cause of action that itself fails.  
Unlabeled Cause of Action:
Negligent Hiring
Plaintiff’s first amended
complaint also refers to “negligent hiring.” 
(FAC, p. 1.)  She does not allege
sufficient facts for that cause of action. 
“Negligence liability
will be imposed on an employer if it ‘knew or should have known that hiring the
employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm
materializes.’ ”  (Phillips v. TLC
Plumbing, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139.)  Plaintiff does not allege Parkwood
Entertainment, LLC knew hiring Kelvin “KJ” Moody was likely to create a risk of
copyright infringement.  Plaintiff
alleges hiring him was negligent because “Moody is a blood relative of Parkwood
Entertainment representative Beyonce Knowles Carter” which is a “conflict of
interest.”  (FAC, p. 1.)  Plaintiff thus alleges a form of nepotism,
which creates no risk of any particular harm, nor specifically a risk of
copyright infringement.  
Disposition
            Defendant Parkwood Entertainment, LLC’s demurrer to
plaintiff Ellana Bland’s first amended complaint is sustained with 30 days’
leave to amend.  

