 Case Number:  23STCV15944    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Glovis America, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to (1) Form
Interrogatories, (2) Special Interrogatories, and (3) Requests for Production
(1 & 2) Form and Special Interrogatories
            Plaintiff
Glovis America, Inc. moves to compel defendant Haravinder Singh to provide
further responses to form interrogatories – general, Nos. 8.4, 8.7, 8.8, 15.1, 17.1, and 50.2.  Plaintiff also moves to compel Singh to
provide further responses to special interrogatories Nos. 1-24.  A party may move to
compel further responses to interrogatories when an answer “is evasive or
incomplete” (CCP § 2030.300(a)(1)) or an objection “is without merit or too
general” (id.,
subd. (a)(3)).
A. Evasive or Incomplete Responses
            Singh
gave evasive or incomplete responses to the form interrogatories.  “If an interrogatory cannot be answered
completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.”  (CCP § 2030.220(b).)  “If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”  (Id., subd. (c).)
Form interrogatories Nos. 8.4 and
8.7 ask Singh to state his monthly income at the time of the incident, the
total income he has lost to date, and how he calculated those amounts.  Substantively, Singh responded, “Responding
Party requires a complete accounting of the credit card transactions processed
by Glovis America, Inc. to determine how much if its income has been improperly
withheld and improperly recorded.”  He
did not state he lacks personal knowledge to answer at all and did not state he
made a good faith effort to obtain additional information by inquiring of
others.  The answers are evasive and
incomplete.   
No. 8.8 asks Singh if he will lose
future income as a result, and if so, several follow-up questions.  Substantively, he responded, “Responding
Party will continue to lose income as long as Glovis America, Inc. improperly
withholds its credit card revenue. To analyze the impact of Glovis America,
Inc.’s actions on Responding Party’s future income, Responding Party requires a
complete accounting of the credit card transactions processed by Glovis
America, Inc.”  He did not answer the
subparts and did not make any “estimate” of the amount as required by No.
8.8(b).  Again, he did not state he lacks
personal knowledge to answer at all and did not state he made a good faith
effort to obtain additional information by inquiring of others.  This response is evasive and incomplete.   
Nos. 15.1 asks Singh to state all
facts, identify all witnesses, and identify all documents supporting the
denials in his answer.  Substantively, he
responded that he lacked sufficient information to respond and reserved the
right to amend it.  He did not state he
lacks personal knowledge to answer at all or that he made a good faith effort
to obtain additional information.  He
also did not answer the subparts. 
Nos. 17.1 asks Singh to state all
facts, identify all witnesses, and identify all documents supporting his
responses to the requests for admission.  His substantive responses did not answer the
question’s subparts.  He did not identify
any witnesses or documents.
No. 50.2 asks, “Was there a breach
of any agreement alleged in the pleadings?  If so, for each breach describe and give the
date of every act or omission that you claim is the breach of the agreement.”  Substantively, Singh responded, “Yes,
Responding Party alleges that Plaintiff, Glovis America, Inc. breached the RPSA
numerous times during the time period relevant to this matter.  Plaintiff, Glovis America, Inc., alleges that
Responding Party breached the RPSA numerous times during the time period
relevant to this matter, though Responding Party denies all such allegations.”  The response is evasive and incomplete
because it does not specify the dates of each breach or explain what acts or
omissions breached the contract.  
B. Objections
            Singh
also made meritless objections to the form and special interrogatories.  When a party fails to serve a timely response
to interrogatories, he “waives … any objection to the interrogatories.”  (CCP § 2030.290(a).)  Singh did not serve timely responses to the
form interrogatories or special interrogatories.  Plaintiff served them on March 26, 2024.  (Choi Decls., ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff agreed to extend the deadline to
respond to May 27.  (Id., ¶ 3, Ex.
B.)  Singh served responses on May 29.  (Id., ¶ 4, Ex. C.)  The responses to the form interrogatories
include numerous objections.  The
responses to the special interrogatories consist solely of objections.  Singh waived those objections because he did
not serve timely responses.  Plaintiff is
entitled to responses without objections.
            Singh
also does not justify any of his objections on the merits.  Generally, after the requesting party moves
to compel further responses, the responding party bears the burden of
justifying its objections.  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255; Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 417, 441.)  Singh did not file a timely opposition to
this motion.
            Singh’s objections to form
interrogatories Nos. 8.4, 8.7, 8.8, 15.1, 17.1, and 50.2 and his objections
to special interrogatories Nos. 1-24 are overruled.
(3) Requests for Production
Plaintiff Glovis America, Inc. moves to
compel defendant Haravinder Singh to provide further responses to requests for production
Nos. 1-56.  As with the interrogatories,
plaintiff served them on March 26, and agreed to extend the deadline to respond
to May 27.  (Choi Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, Exs.
A-B.)  Singh served responses on May
29.  (Id., ¶ 4, Ex. C.)  The responses consist solely of objections.  Singh waived any objection because he did not
serve timely responses.  Plaintiff is
entitled to responses without objections.
Singh also did not justify any of
his objections on the merits.  He did not file a
timely opposition to this motion.  
Singh’s objections
to requests for production Nos. 1-56 are overruled. 
Sanctions
On the motion
regarding form interrogatories, plaintiff moves for $2,682 in
sanctions against Singh and his counsel of record.  On the motion regarding special
interrogatories, plaintiff moves for $3,714 in sanctions.  On the motion regarding requests for
production, plaintiff moves for $5,808 in sanctions.  “Making, without substantial justification,
an unmeritorious objection to discovery” is a misuse of the discovery process
subject to monetary sanctions.  (CCP §
2023.010(e).)  Singh made meritless
objections to these discovery requests. 
He acted without substantial justification.  Sanctions are just under the circumstances.  Plaintiff reasonably incurred the expenses it
claims.
Disposition    
Plaintiff Glovis
America, Inc.’s motion to compel further responses to form interrogatories is granted.  Defendant Haravinder Singh is ordered to serve further verified responses without
objections to form interrogatories – general Nos. 8.4, 8.7, 8.8, 15.1, 17.1, and 50.2 within 30 days.  Defendant Haravinder Singh and his counsel of
record, Thomas P. Bleau, are ordered to pay plaintiff $2,682 in
sanctions within 30 days.
 Plaintiff Glovis America, Inc.’s motion to
compel further responses to special interrogatories is granted.  Defendant Haravinder Singh is ordered to serve further verified responses without
objections to special interrogatories Nos. 1-24 within 30 days.  Defendant
Haravinder Singh and his counsel of record, Thomas P. Bleau, are ordered
to pay plaintiff $3,714 in sanctions within 30 days. 
Plaintiff Glovis
America, Inc.’s motion to compel further responses to requests for production
is granted.  Defendant Haravinder
Singh is ordered to serve further verified responses without objections to requests for
production Nos. 1-56 within 30 days.  Defendant shall produce all responsive
documents concurrently with his written responses.  Defendant Haravinder Singh and
his counsel of record, Thomas P. Bleau, are ordered to pay plaintiff $5,808
in sanctions within 30 days.
Defendant Haravinder
Singh and his counsel of record, Thomas P. Bleau, are jointly and severally
liable for all sanctions.