 Case Number:  21STCV02330    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Jimmy Guzman’s Motion to
Compel Depositions
Plaintiff Jimmy Guzman moves
to compel the depositions of 10 witnesses: Dorian Racey, Diana Dobbs, Michael Widlund, Keith Petrosky, Katharine
Hamilton, Kathy Scroghem, Lisa Sabo, Ruben Ruiz, Penny Meeden, and defendant
Lockheed Martin Corporation’s person most qualified about “me too”
evidence.  
Plaintiff fails to show he served a subpoena on deponent
Michael Widlund.  Plaintiff’s papers
acknowledge Widlund works for Sedgwick—not defendant Lockheed Martin
Corporation.  “The service of a
deposition notice under Section 2025.240 is effective to require any deponent
who is a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party to attend and to testify.” 
(CCP § 2025.280(a).)  “The
attendance and testimony of any other deponent, as well as the production by
the deponent of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing for inspection and copying, requires the service on the deponent of a
deposition subpoena.”  (Id., subd.
(b).)  Without a deposition subpoena,
Widlund was not required to attend his deposition.  The court therefore cannot compel his
deposition.  Defendants’ objections to
the notice of deposition of Michael Widlund are sustained.  
Plaintiff set the depositions of Hamilton, Petrosky, Sabo, Scroghem,
and defendant’s person most qualified or custodian of records “for Defendants’ Past
and Present Employee Contact Information” for October 7 (Denis Decl., ¶¶ 2, 10),
which was the final day to complete discovery. 
Plaintiff inexcusably delayed seeking to depose these witnesses.  Setting five depositions on the final day to
complete discovery indicates a lack of good faith.  Defendants’ objections to the notices of
depositions of Katharine Hamilton, Keith Petrosky, Lisa Sabo, Kathy Scroghem,
and Lockheed Martin Corporation’s person most qualified or custodian of records
are sustained.
Plaintiff shows good cause for orders compelling the
depositions of Meeden, Racey, and Ruiz.  Defendants stipulated to allow those three
depositions.  (Denis Decl., Ex. 1, p.
3.)  Defendants’ objections to the
notices of depositions of depositions of Penny Meeden, Dorian Racey, and Ruben
Ruiz are overruled. 

            Finally, plaintiff shows
good cause to compel the deposition of Diana Dobbs.  Plaintiff gave notice of her deposition to
take place on October 1, 2024.  (Jatana
Decl., ¶ 7.)  When plaintiff met and
conferred with defendants regarding her deposition, defendants’ counsel wrote,
“We will let you know regarding alternative dates.”  (Denis Decl., Ex. 8.)  Defendants did not provide any alternative
date and have not made her available for deposition.  (Denis Decl., ¶ 10.)  Defendants’ objections to the notice of
deposition of Diana Dobbs are overruled.
Document Requests
            Plaintiff does not meet
his burden as to compelling production of any documents requested in the
notices of deposition.  A motion to
compel depositions and production of documents “shall set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.”  (CCP §
2025.450(b)(1).)  Plaintiff’s papers do
not specifically address any of the document requests or defendants’ objections
to them.  He makes only conclusory
references to all document requests jointly.
Plaintiff also did not submit a separate statement setting
forth the requests, the responses, and the basis for compelling production of
the documents as required.  A motion “[t]o
compel or to quash the production of documents or tangible things at a
deposition” requires a separate statement. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(5).)
Defendants’ objections to all document requests are sustained.  
Sanctions
            Both sides move for monetary
sanctions against one another. 
Plaintiff’s motion and defendants’ opposition were both partially
successful.  All parties acted with
substantial justification.  No sanctions
are warranted.  
Disposition
Plaintiff Jimmy Guzman’s motion to compel depositions is granted
in part.  Deponents Diana Dobbs, Penny
Meeden, Dorian Racey, and Ruben Ruiz are ordered to appear and testify
at deposition no later than November 1, 2024. 
The deponents are not required to produce the documents requested in the
notices of their depositions. Defendants’ Motions to Compel
Depositions
Defendants Lockheed Martin
Corporation and Mark Marino move to compel the depositions of plaintiff Jimmy
Guzman and non-party witnesses Elvira Guzman, Luke Giangrande, and Adriano Martinez.  
Defendants are entitled to
orders compelling the depositions of Jimmy Guzman and Elvira Guzman.  Plaintiff does not contend that defendants
are not entitled to take these depositions. 
He argues instead that he agreed to those depositions, but the parties
are “working on schedul[ing]” them. 
(Galvan Decl., ¶ 2.)  Regardless
of the potential agreement, the depositions are necessary and issuing an order
compelling the depositions is appropriate. 

Defendants did not give
timely notice of the depositions of Giangrande and Martinez.  All parties are entitled to notice of oral
depositions.  (CCP § 2025.240(a).)  “An oral deposition shall be scheduled for a
date at least 10 days after service of the deposition notice.”  (CCP § 2025.270(a).)  
Defendants’ counsel states
they noticed Martinez’s deposition on September 19 to take place on October 3.  (Jatana Decl., ¶ 19 [stating deposition was
set for September 30]; Jatana Reply Decl., ¶ 3 [stating deposition set for October
3].)  Defendants did not attach a copy of
the deposition notice.  Plaintiff’s
counsel, meanwhile, testifies that defendants electronically served the notice
of Martinez’s deposition on him on September 25, 2024.  (Galvan Decl., ¶ 3.)  Even without accounting for the manner of
service, the deposition date of October 3 was only eight days later.  The notice was defective.
Defendants’ counsel states
they noticed Giangrande’s deposition on September 19 to take place on October 7.  (Jatana Decl., ¶ 19 [stating deposition set
for October 3]; Galvan Decl., ¶ 3 [stating deposition set for October 7];
Jatana Reply Decl., ¶ 3 [stating deposition set for October 7].)  Again, defendants did not attach a copy of
the deposition notice.  Plaintiff’s
counsel testifies that defendants electronically served the notice of
Giangrande’s deposition on him on September 26. 
(Galvan Decl., ¶ 3.)  Electronic
service of the notice extended the required period of notice by two court
days.  (CCP § 1010.6(a)(3)(B).)  The deposition date of October 7 was exactly10
days after service of the notice on September 26.  After accounting for the extension due to
electronic service, the notice was untimely. 

Disposition
Defendants Lockheed Martin Corporation and Mark Marino’s
motion to compel the depositions of plaintiff Jimmy Guzman and Elvira Guzman is
granted.  Plaintiff Jimmy Guzman is ordered to appear and
testify at deposition no later than November 1, 2024.  Non-party Elvira Guzman is ordered to
appear and testify at deposition no later than November 1, 2024.
Defendants’ motion to compel the depositions of Luke
Giangrande and Adriano Martinez is denied.Defendants’ Motion to Bifurcate Trial of Plaintiff’s
Liability and Damages ClaimsDefendants Lockheed Martin Corporation and Mark Marino move to
bifurcate the trial of this action into separate phases for liability and
damages.  In the alternative, they move
to bifurcate the trial as for punitive damages under Civil Code section
3295(d).Courts may
bifurcate trials “when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or
the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted” (CCP §
598) or “in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate
trials will be conducive to expedition and economy” (CCP § 1048(b)).  Assuming the motion is timely
under Code of Civil Procedure section 598, the court does not find good cause
to bifurcate the trial into liability and damages phases.  As for punitive damages, defendants are entitled to bifurcation.  Civil Code section 3295, subdivision (d)
provides, “The court shall, on
application of any defendant, preclude the admission of evidence of that
defendant’s profits and financial condition until after the trier of fact
returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that a
defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud.”  Upon such a motion, bifurcation is mandatory.
 (Westrec Marina Management, Inc. v. Jardine
Ins. Brokers Orange County, Inc. (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 1042, 1049.)Defendants Lockheed
Martin Corporation and Mark Marino’s motion to bifurcate trial is granted in
part.  The court hereby bifurcates
the trial into: (1) a first phase on liability, compensatory damages, and
liability for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294; and (2) if the jury finds defendants liable for
punitive damages, a second phase to determine the amount of punitive
damages.  The court hereby precludes
admission of evidence of defendants’ profits or financial condition until the
second phase of trial.  
