 Case Number:  23STCV04488    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  29 Babakitis
v. Al Malaikah Auditorium Company
23STCV04488
Motion of Staff Pro, Inc. to file First Amended Cross-Complaint
Tentative
The
motion is granted.
Background
On
March 1, 2023, John William Babakitis (“Plaintiff”) filed his complaint against
Al Malaikah Auditorium Company (“Auditorium”); The Anschutz Corporation;
Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc.; AXS; Allied Universal Executive Protection
and Intelligence Services, Inc.; Staff Pro; and Does 1 through 100, asserting
causes of action for negligence and premises liability arising from an injury
that occurred at a Judas Priest concert at the Shrine Auditorium on March 15,
2022, when an unidentified person gained access to the stage, jumped into the
crowd, and struck Plaintiff.
On
April 3, 2023, Plaintiff amended his complaint to name Goldenvoice LLC
(“Goldenvoice”) as Doe 26.
On
April 6, 2023, the Court, at the request of Plaintiff, dismissed The Anschutz
Corporation; Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc.; and AXS.
On
May 4, 2023, Goldenvoice an answer to the complaint and a cross-complaint
against Staff Pro, Inc. dba Allied Universal Event Services (“Staff Pro”) and
Roes 1 through 50.  Goldenvoice subsequently filed an amended answer
to the complaint.
On
May 12, 2023, Auditorium filed an answer to the complaint and a cross-complaint
against AXS; Allied Universal Executive Protection and Intelligence Services,
Inc.; Staff Pro; and Moes 1 through 50. On May 19, 2023, Auditorium filed an
amended cross-complaint, this time against only Staff Pro and Moes 1 through
50.  Auditorium subsequently filed an amended answer to the
complaint.
On
June 5, 2023, Staff Pro, Inc. (on its own behalf and as erroneously sued as
Allied Universal Executive Protection and Intelligence Services, Inc.) filed an
answer to the complaint.  On July 17, 2023, Staff Pro filed answers
to the cross-complaints of Goldenvoice and Auditorium.
On
October 20, 2023, Plaintiff amended his complaint to name AEG Presents LLC
(“AEG Presents”) as Doe 1.
On
November 22, 2023, AEG Presents filed an answer to the complaint and a
cross-complaint against Staff Pro and Zoes 1 through 50. 
On
April 19, 2024, Plaintiff amended his complaint to name A-One Security
Services, Inc as Doe 51, and INEED Staffing Events LLC as Doe 52.
On
May 29, 2024, Staff Pro filed an answer to the cross-complaint of AEG
Presents.  The same day, Staff Pro filed a cross-complaint against
AEG Presents and Foes 1 through 50.
On
June 28, 2024, AEG Presents filed an answer to Staff Pro’s cross-complaint.
On
September 20, 2024, Staff Pro filed this motion for leave to file a First
Amended Cross-Complaint. In the proposed amended cross-complaint, Staff Pro
seeks to add Goldenvoice as a cross-defendant.
No
opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (a)(1), provides, in relevant part: 
 
“The court may, in furtherance of justice,
and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”  
 
“This discretion should be exercised
liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior
Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Ordinarily, the court will not
consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion
for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature. The
court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed
amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the
defect cannot be cured by further amendment. (See California Casualty
General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281,
overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins.
Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
 
Under California Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.  
 
Under rule 3.1324(b), a separate
declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. 

 
Even if a good amendment is proposed
in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting it may be
a good reason for denial. In most cases, the factors for timeliness are: (1)
lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the amendment after
knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the adverse party. If the
party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Hirsa v.
Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.) Prejudice exists where the
amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471,
486-488.) 
 
The Code of Civil
Procedure distinguishes between compulsory and permissive cross-complaints. 
 
A compulsory
cross-complaint, under Code of Civil Procedure section 426.30, is one that
asserts (1) a “related cause of action”; (2) that a party against whom a
“complaint” has been filed and served has against the “plaintiff”; and (3) that
exists as of the time the answer to the “complaint” is served. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 426.30, subd. (a).) A related cause of action is defined as “a cause of
action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges
in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.10, subd. (c).) “Complaint” is
defined to include a cross-complaint, and “Plaintiff” is defined as “a person
who files a complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.10, subds.
(a) & (b).) Subject to the exceptions set forth by statute, if a party
fails to assert a related cause of action against the plaintiff that exists as
of the time the party answers the complaint, “such party may not thereafter in
any other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause of action not
pleaded.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.30, subd. (a).) 
 
In a permissive
cross-complaint a party may assert an unrelated cause of action “against any of
the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 428.10, subd. (a).) Alternatively, in a permissive cross-complaint a
party may assert a “cause of action he has against a person alleged to be
liable thereon, whether or not such a person is already party to the action, if
the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property
or controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 428.10, subd. (b).) Cross-complaints for contribution or indemnity
against new parties fall within the definition of a permissive cross-complaint
in section 428.10
 
A party must file
a compulsory cross-complaint at the same time as (or before) the answer to the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.30, subd. (a).) If a party fails to do so,
and then later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the court “after
notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the
parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert
such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50.) The “good faith” standard must “be liberally
construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” (Ibid.)
 
A party must file
a permissive cross-complaint before the court has set a date for trial, or, if
the causes of action in the cross-complaint are asserted against “any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her,” at or
before the party files the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 428.50, subds. (a) & (b).) If a party fails to do so, and then
later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the court may grant leave “in
the interests of justice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50, subd. (c).)
 
Discussion
 
Staff Pro seeks
leave to amend its cross-complaint to adding Goldenvoice as a Cross-Defendant. 
 
Staff Pro has
satisfied all substantive and procedural requirements. Staff Pro’s causes of
action against Goldenvoice arise from the same transaction or occurrences as
the other causes of action asserted in this matter, and the Court finds that
allowing the filing of the proposed amended cross-complaint will promote
efficiency and the interests of justice.
 
The motion is
granted.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Staff Pro’s motion for
leave to file a first amended cross-complaint.
 
The Court GRANTS Staff Pro LEAVE to file
the First Amended Cross-Complaint attached to the moving papers within 10 days of
the hearing. 
 
Moving Party to give Notice.
 