 Case Number:  23PSCV02768    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Cathay Bank’s Application for Writ of
Possession
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Cathay Bank’s Application for Writ of
Possession is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
This
is a collections action. From April 2005 to April 2022, Plaintiff Cathay Bank
and Defendant Raidcom Technology Inc. (Raidcom) entered into a series a written
loan agreements in which Cathay Bank agreed to loan funds to Raidcom. In
support of these agreements, Defendant Chi Chun Lin executed a continuing
guaranty. In March 2023, Cathay Bank alleges Raidcom and Lin breached their
obligations pursuant to the loan agreement by failing to pay the balance of the
loans and now owe a principal sum of $560,000.
On
September 11, 2023, Cathay Bank filed a complaint against Raidcom, Lin, and
Does 1-30, alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of promissory
note, (2) possession of personal property collateral and appointment of
receiver, and (3) breach of guaranty.
On
November 30, 2023, Cathay Bank filed the present motion. A hearing on Cathay
Bank’s motion is set for February 13, 2024, along with a case management
conference and OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service.
ANALYSIS
Cathay
Bank moves for a writ of possession against Raidcom and Lin with regards to all
of Raidcom’s assets. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS Cathay
Bank’s application.
Legal
Standard
“California’s
claim and delivery law (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 511.010-516.050) authorizes the
issuance of a prejudgment writ of possession for specific personal property.” (Sea
Rail Truckloads, Inc. v. Pullman, Inc. (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d 511, 514.)
“Except as otherwise provided this section, no writ shall be issued under this
chapter except after a hearing on a noticed motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
512.020, subd. (a).) Prior to the hearing, applicant must serve respondent with
(1) a copy of the summons and complaint, (2) a notice of application and
hearing, and (3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in support
thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.030, subd. (a).)
The
application for writ of possession must be executed under oath and include (1)
a “showing of the basis of the plaintiff’s claim and that the plaintiff is
entitled to possession of the property claimed” as well as a copy of the
written instrument if the basis of the claim is a written instrument, (2) a
“showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant,” (3) a
showing of “the manner in which the defendant came into possession of the
property,” (4) a showing of “the reason for the detention,” (5) a particular
description of the property and its value, (6) a statement of the location of
the property, including a showing that there is probable cause to believe the
property is located there if alleged to be within a private place, and (7) a “statement
that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine” or “seized
under an execution against the property of the plaintiff[.]” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 512.010, subd. (b).)
Furthermore,
Code of Civil Procedure section 512.060 provides that a writ of possession
shall issue if the plaintiff meets the undertaking requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure section 515.010 and establishes the probable validity of their
claim to possession of the property. Code of Civil Procedure section 515.010
requires the plaintiff to file an undertaking of at least “twice the value of
the defendant’s interest in the property” with the court before the court
issues any writ of possession, unless the court finds defendants have “no
interest in the property.” “No writ directing the levying officer to enter a
private place to take possession of any property shall be issued unless the
plaintiff has established that there is probable cause to believe that the
property is located there.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.060, subd. (b).)
Discussion
In this case,
Cathay Bank moves for a writ of possession of any asset owned by Raidcom as
described in Attachment 1 of its application for a writ of possession. The
court finds Cathay Bank followed the statutory requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure sections 512.030 and 512.010. Pursuant to a commercial security
agreement, Cathay has a security interest in Raidcom’s assets as described in
Attachment 1 and has the right to possess such assets in the event of default.
(Waye Decl., Ex. F.) Raidcom and Lin failed to oppose Cathay Bank’s
application.
Therefore,
Cathay Bank has demonstrated a right to immediate possession of the collateral
at issue and because the collateral is alleged to still be in Raidcom’s
possession, Cathay Bank’s undertaking taking requirement is waived and the
undertaking required by Raidcom for redelivery or to stay shall be $610,532.82
(Cathay Bank’s estimated valuation of the property - Waye Decl., ¶ 12.) (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 515.020.)
Accordingly,
Cathay Bank’s application for writ of possession is GRANTED.
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, the court GRANTS Cathay Bank’s application for a writ
of possession. The collateral described in Attachment 1 of Cathay Bank’s
application is ordered to be turned over from Defendant Raidcom Technology Inc. to
Plaintiff Cathay Bank pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 512.070.
Failure
to turn over possession of such property to Cathay Bank may subject Defendants
to being held in contempt of court.