  Case Number:  23PSCV00199    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Jesus Alvarez and Carmen Alvarez’s Motion  for Summary Judgment Respondent: NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING Defendants Jesus Alvarez and Carmen Alvarez’s Motion  for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. BACKGROUND This  is a personal injury action arising from a motor vehicle collision. In June  2021, Plaintiffs Ricardo Banuelos Fierro and Francis Banuelos were involved in  a motor vehicle collision with a vehicles operated by Defendants Manuel Marin  Petatan, Hao Van Ly, and Jesus Alvarez on State Route 60 in Diamond Bar.  Banuelos Fierro and Banuelos allege Marin Petatan was employed by Defendant  Olmas Industries, Inc. (Olmas Industries). On  January 24, 2023, Banuelos Fierro and Banuelos filed a complaint against Olmas  Industries, Marin Petatan, Ly, the Alvarezes, and Does 1-100, alleging the  following causes of action: (1) motor vehicle negligence, (2) general  negligence, (3) negligent entrustment of a motor vehicle, and (4) loss of  consortium. On  March 23, 2023, Ly filed a cross-complaint against Marin Petatan, Olmas  Industries, and Roes 1-25, alleging causes of action for (1) indemnification,  (2) apportionment of fault, and (3) declaratory relief. On October  6, 2023, the Alvarezes filed the present motion for summary judgment. A hearing  on the motion is set for February 13, 2024, with a post-mediation status  conference/trial setting conference on June 6. ANALYSIS The  Alvarezes move for summary judgment on the grounds that Jesus Alvarez did not  operate a motor vehicle negligently and was not the cause of Banuelos Fierro  and Banuelos’s injuries. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS their motion. Legal Standard Motion for Summary Judgment A  motion for summary judgment or adjudication provides “courts with a mechanism  to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite  their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar  v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) It must be granted  “if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from  the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that  there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is  entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.  (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the opposing party must produce  substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of  the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence  in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39  Cal.4th 384, 389.) Negligence The  basic elements of a negligence claim are (1) duty, (2) breach, (3) causation,  and (4) damages. (Leslie G. v. Perry & Associates (1996) 43  Cal.App.4th 472, 480.) With regards to operators of motor vehicles, they  are “under a duty, both by statute and common law, to operate [their] vehicle  without negligence so as to abstain from injuring any other person or his  property.” (Bewley v. Riggs (1968) 262 Cal.App.2d 188, 194.) Discussion In  this case, the following facts are undisputed. On June 23, 2021, Ly was  travelling westbound on State Route 60 in lane four when the left side of Ly’s  vehicle collided with the right side of Marin Petatan’s vehicle, which was  traveling in lane three. (Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts  (SSUMF), ¶ 1-2; MSJ, Ex. B, p. 8:15-20.) As a result, Ly’s vehicle veered to  the right and collided with a vehicle operated by a non-party in lane five.  (SSUMF, ¶ 3; MSJ, Ex. B, p. 8:22-24.) Meanwhile, Marin Petatan’s vehicle veered  to the left and collided with Banuelos Fierro and Banuelos’s vehicle in lane  two. (SSUMF, ¶ 3; MSJ, Ex. B, p. 8:22-24.) Banuelos Fierro and Banuelos then  veered to the left and collided with Jesus Alvarez in the high occupancy  vehicle lane. (SSUMF, ¶ 4; MSJ, Ex. B, p. 8:22-24.) At the time of the  incident, Jesus Alvarez was travelling at approximately fifty-five miles per  hour. (SSUMF, ¶ 7; MSJ, Ex. B, p. 7:37-41.) At the time of the collision, the  Alvarezes were both the registered owners of the vehicle that Jesus Alvarez was  operating. (SSUMF, ¶ 11; Ex. C.) Based  on these facts, the court finds no reasonable trier of fact could find Jesus  Alvarez was operating his vehicle in a negligent manner. Furthermore, the facts  establish the cause of Banuelos Fierro and Banuelos’s collision with Jesus  Alvarez was being hit by Marin Petatan’s vehicle. Thus, the Alvarezes have  established there are no triable issues of material fact regarding Jesus  Alvarez’s negligence and causation. Because Banuelos Fierro and Banuelos have  failed to oppose the Alvarezes’ motion and establish the existence of a triable  issue of fact, the Alvarezes are entitled to summary judgment on Banuelos  Fierro and Banuelos’s claims for motor vehicle negligence and general  negligence. This  absence of disputed material facts is also fatal to Banuelos Fierro and  Banuelos’s causes of action for negligent entrustment and loss of consortium. To  establish negligent entrustment of a motor vehicle, Banuelos Fierro and  Banuelos must establish that (1) Jesus Alvarez negligently operated the vehicle  question, (2) that Carmen Alvarez owned or had possession of the vehicle in  question, (3) that Carmen Alvarez either knew or should have known that Jesus  Alvarez was not fit to operate the vehicle, (4) that Carmen Alvarez permitted  Jesus Alvarez to drive the vehicle, and (5) that Jesus Alvarez’s unfitness was  a substantial factor in causing harm to Banuelos Fierro and Banuelos. (McKenna  v. Beesley (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 552, 565-566.) But  as noted above, the undisputed material facts show Jesus Alvarez did not cause Banuelos  Fierro and Banuelos’s injuries as they collided with Jesus Alvarez after being  hit by a vehicle driven by another defendant. Thus, they cannot maintain a  cause of action for negligent entrustment against Carmen Alvarez. Last, because  a loss of consortium cause of action requires “a negligent or intentional  injury to the other spouse by a third party,” this cause of action fails as no  reasonable factfinder could find the Alvarezes caused Banuelos Fierro and  Banuelos’s injuries. (See Rodriguez v. Bethlehem Steel Corp. (1974) 12  Cal.3d 382, 408.) Accordingly,  the Alvarezes’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the  court GRANTS the Alvarezes’ motion for summary judgment.