  Case Number:  21VECV01054    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  W LAURA RUANO v.
JULIE GOLDBERG, et al.
 
defendants’ demurrer to the third
amended complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        September
28, 2023                         Trial Date:       None
Set
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        21VECV01054
 
Moving Party:             Defendants Luis R. Ruano and Luis Roberto
Ruano, II
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Laura Ruano 
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Keleti Decl. ¶9.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case was originally an action by
Plaintiff Laura Ruano (“Laura”) against Defendants Luis Roberto Ruano II
("Luis”) and Julie Goldberg ("Goldberg”).  On August 10, 2021,
Laura filed her original complaint, alleging: (1) breach of fiduciary duties as
to Goldberg; (2) intentional interference with marital relations as to both
Defendants; and (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”) as to
both Defendants. 
 
On April 19, 2022, Goldberg filed her
cross-complaint against Laura, alleging the following causes of action against
various cross-defendants1: (1) assault; (2) battery; (3) trespass to
chattels; (4) false light; (5) intentional interference with contractual
relations; (6) IIED; (7) negligence; (8) negligent retention and supervision of
employee; (9) defamation; (10) abuse of process; (11) professional negligence;
and (12) negligent infliction of emotional distress (“NIED”).   
 
On March 5, 2022, Laura filed her first
amended complaint (the “FAC”) against Goldberg and Luis, alleging: (1)
ejectment; (2) conversion; (3) defamation per se; and (4) NIED. 
 
On July 8, 2022, the Court struck
Laura’s FAC without prejudice on the ground that Plaintiff’s counsel had failed
to meet and confer with defense counsel prior to its filing. 
 
On August 27, 2022, Laura filed her
second amended complaint (the “SAC”) against Goldberg and Luis, alleging: (1)
breach of fiduciary duty; (2) IIED; (3) ejectment; (4) conversion; (5)
defamation per se; and (6) NIED. 
 
On December 13, 2022, the Court struck
the SAC on the ground that Plaintiff’s counsel had failed to meet and confer
with defense counsel prior to its filing. 
On March 2, 2023, Laura filed her
motion for leave to file a third amended complaint (the “TAC”).  On March
28, 2023, the court granted Laura’s motion. Laura filed her TAC on April 6,
2023 for ejectment, conversion, defamation per se, and negligent infliction of
emotional distress.  The action now names
Goldberg, plaintiff’s husband Luis R. Ruano (named as a Doe) and her step son
(Luis Roberto Ruano II).  
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND, in part. Defendants’ Motion to Strike is GRANTED, in part. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
In opposition, Plaintiff requests this
court take judicial notice of the following documents: (1) Plaintiff’s TAC
(Exh. A); (2) Court’s Order re Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File a Third Amended
Complaint, dated March 28, 2023 (Exh. B); (3) Plaintiff’s Amendment to
Complaint naming Luis as Doe 1 (Exh. C); and (4) Defendants’ POS for the TAC
(Exh. D). 
 
The court grants Plaintiff’s request
for judicial notice. (Evid. Code §452(d).) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants Luis and Robert demur to each cause of
action asserted against Defendants in the TAC by Plaintiff Laura on the grounds
that Laura’s TAC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute any cause of
action against Defendants, the pleading is uncertain, and that it cannot be
ascertained from the pleading whether the contract alleged to have existed is
written, oral, or implied by conduct.
 
Meet and Confer
 
Plaintiff Laura opposes the demurrer on the grounds Defendants
did not meet and confer with Plaintiff in good faith prior to filing the Demurrer
and neither the Demurrer nor Mr. Keleti’s declaration in support thereof
establishes otherwise. Plaintiff states she is fully aware that failing to meet
and confer in good faith is not a basis to sustain or overrule a demurrer.
However, Plaintiff requests that the court instruct Defendants to abandon their
practice of unprofessional and obstructionist behavior, and to abide by the
Code of Civil Procedure, Civil Code, and all other rules of court during the remainder
of this litigation.
 
The court agrees Defendants should have discussed
the purported deficiencies in the TAC with Plaintiff’s current counsel. Although
not required, the purpose of the meet and confer requirement is to bridge the
gap between the parties before calling upon the court to resolve the matter. (Stewart
v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016.) As
such, discussing the TAC with Plaintiff’s new counsel could have prevented
several issues discussed in the demurrer. 
 
Timeliness and Notice 
 
Plaintiff Laura opposes the demurrer on the grounds
it is untimely. Plaintiff served the TAC on Defendants on April 5, 2023. Thus,
Defendants’ response to the TAC was due on or about May 5, 2023. Defendants did
not file their demurrer until September 5, 2023. Plaintiff also opposes the
demurrer on the grounds of insufficient notice.
 
Defendants contend the demurrer is timely served. On
April 28, 2023, Defendants filed a declaration in support of an automatic
extension to file a demurrer. (Keleti Decl.¶6.) On May 10, 2023, it came to the
attention of Defendants’ attorney that the declaration for the automatic
extension did not go through, so he resubmitted one that same day and the
Court’s clerk accepted it. (Keleti Decl. ¶8.) The parties then agreed to not
request entry of Defendants’ default until the parties appeared for a further status
conference on June 26, 2023. (Keleti Decl. ¶¶9-10.) On June 26, 2023, at the
further status conference, counsel for Defendants informed the Court that
Defendants would demur to the TAC and the Court set the hearing on the demurrer
for September 28, 2023. (Keleti Decl. ¶ 13.) As a result, Defendants did not
file their demurrer until sixteen court days before the hearing. (CCP
§1005(b).) Accordingly, the court finds the demurrer is timely. 
 
Doe Defendants
 
Defendants first demur to the TAC on the grounds
Laura cannot name Luis as a “Doe”. Defendants contend the use of the “Doe”
terminology communicates that the plaintiff does not know their true names. (Dieckmann
v. Superior Court (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 345, 357-358.) As a result, Laura
cannot claim she did not know Luis’ identity. The two were married and there is
little doubt Laura did not know who Luis was prior to the filing of her
complaint. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues while Luis was originally
DOE’d in, he is not a DOE defendant in this pleading and a glance at the TAC’s
caption reveals Luis is not a DOE party but a named party. Plaintiff further
argues Defendants’ sole focus on Plaintiff’s knowledge of Luis’ identity alone
does not establish he was an improper DOE defendant at the time he was DOE’d
in.
 
A review of the procedural history is as follows: On
August 10, 2021, Plaintiff filed her original complaint and did not name Luis
as a defendant. Plaintiff filed her FAC on May 18, 2022 and did not name Luis
as a defendant. On May 23, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Doe Amendment naming Luis as
Defendant Doe 1. Plaintiff then filed a SAC on August 17, 2022 and referred to
Luis as Defendant Doe 1. Plaintiff sought leave to amend to file a TAC, which
was to remove Goldberg as a Defendant. There was no mention of adding Luis to
the TAC. On April 6, 2023 Plaintiff filed her TAC and named Luis as a
Defendant. 
 
Plaintiff provides no reason for why she sought to
add Luis as a Doe Defendant. Nor is the court persuaded by Plaintiff’s argument
that Luis is not a Doe Defendant in this pleading. Plaintiff did not seek leave
to add Luis as a named defendant. The TAC lists Luis as a defendant and
proceeds to list DOES 2 through 10. That would beg the question who is Doe 1 if
Luis is not. However, the court will not sustain the demurrer on these grounds.
“A defendant may challenge the plaintiff’s use of the ‘Doe’ procedure by way of
a motion to quash service of summons (see Optical Surplus, Inc. v. Superior
Court, 228 Cal. App. 3d 776, 779–782, 279 Cal. Rptr. 194 (2d Dist. 1991)),
or by a motion for summary judgment (see Dover v. Sadowinski, 147 Cal.
App. 3d 113, 115–116, 194 Cal. Rptr. 866 (2d Dist. 1983)). However, as long as
the applicable statute of limitations has not expired, the amendment cannot be
challenged on the ground the plaintiff was not truly ignorant of the
defendant’s identity when the complaint was filed, because the plaintiff could
seek leave to amend to add the defendant rather than simply naming the
defendant as a ‘Doe.’ (Davis v. Marin, 80 Cal. App. 4th 380, 387, 94
Cal. Rptr. 2d 896 (2d Dist. 2000) [to do otherwise would put form over
substance and ignore common sense])" (§ 7:39. Requirements for use of
“Doe” procedure, Cal. Civ. Ctrm. Hbook. & Desktop Ref. § 7:39 (2023 ed.).) 
 
Accordingly, the court overrules the demurrer on this
basis. 
 
Ejectment
 
Defendants demur to the first cause of action for
ejectment on the grounds she has not pleaded facts sufficient to maintain her
right to possess Luis’ home. 
 
The elements of ejectment are ownership disclosing a
right to possession, the defendant’s possession, and a withholding of the
possession from the plaintiff. (See Baugh v. Consumers Associates, Limited
(1966) 241 Cal.App.2d 672, 675.)   
 
Defendants first argue Laura’s status of ownership
is not sufficiently plead. Defendants contend the TAC does not show Laura had
title or prior legal possession. Defendants contend Laura’s mere allegations
“Plaintiff has had the right to possess the real property” is insufficient.
(See Boles v. Cohen (1860) 15 Cal. 150, 151 holding “[m]ere allegations
of ownership—'legal owners,’ and ‘“legally entitled to the possession’--are
insufficient.”) 
 
The court disagrees. For the purposes of a demurrer,
Plaintiff’s allegations she had the right to possession is sufficient for
ejectment. (See Shusett, Inc. v. Home Sav. and Loan Ass'n (1964) 231
Cal.App.2d 146, 150 “if the complaint herein had alleged only appellant's
ownership or actual possession or right of possession, and had gone no further,
such an allegation would have been good against demurrer[.]”) As a result,
Plaintiff’s general allegations of right to possession are good against
demurrer. 
 
Defendants further argue Laura fails to allege
whether Robert was in possession of the property at the commencement of the
action and moreover, Laura makes contradictory allegations regarding changing
the locks. First, the court notes ‘immediate possession’ is not a necessary
element for ejectment. It is true Canal-Randolph Anaheim, Inc. v. Wilkoski (1978)
78 Cal.App.3d 477 stated to prevail in ejectment, the plaintiff must show that
possession of the property by the defendant is unlawful and that plaintiff has
the right to immediate possession. However, this was not at the demurrer stage.
As a result, the court finds the only thing needed to be alleged at this stage
is the plaintiff’s ownership, defendant’s possession, and a withholding of the
possession from plaintiff. (See Baugh, supra, 241 Cal.App.2d at
p. 675.) Moreover, the TAC is not contradictory of the previous complaints. The
SAC also refers to Luis and Robert allegedly changing the locks to the
property. (FAC ¶8; SAC ¶45.) 
 
Accordingly, Defendant Luis Robert Ruano II’s demurrer
to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.  However, Defendant Luis R. Ruano’s demurrer is
sustained without leave to amend on the ground that the issue of ownership and
possession of this property must be litigated exclusively in the family law
action now proceeding between plaintiff and Luis R. Ruano.  
 
Conversion
 
Defendants demur to the second cause of action for
conversion on the grounds Laura cannot maintain a count for conversion. 
 
To plead a cause of action for conversion, one must
allege (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of personal
property; (2) defendant’s disposition of the property inconsistent with
plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v.
Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  
 
Defendants first argue Laura only generally alleges
she was and “is the rightful owner” of all property including a family dog.
The allegation that the possession is “wrongful or unlawful” is not a
statement of a fact, but of a conclusion of law. Accordingly, Laura cannot allege
that community property left behind when she abandoned the premises and when
the divorce court has jurisdiction over said property division. Defendants also
argue Laura has already sought the same relief in the divorce proceeding by
filing an RFO to retrieve the same property she alleges was converted here and
the family law judge denied her RFO.
 
The court finds Plaintiff’s allegations sufficient
for conversion. Plaintiff has alleged rightful possession to her personal
property, including her dog; Defendant’s prevented Plaintiff from having
possession of these items; and Plaintiff has suffered damages in the form of the
loss of use of these belongings, and the loss of companionship of her dog,
which items and loss are valued at no less than $20,000. The court notes the
court in Laura’s and Luis’ divorce proceeding denied Laura’s RFO for property
retrieval.[1]
However, the Order does not provide grounds for denying the RFO or what
property was included in the RFO for property retrieval. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants Luis Roberto Ruano’s demurrer
to the second cause of action is OVERRULED. However, Defendant Luis R. Ruano’s
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend on the ground that the issue of
ownership and possession of real property must be litigated exclusively in the
family law action now proceeding between plaintiff and Luis R. Ruano.  
 
 
Defamation
 
Defendants demur to the third cause of action for
defamation on the grounds Lara’s count for defamation implicates a statute of
limitations bar. 
 
The statute of limitations for libel and slander is
one year and accrues from the time the defamatory statement is communicated to
others. (See CCP § 340(c); Shively v. Bozanich (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1230,
1237.)  
 
The court finds the action is not necessarily barred
as alleged. Unless a complaint affirmatively discloses on its face that the
statute of limitations has run, demurrer must be overruled. (See Lockley v.
Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 881 [“It must appear clearly and affirmatively that, upon the
face of the complaint, the right of action is necessarily barred”]; see also Moseley
v. Abrams (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 355, 359 [“A demurrer on the ground of the
bar of the statute of limitations will not lie where the action may be, but is
not necessarily barred”].) 
 
The TAC alleges “within one year of the filing of the
complaint herein, defendants Senior and Junior, and each of them, published
false statements about Plaintiff.” (TAC ¶9.) Defendants contend it is unclear
whether this is in regards to the original complaint or TAC. However, for this
reason, the court overrules the demurrer as it may not necessarily be barred. 
 
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Defendants demur to the fourth cause of action for
negligent infliction of emotional distress on the grounds Laura has failed to
allege duty. 
 
California courts have repeatedly recognized that
negligent infliction of emotional distress is not an independent tort, but the
tort of negligence such that the traditional elements of duty, breach of duty,
causation, and damages apply.  (See, e.g., Spates v. Dameron Hospital
Association (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 213.)  Thus, to plead
negligent infliction of emotional distress, negligence must be established.
“The tort is negligence, a cause of action in which a duty to the plaintiff is
an essential element.”  (Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 984.)   A legal duty may be imposed by law, be
assumed by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special relationship.  (Id.
at 985.) 
 
The court agrees Plaintiff has not sufficiently
alleged duty. In opposition, Plaintiff contends her allegations “Defendants,
and each of them, owed a duty of reasonable care to Plaintiff to treat
Plaintiff civilly, and not to engage in conduct which could cause Plaintiff to
suffer emotional distress” is sufficient and further supported by the
familial/marital nature of the relationship between Plaintiff and Defendants. However,
factors to consider in determining whether a defendant owes a duty of care are
(1) the extent to which the transaction was intended to affect the plaintiff,
(2) the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, (3) the degree of certainty
that the plaintiff suffered injury, (4) the closeness of the connection between
the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, (5) the moral blame attached
to the defendant's conduct, and (6) the policy of preventing future harm. 
(Biakanja v. Irving (1958) 49 Cal.2d 647, 650.) As alleged, the
factors do not support the conclusion that Defendants owed a duty as a matter
of law. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth
cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Uncertainty
 
Defendants demur to the complaint on the grounds Laura’s
complaint employs “shotgun” pleading. 
 
Chain-letter pleading is disfavored because of its
tendency to “mask[] the true causes of action” and obscure a plaintiff’s legal
theories. (See International Billing Services, Inc. v. Emigh (2000) 84
Cal. App. 4th 1175, 1179.) With many chain-letter complaints, the Court cannot
tell which facts go to which cause of action. 
 
Here, although the TAC employs chain-letter-type
allegations, it does not fall prey to this tendency. Upon review of the TAC,
Laura has tailored each paragraph to the cause of action in which it is found,
alleging in detail which facts support the cause of action by referring
explicitly to those facts and explaining how those facts support the elements
of the cause of action.
 
Accordingly, the court overrules the demurrer on this
basis. 
 
Motion to Strike[2] 
 
Defendants move to strike the TAC in its entirety on
the grounds Laura’s TAC fails to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section
474, Laura’s TAC contains portions of her SAC, the TAC over incorporates by
reference, and mislabels counts. 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(b).)
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false
or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP
§ 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.) 
 
Defendants first argue Laura’s TAC fails to comply
with Code of Civil Procedure section 474 because Laura has neither filed a
fictitious amendment form nor included any language to the effect that she was
ignorant of Luis’ name in her TAC. Laura filed a Doe Amendment on May 23, 2022.
Although Plaintiff is aware of Defendant’s identity, there could be grounds
that Plaintiff did not know Luis was liable. Moreover, there are no statute of
limitations issues as alleged. Accordingly, the court denies the motion to
strike on these grounds. 
 
Next, Defendants argue Laura’s TAC still contains
portions of her SAC. Plaintiff has filed a Notice of Errata correcting these
typographical errors. 
 
Defendants also argue the court must strike Laura’s
TAC for over incorporation by reference. As noted above, although the TAC
employs chain-letter-type allegations, it does not fall prey to this tendency.
The court denies the motion to strike on this basis. 
 
As for any labeling issues, the court grants
Defendants’ motion to strike. Plaintiff may file an amended complaint
addressing the labeling issues and/or typographical errors. 
 
 

[

