 Case Number:  23STCV08297    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



WARING PLAZA PROPERTIES, L.P. 
  
        
  vs.
 
MANATT, PHELPS & PHILLIPS, LLP, et
  al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV08297  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 12, 2024




 
             Defendants’
demurrer is OVERRULED IN PART, SUSTAINED IN PART. Defendants’ demurrer is
OVERRULED as to the first cause of action. Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED,
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND, as to the second and third causes of action. 
                                                          
On 4/14/2023,
Plaintiff Waring Plaza Properties, L.P. (Waring) filed suit against Manatt,
Phelps & Phillips, LLP and Benjamin G. Shatz. On 5/6/2024, Plainiff filed a
first amended complaint (FAC) alleging: (1) professional negligence; (2) breach
of implied contract; and (3) common counts. 
 
            On
7/5/2023, Cross-Complainant Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, LLP filed a
cross-complaint (XC) against Waring Plaza Properties, L.P., alleging: (1)
breach of written contract; (2) open book account; and (3) quantum meruit; and
(4) breach of implied-in-fact contract. 
 
            On
5/6/2024, Plaintiff Waring filed a First Amended Complaint.
 
            Now,
Defendants Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, LLP and Benjamin G. Shatz
(collectively, Defendants) demurrer to Waring’s FAC. 
 
Discussion 
 
As a
preliminary matter, the Court already granted Defendant’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings (MJOP) as to the second and third causes of action.
Apparently, Plaintiff conceded in meet and confer that it did not take any
effort to cure the defects previously identified by the Court, but was merely
re-pleading the claim in the exact same manner to preserve it for appeal. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant is misrepresenting the Court’s
holding, and that the new facts alleged to the overall Complaint are sufficient.
However, the Court clearly found in its 4/19/2024 ruling that Plaintiff’s claim
for implied contract appeared barred, and that the common count claim thus
failed for the same reason:
 
Now,
in opposition, Waring defends its implied-in-fact contract claiming by arguing
that while Business and Professions Code section 6148 prohibits attorneys from
claiming an implied-in-fact contract identical to the void written contract, it
does not prohibit clients from claiming the existence of an implied-in-fact
contract like the one Waring alleges. However, Waring cites no legal authority
to support the proposition that it may deny the existence of the
implied-in-fact contract for purposes of Manat’s Cross-Complaint, while
availing itself of the existence of the very same implied-in-fact contract for
its own claim. Put another way, while the Court likely agrees that Waring, but
not Defendants, may claim the existence of an implied-in-fact contract even if
Business and Professions Code section 6148 has not been complied with, the
existence of that contract cannot (be) confirmed selectively, and an
acknowledgement of the contract by the client would necessarily then entitle
attorneys to pursue claims based on the same implied-in-fact contract. Given
that Defendants’ implied-in-fact contracts were dismissed on demurrer based on
Waring’s own denouncement of the existence of any contract, Waring is not
entitled to benefit from that dismissal and then pursue those claims here.
 
Finally,
as to the third cause of action, the breach of an implied-in-fact contract
claim and common count for money had and received are based on the same facts
and seek the same recovery. Given the Court’s conclusion that the substantive
claim for breach of an implied-in-fact contract fails as a matter of law, the
Court reaches the same conclusion as to this cause of action.
 
            (4/19/2024 MJOP Ruling). 
 
 Plaintiff did not identify any new facts
alleged which are relevant to this claim, or identify any case law, which could
show that Plaintiff’s claims are viable in spite of these previously identified
deficiencies. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court limits its analysis to the first cause of action alone. 
            
The Court
previously sustained Defendant’s demurrer with leave to amend. Now, Defendants
argue that Waring’s FAC runs afoul of the sham pleadings doctrine and fails to
state a claim. 
 
            After
review, the Court disagrees. 
 
            Defendants
contend that Plaintiff’s FAC now advances new theories, all of which it
contends either fail on the merits or run afoul of the sham pleadings doctrine.

 
            First,
Plaintiff alleges that there were “factual disputes” in the trial record, which
Manatt negligently failed to raise and which would have prevented the Court of
Appeal from ruling on the estoppel defense. According to Waring, but for this
alleged negligence, the Court of Appeal would have considered the purported
“factual disputes” and either (i) applied the substantial evidence standard
(rather de novo review) and ruled in its favor; or (ii) remanded the case to
the trial court to resolve the “factual disputes” in the first instance, which
also would have resulted in judgment in its favor. (Id. ¶¶ 34-35.) As examples
of the “factual disputes” Plaintiff alleges its “objections to Ross’s reduced
payments” and demands for the “Minimum Rent due under the lease.” (Id. ¶
34(B)- (D).)
 
            However,
Defendants contend that the “objections to Substantiate Rent and demands for
Minimum Rent were not disputed or overlooked. Rather, the Court of Appeal
considered these objections and demands and still held the undisputed facts in
the trial court established the estoppel defense.” (Demurrer, 15:
21-16:1.)  In support, Defendants cited a
number of references throughout the Court of Appeal opinion where both issues
were addressed, including the following passage: 
 
Waring Plaza
continued to accept the Substitute Rent, twice agreed to the extension of the
Lease by Ross despite what would constitute a default under the Lease, and then
decided after 10 years that it wanted the full Minimum Rent paid by Ross. It
did so because it did not want to lose Ross as a tenant and owed on its
mortgage. Ross presented evidence that it extended the Lease on the
understanding it would only have to pay Substitute Rent. By failing to take any
legal action against Ross, Waring Plaza induced Ross to continue the Lease to
its detriment. The facts are undisputed. We conclude that estoppel applies,
which bars Waring Plaza from seeking Minimum Rent for the period awarded by the
trial court.
 
            (Id.
at 17: 15-19.) 
 
Second,
Plaintiffs allege that Ross did not preserve its estoppel defense in the trial
court and thus waived the argument on appeal. (FAC ¶ 33.) Consequently,
Plaintiff alleges Manatt was negligent in failing to argue the estoppel
argument Ross presented on appeal was waived.
 
Defendants
argue that this waiver argument contradicts its previously allegations:
 
As explained
above, the initial Complaint raised two theories of malpractice based on the
fact that the estoppel defense Ross presented on appeal was the estoppel
defense Ross presented in the trial court. Waring alleged Manatt was negligent
in (i) failing to concede the trial court committed reversible error in not
addressing the estoppel defense Ross presented on appeal and requesting a
remand for the trial court to rule on the estoppel defense in the first
instance; or (ii) in the alternative, failing to argue the Court of Appeal
should have applied the substantial evidence standard to the estoppel argument
Ross raised on appeal. Under either scenario, the allegations in the Complaint
leave no room for the new theory that the argument Ross presented on appeal was
waived. Indeed, under Waring’s new waiver theory, had Manatt done what Waring
alleged it should have done in the initial Complaint (that is, concede
reversible error and request remand or argue for application of the substantial
evidence standard), Manatt would have committed malpractice because the
estoppel argument on appeal, having not been presented to the trial court, was
waived. The law does not permit Waring to plead facts or positions that
contravene its previous allegations to avoid a demurrer.
 
            (Demurrer,
3-16.) 
 
            Defendants
further argue that Plaintiff’s argument that the estoppel defense Ross presented
on appeal was “brand-new”—and thus waived—is defeated by the record in the
Underlying Matter. (See Demurrer, 19:18- 20:3.)  
 
However, in
opposition, as to the “concede-and-remand theory” addressed in the FAC,
Plaintiff added specific allegations linking Defendants’ failure to make these
arguments and the Court of Appeal’s erroneous decision. First, Plaintiff added
details of the proceedings before the trial court in the Underlying Case. (FAC,
¶¶12-22, Exhibits 2, 4-8, 10-12) Plaintiff alleged that the trial court was a
more favorable venue than the appellate court, as the trial court had ruled in
Plaintiff’s favor on all issues and viewed the evidence (including the evidence
relevant to the estoppel issue) as firmly supporting Plaintiff. (See, FAC, ¶¶12-22,
Exhibits 2, 4-8, 10-12) So, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged that the facts
relevant to estoppel would have been viewed differently if the trial court
decided them, instead of the Court of Appeal. (See, FAC, ¶¶12-22, Exhibits 2,
4-8, 10-12) Lastly, Plaintiff added allegations that Defendant Benjamin Shatz
disagreed with the appellate court’s ruling, thus admitting that the Court of
Appeal wrongly decided the appeal. (FAC, ¶ 42, Exhibit 15) These new
allegations sufficiently cured the defects previously identified by the Court
because Plaintiff has now alleged a direct link between Defendants’ mistakes
and the Court of Appeal’s erroneous ruling.
 
As to the
“standard-of-review theory,” Plaintiff likewise cured the defects by adding
details explaining how Defendants should have presented this argument, at least
in the alternative, and how the Court of Appeal arrived at the wrong conclusion
because of Defendants’ failure to make the correct arguments. (FAC, ¶¶34,
34.A.-34.J.) Specifically, Plaintiff alleged a competent attorney would have
made it clear that the trial record did not present undisputed facts from which
the appellate court could rule on the estoppel issue as a matter of law, and
Plaintiff specifically cited to facts that demonstrated the conflict. (FAC, ¶34.A.)
Plaintiff added citations to cases Defendants failed to cite in their appellate
brief which would have persuaded the Court of Appeal that it could not apply
the de novo standard of review. (FAC, ¶34) Plaintiff added allegations
concerning arguments that Defendants’ appellate brief should have made which
would have caused the Court of Appeal to rule in Plaintiff’s favor. (FAC, ¶
34.E.-34.H.) Thus, the new allegations demonstrate precisely how Defendants’ alleged
inadequate advocacy led the Court of Appeal to wrongly side with Ross, not
Plaintiff. The Court agrees that the added allegations cure the defect this
court previously identified. 
 
As to
Defendants’ argument that the Court of Appeal reviewed the trial record, and it
would not have made a difference if Defendants raised the “factual dispute”
raised by Plaintiff, the Court agrees that this is not properly considered at
the demurrer stage, as this requires a factual determination as to causation. (See
O’Shea v. Lindenberg (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 228, 239-40 (“[w]here the
complexity of the causation issue is beyond common experience, expert testimony
is required to establish causation.”).
 
Finally, as
to Defendants’ contention that Plaintiff’s allegations run afoul of the sham
pleadings doctrine or are inconsistent, Plaintiff’s Complaint previously
alleges that Defendants committed “several” mistakes. (Complaint, ¶17). As
such, Plaintiff never represented that its previous allegations represented the
only mistakes allegedly made by Defendant. As such, the Court finds that
Plaintiff’s allegations here are not contradictory, nor are they inconsistent
with what was previously alleged.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is overruled as to the first cause of action.
Defendants’ demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend, as to the second and
third causes of action. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 