 Case Number:  19SMCV01008    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  I The court will continue this matter until Thursday, May 16,
2024 at 1:30.  Monday’s hearing is also
advanced to this date and continued to then. 
There are a number of thorny issues that need to be addressed and the
court is working its way through them. 
The court plans to start with the results of the 402 hearings and
Bania.  From there, the court will turn
to Yates, but the court’s view is that much of the case (in the sense of
remaining motions) may be clarified when the court determines which experts
will be allowed to testify.  
 
As to the FSC materials, the court will discuss with the
parties whether Holland can be called to testify.  The court is reluctant to allow it, but if
there is evidence that is not privileged that only he can give, the court will
allow it.  It is not per se
improper to call a former general counsel or even former counsel of record as a
witness.  It is not often done due to the
many privilege issues that arise, but there is nothing inherently improper
about it.  That said, given the mire of
privilege issues, plaintiff will need to establish that this witness is the
only person who can testify as to a material point.  The court will ask for an offer of proof.
 
The exhibit list and witness list both seem long to the
court, but the court makes no orders about it at this time.  The court appreciates the agreement as to the
trial length and the short statement of the case and the jury questionnaire. 
 
The court has some concerns about the jury
instructions.  The parties will need to
meet and confer further on this.  The
court is concerned that many CACI instructions cannot be agreed upon.  Where the objecting party agrees that the
topic of the instruction is proper but the wording is wrong, the court will
need a red-line with the objecting party’s view of how the instruction ought to
be revised.  The court appreciates that
in many cases the objection is that the evidence does not or will not support
the instruction at all.  The court needs
nothing further on that score, as the objections already filed will likely do
the trick, at least for now.  The court
needs a similar document from plaintiff.
 
On the verdict forms, the court would ask that there be a
red-line where the dispute is wording.  
 
The court is in receipt of the trial briefs.
 
The court is in receipt of plaintiff’s submission as to why
the experts should testify.  The court
has received the excerpts from the defense, but is not sure if those excerpts
were meant to be the brief that the court ordered at the prior hearing.  If so, the court has it; if not, the court
has not received it.
 
Finally, the MIL dealing with preemption is a serious
one.  On February 15, 2022, this court
rejected defendants’ claim that plaintiff’s causes of action were preempted by
the Copyright Act.  However, the court
ultimately ruled that there could be no preemption where plaintiff’s image was
manipulated and where defendants’ conduct allegedly contributed to that
manipulation.  (Order Denying Motion for
Summary Judgment at p. 20-22.)  The court
therefore did not rule on the question whether the republication of the actual
image, standing alone, for commercial purposes would be preempted.  The court stands by its prior ruling, which
could not reach this specific issue because this issue would not dispose of an
entire cause of action.  But that does
not answer the motions in limine. 
(The court notes that defendants tried to get at this issue in the later
437c(t) motion, but the matter was outside the scope of the parties’
agreement.)