 Case Number:  21SMCV00985    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  I This is an unopposed motion for terminating sanctions.  Plaintiff is an elderly woman complaining of
elder abuse.  Defendant was served with
discovery but did not respond.  On
October 19, 2023—shortly before the discovery was due—plaintiff got an email
from a person who said he was a lawyer and that defendant’s prior counsel had
passed away.  Plaintiff asked whether the
new lawyer was taking over and whether defendant was aware that (if not)
defendant was unrepresented.  The
response was “thank you,” rather than an answer.  Follow up emails were met with silence.  On November 15, 2023, after the earlier
discovery was due but no responses had been received, plaintiff mailed a letter
to the defense asking about the discovery and also whether defendant was
represented.  Plaintiff also filed a
declaration about he upcoming final status conference.  At the final status conference, only
plaintiff appeared.  The court vacated
the trial date.  On November 22, 2024,
plaintiff sent the defense a notice of ruling. 
At the next FSC, again only plaintiff appeared.  Defendant has apparently not done anything
for over a year. The court is forced to conclude that the defense has
abandoned the case.  Discovery is not met
with responses, letters go unanswered, court orders are ignored.  The court understands that a terminating
sanction is a last resort, and to be used only where the court is sure that a
lesser sanction will not suffice. 
However, the utter silence from the defense, including the lack of any
opposition to this motion, speaks volumes. The court will therefore GRANT the motion for terminating
sanctions.  Defendants’ answer is
STRICKEN.  However, plaintiff will not
seek a default for at least 30 days after it serves the notice of this
ruling.  If defendant moves to reinstate
the answer, the court will at least hear that motion.  If not, then after the 30 days plaintiff may
seek default and thereafter a default judgment. 
The court will set a status conference for approximately 60 days from
now. 
The court notes, however, that any judgment must comport
with due process, meaning that the amount sought must be proper.  Plaintiff is admonished to make sure that it
is. 