  Case Number:  19SMCV00806    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion by defendant for fees on the theory that
plaintiff’s trade secrets case was frivolous and brought in bad faith.  Under CUTSA, a prevailing defendant may
obtain fees in such a case, but the showing is a difficult one.  The case must be brought—or perhaps
maintained—in bad faith, meaning that it is objectively without merit and brought
for an improper or bad faith purpose.  In
a nutshell, defendant contends that he and plaintiff parted ways on bad terms
and that plaintiff was determined to retaliate against him and stop him from
competing.  Defendant asserts that
plaintiff engineered the hacking of his SlideBean accounts to obtain the
evidence that plaintiff used to (unsuccessfully) prosecute its case.  Defendant adverts to the fact that summary
judgment was already granted by the court on the CUTSA claims, demonstrating
objective bad faith.  And defendant
contends that there is substantial evidence showing that plaintiff’s motive in
bringing the suit was not really to protect its trade secrets but rather to
punish defendant and stop competition.
 
When this motion was brought earlier, the court denied it
without prejudice.  At that time, the
case was live and the court believed that it would obtain a significant amount
of pertinent evidence during the trial. 
After that ruling, the parties have settled the underlying case; the
only issue remaining is the fee motion. 
On the basis that there will now be no trial—under any circumstances—the
motion has been renewed.  Defendant also
asked the court to hear live evidence. 
The court denied the request, but noted that to the extent that
declarations were made by a party, the court might reconsider, allowing the
declaration to constitute the direct testimony and allowing live
cross-examination.
 
Moore asserts that there are a few indicators of subjective
bad faith.  One is that plaintiff sued
for the mere alleged downloading of the trade secret information with no
evidence that it had ever been used. 
Another is that there were bad faith settlement tactics.  Plaintiff allegedly demanded an absurd sum of
money and, when asked about a walkaway or a payment to the defense (defendant
had filed a cross-complaint), the response was that plaintiff wanted to “teach
[Moore] a lesson.”  Third, plaintiff continued
to press the suit even after Moore pointed out the problems with it.  Fourth, plaintiff relied on an “inevitable
disclosure” theory even though California does not recognize the doctrine.  Fifth, plaintiff was not even seeking return
of the material.  And finally, that the
effect of this was to stifle competition. 
Moore also noted that plaintiff’s demand was for all of Moore’s new
company’s revenue—even revenue that had nothing or little to do with
Moore.  Moore also discusses other
alleged bad conduct.  For example, Moore
notes that plaintiff wrote a letter to Moore’s employer that caused Moore to be
fired.  Further, Moore asserts, plaintiff
sued that company to get that company’s trade secrets.  According to Moore, a Connecticut court
sanctioned plaintiff over $50,000 for that misconduct.  Moore states that plaintiff was seeking
revenge, and that defending the action cost him over $300,000—a true hardship
for him.  In opposition, plaintiff notes
that Moore’s burden is a heavy one. 
Plaintiff asserts that the evidence is not reliable and that at his
deposition, Moore testified that he and plaintiff parted on good terms.  Further, plaintiff notes, plaintiff wanted to
continue working with Moore after he left—and even signed a contract to do
so.  That, plaintiff argues, is
inconsistent with a company bent on revenge. 
As to the hacking, plaintiff notes that Moore voluntarily provided his password—there
was no subterfuge.  Plaintiff also
questions whether its letter had anything to do with Moore’s termination from
PayArc, the company he was working with after he left plaintiff’s employ.  Critically, plaintiff denies ever having
stated that it wanted to “teach [Moore] a lesson.”  That, plaintiff says, is just not true and
was never uttered or thought.
 
The court does have some concerns.  The alleged comment that plaintiff wanted to
“teach [Moore] a lesson” is troubling. 
Assuming, for the moment, that the evidence is admissible, the court
will need to decide if the statement was in fact made.  Teaching a lesson is not a valid reason to
bring a suit.
 
The court, therefore, is re-thinking whether it will need
some brief oral testimony.  The court is
considering using the prior trial date (if the court is available) to hear live
testimony from the witnesses who have submitted declarations.  The declarations will constitute the direct
testimony, and brief cross-examination would be allowed.  The operative word is “brief.”  A brief re-direct would also be allowed.  The court will discuss that with the
parties.  The court emphasizes, though,
that Moore’s burden is indeed a high one. 
The statute does not award fees to a prevailing party; rather, Moore’s
burden is to show that there was no objective merit to the case and that
the case was prosecuted for an improper purpose.  Plaintiff, though, should note that the test
is not static.  A case might be brought
initially in good faith, but the court is not convinced that continuing the
case to the bitter end will therefore be protected even if at some point it
becomes clear that there is no way that the case will prevail.
 
The court will set the hearing for what had been the trial
date.  Five days before the hearing, the
parties will file a joint exhibit list and the day of the hearing the parties
will submit to the court a joint exhibit binder as well as any deposition
transcripts of any witness who will testify.
 
The court strongly urges the parties to try once more to see
if they can resolve this issue.