  Case Number:  20STCV42495    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



IVY FLORES, an individual; AMANDA PORTOBANCO, an individual,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
MAZDA MOTOR OF AMERICA, INC., A California Corporation; and DOES
  1 through 20, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          20STCV42495
 Hearing Date:   10/10/23
 Trial Date:        11/14/23
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiffs Ivy Flores and Amanda Portobanco’s Motion to
  Compel Defendant’s Further Supplemental Responses to Requests for Admission;
  and
Defendant Mazda
  Motor of America, Inc’s [Opposition] Request for Monetary Sanctions.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiffs Ivy Flores and Amanda
Portobanco (Plaintiffs) sue Defendant Mazda Motor of America, Inc. (Mazda) and
Does 1 through 20 pursuant to a Complaint alleging two Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act claims and an Unfair Competition claim pursuant to Business and
Professions Code section 17200, et seq.
The claims arise from allegations
that on April 12, 2018, Plaintiffs purchased a new 2018 Mazda CX-5 (Subject
Vehicle), related to which Plaintiffs received various express warranties from
Mazda, only for the Subject Vehicle to exhibit or develop powertrain control
module and transmission defects, acceleration issues, rear shock leaking,
seatbelt malfunctions, abnormal noises, bouncy suspension, Bluetooth
connectivity issues, lack of power, and startup issues, with Mazda’s authorized
repair and service facilities failing to conform the Subject Vehicle to
applicable warranties.
Motion Before Court
On October 10, 2022, Plaintiffs
moved to compel further responses to Requests for Admissions (RFAs), Set Two,
Nos. 69-79 and sought sanctions per Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.290. Mazda
opposed and sought sanctions against Plaintiffs and their attorneys. Plaintiffs
filed a reply.
On April 17, 2023, the Court took
Plaintiff’s motion under submission.
On April 18, 2023, the Court issued
a nunc pro tunc order and a separate final ruling on Plaintiffs’ motion, which
was granted as to Request Nos. 69-75 and 77-79 but denied as to Request No. 76.
On May 18, 2023, Mazda served its
supplemental responses to the April 18th order.
On May 30, 2023, Plaintiffs’
counsel sent a meet-and-confer letter to Mazda’s counsel, detailing legal
authorities and various deficiencies with Mazda’s supplemental discovery.
On June 6, 2023, counsel exchanged
email correspondence, in which the parties agreed to a two-week extension for
filing a motion to compel further.
On June 15, 2023, Mazda’s counsel
sent their meet-and-confer response letter, which refused to provide further
supplemental admission responses.
That same day, Plaintiffs’ counsel
sought a telephonic meet and confer to no avail.
On June 21, 2023, Mazda’s counsel
sought a telephonic and email meet and confer to no avail.
On July 19, 2023, Plaintiffs moved
to compel further responses to RFAs, Set Two, Request Nos. 70-75 and 77-79. No
sanctions are sought in the motion.
On September 27, 2023, Mazda
opposed the motion. The motion seeks sanctions against Plaintiffs for making
this motion.
On October 3, 2023, Plaintiffs
replied to the opposition.
The motion to compel further admission
responses is now before the Court.
 
Motion
to Compel Further Responses, Admissions
Meet and
Confer
A
motion to compel further admission responses must be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (b)(1).) A meet and confer declaration in support of a
motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2016.040.)
Though
the Court acknowledges Mazda’s frustration, the Court determines that the
exchanges of communication between the parties sufficiently show meet and
confer efforts resulting in an impasse. (Mot., Rabieian Decl., ¶¶ 6-9; Opp’n,
Ekblad Decl., ¶¶ 5-13.)
Legal
Standard
A
motion to compel a further response is used when a party gives unsatisfactory
answers or makes untenable objections to interrogatories, demands to produce,
or requests for admission. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a),
2031.310, subd. (a), 2033.290, subd. (a).)
To
obtain further responses to requests for admission, the movant must establish
that (1) the response to an RFA is evasive or incomplete (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290, subd. (a)(1)) or (2) the objection to an RFA is without merit or too
general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (a)(2)).
Order
Compelling Further Admission Responses: GRANTED, in Part; DENIED, in
Part.
Plaintiffs
move for supplemental responses to Mazda’s responses to RFAs, Set Two, Request
Nos. 70-75 and 77-79. (See Mot., Notice, p. 2.)
Plaintiffs
argue that further responses are needed as to RFA, Set Two, Nos. 70-75 and
77-79 for two reasons: (1) because “Plaintiffs’ causes of action extend beyond
the SBA claims … [insofar as] [Mazda] … ma[d]e an ‘statutory offer’ to
repurchase the Subject Vehicle [that] did not comply with the SBA, in violation
of the Business and Professions Code § 17200”; and (2) because “Plaintiffs’
Requests for Admission, Set Two all address Plaintiffs’ third cause of action,
violation of the Business and Professions Code § 17200, and were specially
drafted” for that purpose.” (Mot., p. 4.)
The
separate statement also argues that Mazda’s further responses are evasive and
non-responsive as stated by Mazda, that the objections set forth in the initial
response are meritless, that the number of discovery requests Plaintiffs have
made are necessary to this litigation and are tailored to that end, and that
Mazda should produce a privilege log where it raises a defense based on some
privilege. (Mot., Sep. St., pp. 2-13.)
In
opposition, Mazda argues that the motion should be denied because Mazda’s
responses were code-compliant and because Plaintiffs failed to properly meet
and confer. (Opp’n, pp. 4-9.)
In
reply, Plaintiffs push back against the two arguments raised by Mazda. (Reply,
pp. 3-7.)
The
Court initially notes that Plaintiffs’ privilege/privilege log arguments are
not sufficiently elaborated to explain to this Court why Mazda’s invocation of
privilege does not “set forth the specific ground for the objection” or why
Mazda’s responses do not “clearly state[]” “the particular privilege invoked,”
as required of Mazda by Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.230, subdivision
(b). (See Mot., Sep. St., pp. 3-4.) To the contrary, Mazda clearly states
attorney-client, work product, and consulting expert privileges. (Mot., Sep.
St., pp. 3-13.) There is no need for a privilege log outside the context of documents
withheld from production.
The
Court otherwise rules as follows.
I.
Request
No. 70 seeks an admission regarding whether “[t]he REPURCHASE LETTER includes a
deduction for the cost of repairs if [Mazda] determines that the vehicle has
damage in excess of normal wear and tear.”
Mazda
supplemented its objection-only initial response to this RFA by providing that
“[s]ubject to and without waiving the above objections, deny that the offer
included any specific deduction for vehicle damage in excess or normal wear and
tear.”
(See
Mot., Sep. St., pp. 2-4.)
The
Court finds that a further response is necessary. The Court agrees with
Plaintiff that this answer is evasive. Mazda’s further response to this RFA
denies that the repurchase letter contains a “specific deduction.” Such a
response is narrow and does not address whether the repurchase letter generally
sets forth terms that effect a decrease in the repurchase amount based on
damage to a vehicle beyond wear and tear or whether a more general policy
effects such a decrease.
Plaintiffs’
motion is thus GRANTED as to RFAs, Set Two, No. 70.
II.
Request
No. 71 seeks an admission regarding whether “[t]he REPURCHASE LETTER includes a
deduction for the cost of replacement tires if [Mazda] determines that the
vehicle tires have less than 4/32 tread depth.”
Mazda
supplemented its objection-only initial response to this RFA by providing that
“[s]ubject to and without waiving the above objections, deny that the offer
included a specific deduction for the cost of replacing worn tires.”
(See
Mot., Sep. St., pp. 4-5.)
The
Court adopts its discussion in Section I to explain why Mazda’s further
response to this RFA is too narrow (i.e., use of qualifier “specific” re:
deduction; also qualifier “worn” re: tires). The Court understands that Mazda
may have interpreted tires with a tread depth less than 4/32 as “worn.”
However, the response to this admission request should have been made with
language mirroring the stated RFA.
Plaintiffs’
motion is thus GRANTED as to RFAs, Set Two, No. 71.
III.
Request
No. 72 seeks an admission regarding whether “[t]he REPURCHASE LETTER requires
that the customer agree to sign ‘a Release in Full’ upon acceptance of [Mazda]’s
offer to repurchase a vehicle.”
Mazda
supplemented its objection-only initial response to this RFA by providing that
“[t]he REPURCHASE LETTER requires that the customer agree to sign ‘a Release in
Full’ upon acceptance of [Mazda’s] offer to repurchase a vehicle.”
(See
Mot., Sep. St., pp. 5-6.)
Plaintiffs’
reply indicates that a second supplemental response to Request No. 72 was
provided by Mazda on August 11, 2023, reading: “Subject to and without waiving
the above objections, [Mazda] admit[s] that the letter stated ‘You agree to
execute all paperwork necessary to transfer title of the above-referenced
vehicle to MNAO, including but not limited to, a Release in Full, Odometer
Disclosure Statement and Power of Attorney forms.[’]”
(Reply,
Ex. 1, pp. 3-4.)
After
review, the Court determines that Mazda’s further responses to this admission
request are sufficient. They consist of admissions, subject to objections, that
quote the relevant language from the repurchase letter and explain that the
repurchase letter does state that a customer must agree to sign a “Release in
Full’ upon acceptance of Mazda’s offer to repurchase any vehicle. Such a
response is sufficient for RFA purposes.
To
the extent that Plaintiffs seek solely an “Admit,” without objections, and
without quoted language from the repurchase letter, the Court finds such an
admission unnecessary based on the sufficiency of Mazda’s two supplemental
responses to this RFA.
Plaintiffs’
motion is thus DENIED as to RFAs, Set Two, No. 72.
IV.
Request
No. 73 seeks an admission regarding whether “[t]he only deduction allowed for
in the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act[] is the deduction for reasonable use
of the vehicle.”
Mazda
supplemented its objection-only initial responses to this RFA by providing that
“[s]ubject to and without waiving the above objections, deny.”
(See
Mot., Sep. St., pp. 6-7.)
After
review, the Court determines that Mazda’s further response to this admission
request is sufficient. It consists of an outright denial, subject to objections.
A party’s responses are “unquestionably code compliant” when they consist of
one-word “Admit” or “Deny” responses. (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 762, 780.) The fact that a party may add an explanation or
qualification does not make an admission or denial equivocal and thus
insufficient. (See id. at pp. 780-781 [examples].)
Plaintiffs’
motion is thus DENIED as to RFAs, Set Two, No. 73.
V.
Request
No. 74 seeks an admission regarding whether “[t]he Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act does not allow for a deduction for damage in excess of normal wear
and tear.”
Mazda
supplemented its objection-only initial response to this RFA by providing that
“[s]ubject to and without waiving the above objections, deny. Further, the
offer letter in this case did not refer to ‘damage in excess of normal wear and
tear.’ Rather, it stated that the vehicle was to be returned ‘in substantially
the same condition as when it was purchased, exclusive of normal wear and tear.’”
(See
Mot., Sep. St., pp. 7-8.)
After
review, the Court determines that Mazda’s further response to this admission
request is sufficient. It consists of an outright denial, subject to objections,
with a statement at the end explaining the denial. A party’s responses are
“unquestionably code compliant” when they consist of one-word “Admit” or “Deny”
responses. (St. Mary v. Superior Court, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at
p. 780.) The fact that a party may add an explanation or qualification does not
make an admission or denial equivocal and thus insufficient. (See id. at
pp. 780-781 [examples].) The Court finds nothing vague or incomplete about the
supplemental response to Request No. 74. (Reply, p. 5.)
Plaintiffs’
motion is thus DENIED as to RFAs, Set Two, No. 74.
VI.
Request
No. 75 seeks an admission regarding whether “[t]he Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty act does not allow for a deduction for replacement tires if the tread
depth on the vehicle tires is less than 4/32.”
Mazda
supplemented its objection-only initial response to this RFA by providing that
“[s]ubject to and without waiving the above objections, deny.”
(See
Mot., Sep. St., pp. 8-9.)
After
review, the Court determines that Mazda’s further response to this admission
request is sufficient. It consists of an outright denial, subject to objections.
A party’s responses are “unquestionably code compliant” when they consist of
one-word “Admit” or “Deny” responses. (St. Mary v. Superior Court, supra,
223 Cal.App.4th at p. 780.) The fact that a party may add an explanation or
qualification does not make an admission or denial equivocal and thus
insufficient. (See id. at pp. 780-781 [examples].)
Plaintiffs’
motion is thus DENIED as to RFAs, Set Two, No. 75.
VII.
Request
No. 77 seeks an admission regarding whether “[Mazda’s] offer to repurchase the
SUBJECT VEHICLE was a goodwill offer.”
Mazda
supplemented its objection-only initial response to this RFA by providing that
“[s]ubject to and without waiving the above objections, unable to admit or deny
as phrased as plaintiffs have not defined what they mean by ‘goodwill offer.’”
(See
Mot., Sep. St., pp. 9-11.)
After
review, the Court determines that a further supplemental response is required
as to this RFA. Mazda’s May 18, 2023 response to this RFA is evasive. Even the
opposition argument that “[t]he term ‘[g]oodwill’ does not appear in the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, nor was it defined by plaintiffs, and
defense counsel pointed this out in the meet and confer,” is evasive. (Opp’n,
p. 6.) The meaning is sufficiently clear to the Court: whether the offer to
repurchase in this case was made in good faith. That good faith would
necessarily be framed by the SBA and Mazda’s own policies regarding
repurchases. As such, Mazda should be able to provide an admission as to this
RFA and include a qualifying statement if needed.
Plaintiffs’
motion is thus GRANTED as to RFAs, Set Two, No. 77.
VIII.
Request
No. 78 seeks an admission regarding whether “[Mazda’s] offer to repurchase the
SUBJECT VEHICLE was a statutory repurchase offer.”
Mazda
supplemented its objection-only initial response to this RFA by providing that
“[s]ubject to and without waiving the above objections, admit that the offer
was compliant with the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.”
(See
Mot., Sep. St., pp. 10-11.)
After
review, the Court determines that a further supplemental response is required
as to this RFA. Mazda’s May 18, 2023 response to this RFA is evasive. The RFA
requests an admission relating to whether the repurchase offer in this action
was a statutory repurchase offer, not whether that offer complied with the
terms of the SBA. The fact that a statutory repurchase offer was made does not
mean that the offer was SBA compliant. Different questions are involved. Any
further response, even if made subject to the prior objections, must address
the RFA as posed.
Plaintiffs’
motion is thus GRANTED as to RFAs, Set Two, No. 78.
IX.
Request
No. 79: “Subject to and without waiving the above objections, … the offer was
compliant with the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.”
Mazda
supplemented its objection-only initial response to this RFA by providing that
“[s]ubject to and without waiving the above objections, deny.”
(See
Mot., Sep. St., pp. 12-13.)
After
review, the Court determines that Mazda’s further response to this admission
request is sufficient. It consists of an outright denial, subject to objections.
A party’s responses are “unquestionably code compliant” when they consist of
one-word “Admit” or “Deny” responses. (St. Mary v. Superior Court, supra,
223 Cal.App.4th at p. 780.) The fact that a party may add an explanation or
qualification does not make an admission or denial equivocal and thus
insufficient. (See id. at pp. 780-781 [examples].)
Plaintiffs’
motion is thus DENIED as to RFAs, Set Two, No. 79.
Sanctions:
DENIED.
The
Court must impose monetary sanctions against anyone (party, non-party, or
attorney) who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
responses to requests for admission, unless it finds that the person to be
sanctioned acted with substantial justification or other circumstances make the
imposition of sanctions unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d).)
The
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a).)
Mazda’s
opposition seeks monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs on the ground that this
motion was made without substantial justification. (Opp’n, p. 9.)
In
reply, Plaintiffs argue that sanctions are not merited here because it is Mazda
that is failing to comply with this Court’s April 18, 2023 order by not
supplementing its responses to the RFAs at issue. (Reply, pp. 7-8.)
Based
on the mixed outcome of this motion, the Court DENIES the sanctions requested
by Mazda. 

Conclusion
Plaintiffs Ivy Flores and Amanda
Portobanco’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s Further Supplemental Responses to
Requests for Admission is GRANTED, in Part, and DENIED, in Part, as follows:
(1) GRANTED as to compelling
further admission responses to Requests for Admission, Set Two, Nos. 70-71 and
77-78; and
(2) DENIED as to compelling further
admission responses to Requests for Admission, Set Two, Nos. 72-75 and 79.
Defendant Mazda Motor of America, Inc’s [Opposition] Request for Monetary
Sanctions is DENIED.