 Case Number:  23STCV04518    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles 
 



 
ELINOR MURPHY, 
 
                            
  Plaintiff, 
 
                 
  vs. 
PELV-ICE LLC, 
 
                             
  Defendants. 


Case No.:   
DEPARTMENT 45 
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action Filed:   March
  2, 2023
Trial Date:   September
  29, 2025



 
Hearing
date:              October
15, 2024 
Moving
Party:             Sergio
Bent, Counsel for Defendant, Pelv-Ice LLC
Responding
Party:      None
 
(1)  
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Jill Bigelow
(2)  
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Pelv-Ice LLC
The court considered the moving papers. No opposition was received.
The court DENIES Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel for
Defendants Jill Bigelow and Pelv-Ice LLC. 
Background
            This motion arises from a wrongful
termination suit brought by Plaintiff Elinor Murphy (“Plaintiff”) against
Defendants Pelv-Ice LLC, Jill Bigelow, (“Defendants”), and Does 1 through 25.
Plaintiff filed her Complaint on March 2, 2023, alleging multiple violations of
the Labor Code and breach of contract. On May 10, 2023, Defendants filed a
Second Amended Answer to the Complaint.
Discussion 
Sergio Bent (“Counsel”) now moves to be relieved as counsel of record for
Defendants.
 
The court has
discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be
granted provided that there is no prejudice to the client and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant
(1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398.) 
California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of
motion and motion to be directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion
and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure,
section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code
of Civil Procedure, section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052));
(3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other
parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving
counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). 
Here, Counsel has filed
Civil forms MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel) and
MC-053 (Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel).
Counsel served counsel for Plaintiff and both named Defendants with copies of
the motion papers and his declaration by mail and email on September 16, 2024,
which is over five days prior to the hearing.
Counsel has shown proper basis for
withdrawal and that withdrawal will not prejudice Defendants. Prof. Conduct,
Rule 1.16(b)(10) provides that a permissive request for withdrawal may be
properly granted where an attorney believes that the tribunal will find good
cause for withdrawal. In his attorney declaration, Counsel indicates that Defendants
have not remained current on their invoices for services rendered or costs
advanced on their behalf, and that Defendant Jill Bigelow, who also serves as
the point of contact for the entity Defendant Pelv-Ice LLC, has not been
responding to communications. (Counsel Declaration, ¶¶ 11–12.) This is a proper
basis for withdrawal. Additionally, trial is almost a year away, on September
29, 2025. There is no reason to believe that Counsel’s withdrawal will
prejudice Defendant. 
However, Counsel has
not provided an explanation as to why he is filing this motion rather than a
consent. In lieu of MC-052, Counsel has submitted a separate Declaration in
support of his motion. Counsel’s Declaration does not explain why he brought
this motion instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure, section
284, subdivision (1). Counsel states that there “has been a breakdown in
communication with Defendants regarding the fees and costs owed and to be
owed…. there has been a breakdown in the strategy for proceeding in the
action.” (Counsel Declaration, ¶ 12.) However, the
court cannot infer that Counsel has sought Defendants’ consent to be relieved
as counsel. 
 The
court therefore DENIES Counsel’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, on the
grounds that Counsel did not file MC-052 or otherwise explain why he did not
seek Defendants’ consent to be relieved as counsel.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  
 
_______________________ 
MEL RED RECANA 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 
 