 Case Number:  BC722892    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
LATANNYA
  BANKS, LELAH BANKS, EDNA ESSIAN,
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
THE
  LOFTS AT THE SECURITY BUILDING, THE SIMPSON PROPERTY GROUP, PPC PROPERTY
  MANAGEMENT, INC., IRAJ PESSIAN, PETER AFROOZ, DOES 1-20,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.: BC722892 

DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 9/14/2018 
1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: July 8, 2021
Trial
  Date: 2/18/2025  



 
Hearing date: October
15, 2024 
Moving Party:
Defendant Simpson Property Group, L.P.  
Responding
Party: N/A unopposed  
Motion
to Compel Further Deposition of Plaintiff Lelah Banks and For Production of
Documents and Request for Sanctions           
The Court
considered the moving papers.
            The
motion is to compel further deposition of Plaintiff Lelah Banks and for
production of documents is GRANTED. 
            The
request for sanctions in the reduced amount of $847.50
is GRANTED.
Background
            This
action arises out of an incident involving bed bugs at an apartment complex. On
September 24, 2018, Latannya Banks filed a complaint on behalf of herself and
her minor daughter, Lelah Banks (Plaintiff), against their apartment complex
owned by The Lofts at the Security Building and the Simpson Property Group
(Defendant). On July 8, 2021, the plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint
(FAC) alleging seven causes of action: (1) battery, (2) negligence, (3)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, (4) breach of implied warranty of
habitability, (5) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (6) violation of Civil
Code section 1942.4, and (7) public nuisance.
            On
August 16, 2024, Defendant moved to compel further deposition of Plaintiff and production
of documents. Defendant also requests monetary sanctions. There is no
opposition.  
Legal
Standard
“If, after
service of a deposition notice, a party to the action…without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination,
or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 subd. (a).)
The motion must
be accompanied by a declaration showing a reasonable and good faith attempt to
informally resolve each issue presented or, when the deponent fails to attend
the deposition and produce the requested documents or things, the motion must
be accompanied by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the
deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 subd. (b)(2).)
The motion must also specify facts showing good cause to justify the production
of documents. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 subd. (b)(1).)
“If a motion
under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7…in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 subd. (g)(1).)
Discussion
            Motion to Compel Further Deposition and
Request for Documents
            Defendant
moves the Court to compel Plaintiff to appear for the third session of her
deposition on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to appear for the third
deposition and failed to produce documents.
            Defendant’s
counsel provides a declaration outlining Plaintiff’s multiple requests to
reschedule and failure to appear multiple times for depositions. Plaintiff
appeared for the first session of her deposition on July 28, 2022, pursuant to
Defendant’s fourth continued notice of taking deposition and for production of
documents and things. (Bukovskis Decl., ¶ 3.)
Defendant suspended the deposition prior to the end and entered an agreement
with Plaintiff’s counsel for a second deposition and to produce missing
documents. (Bukovskis Decl., ¶ 3.) Defendant was granted a motion to compel this second
deposition after multiple failed meet and confer attempts.
(Bukovskis Decl., ¶ 4.)
            On
February 9, 2024, during the second deposition of Latannya, Latannya felt sick
and advised Defendant that Plaintiff would also not appearing. (Bukovskis
Decl., ¶ 5.) On April 4, 2024, Defendant
had not heard back from Plaintiff’s counsel about rescheduling and set a date for
April 17, 2024. (Bukovskis Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff then requested to reschedule.
(Bukovskis Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendant responded that it would
reschedule if Plaintiff provides the requested medical records. (Bukovskis
Decl., ¶ 8.) The medical records are
relevant to Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. (Bukovskis
Decl., ¶ 3.) Therefore, there is good cause
to request these medical records.
On June
20, 2024, Defendant served an amended notice of taking deposition for a July 2,
2024, date. (Bukovskis Decl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff did not respond nor serve an objection. (Bukovskis
Decl., ¶ 14.) On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel notified that she would not show up for the deposition and Defendant
cancelled it. (Bukovskis Decl., ¶ 15.)
The Court
finds that Defendant attempted in good faith to resolve the issue informally by
scheduling multiple deposition sessions. Plaintiff failed to produce the
requested documents in the first deposition session and then requested to
reschedule all other deposition dates, including on the date before. Plaintiff’s
counsel was also unresponsive to Defendant’s counsel’s communications on
multiple occasions. Accordingly, the Court grants Defendant’s motion and
sanctions are warranted.
Request
for Sanctions
            Sanctions are warranted. Plaintiff
has not provided any substantial justification for not participating in the
depositions or providing the requested documents.
            Defendant requests sanctions in the
amount of $1,747.50. This amount represents 3.5 hours working on this motion
and 4 hours working on a reply to any opposition and appearing for the motion
at rate of $225 per hour. (Bukovskis
Decl., ¶ 16.) Additionally, it includes a
filing fee of $60. (Bukovskis Decl., ¶ 16.) Here, there was no opposition or reply filed. Therefore,
the Court will grant the request for sanctions in the amount of $847.50.
Conclusion
            Defendant’s
motion to compel further deposition of Plaintiff and production of documents is
granted. The Court will impose sanctions against Plaintiff, and award them to
Defendants in the amount of $847.50. Plaintiff is ordered to appear for a
deposition with all responsive documents within 30 days of this order. Monetary
sanctions are due to Defendant within 30 days of this order.
 
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: October 15, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 