 Case Number:  24STCV23703    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  73 01/16/2025
Dept. 73
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
RODRIGUEZ, et al. v. 16 ERWIN LLC, et
al. ([24STCV23703])
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Edward C. Ip /
Law Offices of Edward C. Ip & Associates
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  Daniel T.
Pierson / Law Offices of Daniel T. Pierson
 
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE (filed 12/13/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The demurrer
to the tenth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
The demurrer
to the third and ninth causes of action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
The demurrer
is otherwise overruled.
 
The motion to
strike is denied.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On September 13, 2024, Plaintiffs Nancy Rodriguez and Raul
Rodriguez, individually and in their capacities as trustees of the Sonojalis
Revocable Living Trust dated November 19, 2020, filed this action against
defendants 16 Erwin LLC, Mapl Development LLC, Moshe Agive, and Peleg
Lindenberg. Plaintiffs assert eleven causes of action, for:
 
              1. Financial
Elder Abuse,
              2. Negligence,
              3. Conversion,
              4. Intentional
Misrepresentation,
              5. Negligent
Misrepresentation,
              6. Intentional
Trespass,
              7. Trespass,
              8. Private
Nuisance,
              9. Quiet Title,
              10. Injunctive
Relief, and
              11. Declaratory
Relief.
 
As alleged in Plaintiffs’ complaint and accepted as true for
demurrer (undesignated paragraph citations to the complaint):
 
Plaintiffs own the property located at 240 S. Carondelet St., Los
Angeles CA 90057 (“the Subject Property”). (¶ 17.) Defendants own the adjoining
property at 234 S. Carondelet St. (“the Neighboring Property”). (¶¶ 18-19; see
also ¶¶ 8-14 [alter ego allegations].) Defendants are building three apartment
buildings on the Neighboring Property, “with the construction adversely
impacting the Subject Property.” (¶ 20.) Construction activities have caused
physical damage to the Subject Property, including “surface cracks and other
visible damage.” (¶ 22.) Construction activities and resulting damage have
blocked ingress and egress for Plaintiffs’ tenants. (¶ 23.) Defendants have
performed considerable work without proper licensing or permits. (¶¶ 20, 24,
32, 34.) Defendants instructed workers to trespass on Plaintiffs’ property and
destroy a boundary wall. (¶ 26.) Defendants prepared a “Mutual Agreement” for
Plaintiffs’ signature stating that Plaintiffs verbally agreed to certain
compromise terms regarding the management of the construction project and its
impact on the Subject Property, including an agreement to repair the boundary
wall. (¶¶ 29-31.) Plaintiffs spent months negotiating with Defendants and with
the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety; when these efforts were
unsuccessful, they sued.
 
On December 13, 2024, Defendants demurred to all of Plaintiffs’
causes of action except the second, for negligence, and the eleventh, for
declaratory relief. They also moved to strike portions of Plaintiffs’
complaint. 
 
In support of their demurrer, Defendants argue:
 
·               
Elder Abuse: There was no “taking” of property for
purposes of a financial elder abuse claim, nor was any purported taking “for a
wrongful use and/or with the intent to defraud”;
·               
Conversion: Plaintiffs do not allege any property
was converted, they only allege property was damaged;
·               
Intentional Misrepresentation: Plaintiffs do not allege they relied to
their detriment on Defendants’ alleged misrepresentations about “what they
would do with respect to repairing the wall that was accidentally damaged”;
·               
Trespass: Plaintiffs have not alleged Defendants
ever intentionally trespassed; in fact, the complaint concedes “the wall was
accidentally knocked down”;
·               
Nuisance: Plaintiffs do not allege any
substantial, unreasonable interference with their property rights;
·               
Quiet Title: Plaintiffs do not allege Defendants
assert any interest in their property; and
·               
Injunctive Relief: Plaintiffs’ claim is remediable with
monetary damages.
 
In support of their motion to strike, Defendants argue Plaintiffs have
not sufficiently alleged malice, oppression, etc. to support their claim for
punitive damages.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that:
 
·               
Elder Abuse: Raul Rodriguez is an elder, and
Defendants took portions of his property (a rear boundary wall) for their own
use;
·               
Conversion: Plaintiffs allege Defendants exercised dominion
over their property;
·               
Intentional Misrepresentation: Defendants
misrepresented that they were qualified developers and would repair damage to
Plaintiffs’ boundary wall, and Plaintiffs allowed them to proceed with
construction and did not resort to legal action in reliance on those
representations;
·               
Trespass: Plaintiffs allege Defendants sent workers onto the
Subject Property knowingly and intentionally to demolish their wall;
·               
Nuisance: The question of substantial invasion is not for
resolution at the pleading stage, and regardless, Plaintiffs have met it;
·               
Quiet Title: Plaintiffs allege Defendants are asserting an
adverse claim, whether or not Defendants renounce it, because Defendants are
occupying a portion of Plaintiffs’ property; and
·               
Injunctive Relief: Plaintiffs’ claim is a remedy designed
to enjoin and restrain further wrongdoing and require abatement of a nuisance.
 
In opposition to Defendants’ motion to strike,
Plaintiffs argue their facts, taken as true, show malice, oppression, or fraud.
 
Defendants filed no reply in support of
their demurrer. In support of their motion to strike, they reply that the
exhibits to Plaintiff’s complaint show Defendants worked with them in good
faith to resolve the dispute and Defendants’ alleged misconduct, if it
occurred, was unintentional; thus, punitive damages have not been pled.
 
II. MEETING AND CONFERENCE
 
“Before
filing a demurrer ... , the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or
by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a).) An equivalent requirement applies to a motion to strike. (Id.,
§ 435.5.)
 
Defendants’
counsel filed a form declaration establishing the parties met and conferred.
(See 12-13-2024 CIV-140.)
 
III. ANALYSIS - DEMURRER
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
Where
pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect by way of a demurrer. (Coyne
v. Krempels (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257, 262.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint alleges facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10; Young v. Gannon (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th
209, 220.) 
 
When
considering a demurrer, a court reads the allegations stated in the challenged
pleading liberally and in context, and “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.) Put
differently: for purposes of demurrer, the court treats all facts alleged – but
only the facts alleged – in the complaint as true. (Picton v.
Anderson Union High School District (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 732.) “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
 
B.      First Cause
of Action for Financial Elder Abuse
 
A plaintiff claiming elder abuse must allege (1)
she is an elder adult and (2) a defendant took, secreted, appropriated, or
retained her real or personal property, or assisted another to do so, (3) to a
wrongful use, with an intent to defraud, or by undue influence. (Wel. &
Inst. Code § 15610.30, subd. (a); Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 174.)
 
As to the first element, Defendants do not deny
that plaintiff Raul Rodriguez is an “elder” as defined.
 
As to the second element, “a person or entity
takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property
when an [elder] is deprived of any property right, including by means of an
agreement, or testamentary bequest … .” (Id. ¶ 15610.30(c).) Plaintiffs allege
Defendants have partly deprived Mr. Rodriguez of his rights in the Subject
Property.
 
As to the third element: Plaintiffs allege
Defendants falsely claimed Plaintiffs’ boundary wall “collapsed due to the
construction” even though Defendants’ workers had “recklessly demolished [it]”
at Defendants’ instruction. (¶ 26.) Defendants then falsely promised to rebuild
the wall, intending to use it as a necessary retaining wall for their own
construction project. (Ibid.) Accepted as true, this course of action amounts to fraud. The third
element is pled.
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ first cause of
action is overruled.
 
C. Third Cause of Action for
Conversion
 
“ ‘Conversion
is generally described as the wrongful exercise of dominion over the personal
property of another.’ ” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v.
Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119, italics added.)
Plaintiffs assert wrongful exercise of dominion over their real property, not
their personal property. The demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained
with leave to amend. 
 
D. Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action for Intentional and
Negligent Misrepresentation 
 
The essential elements of fraud, generally, are (1) a misrepresentation (2) knowledge of falsity (3)
intent to induce reliance; (4) justifiable
reliance; and (5) resulting damage. [Citation]. (City
of Industry v. City of Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 191, 211.)
Similarly, “[t]he elements of negligent misrepresentation are ‘(1) the
misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, (2) without reasonable
ground for believing it to be true, (3) with intent to induce another's
reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) justifiable reliance on the
misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.’” (National Union Fire
Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh, PA v. Cambridge Integrated Services Group, Inc.
(2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th 35, 50, quoting Apollo Capital Fund LLC v. Roth
Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243.) Each element
of either tort must be pleaded with particularity to apprise the defendant of
the specific grounds for the charge and enable the court to determine whether
there is any basis for the cause of action. (City of Industry, supra,
198 Cal.App.4th at p. 211, citing Committee on Children's Television, Inc.
v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216–217.)
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs have not pled justifiable reliance on any
purported misrepresentation. The Court disagrees. Plaintiffs allege they
permitted Defendants to continue nuisance behavior unabated and to adversely
occupy Plaintiffs’ property based on Defendants’ false representations that
they were working with Plaintiffs in good faith and intended to remedy their
wrongful intrusion on Plaintiffs’ property. Plaintiffs have stated a claim for
intentional misrepresentation.
 
E. Sixth
and Seventh Causes of Action for Trespass
 
“ ‘Trespass is an unlawful interference with possession of property.’
[Citation.] The elements of trespass are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or
control of the property; (2) the defendant's intentional, reckless, or
negligent entry onto the property; (3) lack of permission for the entry or acts
in excess of permission; (4) harm; and (5) the defendant's conduct was a
substantial factor in causing the harm.” (Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory
Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 261–262.)
 
Defendants argue the complaint “make[s] clear that the Defendants did not
intend to make an unauthorized entry on the Plaintiffs’ land.” (Dem.,
11:23-24.) On the contrary, Plaintiffs expressly allege Defendants directed
their workers to enter Plaintiffs’ property without permission. (See ¶ 26.)
Plaintiffs have stated a claim. The demurrer is overruled.
 
F. Eighth
Cause of Action for Private Nuisance
 
At the pleading stage, Plaintiffs have stated a claim for nuisance. In order to make a prima facie claim for nuisance, “[f]irst, the
plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of his
property. [Citation.] Second, ‘the invasion of the plaintiff's interest in the
use and enjoyment of the land [must be] substantial, i.e., that it cause[s] the
plaintiff to suffer “substantial actual damage.” ’ [Citation.] Third, ‘ “[t]he
interference with the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it
must also be unreasonable” [citation], i.e., it must be “of such a nature,
duration or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and
enjoyment of the land.” ’ ” (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC
(2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263.)
 
“The
requirements of substantial damage and unreasonableness are not
inconsequential.” (Id. at p. 263, italics in original.) Descriptions of
the standard are numerous and nonspecific: as “significant harm”, “harm of
importance”, a “real and appreciable invasion of the plaintiffs’ interests,”
“definitely offensive, seriously annoying or intolerable,” conduct by which
“normal persons in that locality would … be substantially annoyed or
disturbed”, and so on. (San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v. Superior Court
(1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 938, citations omitted.) 
 
Plaintiffs
allege Defendants are conducting an unlicensed construction project and have
seized a portion of Plaintiffs’ adjoining real property to further that
construction. Accepted as true, this is an intolerable invasion of Plaintiffs’
property rights. The claim is pled, and the demurrer is overruled.
 
/ / /
 
G. Ninth
Cause of Action to Quiet Title
 
An
action for quiet title seeks “to establish title against adverse claims to real
or personal property or any interest therein.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
760.020, subd. (a).)  In an action for quiet title, Plaintiff must plead
(1) “[a] description of the property that is the subject of the action,”
specifically the location of tangible personal property and the legal
description and street address or common designation of real property, (2)
“[t]he title of the plaintiff as to which a determination under this chapter is
sought and the basis of the title,” (3) “[t]he adverse claims to the title of
the plaintiff against which a determination is sought,” (4) “[t]he date as of
which the determination is sought,” and (5) “[a] prayer for the determination
of the title of the plaintiff against the adverse claims.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 761.020.) 
 
Plaintiffs
have not alleged the nature of their own title, except as “rightful owners”. (¶
100.) They have also not alleged what title they claim. This is particularly
important here, given that there are two plaintiffs suing in four capacities.
They have also not alleged what adverse claim Defendants purtportedly make to
the Subject Property. Nor do they allege the date as of which the determination
is sought. They have not stated a claim to quiet title. The demurrer is
sustained with leave to amend.
 
H.
Tenth Cause of Action for Injunctive Relief
 
Plaintiffs
concede that injunctive relief is a remedy, not a cause of action. The demurrer
is sustained without leave to amend.
 
IV. ANALYSIS – MOTION TO STRIKE
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Motion to Strike
 
Motions to
strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not
challengeable by demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages.
(See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper procedure to attack
false allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike. (Id. § 436 (a).) 
 
“The court
may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion to strike
whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” (Id. § 436 (a).) Irrelevant matters include
immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or those not
pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (Id., §
431.10.) The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” (Id. § 436 (b).)
 
A motion to
strike is also the proper procedure to attack a purportedly improper remedy
such as unjustified punitive damages. (Venice Town Council, Inc. v. City of
Los Angeles (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1547, 1561-1562.) A complaint including a
request for punitive damages must also include allegations showing that the
plaintiff is entitled to such an award. (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)
 
B.      Discussion
 
A plaintiff
may seek punitive damages for “oppression, fraud or malice” by the defendant.
(Civ. Code, § 3294(a).) “Malice” means conduct intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct that is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of
others. (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(1).) 
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Civ. Code,
§ 3294(c)(2).)  “Fraud” means intentional
misrepresentation, deceit or concealment of a material fact with the intention
of depriving a person of property or legal rights, or otherwise causing injury.
(Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(3).) 
 
A claim for
punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and allegations that a defendant
acted “with oppression, fraud and malice” toward plaintiff are insufficient
legal conclusions to show that the plaintiff is entitled to an award of
punitive damages. (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)
Specific factual allegations are required to support a claim for punitive
damages. (Ibid.)
 
As noted
above, Plaintiffs have pled a claim for fraud. In fact, they have pled a
lengthy fraudulent scheme wherein Defendants pretended to act in good faith
while intending to seize Plaintiffs’ real property for use in their own
construction project. These allegations are sufficient to show entitlement to
punitive damages at the pleading stage. Defendant’s point is well-taken that
the exhibits to the complaint suggest Defendants engaged in dialogue with the
Plaintiffs regarding the dispute. However, if Plaintiffs’ allegations are
accepted as true – which they must be at this stage – all that discussion was an
intentional tactic used to deter Plaintiffs from asserting their legal rights.
If that is proven by clear and convincing evidence, Plaintiffs might obtain
punitive damages.
 
The motion to
strike is denied.
 

V.
DISPOSITION
 
The demurrer to the tenth cause of action is sustained without
leave to amend.
 
The demurrer to the third and ninth causes of action is sustained
with leave to amend.
 
The demurrer is otherwise overruled.
 
The motion to strike is denied.