 Case Number:  24STCV08779    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  73 01/16/2025
Dept. 73
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
MICHAEL RODRIGUEZ v. READY PAC LLC (24STCV08779)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:   David Robert Denis / Law Office of David
Robert Denis
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  Ann Kathleen
Smith / Atkinson, Andelson, Loya, Ruud & Romo
 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY
PROCEEDINGS (filed 10/31/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and stay proceedings is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Michael Rodriguez filed this employment action against
defendant Ready PAC LLC on April 8, 2024. He asserts nine
(9) causes of action for various violations of the Fair Employment and Housing
Act, whistleblower retaliation, and wrongful termination in violation of public
policy.
 
Plaintiff alleges he began working for
Defendant as an electrician on November 6, 2019. (Compl., ¶ 12.) He was
terminated on April 15, 2021. (Ibid.) According to Plaintiff’s
complaint, he suffered injuries in the course of his employment, and his
injuries caused him to suffer from a physical disability. (Id., ¶ 20.)
Rather than accommodating his disability, Defendant terminated him. (Id.,
¶¶ 23-24.)
 
On October 31, 2024, Defendant moved
to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate his claims and to stay these proceedings
pending the outcome of arbitration. Defendant contends Plaintiff signed an
“Associate Arbitration Agreement” (“Agreement”) on November 14, 2019, during
Defendant’s onboarding procedure at the outset of Plaintiff’s employment. The
Agreement purportedly binds Plaintiff to arbitrate the claims he asserts in his
complaint.
 
On January 3, 2025, Plaintiff filed
his opposition. He denies he signed the Agreement and argues Defendant has
submitted no admissible evidence showing otherwise. He also contends the
Agreement is unenforceable because it is not part of a contract supported by
bargained-for consideration. Finally, he argues his dispute with Defendant is
not within the scope of the Agreement because Defendant’s signature does not
appear on the Agreement.
 
On January 9, 2025, Defendant replied.
It argues Plaintiff cannot credibly disavow his signature because he has not
denied that he printed his name on the Agreement and initialed it in a blank on
its first page. Nor does he deny he was “provided [with] onboarding documents”
including the Agreement. Finally, Defendant points out that the Agreement
applies to all the affiliates of “Ready Pac Produce, Inc.”, the signatory,
which include Defendant, the signatory’s parent.
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff’s
Objection Nos. 1-3 are overruled.
 
Plaintiff’s
Objection No. 4 is sustained for hearsay and/or lack of personal knowledge.
 
Plaintiff’s
Objection No. 5 is sustained for lack of personal knowledge and/or improper
secondary evidence. The records speak for themselves.
 
Plaintiff’s
Objection No. 6 is sustained to the extent the declarant testifies to the fact
that Plaintiff signed the documents, which is outside his personal knowledge.
The records speak for themselves.
 
Plaintiff’s
Objection No. 7 is sustained as improper secondary evidence.
 
Plaintiff’s
Objection No. 8 is overruled.
 
III. ANALYSIS
 
A.     
Legal
Standard for Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Under California and federal law,
public policy favors arbitration as an efficient and less expensive means of
resolving private disputes. (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blasé (1992) 3
Cal.4th 1, 8-9 (Moncharsh); AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion
(2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.) Accordingly, whether an agreement is governed by the
California Arbitration Act or the Federal Arbitration Act, courts resolve doubt
about an arbitration agreement’s scope in favor of arbitration. (Moncharsh,
supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 9; Comedy Club, Inc. v. Improv West Associates
(9th Cir. 2009) 553 F.3d 1277, 1284; see also Engalla v. Permanente Med.
Grp., Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72 [“California law incorporates many
of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act,
including a presumption in favor of arbitrability [citation] and a requirement
that an arbitration agreement must be enforced on the basis of state law
standards that apply to contracts in general [citation].”].) “[U]nder both the
FAA and California law, ‘arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.’” (Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)
 
The party seeking to compel
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence. 
(Engalla, supra, 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.)  A petition to compel arbitration must allege
both a “written agreement to arbitrate” the controversy, and that a party to
that agreement “refuses to arbitrate” the controversy. (Code Civ. Proc. §
1281.2.) It then becomes plaintiff’s burden, in opposing the motion, to prove
by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to her opposition. (Ibid.)

 
“Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2 requires a trial court to grant a petition to compel arbitration ‘if the
court determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.’”  (Avery v. Integrated Healthcare Holdings,
Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59 (Avery), quoting Code Civ. Proc.
§ 1281.2).) Accordingly, “when presented with a petition to compel arbitration,
the court’s first task is to determine whether the parties have in fact agreed
to arbitrate the dispute.” (Id., at p. 59.) Generally, on a petition to
compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting rulings on common issues. (Ibid.; see also Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) “In these
summary proceedings the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.”
(Avery, supra, 218 Cal.App.4th at p. 59; accord Rosenthal v.
Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)
 
B.     
Existence
of an Arbitration Agreement
 
By advancing a copy of the Agreement
that appears to carry Plaintiff’s signature, Defendant carried its initial
burden. 
 
However, in his opposition, Plaintiff
unequivocally disavows the signature that appears on the Agreement:
 
“The
signature that appears at the end of the Agreement document … is definitely not
my signature. I can and do state that I never signed the Associate Arbitration
Agreement. … [¶] [¶] I never executed the Agreement or any acknowledgment of
the existence of the Agreement and was never informed by Defendant even of the
existence of the Associate Arbitration Agreement or of any arbitration
agreement.”
 
(Rodriguez Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4.)
 
An examination of the signatures on
the documents does not show that it is so “identical” to Defendant’s other
exhibits as to render its authenticity beyond question, as Defendant claims.
And Defendant has not produced any direct evidence that Plaintiff signed the
Agreement; it has only shown that a signature similar to Plaintiff’s appears on
the Agreement it keeps in its files.
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff has made an
“egregious insinuation that Defendant conspired to forge his signature.”
(Reply, 4:7-8.) It would be similarly egregious for the Court to adopt
Defendant’s express accusation that Plaintiff has perjured himself. 
 
Once Plaintiff expressly disavowed his
signature, it fell to Defendant to show he signed the document by a
preponderance of the evidence. The introduction of several business records
with similar signatures do not carry this burden in the face of Plaintiff’s
express denial.
 
Because Defendant has not carried its
threshold burden, the motion must be denied.
 
/ / /
 
C.     
Signatories
and Enforceability
 
Because Defendant has not carried its
threshold burden, the Court need not decide the remaining issues raised in the
papers. It does not matter whether Defendant’s affiliate signed the Agreement,
because Defendant has not shown Plaintiff signed it. Nor does the Court need to
decide Plaintiff’s argument that the Agreement is not part of the bargained-for
terms of his employment.
 

III. DISPOSITION
 
Because
Defendant failed to rebut Plaintiff’s contention that he did not sign the
Agreement, Defendant has not carried its threshold burden to show the existence
of an arbitration agreement.
 
Defendant’s
motion is denied.