  Case Number:  23STCV14422    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 SAEED FARKHONDEHPOUR; ILLUSION HOLDINGS, LLC;
  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
 COCHRAN,
  DAVIS & ASSOCIATES, PC, a professional corporation, JEFFREY THOMAS
  BOLSON, an individual; JOAN E. COCHRAN, an individual; CALLANAN, ROGERS &
  DZIDA, LLP, a limited liability partnership, JOSEPH S. DZIDA, an individual,
  and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.    
                           


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV14422
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE
  ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Date: January 15, 2025
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING
PARTY:  Defendants Callanan, Rogers &
Dzida, LLP and Joseph S. Dzida (the “Dzida Defendants”) 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants Cochran, Davis & Associates, PC, Jeffrey Thomas Bolson,
Joan E. Cochran (collectively, the “Cochran Defendants”), and Plaintiffs Saeed
Farkhondehpour (“Farkhondehpour”) and Illusion Holdings, LLC (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) 
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On June 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the
operative complaint (“Complaint”) against Dzida Defendants, Cochran Defendants and
Does 1 through 50, alleging legal malpractice. The legal malpractice claim arises
from Cochran Defendants and Dzida Defendants’ joint representation of Plaintiffs
as defendants in the matter of Ocean Blue Investments, LLC v. Saeed
Farkhodehpour, et al., LASC Case No. BC709417 (the “Underlying Lawsuit”). 
 
            On July 8, 2024, Dzida Defendants
filed the instant motion for summary judgment (the “Motion” or “MSJ”). On
December 4, 2024, Cochran Defendants and Plaintiffs filed separate oppositions
to the Motion (respectively, the “Cochran Opposition” and the “Plaintiff
Opposition”). On December 13, 2024, Dzida Defendants filed a joint reply (the
“Reply”). 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
             In granting or denying a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections
to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion. (Code Civil
Procedure, § 437c, subd. (q).) 
Reply Evidentiary Objections to Bolson
Declaration: OVERRULED  
Reply Evidentiary Objections to Farkhondehpour
Declaration: OVERRULED  
Reply Evidentiary Objections to Kaufler
Declaration: OVERRULED
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            Per Dzida
Defendants’ request, the Court takes judicial notice of: (1) the deed of trust
in favor of First Credit Bank recorded/filed with the Los Angeles County recorder's
office as document 20150365498; (2) the certificate of compliance for lot-line
adjustment recorded/filed with the Los Angeles County recorder's office as
document 20150555714; (3) the grant deed recorded/filed with the Los Angeles
County recorder's office as document 20150555712; (4) the grant deed
recorded/filed with the Los Angeles County recorder's office as document 20150555713;
and (5) the declaration of Jeffrey T. Bolson dated December 2, 2022, submitted
in support of the Reply in Support of Defendants' Motion for Correction and/or
Relief Under CCP 473(b) Respecting the Partial Final Award as Clarified
submitted in the
Underlying Lawsuit. (Dzida Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”); Borneman Decl.,
Exs. 5, 7, 9-10; Bucknell Decl., Ex. 2; Evidence Code (“Evid. Code”) §§ 452
subds. (c), (d) and (h).)   
 
            Per
Plaintiffs’ request, the Court takes judicial notice of: (1) Notice of Joinders
in Underlying
Lawsuit; (2) Complaint in the Underlying Lawsuit; (3) 9/19/2018 Order to Compel
Arbitration; (4) 3/1/2021 Partial Arbitration Award; (5) 2/17/2022 Court Order
in the Underlying Lawsuit; (6) Order Appointing Receiver in the Underlying
Lawsuit; (7) 3/25/2022 Receiver’s Report in Underlying Lawsuit; (8) 5/9/2022 Order
in the Underlying Lawsuit; (9) 5/17/2022 Motion to Vacate Arbitration Award in
the Underlying Lawsuit; (10) 6/16/2022 Order in the Underlying Lawsuit; (11)
7/5/2022 Arbitration Order of Clarification; (12) 8/15/2022 Arbitration Order
No. 82; (13) 8/26/2022 Motion for Relief Pursuant to CCP §§ 1286.6 and 473(b)
in the Underlying Lawsuit; (14) Reply Declaration of Jeffrey Bolson to Motion
for Relief in the Underlying Lawsuit; (15) 12/9/2022 Court Order in the
Underlying Lawsuit; (16) 4/29/2022 Dzida Substitution of Attorney in the
Underlying Lawsuit. (Plaintiffs RJN, Exs. 1-22; Evid. Code §§ subds. (c) and
(d).) 
 
            The Court takes judicial notice to
the extent of the documents’ existence. (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell,
Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885 [documents
are only judicially noticeable to show their existence and what orders were
made such that the truth of the facts and findings within the documents are not
judicially noticeable].)  
 
DISCUSSION
            A motion for summary judgment shall
be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact for trial or that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law. (CCP, § 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
The moving party bears the initial burden
of production to make a prima facie showing that no triable issue of material
fact exists. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
850.) To meet this burden, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does
not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out
the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Id.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If
the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.)  
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court
must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the
inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of
law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by
trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832,
839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may
the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
 
“To state a cause of action for legal
malpractice, a plaintiff must plead (1) the duty of the attorney to use such
skill, prudence, and diligence as members of his or her profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the breach and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or
damage resulting from the attorney’s negligence.” (Kumaraperu v. Feldsted (2015)
237 Cal.App.4th 60, 66, quotation marks omitted.) 
 
Count
1 – The Medallion Property Division 
Duty
“The extent of an attorney's duty to act
necessarily depends on the scope of the attorney-client relationship [citation],
and the scope of this relationship may be limited by the agreement between the
attorney and the client [citation]. But an attorney who undertakes one matter
on behalf of a client owes that client the duty to at least consider and advise
the client if there are apparent related matters that the client is overlooking
and that should be pursued to avoid prejudicing the client's interests. [E]ven
when a retention is expressly limited, the attorney may still have a duty to
alert the client to legal problems which are reasonably apparent, even though
they fall outside the scope of the retention.” (Janik v. Rudy, Exelrod &
Zieff (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 930, 940.) (internal citations and quotation
marks omitted). 
 
Dzida Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’
claims against them fail because they did not have a duty to alert Plaintiffs
to potential issues that were outside of the scope of the Dzida Defendants’
limited representation, and that regardless, they did alert Plaintiffs to the issue
with the partial legal description for the Medallion Property and alerted
Plaintiffs that causation was going to be an issue during Phase III. (MSJ, pp.
11:2-13:14.) This malpractice action arises from a three-phase arbitration between
Farkhondehpour and his former business partner. (UMF 1, 5-9) Dzida Defendants
assert that the alleged malpractice occurred after Phase II of the arbitration
and that Plaintiffs had instructed them in writing that their input was “not
required after Phase 2” and that they should “not be present or do any work
unless it was requested or confirmed in writing.” (UMF 14, 16-17; Dzida Decl.
¶¶ 28-34, Exs. 9-12.) Dzida Defendants assert that, per Plaintiffs’ order, they
were not involved in the subsequent trial in Phase III and only appeared once
to testify about their fees. (UMF 18; Bucknell Decl., Ex. 1 [Farkhondehpour Depo.,
pp. 77:11-79:2].) Dzida Defendants thus argue that because Plaintiffs gave them
instructions limiting the scope of their work after Phase II of the arbitration,
Plaintiffs cannot now hold them accountable for alleged malpractice that
occurred for responsibilities explicitly outside the scope of the agreed
limited representation. Dzida Defendants further argue that, if a duty was owed
to Plaintiff, they fulfilled that duty because Dzida Defendants warned
Plaintiffs that the legal description appeared to be incomplete, and that it
should be checked with a title company, and that stronger proof as to causation
was needed for the trial. (UMF 23-27, 38; Dzida Decl. ¶¶ 41-47.) 
 
As far as whether during their limited
representation the Dzida Defendants fulfilled their duty of care by alerting
Plaintiffs about the legal description and causation issues, the Court notes
that this goes to breach of duty rather than existence of duty. While existence
of duty is generally a question of law, the “degree of care and skill required
to fulfill a professional duty ordinarily is a question of fact and may require
testimony by professionals in the field….” (Grossman v. Wakeman (2024)
104 Cal.App.5th 1012, 1021.) A legal malpractice defendant moving for summary
judgment or adjudication has the burden of producing expert evidence negating
the plaintiff’s claim that there was a breach of the duty. (Crouse v.
Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1509, 1534-1535.)
Dzida Defendants have not provided expert testimony as to whether they
performed within the standard of care and thus have not met their burden of
production to show that they did not breach the duty of care owed in a limited
representation. 
 
Notwithstanding, Dzida Defendants have met
their prima facie burden of production to show that their duty to Plaintiffs did
not extend to the alleged acts of malpractice at issue in the Complaint because
the actions occurred during legal representation in which Dzida Defendants were
told not to participate. The burden thus shifts to Plaintiffs to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists. 
   
In opposition, Plaintiffs and Cochran
Defendants assert that the incorrect legal description for the Medallion
Property was admitted into evidence in January 2020, during Phase I of the
arbitration (Disputed Fact No. 14; Bolson Decl., Ex 4; Plaintiffs Sep.
Statement No. 14.) Plaintiffs and Cochran Defendants further assert that Plaintiffs
asked Dzida Defendants to review the proposed interim award in the arbitration,
which included the incorrect legal description, and Dzida Defendants did so. (Addtl
Disputed Fact No 6.) 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs and Cochran
Defendants have presented triable issues of fact as to whether the malpractice
occurred during Phase I of the arbitration, prior to Plaintiffs’ limiting the
scope of the Dzida Defendants’ representation. 
 
Damages
            To prevail in a legal malpractice
action, “[s]imply showing the attorney erred is not enough.” (Orrick
Herrington & Sutcliffe v. Superior Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1052,
1057.) The plaintiff must also establish that, but for the alleged malpractice
“the plaintiff would have obtained a more favorable judgment or settlement in
the action in which the malpractice allegedly occurred. The purpose of this requirement, which has
been in use for more than 120 years, is to safeguard against speculative and
conjectural claims. [Citation.] It serves the essential purpose of ensuring
that damages awarded for the attorney's malpractice actually have been caused
by the malpractice.” (Viner v. Sweet (2003) 30 Cal.4th 1232, 1241.) 
 
Dzida Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’
claims fail because the damages as to Count 1 are fatally uncertain and
speculative. (MSJ pp. 13:15-16:16.) Dzida Defendants assert that Plaintiffs
cannot show that the arbitrator in the underlying arbitration would have ruled
differently had he been provided with the ‘correct’ legal description because the
arbitrator confirmed his ruling when asked to clarify and declined to rehear
the issue. (UMF 33; Dzida Decl., Ex. 20.) Upon review of the clarification, the
arbitrator merely confirmed that he meant to define the property in conformity
with the legal description that was provided to him. (Dzida Decl., Ex 20.) In
addition, the arbitrator declined to rehear the issue on procedural, not
substantive, grounds. (RJN No, 15.) It is hardly speculative to accept that the
arbitrator would have defined the property in accordance with whatever legal
description with which he was provided. The ‘correct’ legal description assigns
30,000 additional square feet to the portion of the property ultimately awarded
to Plaintiffs. (Farkhondehpour Decl., ¶ 8.) 
 
 Thus,
the fact of damages is not impermissibly speculative and Dzida Defendants have
failed to meet their initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing
that no triable issue of material fact exists on this issue. 
 
Count 2
- Loan and Expenses Due to Former Business Partner’s
Criminal Indictment/Conviction
            As stated above, Dzida Defendants
assert that the scope of their representation was explicitly limited during
Phase III of the arbitration. Specifically, Dzida Defendants would “not be
involved in putting the case on for damages for failure to pay increased loan
and interest costs for the Medallion and other properties.” (Dzida Decl., Ex. 9)
Farkhondehpour further confirmed that in Phase III, Dzida Defendants “will
prepare a declaration re my fees, and I will otherwise participate only if the
two of you request it.” (Dzida Decl., Ex. 10) Thus, the scope of the Dzida
Defendants representation in Phase III clearly did not include presenting the
claim for damages. Thus, Dzida Defendants have met their initial burden to show
that there are no triable issues of material fact as to their duty as to Count 2
in the Complaint. The burden thus shifts to Plaintiffs to show that triable
issues exist. 
 
In Plaintiffs’ Opposition, Plaintiffs state
that Count 2 relates to “a separate claim for failure to present causation evidence
to prove that damages to the partnership were caused by an increased interest
rate on large loans due to Plaintiffs partners’ criminal indictment and later
conviction for money laundering and income tax evasion.” (Plaintiffs Opp., p.
5:21-24.) The Complaint is also clear that Count 2 pertains to the presentation
of damages during Phase III of the arbitration. (Compl., ¶ 50.) Indeed, Plaintiffs
assert that the “partial ‘stand down’ request only pertained to the Phase III
damages portion of the remaining arbitration. [SS]” (Plaintiffs Opp., p. 8:5-6;
Sep. Statement 17.) In his sworn declaration, Farkhondehpour states that his “‘stand
down’ comment only pertained to those matters going forward as to Phase III,
namely damages. It did not refer to the resolution of any past issues of Phase
I and Phase II nor did I relieve Dzida as counsel. I merely understood through
my comment that Dzida would not handle the certain monetary damages issues in
Phase III.” (Farkhondehpour Decl. ¶ 6.) Thus, it is clear that both Plaintiffs
and Dzida Defendants understood that Dzida Defendants were not to be involved
in presenting the damages claim during Phase III. Thus, Plaintiffs have failed
to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to Dzida Defendants’
duty under Count 2. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, the Dzida
Defendants’ Motion is GRANTED in part. 
            The Motion for Summary Adjudication
is DENIED as to Count 1 in the Complaint and GRANTED as to Count 2 in the
Complaint. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 15th day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



