  Case Number:  23STCV11871    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  11 Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration Re: Stern
(23STCV11871)
 
Date:                           1/18/24
 
Time:                          9:30
am
 
Moving Party:           Hyundai Motor America (“HMA”) and
Hyundai Capital America, Inc. (“HCA”) (collectively “Defendants”)
 
Opposing Party:        Andrew Stern (“Plaintiff”)
 
Department:              11        
 
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The hearing on Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is continued for
supplemental briefing.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a putative class
action.  The operative complaint asserts
six causes of action – violation of Civil Code section 1770, violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200, violation of Civil Code section
1750, breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, and restitution – and alleges the following facts:
 
9. On or about
December 19, 2019, Plaintiff leased a 2020 Hyundai Tucson, VIN
KM8J23A48LU145815 (“Vehicle”) from KEYES, one of HYUNDAI’s authorized
dealerships, for a lease term of three (3) years (“Lease Term”). 
 
10. Plaintiff, like
others similarly situated, entered into a California Motor Vehicle Lease
Agreement ("Lease Agreement") with FINANCE and KEYES for the Vehicle,
with the option to purchase the Vehicle. A true and correct copy of said Lease
Agreement is attached hereto, marked Exhibit “A” and incorporated herein by
reference. 
 
11. The Lease
Agreement was set to expire on December 18, 2022, and Plaintiff was in
discussions about purchasing the Vehicle with KEYES's sales manager in July
2022. 
 
12. As of July 2022,
the Vehicle, driven for almost three years under the Lease Agreement, had
around 11,000 miles, and its buy-out price was approximately $17,000.00
("Residual Value"). 
 
13. The Vehicle was
stolen on August 4, 2022, and while later recovered, it was deemed a
"total loss" by Plaintiff's insurance company, Farmers Insurance
("Farmers"). 
 
14. On or about
September 15, 2022, Plaintiff was informed by Farmers that the Vehicle's
pay-off figure obtained from HYUNDAI was $24,905.00, exceeding the Residual
Value owed by Plaintiff. 
 
15. Farmers' letter
further indicated that, after deductions, Plaintiff was entitled to $2,613.65
as net insurance claim proceeds. 
 
16. FINANCE's
assertion of a $24,905.00 pay-off strayed from the agreed-upon Residual Value
in the Lease Agreement. Instead, this claim was based on Section 25 of the
Lease Agreement, which entitled HYUNDAI to the “reasonable market value” -
rather than the contractual “Residual Value” - of the Vehicle once declared a
total loss. This interpretation has fundamentally altered the calculations and
expected payments within the Lease Agreement. 
 
17. Meanwhile,
Section 23 of the Lease Agreement grants to the Plaintiff the right to purchase
the Vehicle at any time before the lease term ends, provided no default has
occurred, but it makes absolutely no reference to Section 25. The default
referenced in Section 23 pertains to the requirements sets forth in Section 9,
which were not applicable to Plaintiff. 
 
18. At the time of
signing the Lease Agreement, Plaintiff asked to see the key deal terms
including the purchase options and the finance manager at the time pointed
Plaintiff to Section 9 and Section 23 of the Lease Agreement which identified
Plaintiff's purchase options. Plaintiff read Section 9 and Section 23 and
because there were absolutely no references to any language or sections within
the Lease Agreement to suggest that this absolute right to purchase the Vehicle
is taken away if the Vehicle is stolen or is damaged beyond repair, Plaintiff
had no reason to believe that his rights could be affected in other parts of
the Lease Agreement.
 
19. Plaintiff
challenges the validity of Section 25 of the Lease Agreement, given its direct
contradiction with Section 23. Amid the high-pressure nature of vehicle lease
negotiations at a dealership, and the influx of additional offerings such as
service contracts and maintenance packages, consumers such as the Plaintiff
reasonably concentrate their attention on sections that explicitly delineate
important deal terms, including but not limited to monthly payments, down
payment amount, purchase options, and mileage limits. The expectation or
feasibility of consumers scrutinizing every fine print of every page in every
document during this process is unrealistic. 
 
20. The Plaintiff
had no grounds to expect that significant constrains to his purchase rights
might be obscurely nestled in non-cross-referenced sections of the Lease
Agreement. The conspicuous absence of any cross-reference to Section 25,
despite the presence of such references among Sections 4, 9, 22, 23, and 24
within Section 23, accentuates the apparent inconsistency and purported
unfairness of Section 25. 
 
21. This lack of
explicit cross-reference potentially leaves consumers unaware of restrictions
on their purchase rights. This omission is purportedly and strategically
designed to provide an “illusion of absolute purchase rights” subject to the
Residual Value, despite the reality that conditions in Section 25 could
drastically alter these rights. 
 
22. It is well
understood that even a vehicle deemed a total loss by an insurance carrier -
typically based on the cost of repairs exceeding a set percentage of the
vehicle's value - still retains a salvage value. Significantly, there is no
language in Sections 9 or 23 of the Lease Agreement indicating that a
consumer's right to purchase is limited to non-salvage vehicles. This is
crucial as the Plaintiff, had the right to purchase his salvage vehicle been
upheld, could have received over $7,000 from the insurance proceeds. Despite
the Residual Value being around $17,000 to purchase the Vehicle during the
lease term, FINANCE received $24,905 from Farmers. The Plaintiff alleges that
this considerable sum was secured at his expense, asserting that his purchase
rights under the lease were abruptly and unfairly nullified under Section 25,
with the additional $7,000 being appropriated by FINANCE. 
 
23. Moreover, after
FINANCE received $24,905.00 for the Vehicle's "pay-off," HYUNDAI
billed the Plaintiff an additional $510.30 ("Additional Pay-off
Amount"). 
 
24. Upon inquiry,
the Plaintiff was informed that the $510.30 was the discrepancy between the
$1,000 deductible and credits owed to Plaintiff by HYUNDAI.
 
25. Nonetheless, on
August 31, 2022, HYUNDAI, indicating the Vehicle's pay-off as $24,905.00,
promised to "release and transfer all of its right, title and interest in
and to the Vehicle" to Farmers Insurance in consideration of said amount. 
 
26. Despite
receiving the requested $24,905.00, HYUNDAI continues to demand the Additional
Payoff Amount from the Plaintiff, threatening legal action and negative credit
reporting, which could adversely impact the Plaintiff's credit rating. 
 
27. As a result of
HYUNDAI's actions and omissions, the Plaintiff has suffered various damages,
including financial loss, decreased credit rating, and significant emotional
distress, such as stress, aggravation, frustration, loss of trust, loss of
serenity, and reduced confidence in engaging with car manufacturers and
dealerships.
 
(Second Amended Complaint, ¶¶
9-27, capitalizing in original.)
 
Here, Defendants move to compel arbitration.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence and Assent
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Defendants’
arbitration provision is attached to defense counsel’s declaration at Exhibit
A.  The provision states:
 
ARBITRATION
PROVISION
PLEASE
REVIEW - IMPORTANT - AFFECTS YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS
 
1.         EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY
DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL. 
2.         IF A DISPUTE IS ARBITRATED, YOU WILL
GIVE UP YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AS A CLASS REPRESENTATIVE OR CLASS MEMBER ON
ANY CLASS CLAIM YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST US INCLUDING ANY RIGHT TO CLASS
ARBITRATION OR ANY CONSOLIDATION OF INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATIONS. 
3.         DISCOVERY AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL IN
ARBITRATION ARE GENERALLY MORE LIMITED THAN IN A LAWSUIT, AND OTHER RIGHTS THAT
YOU AND WE WOULD HAVE IN COURT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE IN ARBITRATION.
 
Any claim or
dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the
interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability
of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents,
successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, lease or condition of this vehicle, this lease or any resulting
transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with third parties
who do not sign this lease) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by
neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action. If federal law provides
that a claim or dispute is not subject to binding arbitration, this Arbitration
Provision shall not apply to such claim or dispute. Any claim or dispute is to
be arbitrated by a single arbitrator on an individual basis and not as a class
action. You expressly waive any right you may have to arbitrate a class action.
You may choose either the American Arbitration Association, 725 South Figueroa
Street, Suite 400, Los Angeles, CA 90017 (www.adr.org), or Alternative
Resolution Center, 800 South Figueroa Street, Suite 1200, Los Angeles, CA 90017
(www.arc4adr.com). You may get a copy of the arbitration rules of either
organization by contacting it directly or visiting its website.
 
Arbitrators shall be
attorneys or retired judges and shall be selected pursuant to the applicable
rules. The arbitrator shall apply governing substantive law and the applicable
statute of limitations. The arbitration hearing shall be conducted in the federal
district in which you reside unless the Seller-Creditor is a party to the claim
or dispute, in which case the hearing will be held in the federal district
where this lease was executed. We will pay your filing, administration, service
or case management fee and your arbitrator or hearing fee all up to a maximum
of $5000, unless the law or the rules of the chosen arbitration organization
require us to pay more. The amount we pay may be reimbursed in whole or in part
by decision of the arbitrator if the arbitrator finds that any of your claims
is frivolous under applicable law. Each party shall be responsible for its own
attorney, expert and other fees, unless awarded by the arbitrator under
applicable law. If the chosen arbitration organization's rules conflict with
this Arbitration Provision, then the provisions of this Arbitration Provision
shall control. Any arbitration under this Arbitration Provision shall be
governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. § 1 et. seq.) [(“FAA”)] and
not by any state law concerning arbitration. Any award by the arbitrator shall
be in writing and will be final and binding on all parties, subject to any
limited right to appeal under the [FAA].
 
You and we retain
the right to seek remedies in small claims court for disputes or claims within
that court's jurisdiction, unless such action is transferred, removed or
appealed to a different court. Neither you nor we waive the right to arbitrate
by using self-help remedies, such as repossession, or by filing an action to
recover the vehicle, to recover a deficiency balance, or for individual
injunctive relief. Any court having jurisdiction may enter judgment on the
arbitrator's award. This Arbitration Provision shall survive any termination,
payoff or transfer of this lease. If any part of this Arbitration Provision,
other than waivers of class action rights, is deemed or found to be
unenforceable for any reason, the remainder shall remain enforceable. If a
waiver of class action rights is deemed or found to be unenforceable for any
reason in a case in which class action allegations have been made, the
remainder of this Arbitration Provision shall be unenforceable.
 
(Saldivar
Decl., Ex. A, capitalizing and bolding in original.)
 
It is undisputed that Plaintiff signed the provision.  (See, e.g., id. at ¶ 6; see also Plaintiff
Decl., ¶¶ 3-13.)  
 
Nevertheless, he challenges
assent, claiming he did not understand that he was agreeing to
arbitration.  (See Plaintiff Decl., ¶¶
8-12.)
 
The argument fails.  Plaintiff does not contend he was unable to
read English, and, anyway, lack of understanding is not a defense.  (See, e.g., Ramos
v. Westlake Services LLC (2015) 242
Cal.App.4th 674, 687 [“[T]he fact that [the plaintiff] signed a
contract in a language he may not have completely understood would not bar
enforcement of the arbitration agreement. 
If [the plaintiff] did not speak or understand English sufficiently to
comprehend the English Contract, he should have had it read or explained to
him.”].)
 
But
Plaintiff makes another argument.  He
asserts that the arbitration provision is a “distinct standalone document
executed only with the dealership” and that it does not apply to Defendants
since the lease agreement fails to incorporate it.  (Opposition, pp. 2, 8-10.)
 
The
Court continues the hearing. Although the arbitration provision covers disputes
with “employees, agents, successors or assigns,” it does not mention
Defendants.  (Saldivar Decl., Ex.
A.)  Although HCA’s manager declares that
HCA and Hyundai Lease Titling Trust constitute assigns, he fails to discuss
HMA.  (See id. at ¶¶ 2-3, 12-14.)  And although the lease agreement states that
“EXHIBIT A IS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE AS IF SET FORTH HEREIN[,]” it does not
define what Exhibit A is, and there is no Exhibit A attached to it.  (Id. at Ex. B, pp. 3-4, § 17.)  Moreover, the arbitration provision fails to
identify itself as Exhibit A.  (See id.
at Ex. A.)  Are Defendants assigns within
the meaning of the provision?  Is the
provision Exhibit A?  Does the lease
agreement incorporate it?  These
questions need to be answered before the Court can find that an agreement to
arbitrate exists, so the parties should submit supplemental briefs.
 
Enforcement
 
The enforcement issue is
premature.  It will not be ripe unless
and until the existence issue is resolved, and only if it is resolved in
Defendants’ favor.
 
As a matter of guidance,
Plaintiff’s enforcement argument seems unavailing.  Plaintiff contends: 
 
* the lease agreement is
unconscionable (see Opposition, pp. 3-7); 
 
* the unconscionable portions
cannot be severed (see id. at 7-8); 
 
* the lease agreement is
unenforceable as a result (see ibid.); and 
 
* the arbitration provision is
unenforceable “by extension[.]”  (Id. at
p. 8.)
 
The Court disagrees.  Per the plain language of the arbitration
provision, the FAA governs.  (See
Saldivar Decl., Ex. A.)  United States Supreme
Court precedent instructs that, when the FAA applies, “a party’s challenge to another provision of the
contract, or to the contract as a whole, does not prevent a court from
enforcing a specific agreement to arbitrate.” 
(Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 70; see
also Nielsen Contracting, Inc. v. Applied Underwrites, Inc. (2018) 22
Cal.App.5th 1096, 1107-1108 [“It has long been settled that when
parties have agreed to arbitration, challenges to the validity of the
underlying contract, including contract defenses such as fraud in the
inducement or illegality, are for the arbitrator to decide. [Citations.] This
is because the arbitration clause is viewed as separate from the underlying
contract. [Citation.] Thus, allegations that the main contract is unlawful or
unconscionable does not affect the enforceability of the arbitration clause.”].)  Since Plaintiff fails to challenge the
delegation clause and to show that the arbitration provision is unconscionable
on its own (separate from the lease agreement), the provision appears
enforceable, regardless of whether the lease agreement is enforceable.  (See Reply, pp. 2-7; see also Knight,
supra, at ¶ 5:155.7 [noting that “[t]he party opposing a motion to compel
arbitration on the ground of unconscionability has the burden to prove the
defense”].)[1]
 
Class Waiver
 
Plaintiff cites Gentry v.
Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 443, asserting that California
law disfavors class waivers.  (See
Opposition, pp. 11-12.)
 
The argument is premature and
wrong.  The FAA preempts California law,
and Gentry has been abrogated. 
(See Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59
Cal.4th 348, 359-360, 362-366 [discussing AT&T Mobility LLC.
v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333].) 
The Court intends to enforce the class waiver and to strike the class
claims if an agreement to arbitrate is found to exist.
 
 
 
 


