 Case Number:  22STCV19334    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TIMOTHY PHILIPS, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SEIZMIC, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV19334
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION
  FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 7, 2024



 
On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff Timothy Philips[1] filed a third amended complaint (“TAC”)
against Defendants Seizmic Inc. and Sal Fateen.
On February 13, 2024, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file an amended complaint that would cure the defects
in identifying the causes of action on the caption page.
On February 14, 2024, Defendants filed
a motion for summary adjudication.
On February 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a fourth amended complaint (“4AC”).
CAUSES
OF ACTION
The TAC’s caption page—and Defendants’
motion—identify the causes of action as (1) disability discrimination in violation
of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”); (2) failure to provide reasonable
accommodation in violation of FEHA; (3) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (4) failure
to prevent discrimination and retaliation in violation of FEHA; (5) whistleblower
retaliation in violation of the Labor Code; (6) violation of Labor Code section
6310 (retaliation); (7) violation of Labor Code section 6400, et seq. (furnish  safe and healthful place of employment); (8) wrongful
termination in violation of public policy; (9) failure to permit inspection or copying
of personnel file (Labor Code section 1198.5); and (10) declaratory relief.
The TAC’s substance, however, varies beginning
at the seventh cause of action.  In the body
of the complaint, the TAC alleges (7) wrongful termination in violation of public
policy; (8) failure to permit inspection or copying of personnel file (Labor Code
section 226); (9) failure to permit inspection or copying of personnel file (Labor
Code section 1198.5); and (10) declaratory relief.
These clerical inconsistencies were corrected
in Plaintiff’s 4AC.  Accordingly, the Court
will refer to the numbering as set forth in the 4AC.

EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
A.        Plaintiff’s Objections
Nos.
1-10:  Overruled.
B.        Defendants’ Objections
Nos.
1-4:  Overruled.
C.        Other Evidentiary Issues
In
response to the Separate Statement and in his own Additional Material Facts, Plaintiff
frequently cites his own responses to Defendant’s interrogatories.  A responding party cannot use their own interrogatory
responses as evidence.  (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.410.)
Plaintiff
also cites the 4AC.  The allegations in a
complaint are not evidence.
BACKGROUND
FACTS
Plaintiff
was an employee of Defendant Seizmic Inc. 
(Undisputed Material Facts “UMF” 1.) 
Defendant Sal Fateen was Seizmic’s Chief Executive Officer and did not employ
Plaintiff in his individual capacity.  (UMF
1.)
Plaintiff
suffered an injury that required him to take time off work from approximately May
26, 2020 to June 4, 2021.  (UMF 2.)  On June 4, 2021, Plaintiff returned to work in
the role of Quality Control with work restrictions.  (UMF 3.) 
Seizmic created the role of Quality Control for Plaintiff by reassigning
duties from existing employees.  (UMF 3.)  In this new role in Quality Control, Plaintiff
was responsible for tasks such as checking blueprints, measuring parts for projects,
checking parts for projects, insuring materials were allocated to the correct jobs,
and performing various tasks within his restriction.  (UMF 4.)
Between
June 2021 and December 2021, Seizmic’s foreman issued at least three verbal reprimands
to Plaintiff regarding his unsatisfactory job performance in his role with the Quality
Control department.  (UMF 5.)  Specifically, Seizmic received customer complaints
regarding outbound deliveries and internal complaints regarding inaccurate inbound
vendor deliveries.  (UMF 5.)  Seizmic incurred substantial costs attributable
to Plaintiff’s mistakes in his role as Quality Control.  (UMF 6.) 
Additionally, Plaintiff received an Employee Disciplinary Report for an unexcused
absence.  (UMF 7.)
Plaintiff
alleged “safety violations” when he learned that his coworker tested positive for
COVID-19 on or around December 13, 2021. 
(UMF 24-25.)  That day, Plaintiff complain
to his superiors about the lack of communication and their safety violations and
left work without informing anyone.  (UMF
27.)  Seizmic issued an Employee Disciplinary
Report for this behavior.  (UMF 27.)  Seizmic’s COVID-19 safety protocol included a
process for notifying their employees when a fellow employee tested positive for
COVID-19, as well as making COVID-19 tests available to employees.  (UMF 26.)
On
January 12, 2022, Seizmic terminated Plaintiff’s employment due to his performance
deficiencies in his role as Quality Control and Seizmic’s overall reduced workload.  (UMF 8; see Additional Material Fact “AMF” 15.)  As a result, Seizmic reallocated Plaintiff’s job
duties back to the shop foremen, as employees in the role of shop foreman were responsible
for these same quality control tasks prior to Seizmic’s June 2021 creation of the
Quality Control position for Plaintiff.  (UMF
8.)
Plaintiff’s
June 14, 2022 “Right to Sue” letter referencing Philips’ complaint with the Department
of Fair Employment and Housing (“DFEH”) identifies only Seizmic, Inc. as the respondent
and employer.  (UMF 102.)
LEGAL
STANDARD
For
each claim in the complaint, the defendant moving for adjudication must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by showing that one or more elements of a cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense to a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520 (Scalf).)  Then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf,
supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1520.)  To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.”  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151, 162-163 (Sangster).)
DISCUSSION
Defendants
move for summary adjudication of all causes of action except the eighth and ninth
for failure to permit inspection or copying of personnel file.
Defendants
also move for summary adjudication of Fateen’s affirmative defense of failure to
exhaust administrative remedies for the first, second, third, and fourth causes
of action.
A.        Plaintiff Failed to Exhaust Administrative
Remedies for Fateen (First, Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action).
Defendants
argue that Fateen’s affirmative defense of failure to exhaust administrative remedies
is a complete defense.  (Motion at p. 6.)
Under
section 437c, subdivision (f)(1), “A party may move for summary adjudication as
to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses,
one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends
that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the
cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause
of action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe
a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” 
Defendants
are not asking the Court to determine that “there is no affirmative defense to the
cause of action” or “that there is no merit to an affirmative defense.”  Rather, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s causes
of action “ha[ve] no merit” because they are barred by an affirmative defense.
“Under
the FEHA, the employee must exhaust the administrative remedy provided by the statute
by filing a complaint with the [DFEH] and must obtain from the Department a notice
of right to sue in order to be entitled to file a civil action in court based on
violations of the FEHA.  [Citations.]  The timely filing of an administrative complaint
is a prerequisite to the bringing of a civil action for damages under the FEHA.”  (Romano v. Rockwell International, Inc.
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 479, 492; see Gov. Code, §§ 12960, 12965, subd. (b).)
The
failure to name an individual as a person against whom the complaint is made or
to name them in the body of the complaint precludes a civil action against them.  (Medix Ambulance Service, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 109, 118.) 
The doctrine of alter ego does not obviate compliance with the statutory
requirements of administrative exhaustion. 
(Id. at p. 116 [“Nor is there any authority for plaintiff’s unsupported
argument that the doctrine of alter ego somehow obviates compliance with the statutory
requirements”].)
It
is undisputed that Plaintiff’s June 14, 2022 DFEH “Right to Sue” letter identifies
only Seizmic, Inc. as the respondent and employer.  (UMF 102; Motion, Ex. 6; Opposition, Ex. I.)  Fateen is not mentioned at all in the body of
the DFEH complaint.  (Motion, Ex. 6; Opposition,
Ex. I
Defendants
have met their burden of showing that the first, second, third, and fourth causes
of action have no merit as to Fateen.
Plaintiff
argues that he amended the complaint in this action on June 27, 2023 to substitute
Doe 1 with Fateen, and the DFEH complaint also alleges that he worked for “Does
1-25.”  (Opposition at p. 5.)  But this is insufficient to have put Fateen on
notice of the DFEH complaint and to serve the purposes of FEHA.  “For a claimant to withhold naming of known or
reasonably obtainable defendants at the administrative complaint level is neither
fair under [FEHA] in its purpose of advancing speedy resolutions of claims nor fair
to known, but unnamed individuals, who at a later date are called upon to ‘personally’
account in a civil lawsuit without having been afforded a right to participate at
the administrative level.”  (Valdez v.
City of Los Angeles (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1043, 1061.)  Accordingly, the failure to name a defendant in
the administrative complaint “is fatal to the right to bring an action against them
in the trial court.”  (Ibid.)
Summary
adjudication of the first, second, third, and fourth causes of action is granted
in favor of Fateen.
B.        Defendants Did Not Notice the Issue of
Fateen’s Individual Liability.
Defendants
argue that Fateen “in his role as founder/CEO of Defendant Seizmic, is not liable
to Plaintiff for discrimination and/or retaliation as a matter of law.”  (Motion at p. 6.)  This was not an issue identified in the Notice
of Motion.  “Only the grounds specified in
the notice of motion may be considered by the trial court.  [Citation.] 
This rule has been held to be especially true in the case of motions for
summary adjudication of issues.”  (Gonzales
v. Superior Court (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542, 1545.)
C.        Defendants Have Proven a Legitimate and
Non-Discriminatory Reason for the Alleged Discrimination and Retaliation (First
and Third Causes of Action).
The
first cause of action alleges disability discrimination by terminating Plaintiff’s
employment.  (See 4AC ¶ 35.)  The third cause of action alleges retaliation
in response to Plaintiff requesting a reasonable accommodation for his disability.  (4AC ¶¶ 70-72.)
An
employee’s prima facie claim of discrimination requires “(1) the employee’s membership
in a classification protected by the statute; (2) discriminatory animus on the part
of the employer toward members of that classification; (3) an action by the employer
adverse to the employee’s interests; (4) a causal link between the discriminatory
animus and the adverse action; (5) damage to the employee; and (6) a causal link
between the adverse action and the damage.” 
(Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 686, 713.)  If an employee makes a prima facie showing, the
burden shifts to the employer to articulate a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason
for the adverse action.  (Id. at p.
714.)  “To establish that an employer has
discriminated on the basis of a disability in violation of FEHA, the plaintiff employee
has the burden of proving he or she could perform ‘the essential functions of the
job with or without reasonable accommodation.’” 
(Atkins, supra, 8 Cal.App.5th at p. 716.)
“In
an employment discrimination case, an employer may move for summary judgment against
a discrimination cause of action with evidence of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory
reason for the adverse employment action. 
[Citation.]  A legitimate, nondiscriminatory
reason is one that is unrelated to prohibited bias and that, if true, would preclude
a finding of discrimination.  [Citation.]  The employer’s evidence must be sufficient to
allow the trier of fact to conclude that it is more likely than not that on or more
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reasons were the sole basis for the adverse employment
action.”  (Featherstone v. Southern California
Permanente Medical Group (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158 (Featherstone).)  Then the burden shifts to the employee “to present
evidence that the employer’s decision was motivated at least in part by prohibited
discrimination.”  (Id. at pp. 1158-1159.)  “The plaintiff’s evidence must be sufficient to
support a reasonable inference that discrimination was a substantial motivating
factor in the decision.  [Citation.]  The stronger the employer’s showing of a legitimate,
nondiscriminatory reason, the stronger the plaintiff’s evidence must be in order
to create a reasonable inference of a discriminatory motive.”  (Id. at p. 1159.)  
“The
employee’s ‘subjective beliefs in an employment discrimination case do not create
a genuine issue of fact; nor do uncorroborated and self-serving declarations.’  [Citation.] 
(Featherstone, supra, 10 Cal.App.5th at p. 1159.)  “To show that an employer’s reason for termination
is pretextual, an employee ‘ “cannot simply show that the employer’s decision was
wrong or mistaken, since the factual dispute at issue is whether discriminatory
animus motivated the employer, not whether the employer is wise, shrewd, prudent
or competent.” ’  [Citation.]  To meet his or her burden, the employee ‘ “must
demonstrate such weaknesses, implausibilities, inconsistencies, incoherencies, or
contradictions in the employer’s proffered legitimate reasons for its action that
a reasonable factfinder could rationally find them ‘unworthy of credence,’ ” ’ and
hence infer ‘ “the employer did not act for [the asserted] nondiscriminatory reasons.”
’  [Citations.]”  (Ibid.)
Similarly,
to establish a prima facie case of retaliation under FEHA, a plaintiff must show
“(1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the
employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between
the protected activity and the employer’s action.  [Citations.] 
Once an employee establishes a prima facie case, the employer is required
to offer a legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action.  [Citation.]  
If the employer produces a legitimate reason for the adverse employment action,
the presumption of retaliation ‘‘‘drops out of the picture,’’’ and the burden shifts
back to the employee to prove intentional retaliation.  [Citation.]” 
(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.)
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s termination was based on the legitimate, nondiscriminatory
reasons of Plaintiff’s unsatisfactory job performance, unexcused absence and insubordination
as memorialized in the Employee Disciplinary Report, and Seizmic’s reduced workload.  (Motion at pp. 6-7, 20.)  It is undisputed that Plaintiff was verbally reprimanded
at least three times for unsatisfactory job performance after customer complaints
regarding outbound deliveries and internal complaints regarding inaccurate inbound
vendor deliveries, leading to substantial costs for Seizmic.  (UMF 5-6.) 
Plaintiff also received an Employee Disciplinary Report for an unexcused
absence.  (UMF 7.)  Plaintiff’s role as Quality Control was created
for him by reassigning and consolidating certain duties previously performed by
multiple employees, and a reduction in workload required elimination of this new
position and the transfer of those duties back to the same employees who were previously
responsible for these tasks.  (UMF 3, 8.)  Seizmic terminated Plaintiff’s employment due
to his performance deficiencies in his role as Quality Control and Seizmic’s overall
reduced workload.  (UMF 8.)
Defendants
have met their initial burden of showing legitimate, nondiscriminatory reasons for
the adverse employment actions.  (Motion at
pp. 18, 21-22.)  The burden now shifts to
Plaintiff to show pretext and intentional retaliation.
Plaintiff
argues that he “was always a hard worker and was never reprimanded for his work
performance as a Quality Control.”  (Opposition
at p. 6.)  Plaintiff’s cited evidence is the
4AC, which is not evidence, and Plaintiff’s wife’s declaration.  (See AMF 1.) 
Michelle Philips declares, “To the best of my knowledge Plaintiff did not
have any work performance issues working as Quality Control,” and “I am unaware
of any occasions where Plaintiff was reprimanded for performing work as a Quality
Control.”  (Philips Decl. ¶¶ 8-9.)  Her unawareness is insufficient to overcome Defendants’
direct evidence of reprimands and Employee Disciplinary Report.
Plaintiff
also argues that his unexcused absence was “due to Plaintiff’s frustration and anger
with Defendants refusing to properly address the safety concern he had brought up
and Mr. Gonzalez’s statement that employees were ‘just bodies’ to Defendants.  (Opposition at pp. 6-7.)  Plaintiff’s cited evidence is again the 4AC, plus
Plaintiff’s own responses to Defendants’ interrogatories, which is not admissible
evidence.  (AMF 6-12.)
Plaintiff
argues that the reduction of workload is untrue because Fred Lopez immediately took
over Plaintiff’s duties, and Plaintiff was the only one terminated.  (Opposition at p. 7.)  Plaintiff’s cited evidence is again the Plaintiff’s
wife’s declaration.  (AMF16-17.)  Michelle Philips “observed that Plaintiff was
the only person terminated at that time and no other employee was terminated,” and
she “continued to work for Seizmic even after Plaintiff’s termination but did not
see any other employee terminated for ‘reduced workload’ at Seizmic.”  (Philips Decl. ¶¶ 10-11.)  Even if that is true, Plaintiff has not disputed,
with admissible evidence, that Plaintiff’s performance deficiencies in his role
as Quality Control was a separate legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.
Finally,
Plaintiff argues, “The proximity of Plaintiff’s complaint to Plaintiff’s termination
[about one month] provides circumstantial evidence that Plaintiff’s termination
was motivated because of his complaint.” 
(Opposition at p. 7.)  “[T]emporal
proximity alone is not sufficient to raise a triable issue as to pretext once the
employer has offered evidence of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the
termination.”  (Arteaga v. Brink’s, Inc.
(2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 327, 353.)  “‘Standing
alone against Defendant’s strongly supported legitimate reason for terminating [Plaintiff],
temporal proximity does not amount to more than a scintilla of evidence of [discrimination].’”  (Ibid.)
Summary
adjudication of the first and third causes of action is granted in favor of Defendants.
D.        Defendants Have Shown That Plaintiff Did
Not Make a Valid Complaint About Unsafe Working Conditions (Sixth Cause of Action).
The
sixth cause of action alleges that Defendants violated Labor Code section 6310 with
their discrimination and retaliation due to Plaintiff’s complaints about the lack
of notification of a COVID-19 exposure.  (4AC
¶¶ 101-104.)  Plaintiff bases this claim on
Labor Code section 6400, subdivision (a), which requires every employer to “furnish
employment and a place of employment that is safe and healthful for the employees
therein.”
An
employer may not discharge or discriminate against any employee who makes an oral
or written complaint of unsafe working conditions.  (Lab. Code, § 6310, subds. (a)-(b).)
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot establish the existence of unsafe working conditions.  (Motion at pp. 8-9.)  It is undisputed that Seizmic’s COVID-19 safety
protocol included a process for notifying their employees when an employee tested
positive for COVID-19, as well as making COVID-19 tests available to employees.  (UMF 26.) 
Upon learning about a coworker’s COVID-19 diagnosis from sources other than
Defendants, Plaintiff “complain[ed] to his superiors about the lack of communication
and their safety violations.”  (4AC ¶ 28.)  However, “[t]he voicing of a fear about one’s
safety in the workplace does not necessarily constitute a complaint about unsafe
working conditions under Labor Code section 6310.”  (Muller v. Automobile Club of So. California
(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 431, 452.)
Defendants
have met their initial burden of showing that Plaintiff did not make a qualifying
complaint about unsafe working conditions.
Plaintiff
argues that his complaint “was not about Defendants not implementing a specific
COVID-19 safety protocol and procedure,” but was instead about Defendants’ knowledge
that an employee tested positive but did not promptly notify employees of that positive
test.  (Opposition at p. 8.)  Plaintiff cites only his AMF 2-11 in support,
which consist of the 4AC and Plaintiff’s own responses to Defendants’ interrogatories.  Plaintiff has not established, via admissible
evidence, any disputed material fact.
Summary
adjudication of the sixth cause of action is granted in favor of Defendants.
E.        Defendants Have Shown That Plaintiff’s
Alleged Whistleblowing Was Not a Contributing Factor to His Termination (Fifth Cause
of Action).
The
fifth cause of action alleges that Defendants retaliated against him by terminating
his employment after he made complaints about COVID-19 exposure.  (4AC ¶¶ 88-89.)
An
employer may not retaliate against an employee who discloses, or may disclose, information
about a violation of state or federal statute if the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation.  (Lab. Code, § 1102.5, subd. (a).)
Labor
Code “section 1102.6, and not McDonnell Douglas, supplies the applicable
framework for litigating and adjudicating section 1102.5 whistleblower claims.”  (Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc.
(2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 712 (Lawson).)  After a plaintiff demonstrates by a preponderance
of the evidence that his protected activity was a contributing factor in the adverse
employment action, the employer must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence
that the adverse employment action would have occurred for legitimate, independent
reasons even if the employee did not engage in the protected conduct.  (Lab. Code, § 1102.6.)  Under this standard, “plaintiffs may satisfy their
burden of proving unlawful retaliation even when other, legitimate factors also
contributed to the adverse action.”  (Lawson,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at pp. 713-714.)
Plaintiff’s
alleged whistleblower complaint was for Defendants’ violation of Labor Code section
6400, subdivision (a).  (4AC ¶ 89.)  Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot “establish[]
that Defendants were required to comply with the exact COVID-19 protocol Plaintiff
requested, nor has Plaintiff proven that Defendants’ existing COVID-19 protocol
was so deficient so as to create an unsafe work environment and/or [a] workplace
safety hazard.”  (Motion at pp. 9-10.)  For the reasons discussed with the sixth cause
of action, Defendants have established that there was no actual violation.
Even
without any actual violation, an employer may not retaliate against an employee
who has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a violation.  (Lab. Code, § 1102.5, subd. (a).)  “Under the statute, the relevant inquiry is not
whether the conduct ‘actually violated’ any specific statute or regulation, but
whether the plaintiff ‘reasonably believed that there was a violation of
a statute, rule, or regulation’ at the time it was reported.”  (Killgore v. SpecPro Professional Services,
LLC (9th Cir. 2022) 51 F.4th 973, 988 [quoting Nejadian v. County of Los
Angeles (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 703, 719].) 
Defendants do not address the reasonableness of Plaintiff’s belief.
Even
if Plaintiff did have reasonable cause to believe that Defendants were violating
Labor Code section 6400, subdivision (a), Defendants argue that they had a legitimate,
nondiscriminatory reason for their actions. 
(Motion at p. 10.)  For the reasons
stated with the first and third causes of action, Defendants have met their initial
burden of showing that Plaintiff’s termination would have still occurred for legitimate,
independent reasons.
Plaintiff
argues that he “engaged in a protected activity when he complained to Defendants
about an unsafe work environment created by Defendants’ failure to inform employees
of a positive COVID-19 test at the workplace,” and Defendants terminated him within
one month of the complaint.  (Opposition at
p. 9.)  For the reasons stated with the first
and third causes of action, this does not create a triable issue of fact about whether
his complaint was a contributing factor in the adverse employment action.
Summary
adjudication of the fifth cause of action is granted in favor of Defendants.
F.         There Is No Basis for Wrongful Termination
In Violation of Public Policy (Seventh Cause of Action).
An
employee may bring a tort cause of action when his employer terminates his employment
in contravention of public policy.  (Tameny
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (1980) 27 Cal.3d 167, 177.)  The public policy must be “tethered to fundamental
policies that are delineated in constitutional or statutory provisions.”  (Gantt v. Sentry Insurance (1992) 1 Cal.4th
1083, 1095.)
Plaintiff
bases this cause of action on Defendants allegedly terminating his employment in
violation of FEHA.  (4AC ¶ 112.)  But without a FEHA violation, there is no violation
of public policy.
Summary
adjudication of the seventh cause of action is granted in favor of Defendants.
G.        Defendants Have Proven That They Reasonably
Accommodated Plaintiff (Second Cause of Action).
The
second cause of action alleges that Defendants did not accommodate Plaintiff’s disability
because they refused to allow him to continue working in Quality Control.  (4AC ¶¶ 59-60.)
“The
essential elements of a failure to accommodate claim are: (1) the plaintiff has
a disability covered by the FEHA; (2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e.,
he or she can perform the essential functions of the position); and (3) the employer
failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff's disability.  [Citation]” 
(Cuiellette v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 757, 766.)  “Two principles underlie a cause of action for
failure to provide a reasonable accommodation. 
First, the employee must request an accommodation.  [Citation.] 
Second, the parties must engage in an interactive process regarding the requested
accommodation and, if the process fails, responsibility for the failure rests with
the party who failed to participate in good faith.  [Citation.]” 
(Moore v. Regents of University of California (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
216, 242.)
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants “intentionally and willfully failed to provide a reasonable
accommodation for PLAINTIFF’s disability, including, but not limited to, refusing
to allow PLAINTIFF to work in Quality Control as he had done competently for six
(6) months.”  (4AC ¶ 60.)
Defendants
argue that they “exceeded their legal obligation to accommodate [Plaintiff’s] disability”
by creating the position of Quality Control for him, but this position was eliminated
due to Plaintiff’s poor job performance and a reduction in Seizmic’s overall workload.  (Motion at p. 8; see UMF 3, 5-8.)
Plaintiff
argues that because Plaintiff’s duties were reassigned, there was work available
and there was no undue hardship by continuing to accommodate Plaintiff in that role.  (Opposition at pp. 7-8.)
For
all the reasons previously discussed, Defendants have met their burden and Plaintiff
has failed to show a triable issue of material fact regarding the reasons for the
elimination of his position and his termination.
Summary
adjudication of the second cause of action is granted in favor of Defendants.
H.        Because Defendants Prevail on the Underlying
Claims, They Cannot Be Liable for Failure to Prevent (Fourth Cause of Action).
The
fourth cause of action alleges failure to prevent discrimination and retaliation.  (4AC ¶¶ 78-85.)
Defendants
argue that because there was no discrimination or retaliation, they also cannot
be liable for failing to prevent discrimination or retaliation.  (Motion at pp. 10-11.)  “[C]ourts have required a finding of actual discrimination
or harassment under FEHA before a plaintiff may prevail under [Government Code]
section 12940, subdivision (k).”  (Carter
v. California Dept. of Veterans Affairs (2006) 38 Cal.4th 914, 925, fn. 4.)
For
the reasons discussed above, summary adjudication of the fourth cause of action
is also granted in favor of Defendants.  (See
Glynn v. Superior Court (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 47, 56.)
I.          Because Defendants Prevail on the Underlying
Claims, There is No Basis For Declaratory Relief (Tenth Cause of Action).
Plaintiff
“desires a judicial determination of his rights and duties, and a declaration that
DEFENDANTS discriminated and retaliated against him on the basis of his perceived
and/or actual disability and medical condition, and violated PLAINTIFF’s civil rights.”  (4AC ¶ 138.)
Because
Defendants have proven that there was no discrimination or retaliation, and Plaintiff
failed to show triable issues of material fact, summary adjudication of the tenth
cause of action is also granted in favor of Defendants.
CONCLUSION
The
motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED.
The
parties are urged to consider whether the July 15, 2024 jury trial is the most efficient
use of resources to resolve the remaining eighth and ninth causes of action (failure
to permit inspection or copying of personnel file).
An
Order to Show Case Re: Reclassification to Limited Jurisdiction is scheduled for
July 1, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. in Department 48 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 7th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 


