 Case Number:  23STCV15449    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DYLAN SCOTT PERRY, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
THE WALT DISNEY CO. dba TWENTIETH
  CENTURY STUDIOS,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV15449
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEFENDANTS’
  DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 7, 2024



 
On July 3, 2023, Plaintiff
Dylan Scott Perry (“Perry”) filed this action against Defendant Walt Disney
Company dba Twentieth Century Studios (“Disney”), alleging a violation of his
Civil Rights, as outlined in the Declaration of Independence, including his right
to Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness. 
On September 8, 2023, Defendant Disney filed a demurrer. 
DEMURRER
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context, accepting the alleged facts as true. 
(Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401,
1406.)  A special demurrer for uncertainty
under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f) is disfavored and
will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff
cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Even if the pleading
is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.”  (Ibid.)
A complaint must contain “facts
constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language.” Code Civ.
Proc. § 425.10(a)(1).  When a demurrer is
sustained, we determine whether the complaint states facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. [Citation.] And when it is sustained without
leave to amend, we decide whether there is a reasonable possibility that the
defect can be cured by amendment: if it can be, the trial court has abused its
discretion and we reverse; if not, there has been no abuse of discretion, and
we affirm. 
(Zelig v. Cnty. of Los Angeles, (2002) 27 Cal. 4th 1112,
1126, 45 P.3d 1171, 1180.)
 
A.
       Plaintiff Fails to Assert Facts
Sufficient to Constitute a Viable Cause of Action
Defendant
generally and specifically demurs to Plaintiff’s entire complaint on the basis
that (1) the Complaint is uncertain pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10(f); and (2) the Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(e). 
Plaintiff
generally alleges that Defendant Disney used the animated television series American
Dad! to send him coded death threats, and thus, take away his civil rights
of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness under the Declaration of
Independence.   (Complaint at p. 2.)  As such, Plaintiff demands $1 billion in
monetary relief to be able to afford security, including a “moat, alligators, a
drawbridge, nuclear defenses, anti-air missiles, and to hire 4 or more Mercenaries
wielding M16s to secure the perimeter my home.” 
(Id. at 4.)  “I will also
need to hire bodyguards to escort my future children to and from school, and my
future wife to and from her business/errands . . .  I require a piece of land near the ocean.  I have a condition that requires me to swim
in the ocean to aid in drainage of mucous from my sinuses.” (Id.)
Plaintiff
seeks immediate injunctive relief in the form of (1) the Court ordering the
“episode containing the threats be removed from television and all streaming
platforms.” (Complaint at p. 3.)  (2)
Plaintiff wants Disney to “cease all productions at once, as they could
potentially threaten others or try to unjustly/unlawfully govern them.”  (Id.) 
Lastly, (3) Plaintiff seeks “a restraining order that will prevent the
Walt Disney Company from threatening me, stalking me, murdering me, or implying
that they will murder me, my father, or my girlfriend.”  (Id.) 
Plaintiff also prays for punitive damages and asserts that Disney should
be shut down and made to forfeit all their assets and land to the US Government
to be governed by the people.  (Id.
at p. 6.)
Defendant
Disney argues Plaintiff’s Complaint is so uncertain as to be unintelligible and
that Disney cannot make enough sense of Plaintiff’s allegations to defend
itself.  (Demurrer at p. 1.)  Disney further argues that Plaintiff does not
allege any cause of action or plead facts to provide a legal basis to support
his claim of civil rights violations.  (Id.
at p. 2.)
Disney also notes that this is
Plaintiff’s third lawsuit with Los Angeles Superior Court relating to the
cartoon American Dad!  On August 11,
2023, Judge Curtis Kin in Department 82 denied Plaintiff’s ex parte application
for a temporary restraining order and writ of possession in this action.  Plaintiff filed the August 11 ex parte
application before serving Disney with the Complaint in this case and after
Disney had filed Demurrers in the two other cases: 23STCV11392 and 23STCP01900
(demurrers filed June 23, 2023).  On
August 14, 2023, Judge Chalfant in Department 85 denied Plaintiff’s related ex
parte application in case number 23STCV11392.  Previously, on June 16, 2023, Judge Curtis Kin
in Department 82 had denied Plaintiff’s ex parte application in case number
23STCP01900.  Now, all three cases are
related before this Court. 
The Court finds Plaintiff has not
set forth facts sufficient to allege a cause of action.  Plaintiff does not provide a legal basis for
his allegations and does not assert facts that could support such basis, even
if Plaintiff had provided one.  Moreover,
the Court agrees that Plaintiff’s allegations are entirely uncertain and do not
provide Disney with facts sufficient to build a legal defense.  It is not clear what causes of action
Plaintiff is asserting.  Further,
Defendants have adequately met their requirement to meet and confer with
Plaintiff.  (Fenzel Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) 
Thus,
the Court sustains the demurrer as to the entire complaint.
CONCLUSION
The
demurrer to the entire Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  Parties intending
to appear are STRONGLY encouraged to appear remotely.
 
        
Dated this 7th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D.
  Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 