 Case Number:  22STCV15653    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SKYE ANESTHESIA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
RAYMOND GHERMEZIAN, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV15653
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER; GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES;
  DENYING MOTION TO STRIKE ANSWER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 7, 2024



 
On
December 5, 2023, Plaintiff Skye Anesthesia deposed Raymond Ghermezian, the principal
of Defendant Raymond Ghermezian APLC.
On
December 29, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for protective order.  Defendant seeks an order that Plaintiff retain
and pay for a discovery referee at any future depositions.
On
January 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further answers and production
of documents.  Plaintiff seeks an order for
the further deposition of Raymond Ghermezian and for a response to the Request for
Production of Documents that accompanied the deposition notice.
PROTECTIVE
ORDER
Upon
a showing of good cause, the Court may issue a protective order to protect a party
or deponent from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden
and expense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420,
subd. (b).)  The protective order may include
directions that the deposition not be taken, be taken at a different time or place,
be taken on certain specified terms and conditions, be taken by written instead
of oral examination, or that the scope be limited to certain matters.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).)  “[T]he burden is on the party seeking the protective
order to show good cause for whatever order is sought.”  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
According
to Defendant, “Plaintiff’s counsel’s conduct at the deposition was reprehensible,
at best.  As he grew unsatisfied with the
fact that the deponent honestly could not recall information about events that took
place years ago, Plaintiff’s counsel began to make slanderous, inappropriate and
harassing comments against Defendant throughout the deposition.”  (Def. Motion at p. 4.)
The
Court agrees that Plaintiff’s counsel’s conduct was highly inappropriate and, at
a minimum, unethical.  For example, in response
to a privacy objection, Plaintiff’s counsel responded, “You don’t have a right to
privacy and business practices when you steal—from a medical provider.  You have a right to go to jail.”  When Defendant asked to be treated with respect,
Plaintiff’s counsel responded, “I’ve been treating you with respect—with all the
respect that you deserve—throughout this whole deposition.”  In response to another request for professional
conduct, Plaintiff’s conduct responded, “I’ve been acting professionally this whole
time.  You’ve come here and not produced any
documents, you’ve refused to answer questions, you haven’t paid a single lien that
is subject to this case, and you’re asking me to treat you with more respect?  I’ve given you all the respect you deserve in
a situation like this.”
The
motion is GRANTED IN PART.
At
this time, the request for a discovery referee is denied.  However, Plaintiff’s counsel is admonished to
immediately refrain from threatening or otherwise unethical behavior in this action.  If this continues, the Court may impose additional
sanctions and appoint a discovery referee upon a renewed noticed motion.
Defendant’s
request for sanctions is granted.  Plaintiff’s
counsel is ordered to pay sanctions of $2,100.00 to Defendant within 30 days.
COMPEL
FURTHER DEPOSITION TESTIMONY
If
a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document that is specified
in the deposition notice, the party seeking discovery may seek an order compelling
that answer or production.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.480, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff
seeks to compel Defendant’s production of documents and Defendant’s answers to certain
deposition questions.
The
deposition notice requested “all documents showing the breakdown of fees, costs,
and liens paid from the settlement to and on behalf of” certain identified clients.  (Schutzman Decl., Ex. B.)  Defendant provided several objections and did
not produce the documents.  (Schutzman Decl.,
Ex. C.)  At the deposition, Defendant was
unable to answer questions about the liens without looking at the documents and
refused to answer some questions on privacy grounds.  (See Motion at pp. 5-8.)
In
opposition, Defendant argues that the documents are not relevant, and he also focuses
on his objection of attorney-client privilege. 
(Opposition at p. 6.)  The attorney-client
privilege applies to information that is exchanged in confidence between the attorney
and client and that includes a legal opinion formed and the advice given by the
attorney.  (Evid. Code, §§ 952, 954.)  Documents showing the breakdown of fees, costs,
and liens paid do not meet that definition. 
Additionally, “[w]hen an attorney assumes the responsibility to disburse
funds as agreed by the parties in an action, the attorney owes an obligation to
the party who is not the attorney’s client to ensure compliance with the terms of
the agreement.”  (Matter of Respondent
F (Cal. Bar Ct., Feb. 4, 1992) 2 Cal. State Bar Ct. Rptr. 17, 27.)  The requested documents are indeed relevant to
prove or disprove payment of the liens.  Defendant’s
objections are overruled.
The
motion is GRANTED.  Defendant must produce
the documents and witness for further deposition (limited to questions relating
to those documents) within 30 days.
The
request for sanctions is granted.  Defendant’s
counsel is ordered to pay sanctions of $2,000.00 to Plaintiff within 30 days.
MOTION TO STRIKE
On
March 8, 2023, the Court entered default against Defendant Law Offices of David
Azizi.
On
March 15, 2023, Defendant filed an answer, and on July 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a motion to strike that answer.
On
October 10, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to set aside the default.
In
light of the Court vacating Defendant’s default and permitting it to file an answer,
the motion to strike is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 7th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 