 Case Number:  23STCP01900    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DYLAN SCOTT PERRY, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
THE WALT DISNEY CO. dba TWENTIETH
  CENTURY STUDIOS,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCP01900
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING WITHOUT
  LEAVE TO AMEND DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO
  STRIKE INJUNCTIVE RELIEF FOR CAST/CREW OF AMERICAN DAD!
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING WITH PREJUDICE
  MOTION FOR TEMPORARY RESTRAINING ORDER AND/OR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTIONS 
 
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 7, 2024



 
On June 1, 2023, Plaintiff
Dylan Scott Perry (“Plaintiff” or “Perry”) filed this action against Defendant
Walt Disney Company dba Twentieth Century Studios (“Defendant” or “Disney”), relating
to alleged death threats through their show “American Dad!”, stalking, and
breaking into his phone and apartment. On June 23, 2023, Defendant filed the
instant demurrer. Disney notes that Twentieth Century Studios is not a d.b.a of
The Walt Disney Company but rather a subsidiary. Nevertheless, although Disney
is not the correct entity, the demurrer applies equally to its subsidiary and
Disney. On June 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Opposition. On July 21, 2023,
Defendant filed its Reply. 
DEMURRER
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context, accepting the alleged facts as true. 
(Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401,
1406.)  A special demurrer for uncertainty
under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f) is disfavored and
will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff
cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Even if the pleading
is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.”  (Ibid.)
A complaint must contain “facts
constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language.” Code Civ.
Proc. § 425.10(a)(1).  When a demurrer is
sustained, we determine whether the complaint states facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. [Citation.] And when it is sustained without
leave to amend, we decide whether there is a reasonable possibility that the
defect can be cured by amendment: if it can be, the trial court has abused its
discretion and we reverse; if not, there has been no abuse of discretion, and
we affirm. 
(Zelig v. Cnty. of Los Angeles, (2002) 27 Cal. 4th 1112,
1126, 45 P.3d 1171, 1180.)
A.
       Plaintiff Fails to Assert Facts
Sufficient to Constitute a Viable Cause of Action
Defendant
generally and specifically demurs to Plaintiff’s entire complaint on the basis
that (1) the Complaint is uncertain pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10(f); and (2) the Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(e). 
Plaintiff
generally alleges that Defendant Disney used the animated television series American
Dad! to send him coded death threats, stalked, and broke into his
apartment. (Complaint at p.1.) The Complaint further alleges that Defendant
caused his intentional emotional distress and violated his civil rights.  (Complaint at pp. 1-2.)  As such, Plaintiff demands $26.1 billion in restitution,
$840.00 in monetary damages for hotel costs because he has been “staying in a
hotel under an alias, with no phone or computer out of fear of being tracked
down and killed.”  (Id. at 2.)  Plaintiff also prays for punitive damages because
his civil rights were violated.  (Id.
at p. 3.)
Defendant
Disney argues Plaintiff’s Complaint is so uncertain as to be unintelligible and
that Disney cannot make enough sense of Plaintiff’s allegations to defend
itself.  (Demurrer at p. 2.)  Disney further argues that Plaintiff does not
allege any cause of action or plead facts to provide a legal basis to support
his claim of civil rights violations.  (Id.
at p. 2-4.)
Defendant also notes that
Plaintiff has filed a total of three actions against Defendant The Walt Disney
Company raising the same allegations of threats communicated through the
cartoon series American Dad!: 23STCV11392 (filed May 22, 2023), 23STCP01900 (filed
June 1, 2023), and 23STCV15449 (filed July 3, 2023), after Disney filed its
Demurrers to the first two actions). In light of Plaintiff’s multiple filings,
Disney respectfully suggests that the Court invoke Code of Civil Procedure
sections 391 et seq. and consider Plaintiff Dylan Scott Perry a vexatious
litigant going forward. 
The Court finds Plaintiff has not
set forth facts sufficient to allege a cause of action.  Plaintiff does not provide a legal basis for
his allegations and does not assert facts that could support such basis, even
if Plaintiff had provided one.  Moreover,
the Court agrees that Plaintiff’s allegations are entirely uncertain and do not
provide Disney with facts sufficient to build a legal defense.  It is not clear what causes of action
Plaintiff is asserting.  Further,
Defendants have adequately met their requirement to meet and confer with
Plaintiff.  (Fenzel Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) 
Thus,
the Court sustains the demurrer as to the entire complaint without leave to
amend.
CONCLUSION

The
demurrer to the entire Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE
On
June 1, 2023, Plaintiff Dylan Scott Perry (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendant Walt Disney Company (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges that The
Walt Disney Company used its show “American Dad!” to threaten to murder him,
his father, and his girlfriend. 
On
June 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Strike Injunctive Relief for the
Cast and Crew of “American Dad!” 
As
of May 3, 2024, Defendant has not filed an Opposition. 
DISCUSSION
According
to Code of Civil Procedure § 436:  The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: 
 (a)
Strikeout any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. 
(b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. 
A.        Plaintiff’s Motion is Improper
The
Court finds that Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike has multiple deficiencies. The
Motion to Strike is unclear. There is no Memorandum of Points and Authorities
but instead Plaintiff attached the “Proposed Injunctive Relief for the Cast and
Crew of American Dad!” The Proposed Order shows that Plaintiff seeks an
injunction on behalf of the cast and crew of “American Dad!”. Specifically, he
seeks an “injunction [to] dissolve the contracts of the subsequent parties, as
they were contractually obligated to read and produce the script that contained
the threats,” requests “their contracts be honored monetarily, then terminated
with no penalty to the signee,” and requests “a restraining order for the
subsequent parties . . ..” (Mot. p.3.) 
In
another filing made on June 16, 2023, titled “Pre-Objection to Opponents
Demurrer” Plaintiff concedes that he “filed a motion to strike [the Injunctive
Relief for Cast/Crew of American Dad! document] from the record” due to lack of
standing. (Pre-Objection to Opponents’ Demurrer p.2.) 
Apart
from the defective filing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to show
that he has any standing to seek injunctive relief on behalf of the cast and
crew of “American Dad!” and therefore strikes the Injunctive Relief for
Cast/Crew of American Dad! claim in its entirety. 
CONCLUSION

            Accordingly, the is Motion to Strike
is GRANTED. 
 
MOTION
FOR A TEMPORARY RESTRAINING ORDER AND/OR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
On
June 1, 2023, Plaintiff Dylan Scott Perry (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendant Walt Disney Company (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges that The
Walt Disney Company used its show American Dad! to threaten to murder him, his
father, and his girlfriend.
On
June 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Verified Emergency Petition for Temporary
Restraining Order and/or Preliminary Injunction. 
On
June 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Amended Verified Emergency Petition for
Temporary Restraining Order and/or Preliminary Injunction.
As
of May 3, 2024, Defendant has not filed an opposition. 
DISCUSSION
The
purpose of a preliminary injunction is to preserve the status quo and
prevent irreparable harm pending a trial on the merits. (White v. Davis
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 554 (White).)  To obtain a preliminary
injunction against a defendant, a plaintiff must show: (1) he would likely
suffer an irreparable injury for which damages would be an inadequate remedy if
the injunction were denied; and (2) there exists a reasonable probability that
he will prevail on the merits of his claims. (Huong Que, Inc. v. Luu
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 400, 408 (Huong Que).)
“An
injunction may be granted in the following cases: (1) When it appears by the
complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and the
relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or
continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period or
perpetually. (2) When it appears by the complaint or affidavits that the
commission or continuance of some act during the litigation would produce
waste, or great or irreparable injury, to a party to the action.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 526.)  “An application for a TRO or an OSC must state
whether there has been any previous application for similar relief and, if so,
the result of the application.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1150(e).)  In fact, a preliminary injunction should not be issued unless
the injury is pressing and the delay would be dangerous.  (See
Lagunitas Water Co. v. Marin County Water Co. (1912) 163 Cal. 332; Santa
Cruz Fair Building Ass'n v. Grant (1894) 104 Cal. 306; Hartsif v. Wann
(1956) 139 Cal. App. 2d 119.) 
“[T]wo
interrelated factors bear on the issuance of a preliminary injunction – the
likelihood of the plaintiff’s success on the merits at trial and the balance of
harm to the parties in issuing or denying injunctive relief.”  (County
of Los Angeles v. Hill (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 861, 866.)  The burden
is on the moving party to show all elements necessary to support the issuance
of a preliminary injunction.  (See O’Connell v. Sup. Ct. (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.)   
A.        Plaintiff Failed to Meet his Burden
Plaintiff
seeks a temporary restraining order and/or preliminary injunctions pursuant to
Uniform Superior Court Rule 6.7 and O.C.G.A. 9-11-65 (b). The Court notes that
the grounds Plaintiff relies on are inapplicable to the State of California as
they are part of Georgia Code and Georgia law. 
When
applying California law, Plaintiff’s fails to show that he would likely suffer
an irreparable injury for which damages would be an inadequate remedy if the
injunction were denied; and there exists a reasonable probability that he will
prevail on the merits of his claims. (Huong Que, Inc. v. Luu (2007)
150 Cal.App.4th 400, 408 (Huong Que).) For instance, Plaintiff argues
that The Walt Disney Company used its show American Dad! to threaten to murder
him, his father, and his girlfriend. In support of his motion, Plaintiff
presents solely conclusory allegations of being referenced in the television
episode as evidence. For instance, Exhibit 1 states “Stans metal frame Stan
broke his jaw and had to wear head gear . . . This relates to me because I
recently had leg surgery [and] I had to wear a very uncommon apparatus . . .”  (Mot. p.2.) Therefore, Plaintiff failed to
meet his burden. 
CONCLUSION
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the entire Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
            The is Motion to Strike is GRANTED.        
             The Motion for a Temporary Restraining Order
and/or Preliminary Injunction is DENIED WITH PREJUDICE. 
Court
to give notice of the ruling.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit.  If all parties in the case submit on the
tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are required unless a
companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference) is also on
calendar.
        
Dated this 7th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D.
  Long
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 
 