  Case Number:  20STCV07283    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ERA
  NOUVEAU HOLDINGS, LLC
                           
         vs.
 
SOUTHERN
  MOTION, INC.
                                         


 Case No.: 
  20STCV07283
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  November 19, 2024



 
 
Cross-Defendants’
motion to compel compliance is GRANTED. Southern Motion is
sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $7,000. 
 
On 2/21/2020, Plaintiff Era Nouveau Holdings,
LLC (ENH or Era Nouveau or Enouvation) filed a Complaint against
Southern Motion, Inc. (SM or Southern Motion), setting forth a claim for
declaratory relief and a claim for breach of contract. Southern
Motion answered and cross-complained against Era Nouveau,
adding Era Nouveau USA, LLC (EN USA LLC) and Era Nouveau,
LLC (EN LLC) as Cross-Defendants and setting forth claims for: (1)
fraudulent misrepresentations; (2) fraudulent concealment; (3) breach of
implied warranty of merchantability; (4) breach of implied warranty of fitness
for particular purpose; (5) breach of contract; and (6) violation of Business
and Professions Code section 17200. 
 
            On
10/7/2024, Defendants Era Nouveau USA, LLC (ENUSA), Era Nouveau, LLC (ENLLC),
John Samuel Contreras, and Thomas Peper (collectively, Cross-Defendants), moved
to compel Southern
Motion’s compliance.
 
            The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
Cross-Defendants
seek an order directing Southern Motion to comply with: (1) Southern Motion’s
February 16, 2024, agreement to supplement its responses; and (2) Southern Motion’s
February 2, 2024 agreement to produce documents responsive to Cross-Defendants’
RFPs:
 
-        
1. Cross-Defendant ENUSA’s Request for
Production of Documents to Cross-Complainant Southern Motion, Inc. (Set 1); 
 
-        
2. Cross-Defendant ENLLC’s Request for
Production of Documents to Cross-Complainant Southern Motion, Inc. (Set 1); 
 
-        
3. Cross-Defendant John Samuel
Contreras’ Request for Production of Documents to Cross-Complainant Southern
Motion, Inc. (Set 1); and 
 
-        
4. Cross-Defendant Thomas Peper’s
Request for Production of Documents to Cross-Complainant Southern Motion, Inc.
(Set 1) 
 
(collectively,
the Requests, attached as Exhs. A-1 to A-4 to Mesa Decl.) 
 
In support,
Cross-Defendants submitted the following facts:
 
-        
On February 2, 2024, counsel for
Southern Motion sent an email to counsel for Cross Defendants indicating
Southern Motion had agreed to serve and in fact “mailed today” a USB drive
containing Southern Motion’s document production in response to
Cross-Defendants’ Requests. (Mesa Decl., Exh. Q.) 
 
-        
In a February 14, 2024, email counsel
for Southern Motion stated the USB was sent in the mail only to Chan Punzalan,
LLP. (Mesa Decl., Exh. BB.)
 
-        
In a subsequent February 16, 2024,
email counsel for Southern Motion indicated the USB was sent without any mail
tracking and that a proof of service for the productions would be provided to
Cross-Defendants (Mesa Decl., Exh. DD.) 
 
-        
As of the time of the filing of this
motion, Chan Punzalan has not received a proof of service, document production,
or USB in the mail from Southern Motion. (Popper Decl., ¶ 9.)
 
-        
On February 16, 2024, counsel for
Southern Motion agreed in an email to provide supplemental responses to the
Requests by March 1, 2024. (Mesa Decl. Exh. DD.) 
 
-        
Cross-Defendants received no
supplemental responses on March 1, 2024. (Mesa Decl. ¶ 34.)
 
-        
On March 1, March 12 and March 18
counsel for Cross-Defendants emailed counsel for Southern Motion outlining that
no supplemental responses or USB drive had been received and requested the
items subject to the Discovery Agreement be served. None of these communications
received a response. (See Mesa Decl. ¶¶ 35-37; Mesa Decl, Exhs. EE, FF and GG.)
 
-        
In an additional March 18, 2024, email,
counsel for Cross-Defendants informed counsel for Southern Motion of their
intention to file a motion to compel compliance with the Discovery Agreement as
no supplemental responses were ever received. (See Mesa Decl. ¶ 38; Mesa Decl,
Exh. HH.) 
 
-        
On March 18, 2024, counsel for Southern
Motion responded that despite the February 16, 2024, Discovery Agreement to
provide supplemental responses by March 1, 2024, the promises to amend
discovery were “a gesture of good faith and good faith only” and contended that
the deadline for filing a motion to compel further responses, and any related
motion had passed. (Mesa Decl., Exh. JJ.) 
 
As such,
Cross-Defendants have submitted evidence that Southern Motion has not
complied with the parties’ Discovery Agreement to provide supplemental
responses to the Requests, and Cross-Defendants have not received either of the
two USBs for the first document production responsive to the Requests.
 
Where an
agreement to comply with a discovery request has been made, but compliance is
not forthcoming, compliance may be compelled by motion. (CCP. §2031.320(a).)
There is no fixed time limit on a motion to compel compliance (Ibid.)
Furthermore, the party moving to compel compliance need not show any “attempt
to resolve informally,” and needs only to show the responding party's failure
to comply as agreed. (CCP § 2031.320(a); Standon Co., Inc. v. Superior Court
(1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 898, 902-903.)
 
Here, Southern Motion
did not oppose this motion, and thus has not submitted any contrary facts or
evidence which could show that they have complied with the Discovery Agreement.
The Court takes their failure to oppose as a concession on the merits. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Cross-Defendants’ motion to compel compliance is granted. Southern Motion
is sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $7,000. ($350/hr x 20 hr.) 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 