 Case Number:  24STCV14308    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court
of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



SUNG
  HI YOO 
 
  
         vs.
 
BARBARA
  WEINBRIGHT 
  


 Case No.: 
  24STCV14308   
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  November 19, 2024




 
 
Defendants’ motion to strike is
GRANTED.
 
          On 6/7/2024, Plaintiff Sung Hi Yoo
(Plaintiff) filed suit against Barbara Weinbright (Defendant), alleging: (1)
premises liability; (2) negligence; (3) private nuisance; and (4) negligent
trespass to private property. 
 
          On 9/25/2024, Defendant moved to
strike portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 

 
Factual
Background 
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint concerns property damage arising out
of a leaky plumbing fixture which allegedly caused water damage to a downstairs
neighbor’s condominium.
 
Discussion

 
          Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
Complaint does not set forth sufficient allegations to support extraordinary
damages for pain and suffering or punitive damages. 
 
          The Court agrees. 
 
In Branch v. Homefed Bank (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 793,
the Court explained: “Although [Civil Code § 3333] does
not preclude damages for emotional suffering as a consequence of tortious
conduct, California courts have limited emotional suffering damages to cases
involving either physical impact and injury to plaintiff or intentional
wrongdoing by defendant. Damages for emotional suffering are allowed when the
tortfeasor's conduct, although negligent as a matter of law, contains elements
of intentional malfeasance or bad faith.” (Id. at 761.) Thus, “recovery
for emotional distress caused by injury to property is permitted only where
there is a preexisting relationship between the parties or an intentional
tort.” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182,
203.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s claims sound in negligence. As such,
Plaintiff has not alleged any facts which could show intentional malfeasance or
bad faith, nor could Plaintiff’s allegations show that Defendants engaged in
malice, oppression or fraud as required to support a punitive damages prayer. (Civ. Code, § 3294.)
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
motion to strike is granted. 
 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
November    , 2024
                                                                                                                                      
   Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
  
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org. 
If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case
number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a motion
submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information,
please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517. 
 
           
 