 Case Number:  23STCV10421    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
4-17-24
Case:
23STCV10421
Trial
Date: First Trial, 9-9-24 c/f 6-3-24; Second Trial, 12-2-24 c/f 9-23-24
 
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, Kelly Kim, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Jason Lee
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the First Amended Cross-Complaint 
·        
2nd
Cause of Action: Accounting
·        
5th
Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
·        
6th
Cause of Action: Constructive Wrongful Discharge
·        
7th
Cause of Action: Unjust Enrichment
·        
8th
Cause of Action: Theft by False Pretense
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Kelly Soojin Kim alleges Defendant Jason Lee approached her in “early 2021” to
establish a business relationship, whereby Lee would work with Kim at an
existing establishment owned and operated by Kim, and identified as Star Night.
Kim alleges Defendant proposed the joint venture in order to improve revenue at
Star Night given Lee’s prior operation of a similar restaurant business lost to
a fire. Lee purportedly represented to offer certain proprietary “secret”
recipes and “restaurant management know how” as part of said incentive. 
 
In
March 2021, the parties entered into a shareholder agreement, identified as the
B&K Enterprise, Inc., Agreement between Shareholders. The agreement
provides Kim with a 51% ownership share of the of the B&K Enterprise, Inc.
business entity, and Lee with the remaining 49%. The agreement articulates
certain responsibilities between the owners based on either the first or second
floor location within the premises, and also provided Lee with the right to
open additional OB Bear Restaurant locations outside the state of California
without the consent of majority shareholder Kim. 
 
The
parties’ working relationship was unsuccessful, with multiple accusations of
embezzlement and improper operational management practices. Lee subsequently
requested cessation from the partnership. Kim alleges Lee solicited the
purported business with the intention of either acquiring Star Night for
himself, or to destroy the business and open a new competing business upon
payment on the insurance casualty claim following the business premises fire.
Kim also contends that the failure to ever turn over the alleged secret recipes
constituted a violation of the partnership agreement, and therefore a lack of
consideration. Kim therefore denies any enforceable shareholder agreement,
thereby entitling Lee to any rights as a shareholder.
 
On
May 9, 2023, Kim filed a verified complaint for Breach of Contract; Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; Fraud [Cal. Civ. Code § 1710(1)]; Unfair Competition [Cal.
B&P Code §§ 17200 Et Seq.]; Rescission of Written Instrument Based Upon
Fraud [Cal. Civ. Code §§ 3399, 1571.73 and 1689(1)]; Declaratory Relief [C.C.P.
§ 1060]; and, Injunctive Relief. On June 26, 2023, Lee answered the complaint
and filed a cross-complaint for Involuntary dissolution of Corporation;
Accounting; Breach of Fiduciary Duty; Breach of Contract; Breach of Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; and Constructive Wrongful Discharge. On October
13, 2023, Lee filed a first amended cross-complaint for Involuntary dissolution
of Corporation; Accounting; Breach of Fiduciary Duty; Breach of Contract;
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; Constructive Wrongful
Discharge; Unjust Enrichment; and Theft by False Pretense.
 
Lee
confirms the represented terms of the deal, but also adds in an agreement for a
50-50 split of profits, with Lee receiving a $4,000/month salary as well. If
operations were successful, Lee would be entitled to a 1% share, thereby
rendering the parties equal shareholders. Lee also concedes to the agreement to
provide certain recipes, which apparently included a popular Korean fried
chicken recipe popular with customers. Lee also maintains tendering a $150,000
check to Kim towards the agreement. 
 
Contrary
to Kim, Lee maintains the recipes were provided. Kim, however, began
interfering with operations. After “two or three months,” Lee sought to
negotiate the termination of the business relationship. 
 
On
October 23, 2023, the court granted Plaintiff’s motion to bifurcate the trial
on the issue of shareholder status of defendant Lee.
 
RULING: Overruled in
Part/Sustained with Leave to Amend in Part.
Cross-Defendants
Kelly Soojin Kim and B&K Enterprise, Inc. bring a demurrer to the second,
fifth, seventh, and eighth causes of action for Accounting; Breach of Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; Unjust Enrichment; and Theft by False Pretense
causes of action in the first amended cross-complaint of Cross-Complainant Lee.
Cross-Defendants challenge the identified causes of action on lack of a factual
and/or legal basis. Lee in opposition maintains all claims are properly stated.
Cross-Defendants in reply reiterate the lack of valid claims.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a
demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of
law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson
Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 [“[U]nder our
liberal pleading rules, where the complaint contains substantive factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave
to amend.]
 
2nd
Cause of Action, Accounting: Overruled.
Cross-Defendants
challenge the subject cause of action on grounds of an insufficient basis
compelling an accounting. Lee counters to the right to an accounting following
the denied shareholder inspection request. 
 
“A cause of action for an accounting requires a showing that
a relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an
accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be
ascertained by an accounting.” (Teselle
v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.) “[A] fiduciary
relationship between the parties is not required to state a cause of action for
accounting. All that is required is that some relationship exists that requires
an accounting. (Citation.) The right to an accounting can arise from the
possession by the defendant of money or property which, because of the defendant's
relationship with the plaintiff, the defendant is obliged to surrender.” (Id. at pp. 179–180; Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 910.)
 
While the operative cross-complaint conflates the right to
inspect corporate records with an accounting cause of action, the underlying
basis still arises from a claimed entitlement to a share of profits for an as
yet defined period of time. The demurrer is overruled.
 
5th
Cause of Action, Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing:
Overruled.
Cross-Defendants
challenge the allegations as alleging nothing beyond a mere breach of contract.
Lee counters that the operative cross-complaint alleges both breach of contract
and bad faith based on the same course of conduct.
 
“The law implies in
every contract a covenant
of good
faith and fair dealing. (Citations.)
The covenant
of good
faith and fair dealing imposes
obligations on the contracting parties separate and apart from those
consensually agreed to; the obligations stemming from the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing are
imposed by law as normative values of society. (Citations.) [¶] [T]he
obligations imposed by the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing are not
those set out in the terms of the contract itself, but rather are obligations
imposed by law governing the manner in which the contractual obligations must
be discharged—fairly and in good faith. (Citation.) While the specific nature of the obligations imposed by
the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing are
dependent upon the nature and purpose of the underlying contract and the
legitimate expectations of the parties arising from the contract.” (Koehrer v. Superior Court
(1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 1155, 1169.) “[U]nder traditional contract principles,
the implied covenant of good faith is read into contracts ‘in order to protect
the express covenants or promises of the contract, not to protect some general
public policy interest not directly tied to the contract's purpose.’ (Citations.) This in fact is
consistent with the general distinction between breach of the covenant of good
faith as recognized in the context of a contract action and that recognized as
a tort.” (Carma Developers (Cal.), Inc.
v. Marathon Development California, Inc.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 342, 373; Racine &
Laramie, Ltd. v. California Dept. of Parks & Rec. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th
1026, 1031-1032.)
 
The operative cross-complaint allegations merely
recite a purported portion of the agreement itself, then references the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing with follow-up allegations of purported
interference with first floor operations. Again, while minimal in substance,
the allegations support a finding of an improper interference with business
operations thereby constituting conduct beyond the mere terms of the contract.
The demurrer is overruled. 
 
6th
Cause of Action, Constructive Wrongful Discharge: Sustained with Leave to
Amend.
Cross-Defendants
challenge the purported lack of facts supported constructive termination, and
the legal basis of the instant cause of action in that Lee was a shareholder,
not an employee. Lee counters that any consideration of employee versus
shareholder status remains extrinsic to the demurrer, and the constructive
termination is sufficiently pled. 
 
The
gravamen of the complaint arises from a shareholder agreement between Lee and
Kim, with Lee alleging an employment relationship to fellow shareholder Kim
(presumably for purposes at least in part tied to the recovery of attorney fees
in this one and only distinct cause of action). The court finds the conclusive
allegations insufficiently establishes an employment relationship for purposes
of the subject claim. (See Miklosy v. Regents of
University of California (2008) 44 Cal.4th
876, 900.) The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.
 
7th
Cause of Action, Unjust Enrichment: Sustained with Leave to Amend.
Certain divisions in the Second Appellate District no longer
recognizes unjust enrichment as a cause of action. (Melchior v. New Line Productions, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th
779, 793.) “Unjust enrichment is a ‘general principle, underlying various legal
doctrines and remedies,’ rather than a remedy itself.” (Ibid.) This
remedy may still be pled in conjunction with a valid cause of action. (Jogani v. Superior Court (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 901, 911; Slovensky v.
Friedman (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1518, 1535.) A party may alternatively
allege the claim as one in restitution. (Melchior
v. New Line Productions, Inc., supra, 106 Cal.App.4th at p. 793. Professional Tax Appeal v. Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 230, 238.)
 
The court sustains the demurrer to
the instant cause of action with leave to amend for the purpose of either
substituting the claim to one for restitution, or pled as a remedy in
conjunction with any and all applicable claims. 
 
8th
Cause of Action, Theft By False Pretense: Sustained with Leave to Amend.
Cross-Defendants
assert the claim lacks facts. Lee seeks relief under Penal Code section 496,
subdivision (a). 
 
Penal Code section 496 cites to a standard for receipt of
stolen property. “(a) Every person who buys or receives any property that has
been stolen or that has been obtained in any manner constituting theft or
extortion, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals,
sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any property
from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be
punished by imprisonment in a county jail for not more than one year, or
imprisonment ...” 
 
c) Any person who has been injured by a violation of
subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three times the amount of actual
damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable
attorney's fees.


Pen. Code, § 496
 
The right to the civil action remains undisputed. An
underlying criminal conviction is not required, but “the
underlying conduct still must constitute a violation of that statute. ‘[T]o
sustain a conviction for receiving stolen property, the prosecution must prove
(1) the property was stolen; (2) the defendant knew the property was stolen;
and, (3) the defendant had possession of the stolen property.’” (Lacagnina v. Comprehend Systems, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 955, 970.)
 
The first amended
cross-complaint relies on the purported acceptance of the $150,000 check tendered
for shares of the corporate entity, but purportedly now held by
Cross-Defendants. Nothing in the minimal allegations establishes a core basis
of an actual receipt of stolen property or underlying theft. The check was
voluntarily tendered. A potential fraud claim constitutes a separate and
distinct claim for the very specific criminal intent required for receipt of
stolen property (and the intended treble penalty damages). The demurrer is
sustained with leave to amend. 
 
The demurrer is therefore sustained as to sixth, seventh,
and eighth causes of action for the constructive discharge, unjust enrichment
and theft. The demurrer is overruled as to the remainder. Lee is given 30 days
leave to amend. If Lee elects to forego amending the complaint,
Cross-Defendants to answer the remaining causes of action within 10 days of the
lapse of the amendment deadline.
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses currently scheduled for
April 23, 2024. 
 
Defendant to provide notice.
 