  Case Number:  22STCV29636    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
4-17-24 
Case
Number: 22STCV29636
Trial
Date: 11-4-24
 
PRO HAC VICE
 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs, Flyer Next, LLC, et
al.
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed/Defendant, Marvin Engineering
Co., Inc., et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Pro Hac Vice Admission
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Oded
Nechushtan And Amit Nechushtan founded the Flyer entities, which includes Flyer
Defense LLC, an entity wholly owned by Flyer Next, LLC, and Flyer Technologies,
LLC, a separate entity 50% owned by Flyer Technologies. In 2000, Flyer
Technologies entered into a joint venture agreement with Marvin Engineering
Co., Inc. for a project involving the developments and sale of lightweight
tactical all-terrain vehicles to the United States Marine Corps. Flyer agreed
to license its intellectual property to Marvin Engineering, and transferred its
subsidiary, Flyer Defense, LLC. Flyer Technologies retained a right to a 50-50
split of royalties and equal board voting power. 
 
In
2018, following the retirement/discontinued involvement of former “head” of
Marvin Engineering, Jerry Friedman, the partied entered in a new agreement,
whereby Flyer Defense was transferred to a new entity identified as Flyer Next,
LLC, with joint ownership between Flyer Technologies and Marvin Engineering. Oded
Nechushtan was also designated with the title of Manager, granting “sole power
to manage the business, property, and affairs of Flyer Next and ... Flyer
Defense.” Flyer Technologies also agreed to an $18,000,000 “priority return” to
Marvin Engineering “upon the occurrence of specified liquidity events.” 
 
Plaintiffs
allege Defendants provided misrepresenting information, which led to now
determined unsupported terms for the revised agreement. Plaintiffs allege a
multitude of allegations, including improper money withdrawals to pay other
debts, concealment of certain debts, nonpayment of outstanding payments to
Flyer Defense, and estruction of data. David Gussman and Howard Gussman serve
as president and chief operating officer, and chief executive officer and
director of Marving Engineering, and conducted the negotiations.
 
On
September 12, 2022, Plaintiffs Flyer Defense LLC, Flyer Technologies, LLC and
Flyer Next, LLC (Flyer) filed their complaint for Declaratory Relief,
Accounting, Breach of Contract (contribution and assignment agreement), Money
Had and Received, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Breach of Contract
(22STCV29636). On September 14, 2022, Marvin Engineering Co., Inc. filed a
complaint for (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (2) (Derivative) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; (3) Breach of Contract; (Operating Agreement) (4) Breach of
Contract (Services Agreement); (5) Breach of the Obligation of Good Faith And
Fair Dealing; (6) Breach of the Obligation of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (7)
Theft Pursuant To Cal. Penal Code § 496; (8) Aiding and Abetting Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; (9) (Derivative) Aiding And Abetting Breach Of Fiduciary Duty;
(10) Demand for Accounting; and (11) Declaratory Relief against the Flyer
plaintiffs and Oded Nechushtan And Amit Nechushtan (22STCV30079).
 
On
October 5, 2022, the court deemed the cases related, with 22STCV29636 deemed
the lead case. 
 
On
October 7, 2022, the Flyer plaintiffs filed their first amended complaint for
Breach of Contract, Conversion, Declaratory Relief, Accounting, Breach of
Contract (contribution and assignment agreement), Money Had and Received,
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Breach of Contract (services agreement), and Breach
of Contract (Line of Credit Agreement). on October 28, 2022, defendants Flyer
Defense LLC, Flyer Technologies, LLC and Flyer Next, LLC answered the first
amended complaint of Marvin Engineering Co., Inc. On October 28, 2022, Oded
Nechushtan And Amit Nechushtan answered the Marvin Engineering Co., Inc.
complaint.
 
On
November 14, 2022, Marvin Engineering Co., Inc. answered the Flyer plaintiffs first
amended complaint. On the same date, Marvin Engineering Co., Inc. filed a
cross-complaint against Flyer Defense LLC, Flyer Technologies, LLC, Flyer Next,
LLC,  Oded Nechushtan and Amit Nechushtan
for (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (2) (Derivative) Breach of Fiduciary Duty;
(3) Breach of Contract; (Operating Agreement) (4) Breach of Contract (Services
Agreement); (5) Breach of the Obligation of Good Faith And Fair Dealing; (6)
Breach of the Obligation of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (7) Theft Pursuant To
Cal. Penal Code § 496; (8) Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (9)
(Derivative) Aiding And Abetting Breach Of Fiduciary Duty; (10) Demand for
Accounting; and (11) Declaratory Relief. On December 22, 2022, Marvin
Engineering Co., Inc. dismissed its cross-complaint without prejudice. 
 
On
May 16, 2023, the court entered the parties’ stipulation for leave to file a
second amended complaint of Flyer plaintiffs complaint. On May 17, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed their second amended complaint for Breach of Contract,
Conversion, Declaratory Relief, Accounting, Breach of Contract (contribution
and assignment agreement), Money Had and Received, Breach of Fiduciary Duty,
Breach of Contract (services agreement), Breach of Contract (Line of Credit
Agreement), Fraudulent Concealment, Fraudulent Misrepresentation, Trespass to
Chattels, Conversion, and Unauthorized Access to Computers. The second amended
complaint added in new defendants David Gussman and Howard Gussman as well.
 
On
May 25, 2022, the court ordered the cases consolidated. On the June 21, 2023,
the Gussman parties and Marvin Engineering Co., Inc. answered the second
amended complaint. 
 
On
July 5, 2023, the writs and receivers court denied the motion of Marvin
Engineering for a writ of attachment against Flyer Defense, LLC and Flyer Next,
LLC.
 
RULING: Granted.
Plaintiffs Flyer Next, LLC and Flyer Defense, LLC move for
pro hac vice admission of attorney Stephanie Command. 
 
Pro hac vice admission in California is governed by
California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40.  To
be admitted pro hac vice, one must be “a member in
good standing of and eligible to practice before the bar of any United States
court or the highest court in any state, territory, or insular possession of
the United States.”  (California
Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a).)  However,
in no case shall an attorney appear pro hac vice if the attorney is a resident
of California, regularly employed in California, or “regularly
engaged in substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State
of California.”
 
An attorney seeking pro hac vice
admission must file a verified application in both court and the State Bar of
California establishing:
 
(1) [t]he applicant's residence and office address; (2)[t]he courts to which the applicant has been admitted to
practice and the dates of admission; (3)[t]hat the applicant is a member in good standing in those
courts; (4)[t]hat the applicant is not currently suspended or
disbarred in any court; (5)[t]he title of court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the
date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6)[t]he name, address, and telephone number of the active
member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.
 
(California
Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)
 
The applications comply with California Rules of Court, Rule
9.40. A concurrent application for pro hac vice admission in the state of
California submitted on February 6, 2024, in an unrelated case, remains pending.
The application includes a representation of payment to the California State
Bar on an unspecified date, without any copy of the receipt or proof of to
service to the State Bar. [Declaration of Sheldon Eisenberg.]
 
The application for pro hac vice admission is granted. Moving
Plaintiffs to submit proof of compliance for both service of the application on
the State Bar and proof of payment within 30 days. 
 
Motions for sanctions and summary adjudication scheduled for
August 29 and 30, 2024, respectively. 
 
Plaintiffs
Flyer Next, LLC and Flyer Defense, LLC to give notice.
 