 Case Number:  24STCV19399    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



5959 FRANKLIN BLISS, LLC, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
BRANDI D’AMORE,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV19399
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 26, 2024
 Calendar Number:  8



 
 
 
Defendant Brandi D’Amore (“Defendant”) moves to strike
portions of the Complaint filed by Plaintiff 5959 Franklin Bliss, LLC
(“Plaintiff”) pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 425.16.
 
            The
Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion.
 
Background
 
This is a private nuisance case.
 
Plaintiff is the owner of real property located at 5959
Franklin Ave, Los Angeles, CA 90028 (the “Franklin Property”) and 1915 N.
Tamarind Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90068 (the “Tamarind Property”). (Complaint ¶¶
5, 13.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant has made false criminal
reports to the City of Los Angeles accusing Plaintiff of engaging in short term
rentals of units at the Franklin Property in violation of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code and the Los Angeles Rent Stabilization Ordinance. (Complaint ¶
6.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant made the allegedly false charges numerous
times, including on or about June 3, 2024, on or about June 7, 2024, on or
about June 13, 2024 and on or about June 25, 2024. (Complaint ¶ 6; Villaneda
Decl. ¶¶ 9-12.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that officers of the City of Los Angeles
have come to the Franklin Property numerous times to investigate Defendant’s
reports. (Complaint ¶ 7; Villaneda Decl. ¶¶ 9-12.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that it entered into a contract with a
film production company in April 2023 for filming to occur at the Tamarind
Property. (Complaint ¶ 14.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant contacted an
organization known as FilmL.A., Inc. (“FilmLA”) and falsely told FilmLA that
Plaintiff was engaging in unlawful activities in allowing filming at the
Tamarind Property. (Complaint ¶ 14.) Plaintiff alleges that FilmLA confirmed the
permits for filming. (Complaint ¶ 14.) Plaintiff’s evidence in support of its
opposition appears to indicate that these allegations actually relate to the
Franklin Property – also called the Villa Carlotta – and not the Tamarind
Property. (Compare Villaneda Decl. ¶ 13 and Opposition at p. 4:13-14.)
 
Plaintiff filed this action on August 2, 2024, raising
claims for (1) private nuisance; and (2) injunctive relief including temporary
restraining order, preliminary injunction, and permanent injunction.
 
On October 11, 2024, Defendant filed the current motion to
strike. Plaintiff filed an opposition and Defendant filed a reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court has reviewed the parties’ evidentiary objections.  The Court overrules the parties’ respective
objections.
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure, section 425.16 requires courts to
strike causes of action arising from an act in furtherance of the defendant’s
right of free speech or petition unless the plaintiff establishes that there is
a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim. 
 
In assessing a defendant’s Code of Civil Procedure, section
425.16 special motion to strike, the court must engage in a two-step process. (Shekhter
v. Financial Indem. Co. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 141, 150.) First, the court
must decide whether the defendant has met the threshold burden of showing that
the plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the defendant’s constitutional
rights of free speech or petition for redress of grievances. (Ibid.)
This burden may be met by showing the act which forms the basis for the
plaintiff’s cause of action was an act that falls within one of the four
categories of conduct set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16,
subdivision (e). 
 
Once a defendant has met its initial burden and established
that the anti-SLAPP statute applies, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to
demonstrate a “probability” of success on the merits. (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (b); Equilon Enters. LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29
Cal.4th 53, 67.) “[T]he plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both
legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts
to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.” (Matson v. Dvorak (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 539, 548, internal
quotations omitted.) 
 
Discussion
 
Protected Activity
 
To determine the gravamen of an alleged SLAPP, courts look
to the factual basis for liability. (Wallace v. McCubbin (2011) 196
Cal.App.4th 1169, 1190, as modified on denial of reh'g (July 26, 2011)
disapproved of on other grounds by Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th
376.) 
 
            The
anti-SLAPP statute applies to a “cause of action against a person arising from
any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free
speech under the United States Constitution or the California Constitution in
connection with a public issue.”  (Civ.
Proc. Code § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) The statute defines such acts to include
the following:
 
(1)
any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive,
or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, 
(2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, 
(3)
any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or
a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or 
(4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §425.16, subd. (e).) 
 
Reports to the City of Los Angeles
 
“[T]he filing of the complaint [before a regulatory body]
qualifie[s] at least as a statement before an official proceeding” because “the
purpose of the complaint was to solicit an … investigation.” (ComputerXpress,
Inc. v. Jackson (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 993, 1009.)
 
Defendant’s complaints to the City of Los Angeles therefore
constitute protected activity.
 
Reports to FilmLA
 
Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s statements to FilmLA do
not constitute protected activity. Defendant argues that her statements to
FilmLA constitute a complaint because FilmLA is a quasi-governmental entity
that processes film permit applications for the City of Los Angeles.
 
FilmLA is a California nonprofit corporation. (Request for
Judicial Notice, Ex. D.) 
 
On April 30, 2021, FilmLA and the City of Los Angeles
entered into a “SECOND AMENDMENT AND RESTATED CONTRACT NO. C-127625” (the
“FilmLA Contract”).
 
The FilmLA Contract recites that “FilmLA, Inc. operates as a
non-profit public benefit corporation under Section 501(c)4 of the Internal
Revenue Code. FilmLA’s public benefit purpose is to improve the economy of the
greater Los Angeles region and thus promote the social welfare of the people,
by ensuring film activities in the greater Los Angeles area are conducted in a manner
the results in a minimum of interference, and are consistent with public
health, safety, and general welfare.” (Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. E at p.
2 § 1.)
 
The FilmLA Contract provides that “FilmLA will work to
centralize the issuance of film permits and will coordinate and improve actions
for commercial filming and photography activities.” (Request for Judicial
Notice, Ex. E at p. 2 § 1.) FilmLA’s duties under the FilmLA contract include,
inter alia, coordinating the film permitting process in compliance with Los
Angeles ordinances, providing guidance and advice on the permit process to
customers, providing pre-production walkthroughs to assess and mitigate the
impacts of proposed film activities, coordinating permit revisions and
extensions, responding to complaints, collecting funds for remittance to the
City of Los Angeles, and coordinating permits in a time frame which allows
proper review by city officials. (Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. E, Exhibit A
at pp. 1-3.)
 
Our Supreme Court considered the definition of the phrase
“other official proceeding authorized by law” in Kibler v. Northern Inyo
County Local Hospital Dist. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 192 (Kibler). There,
the Supreme Court considered whether a hospital’s peer review disciplinary
proceeding was an “official proceeding authorized by law” for purposes of
applying subdivision (e)(2) of the anti-SLAPP statute. (Id. at p.
196.)  The Supreme Court concluded that
it was.  (Id. at p.203.)  The Supreme Court emphasized that “Hospital
peer review, in the words of the Legislature, ‘is essential to preserving the
highest standards of medical practice’ throughout California.” (Id. at
p. 199, quoting Bus. & Prof. Code, § 809, subd. (a)(3).) The Court noted
that there is an extensive statutory scheme requiring that hospitals have peer
review provisions in their bylaws, and that they both report any peer-review
disciplinary actions and seek such reports from the state medical board when
hiring or renewing a physician. (Id. at pp. 199-200, see also Bus. &
Prof. Code § 805, et seq.) “Because a hospital’s disciplinary action may lead
to restrictions on the disciplined physician's license to practice or to the
loss of that license, its peer review procedure plays a significant role in
protecting the public against incompetent, impaired, or negligent physicians.”
(Id. at p. 200.) Furthermore, a hospital’s peer review decisions are
subject to judicial review by administrative mandate, granting them “a status
comparable to that of quasi-judicial public agencies[.]” (Ibid., citing
Bus. & Prof. Code, § 809.8.) 
 
Based on these facts, the Supreme Court found that the
hospital’s peer review procedure qualifies as an “official proceeding
authorized by law.” (Id. at p. 199.) The Supreme Court explained that
the Legislature has granted to individuals “the primary responsibility for
monitoring the professional conduct of physicians licensed in California.”  (Id. at p. 201.)  These are “matters of public significance” as
set forth in the anti-SLAPP statute.  (Ibid.)  
 
Subsequent appellate decisions have provided additional
guidance on the issues discussed by Kibler. In Garretson v. Post
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 1508, the Court concluded that a nonjudicial foreclosure
was not an “official proceeding” for anti-SLAPP purposes. The Court
acknowledged that there is a complex statutory framework governing nonjudicial
foreclosures and that they result in a “final adjudication of the rights of the
borrower and lender.” (Id. at p. 1516.) Despite acknowledging that
nonjudicial foreclosure activities are protected by statutory litigation
privilege, the court found that nonjudicial foreclosures are not an
official proceeding for anti-SLAPP purposes. (Id. at pp. 1519, 1522.) In
reaching this conclusion, the court relied on statements by the proponents of
the amendment to the relevant code section which stated that “a nonjudicial
foreclosure is a private, contractual proceeding, rather than an official,
governmental proceeding or action.” (Id. at p. 1518, quoting Assem.
Com. on Judiciary, Analysis of Sen. Bill No. 1488 (1995–1996 Reg. Sess.) as
amended June 26, 1996, p. 2 [italics added by Garretson].)
 
In Talega Maintenance Corp. v. Standard Pacific Corp.
(2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 722, the Court of Appeal weighed the foregoing cases and
posited that “the case law demonstrates that nongovernmental proceedings must
have a strong connection to governmental proceedings to qualify as ‘official.’”
(Id. at p. 732.) The court concluded that a homeowners association meeting
was not an official proceeding because “a homeowners association is not
performing or assisting in the performance of the actual government's duties”
and “decisions by the board of a homeowners association are not reviewable by
administrative mandate.” (Ibid.) “Thus they have not been delegated
government functions to the same extent.” (Ibid.) 
 
Another Court of Appeal determined that “the initiation of a
State Bar sponsored fee arbitration proceeding is … covered; … [because] it is an official proceeding established by statute to
address a particular type of dispute.” (Philipson & Simon v. Gulsvig
(2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 347, 358.)
 
Stop notices, although governed by statute, are not official
proceedings. (A.F. Brown Electrical Contractor, Inc. v. Rhino Electric
Supply, Inc. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1128–1129.) 
 
Contractual arbitration, also governed by a statutory
scheme, is not an official proceeding because it is not mandatory, is not
subject to judicial review, and is not part of a comprehensive licensing
scheme. (Century 21 Chamberlain & Associates v. Haberman (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 1, 9; Mission Beverage Co. v. Pabst Brewing Co., LLC (2017)
15 Cal.App.5th 686, 703.) This is because “[a]rbitration is not a judicial
proceeding—it is an alternative thereto.” (Century 21, supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at p. 8.) However, “where a statute required two parties to agree
to arbitration in their contract, the arbitration was an official proceeding
for anti-SLAPP purposes.” (Dorit v. Noe (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 458, 469,
citing Mallard v. Progressive Choice Ins. Co. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 531,
541-542.)
 
Thus, as one appellate court characterized it, “[w]hen
nongovernmental entities are involved, courts have limited ‘official
proceeding’ anti-SLAPP protection to (1) quasi-judicial proceedings that are
part of a comprehensive statutory licensing scheme and subject to judicial
review by administrative mandate, and (2) proceedings established by statute to
address a particular type of dispute.” (Century 21, supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at p. 9, internal citations and quotation marks omitted.) 
 
Here, FilmLA had the “primary responsibility for monitoring”
issues relating to film permitting, a “matter of public significance.” (Kibler,
supra, 39 Cal.4th at p. 201.) Because FilmLA was required by contract to
process complaints, Defendant’s complaint to FilmLA was “an official proceeding
established by statute to address a particular type of dispute.” (See Philipson
& Simon v. Gulsvig, supra, 154 Cal.App.4th at p. 358; Century
21, supra, 173 Cal.App.4th at p. 9)
 
The Court therefore concludes that Plaintiff’s complaint to
FilmLA was protected activity.
 
Probability of Success
 
Once a defendant has met its initial burden and established
that the anti-SLAPP statute applies, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to
demonstrate a “probability” of success on the merits. (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (b).) “[T]he plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is
both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of
facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the
plaintiff is credited.” (Matson v. Dvorak, supra, 40 Cal.App.4th
at p. 548, internal quotations omitted.) 
 
A plaintiff need only show “a minimum level of legal
sufficiency and triability[.]” (Linder v. Thrifty Oil Co. (2000) 23
Cal.4th 429, 438, fn. 5.) “In opposing an anti-SLAPP motion, the plaintiff
cannot rely on the allegations of the complaint, but must produce evidence that
would be admissible at trial. [Citation.] Thus, declarations may not be based
upon “information and belief” [citation] and documents submitted without the
proper foundation are not to be considered. [Citation.] The court considers the
pleadings and evidence submitted by both sides, but does not weigh credibility
or compare the weight of the evidence. Rather, the court's responsibility is to
accept as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff [citation] and evaluate
the defendant's evidence only to determine if it has defeated that submitted by
the plaintiff as a matter of law. [Citation.] The trial court merely determines
whether a prima facie showing has been made that would warrant the claim going
forward.” (HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
204, 212.)
 
Privilege
 
“[C]ommunications preparatory to or in anticipation of the
bringing of an action or other official proceeding are within the protection of
the litigation privilege of Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b)[.]” (Dove
Audio, Inc. v. Rosenfeld, Meyer & Susman (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 777,
784.) “The “official proceeding” privilege has been interpreted broadly to
protect communications to or from governmental officials which may precede the
initiation of formal proceedings.” (Slaughter v. Friedman (1982) 32
Cal.3d 149, 155.)
 
“This subdivision does not make privileged any communication
between a person and a law enforcement agency in which the person makes a false
report that another person has committed, or is in the act of committing, a
criminal act or is engaged in an activity requiring law enforcement
intervention, knowing that the report is false, or with reckless disregard for
the truth or falsity of the report.” (Civ. Code, § 47, subd. (b)(5).)
 
The penalties of the short-term rental ordinance are in
addition to other existing civil and criminal penalties. (Los Angeles Municipal
Code §12.22 A. 32.) “Violation of a city ordinance is a misdemeanor unless by
ordinance it is made an infraction. The violation of a city ordinance may be
prosecuted by city authorities in the name of the people of the State of
California, or redressed by civil action.” (Gov. Code, § 36900, subd. (a).)
 
Defendant admits that she made the reports at issue.
Plaintiff has provided evidence that it was not, in fact, violating the
prohibition on rentals for less than 30 days. (Villaneda Decl. ¶¶ 9, 9-12.)
Thus, Plaintiff has shown a prima facie case that Defendant made false criminal
complaints. Furthermore, because the complaints occurred in rapid succession
(on or about June 3, 2024, on or about June 7, 2024, on or about June 13, 2024
and on or about June 25, 2024) despite each of them being found false by law
enforcement, Defendant has shown a triable issue that Plaintiff acted with, at
minimum, reckless disregard to the falsity of her complaints.
 
The Court therefore concludes that Plaintiff’s alleged
conduct is not protected by the litigation privilege for the purposes of the
anti-SLAPP motion.
 
Sufficiency
 
To establish an action for private
nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and
enjoyment of his property”; (2) “the invasion of the plaintiff’s interest in
the use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial, that is, that it causes
the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage”; (3) “the interference with
the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be
unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or amount as to
constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.” (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners,
LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263, citations, italics, brackets, and
quotation marks omitted.)

 
“The requirements of substantial damage and unreasonableness
are not inconsequential.” (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC
(2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 263.) “ ‘Life in organized society and especially in
populous communities involves an unavoidable clash of individual interests.
Practically all human activities unless carried on in a wilderness interfere to
some extent with others or involve some risk of interference, and these
interferences range from mere trifling annoyances to serious harms. It is an
obvious truth that each individual in a community must put up with a certain
amount of annoyance, inconvenience and interference and must take a certain
amount of risk in order that all may get on together. The very existence of
organized society depends upon the principle of ‘give and take, live and let
live,’ and therefore the law of torts does not attempt to impose liability or
shift the loss in every case in which one person's conduct has some detrimental
effect on another. Liability for damages is imposed in those cases in which the
harm or risk to one is greater than he ought to be required to bear under the
circumstances, at least without compensation.’ [Citation.] ” (San Diego Gas
& Electric Co. v. Superior Court (1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 937–938,
quoting Rest. 2d Torts, § 822, com. g, p. 112.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot show substantial
damage to Plaintiff, rather than to Plaintiff’s tenants. Plaintiff has made a
prima facie case that Defendant made repeated false criminal complaints.
Plaintiff has made a prima facie showing that these complaints resulted in
repeated investigations of Plaintiff’s property, tenants, and leases – until
the investigator determined on the third and fourth occasions that no
investigation was necessary because the investigator knew that the complaint was
false. (Villaneda Decl. ¶¶ 9-12.) Ongoing criminal investigations, with the
recurring threat of potential criminal penalties, can constitute a substantial
harm to the party being investigated due to the costs associated with
compliance and the stress involved. Defendant’s conduct in making repeated
complaints against Plaintiff after each complaint was found false appears to be
the opposite of the ‘live and let live’ principle put forth by the California
Supreme Court. The Court concludes that Plaintiff has met its burden to show a
reasonable probability of success.
 
The Court therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion.