  Case Number:  19STCV44177    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MS SERVICES, LLC, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
MINNIE CHILDRESS, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  19STCV44177
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 26, 2024
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
This motion relates to the claim of exemption of Defendant
and judgment debtor Minnie Childress (“Minnie”) as to the judgment levy made by
Plaintiff and judgment creditor MS Services, LLC (“Plaintiff”).
 
            The
Court CONTINUES this motion to January 14, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.  The Court  ORDERS levying officer Jodi Decew to file a
copy of Defendant Minnie Childress’s claim of exemption with the Court no later
than January 3, 2025.  Plaintiff shall
give notice.
 
Background
 
On August 18, 2020, the Court entered default judgment in
favor of Plaintiff and against Defendants Minnie and Jamie (“Jamie”) Childress
(collectively, “Defendants”) (the Court uses Defendants’ first names for
clarity only, and means no disrespect).
 
On October 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of opposition
to Minnie’s claim of exemption.
 
On October 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of hearing on Minnie’s
claim of exemption.
 
On October 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of opposition
to Minnie’s claim of exemption.
 
No copy of the claim of exemption has been filed with the
Court.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Except as otherwise provided by statute, property that has
been levied upon may be claimed to be exempt as provided in this article.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 703.510, subd. (a).) “If property that is exempt without
making a claim is levied upon, it may be released pursuant to the exemption
procedure provided in this article.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.510, subd. (a).)
 
To claim an exemption, the judgment debtor must file an
original and one copy of a Claim of Exemption with the levying officer. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 703.520, subd. (a).) The claim must be filed within 15 days after
service on the judgment debtor of the notice of levy on the exempt property if
the claimant was served personally, or 20 days after service of the notice of
levy if the claimant was served by mail. (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.520, subd.
(a).)
 
Promptly after the claim of exemption is filed, the levying
officer must serve the judgment creditor with a copy of the claim of exemption
and a notice that the levying officer will release the property unless the
judgment creditor files with the levying officer a notice of opposition to the
claim and a copy of the notice of motion for an order determining the claim of
exemption. (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.540.)
 
“Within 15 days after service of the notice of claim of
exemption, a judgment creditor who opposes the claim of exemption shall file
with the court [1] a notice of opposition to the claim of exemption and [2] a
notice of motion for an order determining the claim of exemption and shall file
with the levying officer a copy of the notice of opposition and a copy of the
notice of motion. Upon the filing of the copies of the notice of opposition
and notice of motion, the levying officer shall promptly file the claim of
exemption with the court. If copies of the notice of opposition and notice
of motion are not filed with the levying officer within the time allowed, the
levying officer shall immediately release the property to the extent it is
claimed to be exempt.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 703.550, subd. (a) [emphasis added].)
 
Discussion
 
            No
copy of Minnie’s claim of exemption has been filed with the Court. Pursuant to
Code Civ. Proc., § 703.550, subd. (a), the levying officer must file the claim
of exemption with the Court. Plaintiff’s Notice of Hearing indicates that the
levying officer in this case is Jodi Decew.
 
            The
Court therefore continues this motion and orders levying officer Jodi Decew to
file a copy of Defendant Minnie Childress’s claim of exemption with the Court.