  Case Number:  23STCV24190    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  49 David Rodgers, et al. v. Abbey Apartments, L.P., et al.(1) DEMURRER TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT(2) MOTION TO STRIKE MOVING PARTY: Defendants Abbey Apartments, L.P. and SRHT Property Management CompanyRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs David Rodgers, et al.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: This is a breach of habitability case. Plaintiffs are tenants who reside at the property at 625 S. San Pedro St., Los Angeles, CA 90014, owned by Defendant Abbey Apartments, L.P, and managed by Defendant SRHT Property Management Company. On June 26, 2024, the court ordered the following cases consolidated: 23STCV24190, 24STCV02292, 24STCV03623, and 24STCV01605. The Second Amended Complaint is now the master pleading, where 66 Plaintiffs assert causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, (3) breach of the implied warranty of habitability, (4) tortious breach of the implied warranty of habitability, (5) negligence, (6) private nuisance, (7) violation of Civil Code section 1942.4, (8) violation of unfair business practices, and (9) tenant harassment. Defendants now demurrer to each cause of action in the SAC.  Defendants also move to strike allegations pertaining to punitive damages. Plaintiffs opposed both motions.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is OVERRULED in its entirety.Defendants’ Motion to Strike is DENIED in its entirety.Defendants are ordered to file an Answer to the SAC within 21 days of this Ruling.Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:Demurrer to ComplaintI. Meet and Confer The Declaration of attorney Jinny A. Cain confirms that the meet and confer requirement was satisfied. II. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  III. AnalysisDefendants demur to each cause of action in the Second Amended Complaint. Each is addressed in turn.A. First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract, Second Cause of Action for Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, Third Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied Warrant of Habitability, and Fourth Cause of Action for Tortious BreachFirst, Defendants argue the contract-based causes of action (First through Fourth) are all time-barred under a four-year statute of limitations. (See CCP § 337(a) [requiring that “[a]n action upon any contract, obligation or liability founded upon an instrument in writing” be commenced within 4 years].)Plaintiffs are alleged to be “low-income bona fide tenants of the premises located at 625 S. San Pedro St., Los Angeles, CA 90014.” (SAC ¶ 1.) Defendant Abbey Apartments, L.P. owns the property and Defendant SRHT Property Management Company manages it. (Id. ¶¶ 2, 3.) The majority of the Plaintiffs’ tenancies are alleged to governed by written leases, entered into by the parties at various times. (Id. ¶¶ 10-75.) Many Plaintiffs still reside at the property. (Id.) Plaintiffs allege that the Subject Property lacked basic characteristics necessary for human habitation “[t]hroughout Plaintiffs’ tenancies.” (Id. ¶ 79.) Plaintiffs allege they “constantly and consistently complained to the Defendants” about “slum-housing and untenantable conditions,” including inadequate plumbing, dampness and mold, vermin infestation, and harassment, among other things. (Id. ¶¶ 80, 86-93.) Defendants allegedly “failed to take timely or reasonable steps to abate and/or remedy the defects.” (Id. ¶ 81.) Despite this, Defendants continued to demand and collect full rent from the Plaintiffs. (Id. ¶ 96.) “Defendants also retaliated against Plaintiffs when the Plaintiffs protested the Subject Property’s deficient condition.” (Id.)As a result of Defendants’ failure to maintain the property, the Los Angeles Housing Department and the Los Angeles County Public Health Department have “issued numerous violation reports.” (Id. ¶¶ 82, 84.) Additionally, “[o]n or around April 7, 2023, Superior Court Judge Mitchell Beckloff determined that the Subject Property should be placed into a receivership to ensure that the Subject Property meets the health and safety standards required for residential housing in Los Angeles.” (Id. ¶ 78.) In support of the demurrer, Defendants argue that “the statute of limitations for 60 of the plaintiffs have already expired” because these Plaintiffs allege that the defective conditions “existed throughout their tenanc[ies].” (Dem. 2: 7-9.) In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that the theory of continuous accrual tolled the statute of limitations. A claim generally accrues when it is “complete with all of its elements.” (Aryeh v. Canon Bus. Sols., Inc. (2013) 55 Cal. 4th 1185, 1197.) However, under the continuous accrual theory, “a new cause of action accrues each time a wrongful act occurs, triggering a new limitations period.” (Willis v. City of Carlsbad (2020) 48 Cal. App. 5th 1104, 1115.) The continuous accrual theory, “unlike the continuing violation doctrine, permits recovery only for damages arising from those breaches falling within the limitations period.” (Id.)Though Plaintiffs rely on continuous accrual, the allegations would be better described as invoking the “continuing violation doctrine,” a related but distinct concept. “The continuing violation doctrine aggregates a series of wrongs or injuries for purposes of the statute of limitations, treating the limitations period as accruing for all of them upon commission or sufferance of the last of them. [Citation.] Consequently, the continuing violation doctrine “allows liability for unlawful ... conduct occurring outside the statute of limitations if it is sufficiently connected to unlawful conduct within the limitations period.” (Willis v. City of Carlsbad (2020) 48 Cal. App. 5th 1104, 1124.) “For the continuing violation doctrine to apply, a plaintiff must show the defendant engaged in ‘a pattern of reasonably frequent and similar acts [that] may, in a given case, justify treating the acts as an indivisible course of conduct actionable in its entirety, notwithstanding that the conduct occurred partially outside and partially inside the limitations period’.” (Id.) Here, by the nature of the allegations, Plaintiffs have alleged a course of conduct by which Defendants failed to maintain the premises in a habitable condition, “notwithstanding that the conduct occurred partially outside and partially inside the limitations period.” (Id.) Therefore, for pleadings purposes, the statute of limitations is not a bar. Next, Defendants contend that the causes of action are duplicative of each other. However, a plaintiff is free to plead alternative theories of recovery, even those that are inconsistent with each other. (Dubin v. Robert Newhall Chesebrough Trust (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 465, 476-477.)Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the First, Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action is OVERRULED.B. Fifth Cause of Action for Negligence; Sixth Cause of Action for Private NuisanceNext, Defendants argue the Fifth and Sixth Causes of action are time-barred. For the same reasons discussed supra, the court concludes that the statute of limitations is not a bar at the pleading stage. Defendants also contend that these causes of action are duplicative. But again, Plaintiffs may plead alternative theories of recovery at this stage. (See Dubin, supra, 96 Cal.App.4th at 476-477.)Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action is OVERRULED.C. Seventh Cause of Action for Violation of Civil Code Section 1942.4Next, Defendants argue Plaintiff’s cause of action under Civil Code section 1942.4 is uncertain. Under Civil Code section 1942.4, a residential landlord may not demand or collect rent, increase rent, or serve a three-day notice to pay rent or quit if (1) the dwelling is untenantable as defined under section 1941.1, is in violation of section 17920.10 of the Health and Safety Code, or is deemed and declared substandard under section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code; (2) a public officer inspects the premises and gives the landlord written notice that it must abate the nuisance or repair the property; (3) the conditions have not been remedied within 35 days of the notice; and (4) the substandard conditions were not caused by the tenant's acts or omissions. (Civ. Code, § 1942.4, subd. (a); see Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal. App. 4th 1281, 1298.)Defendants appear to suggest that the SAC is uncertain because it is not certain which allegations support the claim. However, “demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored,” and are strictly construed “because ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of discovery.”  (Lickiss v. Fin. Indus. Regul. Auth., (2012) 208 Cal. App. 4th 1125, 1135.)Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to Seventh Cause of Action is OVERRULED.D. Eighth Cause of Action for Unfair Business PracticesNext, Defendants argue the Eighth Cause of Action fails because (1) it is time barred, (2) because Plaintiffs lack standing, and (3) because Plaintiffs have not alleged causation. Business and Professions Code section 17200 defines “unfair competition” to include “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice....” “The scope of section 17200 is broad, encompassing ‘anything that can properly be called a business practice and that at the same time is forbidden by law.’ ... It governs ‘anti-competitive business practices’ as well as injuries to consumers, and has as a major purpose ‘the preservation of fair business competition.’” [Citations.] (Linear Tech. Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal. App. 4th 115, 133).  Whether a practice violates the section “is generally a question of fact which requires ‘consideration and weighing of evidence from both sides’ and which usually cannot be made on demurrer.” [Citation].  (Id.)Here, as tenant of the property, Plaintiffs have alleged that Defendants “engaged in the illegal and unfair business practice of owning and/or renting substandard, untenantable, uninhabitable, dangerous, unhealthy, and unsanitary housing.” (SAC ¶ 161.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants invoke this practice at numerous low-income properties they own or operate around Los Angeles. (Id. ¶ 162.) On these allegations, Plaintiffs have alleged a violation of section 17200 et seq.Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the Eighth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.E. Ninth Cause of Action for Tenant Harassment Finally, Defendants argue the cause of action is duplicative of the cause of action for breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment. Because Plaintiffs may plead these causes of action in the alternative, the demurrer fails.Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the Ninth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.Motion to StrikeI. Legal StandardA motion to strike lies either (1) to strike any irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) to strike any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or order of court.  (CCP § 436.) II. AnalysisDefendants move to strike Plaintiffs’ references to punitive damages in the Second Amended Complaint at paragraphs 135, 149, 159, and the Prayer for Relief. Defendants argue Plaintiffs have failed to plead facts to support an award of punitive damages.Civil Code § 3294 provides that “[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” As defined in § 3294(c):(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (3) “Fraud” means that a defendant intentionally misrepresented or concealed a material fact and did so intended to harm a plaintiff.Here, Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts to support all causes of action. These allegations include that Defendants allowed serious habitability issues to persist at the property despite repeated complaints from its low-income tenants. These allegations, if true and proven at trial, could support an award of punitive damages. Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Strike is DENIED. Concluding Observations Regarding Over-PleadingLast, but not least, this Court is continuingly frustrated by the constant over-pleading of lawsuits by plaintiffs’ lawyers.  Why assert nine causes of action in this particular case, when two or three will suffice?  Breach of Contract and the Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability are understandable. Why then add separate causes of action for basically the same allegations, such as negligence, “tortious” breach of the implied warranty of habitability, private nuisance, etc.?  Are you concerned that you will not be able to prove the simple breach of habitability cause of action?   Indeed.A lawsuit’s complaint should not become a law school or bar examination in which one attempts to identify every possible claim in a blue book.  Suffice it to state, many of the causes of actions pled in this case are either duplicative and/or already covered by the breach of habitability cause of action.  In this case, Plaintiff’s counsel may perhaps score an “A” in a law school examination, but they get an “F” in practical civil litigation practice.   This unfortunate type of over-pleading perfectly explains where we are now -- a needless pleading battle.  Instead of composing a 41-page Complaint with nine causes of action, perhaps in the future counsel should consider the use of a form complaint approved by the judicial counsel and narrow it down a bit. [FN 1]   At the very least, it is respectfully suggested that Plaintiff’s counsel modify its standard cut-and-paste habitability complaints accordingly.Just food for thought.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   September 25, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - Leonardo da Vinci is quoted as saying: “Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication.” Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.