 Case Number:  24STCV03807    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  49 Luz Bautista v. Eastwest Proto, Inc., dba Lifeline AmbulancePETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION MOVING PARTY: Defendant Eastwest Proto, Inc., dba Lifeline AmbulanceRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Luz BautistaSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Luz Bautista brings this action under PAGA based on Defendant Lifeline Ambulance’s alleged Labor Code violations. Defendant now moves to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate her individual PAGA claims. TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.Defendant is ordered to file a responsive pleading (other than another motion to compel arbitration) within 30 days.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:Motion to Compel Arbitration1. Legal Standard“[T]he petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”  (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284).  “In determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties' intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made.”  (Weeks v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353).  “Doubts as to whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the dispute.”  (California Correctional Peace Officers Ass'n v. State (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205).  “[A] party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final determination.”  (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284).“If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies. . . .”  (CCP § 1281.4.)2. Procedural HistoryOn February 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed her Complaint asserting 16 causes of action under the Labor Code, PAGA, and the UCL. (See Complaint, generally.) In response, Defendant filed a petition to compel binding arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual claims and an order staying the representative PAGA claim. (See 07/01/2024 Petition.) Rather than oppose the motion, on August 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint which included only a single cause of action under PAGA. (See FAC, generally.)Based on the filing of the amended complaint and the absence of any opposition or reply to the motion to compel arbitration, the court issued a Tentative Ruling on August 21, 2024, indicating that the motion was moot. Following argument at the hearing, the court invited supplemental briefing. The court has now read and considered Defendant’s supplemental brief filed September 4, 2024, and Plaintiff’s supplemental brief filed September 18, 2024. 3. AnalysisA. The FAA AppliesDefendant moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims. The FAA provides for enforcement of arbitration provisions in any contract “evidencing a transaction involving commerce.” (9 USC § 2.) The term “involving commerce” is functionally equivalent to “affecting commerce” and “signals an intent to exercise Congress’ commerce power to the full.” (Allied-Bruce Terminix Cos., Inc. v. Dobson (1995) 513 US 265, 277.) “The party asserting the FAA bears the burden to show it applies by presenting evidence establishing [that] the contract with the arbitration provision has a substantial relationship to interstate commerce . . . .” (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 238.)Here, the arbitration agreement provides that it “is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq. (FAA), and evidences transaction involving commerce.” (Miretsky Decl. Exh A.) Courts will apply the FAA “if it is so stated in the agreement.” (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84 Cal. App. 5th 956, 963.) Therefore, the FAA applies here.B. The Parties Did Not Agree to Arbitrate PAGA ActionsCalifornia has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as an expeditious and cost-effective way of resolving disputes.  “Even so, parties can only be compelled to arbitrate when they have agreed to do so.” (Avila v. S. California Specialty Care, Inc. (2018) 20 Cal. App. 5th 835, 843.)  “The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement.”  (Id.)An arbitration agreement is a contractual agreement. “General contract law principles include that ‘[t]he basic goal of contract interpretation is to give effect to the parties’ mutual intent at the time of contracting. [Citations.] ... The words of a contract are to be understood in their ordinary and popular sense.” [Citations.]  (Garcia v. Expert Staffing W., 73 Cal. App. 5th 408, 412–13.)  Defendant has the initial burden of producing “prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy.” (Gamboa v. Ne. Cmty. Clinic (2021) 72 Cal. App. 5th 158, 165.) “[I]t is not necessary to follow the normal procedures of document authentication.” (Condee v. Longwood Mgmt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal. App. 4th 215, 218.)Defendant has submitted a declaration from Danielle Thomas, its Chief Operating Officer. Thomas attests that on August 1, 2022, “Plaintiff Bautista signed an Arbitration Agreement wherein she agreed to submit any and all claims against Lifeline to binding arbitration.” (Thomas Decl. ¶ 4.) The Agreement provides:Any claim, dispute or controversy that either Employee may have against the Company, or its owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, agents, subsidiaries, parent companies, affiliates and parties affiliated with its employee benefit and health plans, or the Company may have against Employee, arising from, related to, or having any relationship or connection whatsoever, with Employee’s seeking employment with, employment by, cessation of employment with, or other association with, the Company shall be submitted to and determined exclusively by final and binding arbitration (the “Arbitration Agreement”).This Arbitration Agreement is intended to apply, and applies, to the resolution of past, present and future disputes that otherwise would be resolved in a court of law and requires that all such disputes be resolved only by an arbitrator through final and binding arbitration and not by way of court or jury trial except as otherwise stated in this Arbitration Agreement.(Miretsky Decl. Exh. A.)As Plaintiff notes in her supplemental brief opposing arbitration, the arbitration agreement includes a limitation on PAGA actions. It expressly states that “[t]his Arbitration Agreement does not apply to Private Attorney General Actions, brought under California Labor Code § 2698 et seq., which must be litigated in a civil court of competent jurisdiction.” (Miretsky Decl., Exh. A, ¶ 3.) The Agreement does not distinguish between individual or representative PAGA actions. At the time Defendant moved to compel arbitration, the Complaint was the operative pleading. In the Complaint, Plaintiff asserted sixteen causes of action, only one of which was under PAGA. However, on August 8, 2024—after Defendant filed the motion to compel arbitration—Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint asserting a single cause of action under PAGA. In the single cause of action in the FAC, Plaintiff states that she seeks “only those penalties that are required to be shared with the LWDA as Plaintiff is not seeking individual penalties/victim specific relief or underpaid wages for herself or other employees under this specific PAGA cause of action.” (FAC ¶ 31 [emphasis added].) Because “the right to compel arbitration depends upon the contract between the parties, [citations],” a party “can be compelled to submit a dispute to arbitration only where he has agreed in writing to do so.” (Smith v. Microskills San Diego L.P. (2007) 153 Cal. App. 4th 892, 896; see also Viking River, supra, 142 S.Ct. at 1918 [“the first principle of FAA jurisprudence is that arbitration is strictly a matter of consent”].)Here, because this action is now brought solely under PAGA, and because the arbitration agreement by its plain language provides a wholesale exclusion of PAGA actions, the arbitration agreement does not apply to the dispute. Indeed, the agreement expressly requires that any PAGA action—without making a distinction between individual or representative claims—“be litigated in a civil court of competent jurisdiction.” (Miretsky Decl., Exh. A, ¶ 3.)Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   September 25, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.