  Case Number:  23SMCV04139    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Slalom v. Aspiration Partners, Case
no. 23SMCV04139
Hearing date September 24, 2024
Defendant Aspiration Partners’
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Plaintiff Slalom’s Application for
Writ of Attachment
Plaintiff Slalom sues defendant
Aspiration for breach of written contract, for work, labor, services and
materials and account stated based on the parties’ agreement for plaintiff to provide
consulting services to defendant. Plaintiff alleges defendant failed to pay 15
invoices and owes $2,617,224.85, plus interest. 
Defendant moves to compel
arbitration based on the parties’ written master services agreement (MSA). Plaintiff
will stipulate to arbitration but applies for a writ of attachment and argues
the court has jurisdiction to hear its application prior to sending the matter
to arbitration. 
Plaintiff’s Application for Writ of
Attachment
A writ of an attachment may issue
on a claim for money based on contract where the amount owed exceeds $500, and
the amount sought is “fixed or readily ascertainable” by reference to the
contract. A writ of attachment may only issue against a natural person when the
claim arises out of the conduct of a “trade, business, or profession.” Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. §483.010. A writ of attachment will only issue if (1) the claim
is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued, (2) plaintiff
established the probable validity of the underlying claim, (3) the attachment
is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the
attachment is based, and (4) the amount to be secured by the attachment is
greater than zero. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §484.090.
Plaintiff’s claims arise from the MSA,
statements of work and change orders signed and executed by both parties.
Compl., exhs. 1, 2. Plaintiff established existence of a contract, and amount
owed is ascertainable by reference to the contract and invoices. The claim on which
the writ is based is one on which attachment can issue. Plaintiff provides
evidence defendant failed to pay and owes $2,617,224.85. Compl. ex. 3. Plaintiff’s
requested request judicial notice of five judgments/defaults against defendant showing
decreasing solvency starting 2/2/2024 is granted. Taken together, this
establishes the probable validity of the claim, and plaintiff meets its burden
in seeking a writ of attachment.
Defendant asserts plaintiff has not
met the requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §1281.8(b) which states “A party to an
arbitration agreement may file in the court in which the arbitration proceeding
is pending … an application for a provisional remedy in connection with an
arbitrable controversy, but only upon the ground that the award would be
rendered ineffectual without provisional relief.” Id. Defendant argues
plaintiff has not shown an arbitration award may be rendered ineffectual, and
as such has not met the heightened burden. 
The court disagrees; judicial
notice was granted as to various judgments/defaults against the defendant,
showing decreasing solvency. The arbitrator cannot issue a writ of attachment;
such remedy is available only in superior court. Thus, the defendant’s delay in
seeking arbitration would prejudice the plaintiff if plaintiff were sent to
arbitration, thereby depriving it of the right to seek the writ of attachment. Therefore,
the court will issue the writ of attachment and then consider the issue of
enforcement of the arbitration agreement. 
Defendant asserts that plaintiff
failed to meet its statutory requirements, as Code Civ. Proc. §489.210-.220
requires plaintiff to file an undertaking of at least $10,000 before a writ can
issue, which plaintiff has not done. 
For the foregoing reasons, the
court finds plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim. The
writ is GRANTED, contingent upon plaintiff posting an undertaking of $10,000
within 30 days. 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
California public policy strongly
favors arbitration as an efficient alternative to litigation. Code of Civ.
Proc. §1280 et seq., Madden v. Kaiser Found. Hosps. (1976) 17 Cal.3d
699, 706. A party waives its right to arbitrate when it “substantially invokes”
the litigation machinery before moving to arbitrate, resulting in prejudice to
the opposing party. Hoover v. American Income Life Ins. Co. (2012) 20
Cal.App.4th 1193, 1204. Filing an answer does not waive the right to seek
arbitration. Christensen v. Dewor Developments (1983) 33 Cal.3d 778,
782.
Per the MSA, the parties agreed to
a dispute resolution procedure, including mandatory arbitration of disputes
that remain unresolved following good faith negotiation and non-binding
mediation. The provision covers “any dispute, claim or controversy (a
“Dispute”) arising out of or relating to this Agreement.” Id. (MSA §12.1).
An arbitration agreement exists.
Plaintiff states it does not oppose
arbitration, if a writ of attachment issues. As per above, the application for
the writ of attachment is granted. The motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED
without opposition, based upon the parties’ agreement. 
Once the writ of attachment issues,
the matter is referred to arbitration. Should plaintiff fail to pay the
undertaking, the court will address the matter on its merits. 