 Case Number:  23STCP01751    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  25  Sandra Cohen v. Xsiavosh Asrabadi, et al. 23stcp01751ANALYSIS:
 
I.               
Background
 
On May 22, 2023, Petitioner Sandra Cohen (“Petitioner” or
“Cohen”) filed the instant Petition to Compel Arbitration (“Petition”) seeking
an order compelling Respondents Xsiavosh Asrabadi (“Asrabadi”) and Bahreh Qmarsi
(“Qmarsi”) (collectively “Respondents”) to arbitrate a controversy pursuant to
a California Residential Purchase Agreement (“Agreement”) entered into by
Petitioner and Respondents.
 
On August 16, 2023, the Court rejected Petitioner’s
Requests for Entry of Default/Judgment against Respondents.  (8-16-23 Notices of Rejection.)
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
II.             
Legal
Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§1281.2, generally, on a petition to compel arbitration, the court must grant the
petition unless it finds either (1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists;
(2) the right to compel arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for
revocation of the agreement; or (4) litigation is pending that may render the
arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting¿rulings on common issues.
 
When seeking to compel arbitration, the
initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by prepondernace of evidence.  (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.)  It is sufficient for the moving
party to produce a copy of the arbitration agreement or set forth the
agreement’s provisions.  (Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The
burden then shifts to the opposing party to prove by a preponderance of
evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract or the arbitration clause.  (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  Subsequently,
the moving party must establish with the preponderance of admissible evidence a
valid arbitration agreement between the parties.  (Ibid.)  The trial court then weighs all the evidence
submitted and uses its discretion to make a final determination.  (Ibid.)  “California law, ‘like [federal law], reflects
a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close judicial
scrutiny of waiver claims.’”  (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific Mechanical
Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.)
 
If the court orders arbitration, then the court shall
stay the action until arbitration is completed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)
 
III.           
Discussion
 
Around August 8, 2020, Petitioner and Respondents entered
into a California Residential Purchase Agreement (“Agreement”).  (Pet. ¶ 4,
Ex. A.)  Pursuant to the Agreement,
paragraph 22(B), “the parties agreed that any dispute or claim in law or
equity arising between them out of the Agreement or any resulting transaction,
which is not first settled through mediation, shall be decided by neutral,
binding arbitration.”  (Ibid.)
 
In September 2020, a dispute arose
between Petitioner, as seller of the Property, and Respondents, as potential
buyers of the Property, because Respondents attempted to cancel the Agreement
and demand the release of the buyer’s deposit. 
(Ibid. at ¶ 5.)  Around September 30, 2020 and January 3,
2023, Petitioner sent a letter demanding mediation pursuant to paragraph 21 of
the Agreement.  (Ibid. at ¶
8.)  Respondents did not respond to the
letter.  (Ibid.)  Around March 31, 2023, Petitioner again
demanded mediation and informed Respondents that she would move to compel
arbitration of the dispute if they did not respond by April 7, 2023.  (Ibid. at ¶ 9.)  Respondents did not respond to Petitioner’s
communications.  (Ibid.)
 
Petitioner
requests that the Court order Respondents to first mediate the dispute, and if
that does not resolve the controversy, to compel arbitration of the
dispute.  (Ibid. at p. 3.)
 
The Court
finds that Petitioner has presented the Agreement, entered into by Petitioner
and Respondents, which contains a provision for arbitration of disputes arising
out of the Agreement.  (Pet. ¶
4, Ex. A.)  The provision states that
“[t]he Parties agree to mediate any dispute or claim arising between them out
of this Agreement, or any resulting transaction, before resorting to
arbitration or court action.”  (Ibid.
at ¶ 22A.)  Petitioner has shown that it
has attempted to mediate the dispute; however, Respondents have not been
responsive to Petitioner’s demands. 
Thus, the Court finds that Petitioner is entitled to a Court order
compelling arbitration of the dispute.
 
However,
the Court finds the Petition unclear regarding the form of relief
requested.  Petitioner has filed a
Petition to Compel Arbitration based on Code of Civil Procedure §1281.2;
however, at the end of the Petition, “Petitioner prays 1. That the court order
Respondents to first mediate the controversy in question, and if mediation does
not resolve the matter, then a binding arbitration hearing shall be conducted,
all in accordance with the terms of the Agreement.”  (Pet. p. 3.)
 
Given the lack of clarity, the Court
continues the hearing on the Petition. 
Petitioner is ordered to file supplemental papers clarifying whether she
is moving for an order compelling arbitration or whether she wishes to proceed
with mediation.  Petitioner is also
ordered to file the letters sent to Respondents demanding mediation of the
controversy.
 
IV.           
Conclusion
 
For the reasons discussed above,
 
The hearing on the Petition to Compel
Arbitration, filed by Petitioner Sandra Cohen, is CONTINUED to ______________at
____ a.m. in Department 25 at the SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE.  Petitioner is ordered to file supplemental
papers addressing the issues discussed herein at least 16 court days before the
next scheduled hearing.  Failure to do so may result in the Petition
being placed off calendar or denied.
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 