  Case Number:  22STCV29728    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  A  22STCV29728
 Johnna Mike-Price, et al. v. Toshiba Lifestyle Products and Services
 Corporation, et al.Thursday,
 July 25, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
IN PART MOTION BY PLAINTIFF, JOHNNA MIKE-PRICE, FOR ISSUE, EVIDENCE,
 AND MONETARY SANCTIONS RELATING TO GD MIDEA’S FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH DISCOVERY
 ORDER [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
 IN PARTY MOTION BY PLAINTIFF, JOHNNA MIKE-PRICE, FOR ISSUE, EVIDENCE, AND
 MONETARY SANCTIONS RELATING TO WUHU MATY AIR-CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT CO., LTD’S,
 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH DISCOVERY ORDER I.      
BACKGROUND            The
complaint alleges that Plaintiffs sustained injury when the minor Plaintiff,
Commander Mike-Price, who was then six years old, ingested a button battery
from the remote control of  an air
conditioning unit made by Defendants. Plaintiffs allege claims for negligence
and strict products liability. II.    
ARGUMENTS      Plaintiffs
argue that on June 12, 2024, the court granted Plaintiffs’ motions to compel
Defendants, Wuhu Maty Air-Conditioning Equipment Co., Ltd. (“Wuhu Maty”) and GD
Midea Air Conditioning (“GD Midea”) (collectively “Defendants”) to produce documents
relevant to Plaintiffs’ opposition to Defendants’ pending motions to quash
service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.  The court ordered Defendants to provide
verified responses by June 26, 2024, and both Defendants failed to comply with
the court’s order. Therefore, Plaintiffs request an order establishing issues
1-10 demonstrating that the court has jurisdiction over Defendants. Plaintiffs
also request that the court preclude evidence by Defendants to establish they
did not have the necessary contacts demonstrating their minimum contacts with
California.      Additionally,
Plaintiffs request imposition of monetary sanctions against Defendants. Plaintiffs
contend that they have suffered prejudice because Plaintiffs cannot establish
jurisdictional prerequisites in time for a preferential trial setting within
120 days of the court’s order granting Plaintiffs’ motion (separately filed.)       In a
consolidated opposition, Defendants argue that while their responses were
submitted late, they have complied with the court’s order by submitting
documents to Plaintiffs after receipt of responsive documents from Defendants from
June 25 through July 12, 2024, and subsequently due to bad links from clients. Defendants
produced more than 3,000 pages of documents and a privilege log. The motions
are unnecessary, as Defendants notified Plaintiffs’ counsel that documents
would be produced. Defendants’ late production of documents were not willful,
nor made with intent to disregard the court’s order. Defendants apologize to
Plaintiffs’ counsel and the court for the late production.       In a consolidated reply, Plaintiffs argue that Defendants have
conceded that they violated the court’s order. While Defendants contend that additional
responses would be forthcoming on July 15, 16, or 17th,  Defendants have failed to provide any additional
documents. Defendants failed to provide any documents to their counsel until
June 24, 2024, although documents were due to Plaintiffs by June 26,
2024, and some documents were actually produced on June 28, 2024. It has
been six months since Plaintiffs first requested production of documents.   III.   
DISCUSSION      As
both motions concern the same issues, the court will address both in a single
tentative ruling.       The
court may impose monetary, evidentiary, issue, or terminating sanctions against
a party where that party fails to obey an order to provide discovery responses
which is a misuse of the discovery process. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) Discovery sanctions, however, are not to be imposed for punishment, but
instead are used to encourage fair disclosure of discovery to prevent
unfairness resulting from the lack of information. (Midwife
v. Bernal (1988) 203
Cal.App.3d 57, 64.)  The type of sanction imposed should be
“appropriate to the dereliction,” and tailored to accomplish the discovery
sought. (Do It Urself Moving & Storage,
Inc. v. Brown, Leifer, Slatkin & Berns (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 27, 35.)      While Plaintiffs do not request terminating
sanctions, the imposition of issue and evidentiary sanctions will have the same
effect by laying to rest any issues relevant to the court’s exercise of
personal jurisdiction.  Terminating sanctions
are to be used “sparingly because of the drastic effect of their application.”
(Department
of Forestry & Fire Protection v. Howell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154, 191.) The imposition of terminating sanctions may be imposed “as a first
measure in extreme cases, or where the record shows lesser sanctions would
be ineffective.” (Id. at 191–192.)      The
court’s order required compliance by June 26, 2024. Defendants’ opposition
concedes they did not produce documents until after the court’s deadline, and
such responses are not complete or verified. (Michael Brisbin decl., ¶11 [“GSM
will provide responses on July 15, 16, or 17, when GRSM receives executed
verifications from Defendants.”] Unsworn responses are “tantamount to no
responses at all.” (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d
632, 635-36.)      While Defendants’ compliance is piecemeal,
tardy, incomplete, and unverified, the court adopts the incremental approach
and declines to impose issue or evidentiary sanctions at this time as doing so
would be punitive.  IV.  
CONCLUSION      Accordingly,
the court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion in part and imposes monetary sanctions,
only against Defendants, GD Midea, and Wuhu Maty, and their counsel, Gordon
Rees Scully, Mansukhani, LLP, jointly and severally, for Defendants’ misuse of
the discovery process in failing to abide by the court’s order for timely
production of documents responsive to Plaintiffs’ requests. Defendants are
ordered to comply in full with the court’s June 12, 2024, order within 10 days.       As Plaintiffs’ motions are identical in
substance, the court finds that eight hours of time incurred to prepare both motions,
consolidated reply, and to appear at the hearing at $400 per hour (reduced from
$500 given the non-complexity of these discovery motions) is reasonable. Plaintiffs
are entitled to $120 in filing fees incurred for both motions ($60 per motion).
Defendants GD Midea and Wuhu Maty, and their counsel, Gordon Rees Scully,
Mansukhani, LLP, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay sanctions of $3,320
to Plaintiffs’ counsel within 10 days. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------22STCV29728   Johnna Mike-Price, et al. v. Toshiba Lifestyle Products and Services   Corporation, et al. Thursday,   July 25, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING   MOTION OF PLAINTIFF, SUSANNE DRUMHELLER, AS GUARDIAN AD LITEM FOR MINOR,   COMMANDER MIKE-PRICE, FOR STATUTORY TRIAL PREFERENCE   I.        BACKGROUND             The  complaint alleges that Plaintiffs sustained injury when the minor Plaintiff,  Commander Mike-Price, who was then six years old, ingested a button battery  from the remote control for an air conditioning unit made by Defendants.  Plaintiffs allege claims for negligence and strict products liability.  II.      ARGUMENTS       The  minor Plaintiff, through his Guardian ad Litem (“Plaintiff”), moves for trial  preference as he is under 14 years of age and has a substantial interest in the  case as a whole. All Defendants have been served.        In  opposition, Defendants, Midea America Corp. (“Midea”), and Home Depot U.S.A.  Inc. (“Home Depot”), argues the motion is premature since Plaintiff has not  named and served alleged essential parties to the litigation (Does 3-50).       In  reply, Plaintiff argues that Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration stating  that all essential parties have been served or appeared. The existence of DOE  defendants does not negate this fact.      III.     DISCUSSION       A  Plaintiff under 14 years of age in a civil action to recover damages for  wrongful death or personal injury is entitled to a preferential trial setting  unless the court determines that "that the party does not have a substantial  interest in the case as a whole. " (Code  Civ. Proc., § 36 subd. (b).) The complaint is based on the minor’s serious  injuries sustained as a result of ingesting a battery, and thus, has a  substantial interest in the case. All claims arise from this alleged incident. Plaintiff’s  birthdate is June 22, 2016. (Mot. Ex. A.)       Plaintiff’s  counsel declares that all parties have been served or have appeared in the  action. (Hunter Norton Decl., ¶ 3.) Defendants have not cited any authority  that requires Plaintiff to dismiss DOE defendants as a condition of trial  preference.    IV.    CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for a  trial preference is GRANTED. If the conditions for a preferential setting  are met, the court is required to set trial for not more than 120 days from the  date of the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 36 subd. (f).)  There shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the granting of the motion  for preference “except for physical disability of a party or a party's  attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record. Any continuance  shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than one continuance for physical  disability may be granted to any party.” (Id.)        The  120th day falls on Friday, November 22, 2024. Accordingly, the trial  date is rescheduled for _____________________________.  The Final Status Conference is scheduled for  _______________________.      