 Case Number:  21STCV32828    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           5/6/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       21STCV32828 MIKAEL KOLLING vs. SEVADHAM
MANAGEMENT, LP
Motion:                    MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY AND MOTIONS TO
COMPEL INITIAL DISCOVERY RESPONSES
Moving Party:           Plaintiffs
Responding Party:    Defendant Sevadham Management
Notice:                      Sufficient
 
Ruling:                    MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY AND MOTIONS TO
COMPEL INTIAL DISCOVERY RESPONSES ARE DENIED.
 
 
Background
 
On September 2, 2021, Plaintiff filed the
present elder abuse case. The current discovery cut-off date is February 14,
2024, tied to the prior trial date of March 15, 2024. On November 28, 2022,
Plaintiffs served their first set of discovery requests but Defendant Sevadham
Management failed to provide the discovery responses at issue. On November 28,
2023, Plaintiffs filed their motion to compel but because the motion seeks
discovery after the discovery cut-off date, the hearing was continued to today.
On February 16, 2024, Plaintiffs moved the Court to reopen discovery to align
with the current trial date set for September 16, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
 
“The purpose of imposing a time limit on discovery is to expedite
and facilitate trial preparation and to prevent delay.¿ Without a cutoff date, the parties could tie up each other and
the trial court in discovery and discovery disputes right up to the eve of
trial or beyond. Furthermore, . . . to be effective the cutoff date must be
firm or some litigants will manipulate the proceedings to avoid the cut-off
date.”¿(Beverly Hosp. v.
Superior Court¿(1993)
19 Cal.App.4th 1289, 1295.) The
reopening of discovery is a matter that is committed to the trial court’s sound discretion.¿(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a), (b).)¿In exercising that discretion, the trial court considers “any matter relevant to the leave requested,” including:
 
(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery.
 
(2)
The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing
of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or
that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.
 
(3)
Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion
will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise
interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.
 
(4)
The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the
date presently set, for the trial of the action.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(b).)
 
A motion to reopen discovery pursuant to CCP section 2024.050 must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating a good faith
effort at informal resolution. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a).)
 
Discussion
The
moving party filed a declaration demonstrating a good faith effort at informal
resolution. Plaintiffs seek to reopen discovery for the Court to hear their
motions to compel Plaintiffs’ first set of discovery responses.
 
Plaintiffs
failed to
discuss all the factors under § 2024.050. Plaintiffs failed to
demonstrate their diligence in seeking the discovery or the timely hearing of a
discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that
the discovery motion was not heard earlier. The first set of discovery
responses were served in November 2022, a year after Defendant filed its
answer. Furthermore, the last communication between Plaintiffs and Defendant
regarding the outstanding discovery responses occurred in April 2023, yet
Plaintiffs waited another seven months to file the motion to compel. Plaintiffs
did not sufficiently explain their lack of diligence in seeking discovery or
why the discovery motion was not filed earlier to avoid the situation they are
currently in where they must request the court to reopen discovery because the
motions to compel was filed near the discovery cutoff date.
 
Furthermore,
Plaintiffs did not address the likelihood that permitting the discovery or
hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the
scheduled date or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar. Although
Plaintiffs state the reason they need to reopen discovery is to obtain
responses to their first set of discovery responses, the Court questions
whether Plaintiffs are planning to depose the Defendant or request further
written discovery responses to be served. Without addressing these questions,
the Court is unsure if the trial will be continued again and how it will impact
the Court’s calendar.
 
Plaintiffs
failed to discuss all the factors under § 2024.050 and their tardiness in
pursuing discovery. Based on the timeline of the case and the matters submitted
before the Court, the Court finds that Plaintiffs did not pursue discovery or
their motion to compel diligently. Thus, the motion to reopen discovery is
denied. Consequently, Plaintiff’s motion to compel is DENIED for seeking
discovery after the discovery cut-off date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of the email must
include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the
identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should assume that others may
appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.