 Case Number:  22STCV37756    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


June 26, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV37756




MOTION


Motion to Seal Unredacted Version of Stipulation Regarding
  Good Faith Settlement




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Weimin Chen 




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
On
December 2, 2022, Plaintiff Nicole McClellan filed a complaint against
Defendants Megan Shum, Greg Transportation, Inc., Weimin Chen, and Does 1 to 50
for injuries resulting from a motor vehicle accident.            
 
Defendant Weimin Chen (“Defendant”) now moves to seal the unredacted
version of the parties’ stipulation regarding good faith settlement of
Defendant and the unredacted version of the Confidential Agreement and General
Release of All Claims between Plaintiff and Released Parties Rasier, LLC,
Rasier-CA, LLC, Uber Technologies, Inc., Blue Hill Specialty Insurance Company,
and Weimin Chen (collectively, “Released Parties”). No opposition has been
filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To grant a motion to seal, the court must expressly find
that: (1) an overriding interest exists that overcomes the right of public
access to the record; (2) the overriding interest supports sealing the records;
(3) a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and (5) no less restrictive means exist to achieve the
overriding interest.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d); see¿McGuan v.
Endovascular Technologies, Inc.¿(2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 974, 988.)  
 
Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records
are presumed to be open to the public, pursuant to a potent “open court” policy
undergirded by the First Amendment and favoring the public nature of court
proceedings.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c); see NBC
Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20
Cal.4th 1178, 1199-10.)  Consequently, pleadings, motions, discovery
documents, and other papers may not be filed under seal merely by stipulation
of the parties; filing under seal requires a court order.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(a); see H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe¿(2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 879, 888.) “Policy reasons to restrict access are ‘anything which
tends to undermine that sense of security for individual rights, whether of
personal liberty or private property, which any citizen ought to feel has a
tendency to be injurious to the public or the public good.’ [Citation.]” (Copley
Press, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 367, 373.)
 
In Hinshaw v.
Superior Court (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 233, 242, the court found that
private, non-governmental parties have a privacy interest in maintaining
confidentiality of settlement agreements that contain personal financial
information. The court has also found that the public at large may have an
interest in knowing settlement terms when a public entity settles a lawsuit,
especially when it involves how public funds are spent. (See Copley Press,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 367, 376.) 
 
A sealing order must be sought by means of a motion (or
application) and accompanied by a memorandum of points and authorities, as well
as evidence and testimony containing facts sufficient to justify the mandatory
findings required to support a sealing order.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rules
2.550(d) and 2.551(b).)  The proponent of the sealing order must also
conditionally lodge the unredacted matter to be sealed with the
court.  (Id., rule 2.551(b)(4).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
             Here, Defendant advances the Declaration of Vincent
Rizzo, Defendant’s counsel, who describes the history of the litigation,
including that Defendant Shum stipulated to admit liability. (Rizzo Decl. ¶ 6.)
As a result, Defendant and Plaintiff reached a settlement. Defendant has
provided redacted copies of the proposed documents to be sealed. (Rizzo Decl.,
Exh. A.) Notably, the documents only redact the settlement amount. 
 
The Court notes the settlement is between private parties, Plaintiff,
Rasier, LLC, Rasier-CA, LLC, Uber Technologies, Inc., Blue Hill Specialty
Insurance Company, and Weimin Chen (Rizzo Decl., Exh. A.) The proposed
information to be sealed also pertains to personal financial information. Therefore,
the Court finds that there exists an overriding interest that overcomes the
right of public access to the records, the overriding interest supports sealing
the records, and a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest
will be prejudiced if the records are not sealed. 
 
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored because the redacted
portions are only the settlement amount. Because these documents may be
necessary when seeking motions to determine the good faith of the settlement,
there are no less restrictive means available.   
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to seal. The following
documents in their unredacted form are to be filed under seal: (1) Stipulation
Regarding Good Faith Settlement of Defendant Weimin Chen; and (2) Confidential
Agreement and General Release of All Claims between Nicole McClellan
(“Releasor”) and Released Parties Rasier, LLC, Rasier-CA, LLC, Uber
Technologies, Inc., Blue Hill Specialty Insurance Company, and Weimin Chen
(collectively, “Released Parties”). 
 
Defendant shall give notice of the Court’s order, and file proof of
service of such.
 