..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21STCV05234
Plaintiff's Name: Joanna Elliott
Defendant's Name: Pepperdine University, et al.
People-Names: Joanna Elliott, Dr. Stephanie Peters
Company-Names: Pepperdine University, Wave Enterprises, Inc., Wave Services, Inc., Wave Property, Inc.
Places: Los Angeles, CA, 3415 South Sepulveda Blvd., Suite 1100
Dates: February 9, 2021, February 27, 2024, March 7, 2024, March 21, 2024, April 22, 2024, August 1, 2024, July 21, 2025
Events: Motion to compel independent medical examination, meeting and conferencing, filing of opposition and reply
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: The defendants intend to compel the plaintiff to submit to a psychiatric independent medical examination (IME) to assess her mental state.
Facts: The plaintiff was employed at Pepperdine University and alleges harassment, retaliation, discrimination, and wrongful termination. The defendants attempted to meet and confer with the plaintiff regarding a psychiatric IME, but the plaintiff did not respond. The defendants filed a motion to compel the IME, and the plaintiff opposed it.
Disputes: The dispute is over whether the defendants have provided sufficient information for the plaintiff to stipulate or object to the IME.
Acts: The defendants made multiple attempts to meet and confer with the plaintiff, provided a draft stipulation for the IME, and filed a motion to compel the IME.
Agreements: The parties agreed to the draft stipulation, which outlines the terms of the IME.
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure sections 2032.310, 2032.320, 2032.530, 2032.610
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure
Roles: Judge Kerry Bensinger, Plaintiff Joanna Elliott, Defendants Pepperdine University, et al.
Significant Statements:
* The court finds that the motion is not procedural defective.
* The court finds that good cause exists to compel the plaintiff to submit to an IME.
* The motion to compel is GRANTED.
* The plaintiff is ordered to appear for a psychiatric IME with Dr. Stephanie Peters within 30 days of the date of this order.
* The IME is to take place as specified in the defendants' draft stipulation.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

This tentative ruling is regarding a motion by the defendants, Pepperdine University, et al., to compel the plaintiff, Joanna Elliott, to submit to a psychiatric independent medical examination (IME). The defendants had previously attempted to meet and confer with the plaintiff regarding the IME, but the plaintiff did not respond. The defendants then filed a motion to compel the IME, and the plaintiff opposed it.

The court finds that the defendants provided sufficient information for the plaintiff to stipulate or object to the IME, and that good cause exists to compel the plaintiff to submit to an IME. The court grants the motion to compel and orders the plaintiff to appear for a psychiatric IME with Dr. Stephanie Peters within 30 days of the date of this order. The IME is to take place as specified in the defendants' draft stipulation.
