 Case Number:  24STCV03072    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative
Ruling
 
Judge
Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August 1, 2024                                   TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Hadas Dimentstein v. Echo Park
Investment, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV03072
 





















 
DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Echo Park Investment LLC
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Plaintiff Hadas Dimentstein
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Hadas Dimentstein
is a tenant of the property located at 1820 N. Park Avenue, Unit #5, Los
Angeles, CA 90026 (“Subject Unit”).  In
2012, Defendant Echo Park Investment, LLC became the owner of the Subject Unit
and assumed performance of Plaintiff’s lease agreement.  On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
verified Complaint against Defendant for: 
 
1.      Contractual and Tortious
Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability;
2.      Violation of Cal. Civ. Code
§§ 1941, 1941.1, and 1942.4 (Statutory Breach of the Implied Warranty of
Habitability);
3.      Contractual and Tortious
Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment;
4.      Nuisance;
5.      Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress;
6.      Negligence;
7.      Violation of California
Civil Code § 1940.2 (Influencing a Wrongful Eviction);
8.      Violation of Code of Civil
Procedure § 1159 (Forcible Entry);
9.      Violation of Bus. &
Prof. Code §  17200 Et Seq.
Unfair, Unlawful, and Deceptive Business Practices;   
10.  Violation of Cal. Welf.
& Inst. Code § 15610.30 (Financial Abuse of Elders and Disabled Persons);
11.  Negligent Hiring, Training,
and Supervision;
12.  Violation of L.A.M.C. §
151.04 (Unlawful Rent Increase);
13.  Violation of L.A.M.C. §
151.33 and 45.33 (Tenant Harassment);
14.  Violation of the Fair
Employment and Housing Act (Cal. Gov. Code § 12900, et seq.).
Defendant now demurs to all
causes of action (with the exception of the 12th and 13th
causes of action) and seeks an order striking punitive damages from the
Complaint.
 
Plaintiff has filed
oppositions.  Defendant filed replies.
 
II.        DISCUSSION
RE DEMURRER  
 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
A demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and will be sustained only where
the pleading is defective on its face.  (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445,
459.)  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  We
accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and
also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. 
[Citation.]”  (Mitchell v. California Department of Public Health
(2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be
liberally construed.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  In construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations.  (Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 764,
769.)   
 
A demurrer
may be brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action
asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Where the
complaint contains substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
will be overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to amend.  (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of
successful amendment.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading
can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
 
B.    
Application
 
Meet and Confer
 
“Before filing a demurrer
pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person,
by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  Defense counsel has satisfied this
requirement.  (See Declaration of Parisa Saleki, ¶¶ 3-5.)
 
Analysis  
 
Defendant demurs to the first through the eleventh and
the fourteenth causes of action.  The
court addresses each cause of action in turn.
 
1.      First and Second Causes of Action 
 
The first two causes of action are (1) Contractual and Tortious
Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability and (2) Violation of Cal. Civ. Code
§§ 1941, 1941.1, and 1942.4 (Statutory Breach of the Implied Warranty of
Habitability). The causes of action are based upon inadequate heating,
improperly sealed and/or rotting window frames, dilapidated flooring which
presented tripping hazards, and clogged drains.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 17-26.)  Plaintiff seeks punitive damages for each of
these claims.
 
            Defendant argues these causes of action fail for two
reasons: (1) the claims are uncertain because the Complaint references dates beyond
the relevant statute of limitations; and (2) Plaintiff improperly attempts to convert
contract claims into tort claims.[1]
 
            First, the statute of limitations for claims arising out
of a contract is four years after the breach.  (Civ. Proc. Code §§ 337.2, 339.5.)  Here, Plaintiff alleges that she notified
Defendant of the inadequate heating and window issues in 2013 and 2019.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 17, 18.)  In 2019, Defendant refused to repair or upgrade
the heater in the Subject Unit, or to conduct an inspection for damaged
windows.  (Id. at ¶ 18.)  As to the drainage issue, Plaintiff requested
repair in 2019 and Defendant insisted that Plaintiff pay for the repair.  The Complaint is silent on the time period of
the flooring issue.  Using the later of
the two dates, 2019, Plaintiff’s claims accrued more than four years ago.  Under a strict application of the statute of
limitations, the first two causes of action appear to be time-barred.  
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant “is liable
for all violations mentioned from the date Plaintiff moved into the unit as
long as they continued unabated through to a period within the applicable
statute of limitations,” so long as they constitute a continuing pattern and
course of conduct as opposed to unrelated discrete acts.  (Opp., p. 8:16-20.)  Plaintiff articulates an equitable exception of
accrual known as the continuing violation doctrine.  Under that doctrine, “[a]llegations of a
pattern of reasonably frequent and similar acts may, in a given case, justify
treating the acts as an indivisible course of conduct actionable in its
entirety, notwithstanding that the conduct occurred partially outside and
partially inside the limitations period.” 
(Aryeh v. Canon Bus. Sols., Inc. (2013) 55 Cal.4th 1185, 1198.)  “The continuing violation doctrine serves a
number of equitable purposes. Some injuries are the product of a series of
small harms, any one of which may not be actionable on its own. [Citation.]
Those injured in such a fashion should not be handicapped by the inability to
identify with certainty when harm has occurred or has risen to a level
sufficient to warrant action.”  (Id.
at pp. 1197-98.)
 
            Here, however, Plaintiff does not allege a “series of
discrete acts” that warrants application of the continuing violation
doctrine.  Rather, Plaintiff alleges one
violation: failing to remedy inhabitable conditions.  Plaintiff recognized Defendant’s breach as
early as 2013.
 
            Although not discussed by the parties, a better fit to
the present facts is the theory of continuous accrual.  “The theory [of continuous accrual] is a
response to the inequities that would arise if the expiration of the
limitations period following a first breach of duty or instance of misconduct
were treated as sufficient to bar suit for any subsequent breach or misconduct;
parties engaged in long-standing misfeasance would thereby obtain immunity in
perpetuity from suit even for recent and ongoing misfeasance. In addition,
where misfeasance is ongoing, a defendant's claim to repose, the principal
justification underlying the limitations defense, is vitiated.  (Aryeh, at p. 1198.)  Under this theory, Plaintiff may be able to
recover for ongoing breaches from February 7, 2020 to February 6, 2024 (the filing
of the Complaint).  The Complaint alleges
breaches that fall within this applicable period.  Although not the model of clarity,[2]
the court finds that the first two causes of action do not fail for a lack of
certainty.
 
            Defendant next argues that Plaintiff improperly seeks
tort damages for contract claims.   “[T]here is a warranty of habitability implied
in residential leases in California[.]” (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing,
LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1296.) 
“Conduct amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious only when it
also violates an independent duty arising from principles of tort law. ‘The law
imposes the obligation that “every person is bound without contract to abstain
from injuring the person or property of another, or infringing upon any of his
rights.” ( [Civ. Code, § 1708].) This duty is independent of the contract....
“[A]n omission to perform a contract obligation is never a tort, unless that
omission is also an omission of a legal duty.” ’ [Citation.] [¶].... [¶]  “... [P]unitive or exemplary damages, which
are designed to punish and deter statutorily defined types of wrongful conduct,
are available only in actions ‘for breach of an obligation not arising from
contract.’ (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) 
In the absence of an independent tort, punitive damages may not be
awarded for breach of contract ‘even where the defendant's conduct in
breaching the contract was willful, fraudulent, or malicious.’ [Citations.]”  (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi
Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 515-16.)
 
            Here, Plaintiff does not allege any independent duty that
Defendant owed to her beyond any obligations arising from the lease
agreement.  Plaintiff is not entitled to
recover punitive damages for these claims. 
However, Defendant’s argument is meritorious insofar as it entitles
Defendant to an order striking punitive damages in connection to these
claims.  Defendant does not demonstrate
that the first two causes of action are otherwise deficiently pleaded.  
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer
to the First and Second Causes of Action is OVERRULED.
 
2.      Third Cause of Action for
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
 
The Third Cause of Action is
based upon Defendant’s failure to maintain basic conditions of habitability and
provisions stated in the Lease Agreement, such as laundry facilities, harassing
Plaintiff with unwarranted surveillance, inspections, notices of lease
violations, entry without proper notice, discrimination against her disability
and refusal to provide reasonable accommodations, illegal attempts to increase
rent, and multiple wrongful attempts at eviction.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 30-47, 66.)
 
Defendant argues this cause
of action fails for two reasons: (1) the claim is uncertain because the
Complaint references dates beyond the relevant statute of limitations; and (2)
Plaintiff improperly attempts to convert contract claims into tort claims.
 
First, Plaintiff properly
invokes the continuing violation doctrine as to the quiet enjoyment claim.  Plaintiff alleges conduct which has occurred within
and beyond the statute of limitations, including in July 2020 (accusations of
falsifying disability), late 2020 (entering the Subject Unit without proper
notice) until present, and 2022 (entering without proper notice and filing
unlawful detainer actions).  (Complaint,
¶¶ 30-32, 36, 46.)  The claim is not
uncertain.
 
Second, the court agrees
with Defendant that punitive damages cannot be obtained on a quiet enjoyment
claim.  “The implied covenant of quiet
enjoyment implies a term in a contract, and a breach of the covenant gives rise
to an action in contract. As such, the damages available for a breach of the
covenant are contract damages.”  (Ginsberg,
205 Cal.App.4th at pp. 896–97.)   But as
discussed above, Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim is subject to strike, not
demurrer.  Defendant does not demonstrate
how Plaintiff’s quiet enjoyment claim is insufficiently pleaded.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer
to the Third Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
3.      Fourth Cause of Action for
Nuisance
                                 
 Civil Code section 3479 defines “nuisance”
as “[a]nything which is injurious to health, including, but not limited to … an
obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property, …..” 
 
Plaintiff’s nuisance claim is based on the
same substandard conditions described above, as well as Defendant’s harassment,
unwarranted inspections, surveillance, attempts at eviction, refusal to provide
access to the laundry machine, and accusations of falsifying her disability.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 80-81.)  
 
Defendant argues that the nuisance claims
fails because it is uncertain and duplicative of the Sixth Cause of Action for
negligence.  
 
The nuisance claim is uncertain.  The claim is based, in part, on Defendant’s conduct
which occurred in 2022, including entry into the Subject Unit without providing
the requisite 24 hour notice or obtaining her permission; serving an improper
3-Day Notice to Quit; and filing an unlawful detainer action which was
ultimately dismissed with prejudice.  (Complaint,
¶¶ 32-36.)  Further, this alleged conduct
occurred within the statute of limitations. 
Nuisance claims must be brought within three years.  (Civ. Proc. Code § 338.)  The nuisance does not fail on these grounds.
 
However, the court agrees with Defendant’s
second observation.  The nuisance claim
is duplicative of the negligence claim. 
“Where negligence and nuisance causes of action rely on the same facts
about lack of due care, the nuisance claim is a negligence claim.”  (El Escorial Owners' Assn. v. DLC
Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349.)  Plaintiff relies on paragraph 81 to
distinguish the nuisance and negligence claims, but succeeds only in
showing  the claims are twins.  Paragraph 81 states, “Defendants’ harassment,
unwarranted inspections, surveillance, attempts at eviction, refusal to provide
access to the laundry machine, accusations of falsifying her disability
continued despite Plaintiff’s repeated efforts to enforce her rights and notify
Defendants of the impropriety of their actions.”  These allegations appear in some form or
fashion in support of Plaintiff’s negligence claims.  (See Complaint, ¶¶ 92-94.)
  
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
4.      Fifth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (IIED)
 
The elements of an IIED cause of action are: (1) extreme
and outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe
emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy
the element of extreme and outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.’” (Moncada, 221 Cal.App.4th at p. 780, quoting Tererice v.
Blue Cross of California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883.)¿¿¿ 
 
Plaintiff’s IIED claim is based on the following
allegations:  “Defendants repeatedly and
regularly attempted to cite or punish Plaintiff for actions well within her
rights as a tenant and as a party to the Lease Agreement, entered her residence
without proper notice, attempted to wrongfully evict her, accused her of
falsifying a physical disability, and surveilled her and her guests. Defendants
filed a frivolous unlawful detainer action against Plaintiff and the Court
dismissed the matter for nonsuit for lack of evidence. Defendants intended to
cause Plaintiff emotional distress and influence her to vacate the premises, as
dealing with accusations, inspections, surveillance, and a jury trial with
potential eviction was extraordinarily stressful for Plaintiff.”  (Complaint, ¶ 87.) 
 
Defendant argues that the IIED claim fails to allege
conduct that is extreme or outrageous or that Defendant, through its agents or
employees, acted with the intent to cause Plaintiff emotional distress.  Moreover, Defendant argues that there are no
allegations showing Plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress.  However, at the demurrer stage, the court
accepts as true all well-pleaded facts. 
(See Mitchell, supra, 1 Cal.App.5th at p. 1007.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff provides sufficient allegations to
support an allegation that Defendant’s conduct was extreme or outrageous.  (See Complaint, ¶ 87.)  That conduct includes attempting to
wrongfully evict Plaintiff, repeatedly citing or punishing Plaintiff for taking
actions afforded her as a tenant, among others, with the intent to cause
Plaintiff to vacate the Subject Unit. As a result, Plaintiff suffered severe
emotional distress.  (Complaint, ¶ 88.)  Further, these allegations, as well as the allegations
common to all causes of action (Complaint, ¶¶ 10-47), are sufficiently specific
to allow the parties to ascertain during discovery which of Defendant’s agents
or employees, if any, committed the complained-of conduct. 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is
OVERRULED.
 
5.      Sixth Cause of Action for Negligence
 
“‘The elements for a cause of action for negligence are
well established. They are “(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of
such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury.”  (Ladd v. County of
San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.)
 
            The
negligence claim is based upon Defendant’s failure to ensure the Subject Unit
was safe for habitation, not repairing substandard or hazardous conditions,
discriminating against Plaintiff, unlawfully entering the Subject Unit,
retaliating against her, unlawfully trying to evict Plaintiff, and for failing
to provide basic systems that worked properly, or were provided at all.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 92-94.)
 
            Defendant
argues the Sixth Cause of Action is uncertain because it is unclear when the
alleged breaches occurred.  However, as
discussed above, Plaintiff alleges sufficiently the dates to apprise Defendant
of the relevant time periods.  (See
Complaint,  ¶¶ 17, 18, 30-32, 36,
46.)  The Sixth Cause of Action is not
uncertain.
 
            The
demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
6.      The Seventh Cause of Action for Violation of California
Civil Code § 1940.2 (Influencing a Wrongful Eviction)
 
Civil Code section 1940.2 provides, “It is unlawful for a
landlord to, for the purpose of influencing a tenant to vacate a
dwelling: 
 
(1) Engage in conduct
that violates subdivision (a) of Section 484 of the Penal Code. 
(2) Engage in conduct
that violates Section 518 of the Penal Code. 
(3) Use, or threaten
to use, force, willful threats, or menacing conduct constituting a course of
conduct that interferes with the tenant’s quiet enjoyment of the premises in
violation of Section 1927 that would create an apprehension of harm in a reasonable
person. Nothing in this paragraph requires a tenant to be actually or
constructively evicted in order to obtain relief. 
(4) Commit a
significant and intentional violation of Section 1954. 
(5) Threaten to
disclose information regarding or relating to the immigration or citizenship
status of a tenant, occupant, or other person known to the landlord to be
associated with a tenant or occupant. This paragraph does not require a tenant
to be actually or constructively evicted in order to obtain relief.  
 
(Civil Code, § 1940.2, subds. (a)(1)-(5).) 
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants engaged in unlawful conduct in an
effort to influence Plaintiff to vacate the Subject Unit by entering
Plaintiff’s residence without proper notice, surveilling Plaintiff, accusing her
of faking a disability, and filing a frivolous Unlawful Detainer case.  (Complaint, ¶ 99.)  
 
Defendant argues the Seventh Cause of Action is devoid of
allegations showing that Defendant used extortion, theft, or threats of any
kind that would create an apprehension of harm in a reasonable person.  Further, there are no allegations showing
that Defendant threatened to disclose information relating to the immigration
or citizenship status of a tenant, occupant, or other person known to the
landlord to be associated with a tenant or occupant.  The court agrees.  There are no factual allegations of the kind
to state a claim for violation of Civil Code section 1940.2. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the allegations that Defendant (1) entered
her residence without permission, (2) persistently surveilled her, (3) levied baseless
accusations, and (4) pursued unwarranted legal actions would commonly create
apprehension in reasonable people.  This
generally might be true, but the Complaint does not allege that any of the
foregoing conduct created in Plaintiff a reasonable apprehension of harm.  The Complaint is silent on this point.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Seventh Cause of Action
is SUSTAINED.
 
7.      The Eighth Cause of Action for Violation of Code of Code Procedure
§ 1159 (Forcible Entry)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1159 states that every
person is guilty of a forcible entry who either: (1) by breaking open doors,
windows, or other parts of a house, or by any kind of violence or circumstance
of terror enters upon or into any real property, or (2) who, after entering
peaceably upon real property, turns out by force, threats, or menacing conduct,
the party in possession.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1159, subd. (a).)  Any
unauthorized opening of a closed door is a breaking open of the door within the
meaning of section 1159.  (Jordan v.
Talbot (1961) 55 Cal.2d 597, 606.)
 
Plaintiff’s Eighth Cause of Action is based on the
allegation that Defendant entered Plaintiff’s residence on October 27, 2022,
without providing 24-hour notice and to address a non-emergency.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 31, 105.)  Further, Plaintiff notified Defendant that she
needed sufficient notice.  (Id.)
 
Defendant argues this claim fails because Plaintiff
admits Defendant entered her unit for repairs and she was given advance notice
of the entry.  The thrust of Plaintiff’s
claim is that Defendant entered the Subject Unit without authorization.  In other words, it does not matter that
Defendant gave Plaintiff advance notice of the entry given Plaintiff did not
consent to the entry.  The Complaint
sufficiently alleges facts to state a violation of Code of Civil Procedure
section 1159.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Eighth Cause of Action
is OVERRULED. 
 
8.      The Ninth Cause of Action for Violation of Bus. &
Prof. Code §  17200 Et Seq. Unfair,
Unlawful, and Deceptive Business Practices
 
The Unfair Competition Law (UCL) is codified at Business
and Professions Code section 17200 et seq.¿ Section 17204 of the UCL provides
that a private person “who has suffered injury in fact and has lost money or
property as a result of the unfair competition” may bring a 17200 action.¿
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17204.)¿ “To bring a UCL claim, a plaintiff must show
either an (1) unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act or practice, or (2)
unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising. [Citation.]¿ Because the
UCL is written in the disjunctive, it establishes three varieties of unfair
competition—acts or practices which are unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.”¿ (Adhav
v. Midway Rent A Car, Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 954, 970, citations and
quotations omitted.)¿ 
 
Plaintiff alleges that in leasing residential property
that was unfit for occupancy by Plaintiff, Defendant engaged in unlawful,
unfair and deceptive business practices. Defendant leased the Subject Unit
without having prepared, cleaned, or repaired it to place it in a habitable
condition.  (Complaint, ¶ 111.)  Further, Defendant knowingly collected and
demanded more money from Plaintiff than Plaintiff was lawfully required to
tender to Defendant. Defendant’s unlawful demands and collections of monies
from Plaintiff constitute an unfair and unlawful business practice as Plaintiff
paid Defendant more than the reasonable fair market value of the Subject
Property.  (Complaint, ¶ 112.)  Additionally, in light of the uninhabitable
conditions of the Subject Unit, Defendant’s decision to lease the Subject Unit
and collect revenues in the form of rental payments constitutes an unfair and
unlawful business practice.  (Complaint, ¶
114.)  The acts of Defendant as alleged
throughout the Complaint, and in each cause of action above, constitute
unlawful, unfair, and fraudulent business practices.  (Complaint, ¶ 115.)
 
Defendant argues that the UCL claim is uncertain and
fails to state a claim because the allegations do not detail sufficiently
severe conduct to state a UCL claim. 
Moreover, the Complaint readily admits that her rent is less than market
value.  (See Complaint, ¶ 16.)  
 
Defendant’s demurrer misses the mark.  As Plaintiff points out, the “unlawful” prong
of the UCL borrows violations of other laws and makes those unlawful practices
actionable under the UCL.  (See Klein
v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1383.)  Here, Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant
has violated numerous statutes, including Civil Code sections 1941, 1941.1, and
1942.4, and Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.30 while being engaged
in the business of landlording. 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 60-63, 110, 118-127.) 
Violations of these statutory provisions satisfy the unlawful prong of
Plaintiff’s UCL claim.  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Eighth Cause of Action
is OVERRULED.
 
9.      The Tenth Cause of Action for Violation of Cal. Welf.
& Inst. Code § 15610.30 (Financial Abuse of Elders and Disabled Persons)
 
To establish financial abuse of a dependent adult, the
plaintiff must allege that the defendant took or retained the plaintiff’s
property; that the plaintiff was a dependent adult; that the defendant took or
retained the property for a wrongful use or with the intent to defraud; that
the plaintiff was harmed; and that the defendant’s conduct was a substantial
factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm. (See CACI No. 3100.)¿ Financial abuse of
a dependent adult occurs when a person takes the property of a dependent adult for
a wrongful use or with intent to defraud or by undue influence. (Welf. &
Inst. Code §¿15610.30, subd. (a).) A person is deemed to have taken the
property when he or she has deprived a dependent adult of any property right.  (Welf. & Inst. Code §¿15610.30, subd. (c).)
Although bad faith or intent to defraud is no longer required, wrongful use of
property must still be alleged. (Stebley¿v. Litton Loan Servicing, LLP¿(2011)
202 Cal.App.4th 522, 527-28.) “A person . . . shall be deemed to have taken . .
. property for a wrongful use if . . . the person¿ . . . takes¿ . . . the
property and the person . . . knew or should have known that this conduct is
likely to be harmful to the … dependent adult.” 
(Welf. & Inst. Code ¿§¿15610.30, subd. (b).)  “Dependent adult” means a person, regardless
of whether the person lives independently, between the ages of 18 and 64 years
who resides in this state and who has physical or mental limitations that
restrict his or her ability to carry out normal activities or to protect his or
her rights, including, but not limited to, persons who have physical or
developmental disabilities, or whose physical or mental abilities have
diminished because of age.  (Welf. &
Inst. Code ¿§¿15610.23.)  
 
Plaintiff alleges that she is a dependent adult.
(Complaint, ¶ 120.)  Plaintiff further
alleges that Defendant’s taking of Plaintiff’s rent money in exchange for the
possession of uninhabitable property was a wrongful use.  (Complaint, ¶ 121.)  And, in taking Plaintiff’s rent money,
Defendant deprived Plaintiff of the right to a habitable home and the right to
quiet possession of one’s home.  (Complaint,
¶ 122.)  
 
Defendant argues the financial abuse claim fails because
there are no allegations showing that Plaintiff is a dependent adult, or that
Defendant took, secreted, appropriated, obtained, or retained Plaintiff’s real
or personal property for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud.  
 
Plaintiff alleges that her physical therapist issued a Certificate
of Disability regarding the limits in Plaintiff’s ability to use her injured
arm for daily chores such as carrying laundry. 
(See Complaint, p. 14.)  Plaintiff
also alleges that Defendant obtained Plaintiff’s rent money in exchange for
possession of an uninhabitable unit. 
Plaintiff likewise alleges wrongful use. 
The financial abuse claim is sufficiently pleaded.
 
The demurrer to the Tenth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
10.  The Eleventh Cause of Action for Negligent Hiring,
Training and Supervision
 
The elements of a claim for Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, or Retention of an employee are: (1) that the defendant hired the
employee; (2) that the employee was/became unfit to perform the work for which
they were hired; (3) that the employer knew or should have known that the
employee was/became unfit and that they created a particular risk to others;
(4) that the employee’s unfitness harmed the plaintiff; and (5) that the
employer’s negligence in hiring or retaining the employee was a substantial
factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.¿ (CACI No. 426.) “Negligence liability will
be imposed on an employer if it ‘knew or should have known that hiring the
employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm
materializes.’ ”¿ (Phillips v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th
1133, 1139.)¿ 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant had a duty to Plaintiff
to supervise their agents who were responsible for the maintenance of the
Subject Unit and ensure that they were fit to perform their jobs and that they
were properly trained in the laws governing the landlord tenant relationship.  (Complaint, ¶ 129.)
 
Defendant argues that none of the elements of a negligent
hiring claim have been pleaded.  The
court agrees.  The Complaint is devoid of
factual allegations that an employee whom Defendant hired was or became unfit
or incompetent to perform a job, that Defendant knew or should have known the
employee was unfit or incompetent and that the unfit or incompetent employee
created a particular risk which ultimately harmed Plaintiff.  
 
Plaintiff contends that the Complaint specifically
references employees and agents of Defendant and that the violations and
unlawful actions being perpetrated by “Defendants” (in the plural) are alleged
throughout the Complaint.  That may be
so, but this general allegation fails to satisfy the elements of a
negligent hiring claim.  The Eleventh
Cause of Action is factually deficient. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Eleventh Cause of Action
is SUSTAINED.
 
11.  The Fourteenth Cause of Action for Violation of The Fair
Employment and Housing Act (Cal. Gov. Code §12900, Et Seq.)
 
“In order to establish discrimination based on a refusal
to provide reasonable accommodations, a party must establish that he or she (1)
suffers from a disability as defined in FEHA, (2) the discriminating party knew
of, or should have known of, the disability, (3) accommodation is necessary to
afford an equal opportunity to use and enjoy the dwelling, and (4) the
discriminating party refused to make this accommodation.” (Auburn Woods I
Homeowners Assn. v. Fair Employment & Housing Com. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th
1578, 1592; see also CACI No. 2548.) 
 
Plaintiff’s FEHA claim is based on the following
allegations:  Defendant refused to
consider, or to provide, the reasonable accommodations requested by Plaintiff
(the use of her own laundry machine) and prevented Plaintiff from accessing the
onsite laundry machine; refused to engage in a good faith interactive process
to determine if the requested reasonable accommodations could be made; and harassed
Plaintiff in retaliation for requesting accommodations by surveilling her and
accusing her of faking her disability. 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 149-152.) 
 
Defendant argues the FEHA claim fails because, as the
Complaint acknowledges, (1) Defendant issued a Notice of Violation to Plaintiff
for installing a laundry machine in her Unit without permission (Complaint, ¶
39), and (2) Defendant gave Plaintiff credit to a “fluff and fold” laundry
service (Complaint, ¶ 44).  In other
words, the Complaint demonstrates that Defendant engaged in an interactive
process with Plaintiff and provided her with an accommodation.  
 
To state a FEHA claim for discrimination in housing, a
plaintiff must allege that the defendant refused an accommodation request that
was necessary to afford an equal opportunity to use and enjoy the dwelling.  Plaintiff alleges this very fact.  Plaintiff had a disability which impaired her
ability to do laundry.  Plaintiff
requested that she be permitted to use her own laundry machine, which was
stored in the Subject Unit.  Defendant
refused and further, did not afford Plaintiff access to an on-site laundry
facility. Plaintiff sufficiently pleads that Defendant denied a reasonable
accommodation request that would have afforded Plaintiff equal opportunity to
enjoy her dwelling. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Fourteenth Cause of
Action is OVERRULED.
 
III.      DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO STRIKE
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
Any party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to strike the
whole pleading or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(b).) On a motion to strike, the court may: (1)
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading;
or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42
Cal.2d 767, 782.)  
 
“The grounds for a motion
to strike are limited to matters appearing on the face of the challenged
pleading or matters which must or may be judicially noticed. (§ 437, subd. (a);
Evid. Code, §§ 451, 452.).” (Garcia v. Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d
17, 20.)  
 
B.     Application
 
Defendant moves to strike references
to and requests for exemplary and punitive damages in the Complaint.  Defendant cites two grounds for its motion:
(1) there are no allegations demonstrating that Defendant acted with malice,
oppression or fraud; (2) there are no allegations that an officer, director, or
managing agent of Defendant had advance knowledge of or consciously
disregarded, authorized, or ratified an act of oppression fraud or malice.  
 
“In an action for the
breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear
and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover
damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)   
 
The court agrees in
considerable part with Defendant’s second argument.  Here, the Complaint does not allege that any
officer director, or managing agent of Defendant, a corporation, “had advance
knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified
the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice.”  Defendant is entitled to an order striking
punitive damages from the Complaint.[3]  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
            
The demurrer to the First,
Second, Third, Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, and Fourteenth Causes of
Action is Overruled.
 
The demurrer to the Fourth,
Seventh, and Eleventh Causes of Action is Sustained.  Leave to amend is Granted.
 
The motion to strike
exemplary and punitive damages is Granted. 
With the exception of the First and Third Causes of Action, leave to
amend is granted.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to
serve and file the First Amended Complaint within 30 days of the date of this
order.
 
Defendant to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   August 1, 2024                                             




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of the
  Superior Court 




 
            


