


[1] Plaintiff also named Hee J. Lee as
a defendant and Yuen Dan Lee as Doe 1. 
Plaintiff dismissed these defendants on September 16, 2011.


[2] Ms. Lee also argues that the
amended judgment should be vacated because she was never served with the
summons and complaint.  Therefore, the
court lacks personal jurisdiction over Ms. Lee and renders the amended judgment
void.  The argument is unavailing.  As Ms. Lee concedes, a trial court has
authority to amend a judgment to add additional judgment debtors.  (Hall, Goodhue, Haisley & Barker, Inc.
v. Marconi Conf. Ctr. Bd. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1551, 1554.)  Further, “[j]udgments may be amended to add
additional judgment debtors on the ground that a person or entity is the alter
ego of the original judgment debtor.”  (Id.
at p. 1555.)  A motion to amend a
judgment is not a summons or complaint and is therefore subject to the same
procedural requirements as any other motion. 
(See Reliant Life Shares, LLC v. Cooper (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 14,
58 [“As Ms. Cainong necessarily concedes, the service at issue here is not
the service of a summons and complaint, and she offers no authority for her
contention that the motion to amend the judgment was “akin” to service of a
summons and complaint. In the absence of any such authority, we see no reason
to treat Cooper's motion to amend the judgment as subject to different
procedural requirements than any other motion. Particularly is this so given
the court's findings in phase one of the trial that the evidence established
Michaels used the three trusts as extensions of himself.”].)   However, the court vacates the amended
judgment on the grounds stated herein.



 


[3] Plaintiff argues he will suffer
prejudice from the delay in prosecution and has incurred considerable expenses
in seeking default, entering judgment, and trying to collect on judgment.  The court is sympathetic to Plaintiff’s
position.  However, holding Ms. Lee
liable given her apparent lack of knowledge and lack of involvement in the
creation of Christable Corp. and this litigation (until now) is not the
appropriate remedy.  

