  Case Number:  21STCV05234    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August
1, 2024                                   TRIAL
DATE:  July 21, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                                Joanna Elliott v. Pepperdine University, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV05234  
 





















 
DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO COMPEL INDEPENDENT MEDICAL EXAMINATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Pepperdine University, et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Joanna
Elliott
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
            
            This
is an employment action.  Plaintiff
Joanna Elliott was employed at Pepperdine University.  On
February 9, 2021, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants, Pepperdine
University; Wave Enterprises, Inc.; Wave Services, Inc.; and Wave Property,
Inc., for harassment, retaliation, discrimination, and wrongful
termination.  As relevant here, Plaintiff
alleged she “suffered and will suffer psychological and emotional distress,
humiliation, and mental and physical pain and anguish” as a consequence of
Defendants’ conduct.  Plaintiff also testified that she saw a doctor
for trauma/PTSD issues she experienced during her employment.
 
            On
February 27, 2024, Defendants attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff regarding
stipulating to a psychiatric independent medical evaluation (IME).  Plaintiff did not respond.
 
            On
March 7, 2024, Defendants again inquired with Plaintiff whether she would
stipulate to a psychiatric IME.  In
response, Plaintiff requested a draft stipulation.  Defendants obliged.  The draft stipulation proposed a mental
examination with Dr. Stephanie Peters at 3415 South Sepulveda Blvd., Suite
1100, Los Angeles, CA 90034, or alternatively via Zoom, to begin at 10:00 a.m.,
and to continue for no more than six 6 hours with appropriate breaks for lunch
and rest.  The draft stipulation further
provided that the examination would consist of (1) an interview of Plaintiff;
(2) psychological mental status examination; (3) screening cognitive testing;
and (4) testing.  The draft stipulation also
described the topics of the interview and the specific testing to be conducted.  Further, the draft stipulation stated that
the examination will not involve a physical examination or any painful,
protracted, or unduly invasive procedures. 

 
            On
March 21, 2024, after not receiving a response, Defendants inquired as to the
status of the draft stipulation.  Plaintiff
did not respond.  
 
            On April 22, 2024, Defendants filed this
motion to compel Plaintiff’s IME.  Defendants
do not seek sanctions.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  Defendants replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Absent
agreement of the parties, a mental examination requires leave of court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310.)  The court may grant leave to take a mental
examination “only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320.)  “A motion for an examination…shall specify the
time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well
as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will
perform the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).)  “An order granting a physical or mental
examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (d).)
 
III.       DISCUSSION
            
            There is no dispute that Plaintiff has placed her mental
state in controversy.  Indeed, Plaintiff
does not oppose submitting to an IME[1]
nor take issue with the qualifications of Dr. Peters.  (See Opp., pp. 2:5-6, 3:26-4:2.)  Rather, Plaintiff opposes the motion on the
ground that Defendants have failed to specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the diagnostic
tests and procedures to be conducted. 
(Opp., p. 3:15-18.)
 
            Plaintiff’s
procedural challenge lacks merit.  Defendants
made multiple attempts to meet and confer with Plaintiff prior to the filing of
this motion.  (See Chang Decl., ¶¶ 6-7,
Ex. 3.)  At Plaintiff’s request,
Defendants provided a draft stipulation for the IME which provided the very
information that Plaintiff cites as the basis for her opposition.  The draft stipulation provides:
 
1.     
Plaintiff will appear for a mental
examination with Dr. Stephanie Peters.  A
copy of Dr. Peters’ CV is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.
2.     
The examination will take place on
_________, start at 10:00 a.m. and continue for no more than six (6) hours,
with appropriate breaks for lunch and rest times, at 3415 South Sepulveda
Blvd., Suite 1100, Los Angeles, CA 90034, or in the alternative, can be
conducted via zoom.
3.     
The examination will consist of: (1)
an interview of Plaintiff; (2) psychological mental status examination; (3)
screening cognitive testing; and (4) testing, as outlined in paragraph 9 below.
The scope of the examination will be limited to the mental and/or emotional
conditions placed in controversy by Plaintiff in this litigation.
4.     
The examination shall consist of a
clinical interview with Plaintiff to discuss her clinical situation within the
scope of her condition in controversy. The psychological interview may include
covering background information; the reported circumstances of onset of the
alleged emotional injury or injuries; and how those symptoms have unfolded over
time to the present, including any other assessments and treatment. It may also
include an inquiry into Plaintiff’s including current and prior psychiatric treatment
within the last ten (10) years.
5.     
The only written documents that
Plaintiff will complete will be the actual written testing documents. Plaintiff
will need to fill out intake sheets or background information forms.
6.     
The examination will not involve a
physical examination or any painful, protracted, or unduly invasive procedures.
7.     
The entire psychological examination
will last no more than six hours, excluding breaks. If requested by Plaintiff
or Dr. Peters, a lunch break of approximately 45 minutes may occur.
8.     
Dr. Peters will conduct
psychological testing of Plaintiff, which may take approximately 2 to 2.5
hours. The proposed tests will include some or all of the following: the
Minnesota Muliphasic Personality Inventory – 2 (MMPI-2), the Beck Depression
Inventory-II and the Beck Anxiety Inventory.
9.     
The examination will be audiotaped
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.530. Plaintiff will
also be permitted to audio record the interview. Dr. Peters will provide a copy
of the audio recording to Plaintiff’s counsel no more than 10 days after
completion of the examination. No video recordings will be allowed. 
10. 
Only Dr. Peters and Plaintiff will
be present during the examination. No other individuals (including Plaintiff’s
counsel, Defendants’ counsel, or any other representative of Dr. Peters) may be
present (either physically, via phone or remote appearance) during the
examination. 
11. 
Defendants’ counsel will provide a
copy of this fully-executed stipulation to Dr. Peters prior to her examination
of Plaintiff. Dr. Peters is required to read the entire stipulation prior to
her examination of Plaintiff. 
12. 
A copy of Dr. Peters’ report shall
be provided to Plaintiff’s counsel pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure section 2032.610. 
13. 
Plaintiff and Defendants, in good
faith, will agree to a place for the examination to take place on a mutually
agreeable date. Plaintiff will not cancel the agreed upon date, except in the
case of an emergency.
 
(Chang Reply Decl., Ex. 1; see also Chang Decl., Ex. 3.)
            
            Based on the foregoing, the court
finds that the motion is not procedural defective.  Defendants provided the information necessary
for Plaintiff to stipulate or object to the IME.  Further, given there is no dispute that
Plaintiff has placed her mental state in controversy, the court finds that good
cause exists to compel Plaintiff to submit to an IME.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The
motion to compel is GRANTED.  Plaintiff
is ordered to appear for a psychiatric IME with Dr. Stephanie Peters within 30
days of the date of this order.  The IME
is to take place as specified in Defendants’ draft stipulation.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
Dated:   August 1, 2024                                             




  


 




  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 


