 Case Number:  BC426714    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August
1, 2024                                   TRIAL
DATE:  Disposed
                                                           
CASE:                         Efrain Arenas v. Albaes Restaurant, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC426714
 





















 
MOTION
OF CHRISTABLE LEE TO VACATE AMENDED JUDGMENT


 
MOVING PARTY:               Non-party/Judgment
Debtor Christable Lee
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Efrain
Arenas
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Efrain Arenas was a restaurant worker at Albae’s
Restaurant.  The restaurant was owned by
Hee J. Lee and Yeun Dan Lee. In 2008, Yeun Dan Lee created a limited liability
corporation which she named “Christable Corporation,” and named her daughter,
Christable Lee, as its president.  At the
time, Christable Lee (hereafter, “Ms. Lee”) was a college student.
 
In November 2009, Plaintiff filed this action against
Defendant Christable Corporation dba Albae’s Restaurant (“Christable Corp.”) for
various Labor Code violations arising from his employment at Albae’s.[1]
 Defendant, appearing through counsel, answered
the complaint.  Defense counsel later
withdrew.  When Christable Corp. did not
obtain new counsel, the court struck its answer and entered default against Christable
Corp.  On September 16, 2011, Plaintiff
obtained a default judgment against Christable Corp. in the sum of $53,833.33. 
 
Plaintiff encountered difficulties in enforcing the
judgment.  To that end, in October 2015, Plaintiff
served Christa. le Corp c/o Christable Lee with an Application and Order for
Appearance and Examination.  Ms. Lee was
served with the Application and Order at 222 Valencia St., #3, San Francisco,
CA 94103.  
 
In August 2017, Plaintiff moved to amend the judgment to add
Ms. Lee and Yeun Dan Lee as additional judgment debtors.  Plaintiff served Ms. Lee with the moving
papers at 1850 McAllister St, San Francisco, CA 94115.  Ms. Lee was, and continues to be, an attorney
in the State of California.  Plaintiff
obtained the McAllister address from the California State Bar website.  The court granted the unopposed motion on
September 15, 2017.  Notice of the
amended judgment was sent to Ms. Lee at the McAllister address on September 20,
2017.  During this period, Plaintiff
resided in Oakland, CA.
 
On November 17, 2023, Ms. Lee and Yeun Dan Lee were served
with a Writ of Execution and other documents at 330 S. Westmoreland Ave., Los
Angeles, CA 90020.  Yeun Dan Lee resides
at the Westmoreland address with her son, Ms. Lee’s brother.  At this time and up to the present, Ms. Lee
resided at 2501 47th Ave, San Francisco, CA 94116.
 
In December 2023, Ms. Lee’s brother notified Ms. Lee of the
levying documents mailed to the Westmoreland address.  After directing her attorney to review the
court docket, Ms. Lee learned for the first time that Plaintiff had joined her
as a judgment debtor in August 2017.
 
On April 24, 2024, Ms. Lee filed this Motion to Vacate
Amended Judgment.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  Ms. Lee replied. 
             
II.        DISCUSSION & LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Ms. Lee seeks an order vacating the amended judgment based
on the equitable grounds of extrinsic mistake.[2]  The court finds Ms. Lee is entitled to the requested
relief.
 
A party seeking relief from the
entry of judgment must do so “within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding
six months, after the judgment … was taken.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b).)  However, after six months from
entry of judgment, a trial court may still vacate a judgment on equitable
grounds even if statutory relief is unavailable.¿ (Olivera v. Grace (1942)
19 Cal.2d 570, 575-76.)  “One ground for equitable relief is extrinsic
mistake—a term broadly applied when circumstances extrinsic to the litigation
have unfairly cost a party a hearing on the merits.” (Rappleyea, supra,
8 Cal.4th at p. 981.)  “ ‘Extrinsic
mistake involves the excusable neglect of a party. [Citation.] When this
neglect results in an unjust judgment, without a fair adversary hearing, and
the basis for equitable relief is present, this is extrinsic mistake.
[Citation.]’ ” (Heyman v. Franchise Mortgage Acceptance Corp. (2003) 107
Cal.App.4th 921, 926.) 
 
“To set aside a judgment based
upon extrinsic mistake one must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted party
must demonstrate that it has a meritorious case. Second, the party seeking to
set aside the default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not presenting
a defense to the original action.  Last, the moving party must demonstrate
diligence in seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.”  (Rappleyea
v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 982.)   
 
1.      Element 1: Whether Ms. Lee Has a Meritorious Case.
 
Plaintiff moved to add Ms. Lee as a judgment debtor on the
grounds that Ms. Lee was an alter ego of Albae’s.  “Under the alter ego doctrine, then, when the
corporate form is used to perpetrate a fraud, circumvent a statute, or
accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable purpose, the courts will ignore
the corporate entity and deem the corporation’s acts to be those of the persons
or organizations actually controlling the corporation, in most instances the
equitable owners.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 523, 538.) Hence, the plaintiff must show “some conduct amounting
to bad faith that makes it inequitable for Cooper [the individual] to hide
behind the corporate form.” (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399,
418.)  Amending a judgment to add a party
as an alter ego “requires both (1) that the new party be the alter ego of the
old party and (2) that the new party … controlled the litigation, thereby
having had the opportunity to litigate, in order to satisfy due process
concerns. The due process considerations are in addition to, not in lieu of,
the threshold alter ego issues.” (Wolf Metals Inc. v. Rand Pacific Sales
Inc. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 698, 703.) 

 
In support of his motion to amend the judgment, Plaintiff
offered the following evidence: (1) Statements of Information filed with the
California Secretary of State which named Christable Lee as the Chief Executive
Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO); (2) an online business search
on the California Secretary of State website listing Christable Corp. as
suspended by the Franchise Tax Board as of July 31, 2017, and (3) Christable
Corp.’s Answer to the Complaint and written discovery propounded on Plaintiff
by Christable Corp.’s then attorney. 
(Motion to Amend Judgment, Santos Decl., Exs. 2-8, 14.)  
 
Ms. Lee challenges the sufficiency of the foregoing
evidence.  She contends that not one of
those documents demonstrates that she controlled the litigation.  The court agrees in considerable part.  Plaintiff’s evidence highlights only Ms. Lee’s
absence from any role in the litigation. 
Further, Ms. Lee points out that the Statements of Information were
signed by her mother, Yeun Dan Lee.  And,
as Ms. Lee explains in her declaration, Yeun Dan Lee, an immigrant from South
Korean who speaks little English created Christable Corp. in 2008 based upon
the advice of Yeun’s certified public accountant.  Yeun Dan Lee named Ms. Lee as Christable
Corp.’s CEO and CFO without notifying Ms. Lee or obtaining her permission.  Ms. Lee did not learn about the existence of
Christable Corp. until after Plaintiff obtained the default judgment in this
matter.  At the time Christable Corp. was
created, Ms. Lee was a college student.  (See
Lee Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.)  Ms. Lee demonstrates
she has a meritorious defense.
 
2.     
Element 2:
Whether Ms. Lee Has a Satisfactory Excuse.

 
Ms. Lee states that she never received notice of Plaintiff’s
motion to amend the judgment.  Plaintiff
served Ms. Lee with the motion at 1850 McAllister St., San Francisco, CA in
August 2017.  However, Ms. Lee had moved
to Oakland by May 1, 2017.  (See Lee
Decl., ¶ 11.) 
 
Plaintiff argues that Ms. Lee, as an attorney, was obligated
to provide her current address to the California State Bar.  That may be true, but the fact remains that
Ms. Lee effectively demonstrates having never received notice of Plaintiff’s
motion to amend the judgment.  Ms. Lee
furnishes a satisfactory excuse for not opposing the motion to amend the
judgment.
 
3.     
Element
3:Whether Ms. Lee Acted Diligently to Vacate the Judgment.
 
Plaintiff obtained the amended judgment in September
2017.  A writ of execution was served at
Yeun Dan Lee’s residence in Los Angeles in November 2023.  A month later, Ms. Lee brother notified Ms.
Lee of the levying documents.  Ms. Lee
then instructed her attorney to review the court docket.  Soon after, Ms. Lee learned for the first
time that Plaintiff had amended the judgment naming her as a judgment debtor.  (Lee Decl. ¶ 10.)  This motion followed nearly five months
later.
 
Plaintiff argues that Ms. Lee has not acted diligently.  He points out that Ms. Lee was served with an
application and order for appearance for a debtor’s examination in November
2015.  Further, Plaintiff served many
documents between 2015 and 2023 in an attempt to collect on the judgment.  Yet, despite being aware of the lawsuit, Ms.
Lee did not take any steps to vacate the judgment.
 
Ms. Lee does not dispute that she was served with the
application and order for appearance for a debtor’s examination.  She states that she did not respond to the
application because the order “was not directed at [Ms. Lee] personally, and
because the document did not identify [Ms. Lee] as a defendant in the
action[.]”  (Lee Decl., ¶ 9.)  Rather, the order was for a debtor’s
examination of Christable Corp. (Application and Order for Appearance and
Examination.)  In other words, Ms. Lee
did not receive any notice that she was a party, or was being joined as a
party, to this action.
 
The court agrees with Ms. Lee that there is no indication
she was being joined as a party to this action until Plaintiff moved to amend
the judgment.  Ms. Lee establishes she
never received notice of that motion. Ms. Lee had no occasion to seek relief
from the amended judgment until she learned of its existence five months prior
to the filing of this motion.  As to the
documents served between 2015 to 2023, the court likewise agrees with Ms. Lee’s
observation that Plaintiff does not attach any of those documents or furnish
any explanation to show how Ms. Lee would have known of their existence. 
 
 Based on the
foregoing, the court finds Ms. Lee acted diligently in seeking to vacate the
amended judgment.[3]  
 
4.     
Whether
Plaintiff is Entitled to Recover Fees and Costs. 
 
If the court is inclined to grant the requested relief,
Plaintiff contends he is entitled to recover reasonable compensatory legal fees
and costs pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5(c).  Plaintiff is mistaken.  Civil Procedure section 473.5 has no
application here. Section 473.5 applies “[w]hen service of a summons has not
resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default
or default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action.”  Here, no summons was ever issued to, or served
on, Ms. Lee.  The statutory section does
not apply.
 
III.        CONCLUSION
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the Motion to Vacate Amended Judgment is Granted.  The amended judgment entered on September 15,
2017 is Vacated as to Christable Lee. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for fees and costs is Denied.
 
            Non-party
Christable Lee to give notice.  
                                                                                                            
 
DATED:  August 1, 2024
 




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 


