

 
BACKGROUND
 
This
action arises from the sale of an allegedly defective 2008 GMC Sierra 1500 (the
“Subject Vehicle”). On February 1, 2024, Plaintiff Rosa Torres (“Plaintiff”)
filed a Complaint against Defendants Samo Enterprises, Inc. dba Western Motor
Sport (“Samo”), Westlake Services, LLC dba Westlake Financial Services
(“Westlake”), Hudson Insurance Company (“Hudson”) (collectively “Defendants”),
and DOES 1 through 40, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Violation
of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act; (2) Violation of California Business and
Professions Code § 17200, et seq.; (3) Claim Against Dealer Bond; and
(4) Violation of CCP §§ 1281.97 and 1281.99. 
 
The
Complaint alleges the following: on or about February 12, 2021, Plaintiff went
to Defendant Samo’s place of business to purchase the Subject Vehicle.
(Complaint, ¶ 16.) Prior to selling the Subject Vehicle, Defendant Samo made
representations as to the history, safety, open recall and/or repair condition
of the Subject Vehicle. (Complaint, ¶ 17.) At the time of sale, the Subject
Vehicle had at least one open recall. (Complaint, ¶ 18.) Based on the
representations of Defendant Samo as to the condition and value of the Subject
Vehicle, Plaintiff agreed to purchase the Subject Vehicle and executed a Retail
Installment Sales Contract (the “RISC”) and took delivery of the Subject
Vehicle. (Complaint, ¶ 26; Exh. 1.) Subsequent to Plaintiff’s purchase of the
Subject Vehicle, Plaintiff has discovered that the value of the Subject Vehicle
is substantially diminished as a result of the true condition of the Subject
Vehicle. (Complaint, ¶ 32.) Subsequent to the sale, the RISC was assigned to
Defendant Westlake and Defendant Westlake accepted the RISC and payments under
the RISC. (Complaint, ¶ 41.) By virtue of accepting the RISC, Defendant
Westlake is liable for the claims and defenses pursuant to the RISC.
(Complaint, ¶ 42.) 
            
            Plaintiff
filed a proof of service indicating that Defendant Hudson was served with the
summons and complaint on February 9, 2024, by personal service. (See 03/07/24
Proof of Service.) Plaintiff filed a proof of service indicating that Defendant
Westlake was served with the summons and complaint on February 27, 2024 by
personal service. (See 03/07/24 Proof of Service.) Plaintiff filed a proof of
service showing that Defendant Samo was served with the summons and complaint
on March 28, 2024.  (See 04/29/24 Proof
of Service.)
 
            On
March 8, 2024, Defendant Hudson filed and served an Answer to the Complaint. 
 
            On
March 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served the instant Motion to Compel
Arbitration, for the Court to Pick Arbitration Forum, and Request for Stay.
Pursuant to the motion, Plaintiff seeks an order compelling Defendants Samo and
Westlake to arbitrate this matter pursuant to the RISC, and for a stay of this
action pending the completion of arbitration. 
 
            On
April 17, 2024, Defendant Hudson filed and served a Notice of Non-Opposition
indicating that it does not oppose Plaintiff’s motion to compel arbitration;
however, Defendant Hudson contends that it is “a statutory surety who is not a
party to the arbitration agreement” and therefore it “requests that the Court
stay this action as to [Defendant] Hudson if the . . . motion is granted.” (04/17/24
Notice of Non-Opposition at p. 1:21-24.) 
 
As of
April 29, 2024, Plaintiff’s motion to compel arbitration is unopposed. Any
opposition to the motion was required to have been filed and served at least
nine court days prior to the hearing. (CCP § 1005(b).) 
 
Initially,
the Court notes that the notice of motion contains an error. Plaintiff
indicates that the hearing on the motion is to take place “in Department 25 . .
. located at 111 North Hill Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012.” (Notice at p.
1:24-25.) A notice of motion, below the number of the case, must specify “[t]he
date, time, and location, if ascertainable, of any scheduled hearing and the
name of the hearing judge, if ascertainable.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1110(b)(1).) Here, the notice of motion does not set forth the name of the
judicial officer hearing the motion and sets forth an incorrect address for the
courthouse in which the motion will be heard. Department 25 of this Court,
because this is a limited jurisdiction action, is located at the Spring Street
Courthouse, which is located at 312 North Spring Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012
and not at 111 North Hill Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012, which is the Stanley
Mosk Courthouse.  
 
 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the controversy in this action is covered by an arbitration
provision and the right to compel arbitration has not been waived. Plaintiff
asserts that the parties cannot agree on a forum of arbitration and that
Plaintiff elects the American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) or, in the
alternative, JAMS as the arbitration forum. 
 
OPPOSITION

 
            No
opposition brief was filed as of April 29, 2024. 
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
brief was filed as of April 29, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Compelling
Arbitration and Staying the Action   
A.               
Legal Standard 
“A party who claims that there is a
written agreement to arbitrate may petition the superior court for an order to
compel arbitration” pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2. Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th
348, 356. “California law, like federal law, favors enforcement of valid
arbitration agreements.” Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services,
Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97. “On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for
rescission of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) Parties may be
compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a
valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers
the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute. Omar v. Ralphs
Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961. 
A party opposing a petition to compel
arbitration “bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense.” Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior
Court, supra, 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356. Where a petition to compel
arbitration is granted, a court “shall, upon motion of a party to such action
or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4.)
“[T]here is no policy compelling
persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not agreed to
arbitrate.” DMS Services, LLC v. Superior Court (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1346,
1352. “[G]enerally one must be a party to an arbitration agreement to be
bound by it or invoke it.” Ibid. “However, both California and federal
courts have recognized limited exceptions to this rule, allowing nonsignatories
to an agreement containing an arbitration clause to compel arbitration of, or
be compelled to, arbitrate a dispute arising within the scope of that
agreement.” Id. a p. 1353. “Even the strong public policy in favor of
arbitration does not extend to those who are not parties to an arbitration
agreement or who have not authorized anyone to act for them in executing such
an agreement.” Suh v. Superior Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1512.
“A nonsignatory can be compelled to arbitrate when a preexisting relationship
existed between the nonsignatory and one of the parties to the arbitration
agreement, making it equitable to compel the nonsignatory to arbitrate as
well.” JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1240.
“Additionally, a nonsignatory can be compelled to arbitrate when it is suing as
a third-party beneficiary of the contract containing the arbitration clause.” Ibid.

B.        Discussion  
In support of the motion, Plaintiff’s
counsel, Kasra Sadr (“Sadr”), provides a declaration. Counsel attaches a copy
of the RISC to her declaration. (Sadr Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. 1.) On or about August
14, 2023, counsel’s office sent a pre-filing CLRA demand letter to Defendants
Samo and Westlake’s respective places of business on behalf of Plaintiff, and
the demand included a demand for arbitration with the AAA. (Sadr Decl., ¶ 4;
Exh. 2.) Counsel did not receive any agreement to arbitrate or pay for the AAA
initial arbitration fees from Defendants Samo or Westlake before filing for
arbitration. (Sadr Decl., ¶ 6.) On or around October 27, 2023, counsel’s office
filed for arbitration with the AAA on behalf of the Plaintiff against
Defendants Samo and Westlake. (Sadr Decl., ¶ 7.) On or around November 22,
2023, counsel’s office received a letter from the AAA which indicated that the AAA
decided to close its file because there was a previous failure of Defendant
Samo to comply with AAA policies. (Sadr Decl., ¶ 8; Exh. 3.) As such, counsel’s
office filed for arbitration solely against Defendant Westlake with the AAA.
(Sadr Decl., ¶ 9.) On January 8, 2024, the AAA accepted arbitration of the
dispute between Plaintiff and Defendant Samo and demanded payment to be made by
Defendant Samo on or by February 7, 2024. (Sadr Decl., ¶ 10; Exh. 4.) Due to
Defendant Samo not making the required payments by the due date provided by the
AAA, the AAA sent a letter indicating that it declines to administer the
arbitration. (Sadr Decl., ¶¶ 11-12; Exh. 6.) Counsel states that the RISC,
which was attached as Exhibit 1 to the Complaint, was authenticated by
Plaintiff by way of an affidavit. (Sadr Decl., ¶ 13; Exh. 7.) 
The Court has reviewed the RISC. (Sadr
Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. 1.) The RISC was entered into between Plaintiff and Defendant
Samo. (Id.) The RISC contains an arbitration provision therein which
states that “[a]ny claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or
otherwise . . . which arises out of or relates to . . . [the] purchase or
condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or
relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do not
sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral
binding arbitration and not by court action.” (Sadr Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. 1 at p.
6.) The arbitration provision provides that Plaintiff “may chose the American
Arbitration Association . . . or any other organization to conduct the
arbitration subject to our approval.” (Id.) 
The Court finds that there is a valid
arbitration agreement between Defendant Samo and Plaintiff, and that the
arbitration agreement covers the claims alleged in the Complaint. The Court
notes that the Court can compel Defendant Westlake to arbitrate as the
Complaint alleges that Defendant Westlake was assigned the RISC and is the
holder of the RISC. (Complaint, ¶¶ 41-42.) Defendant Westlake has failed to
oppose the motion and therefore the Court finds that Defendant Westlake has
conceded to Plaintiff’s argument that it can be compelled to arbitration as
“[c]ontentions are waived when a party fails to support them with reasoned
argument and citations to authority.” Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo
(2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215. 
            As to
Defendant Hudson, the Court notes that Plaintiff is not seeking to compel the
arbitration of Defendant Hudson. Defendant Hudson is not a signatory to the
RISC and Plaintiff does not present any authority to compel Defendant Hudson to
arbitrate this action. 
            While
presenting a valid arbitration agreement as well as the lack of an opposition
to the instant motion, the Court cannot grant Plaintiff’s motion to compel
Defendants Samo and Westlake to arbitrate this action, as the notice of motion
is improper as Plaintiff sets forth the incorrect address at which the hearing
will be heard. Due process requires that the parties be “given adequate
notice.” Fenn v. Sherriff (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1466, 1481. Thus, the
notice of motion is defective. Department 25 of this Court is located at 312
North Spring Street and not 111 North Hill Street as articulated in the notice
of motion. 
            II.        Conclusion 
            The Court therefore CONTINUES the hearing on the Motion
to Compel Arbitration. The Cout orders Plaintiff to electronically serve and file
an amended notice of motion setting forth the correct address at which the
motion will be heard. 
 
            The hearing is continued to JUNE 18,
2024 at 10:00am in Department 25 at the Spring Street Courthouse. 
 
 Plaintiff must serve and electronically file
an amended notice of motion at least 16 court days prior to the next hearing
date.  Failure to comply with this order
may result in the motion being taken off calendar or denied.
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 