    BACKGROUND   On December  29, 2021, Plaintiff Labor Commissioner, State of California (“Plaintiff”) filed  a Complaint against Defendants Benbaroukh, LLC (“Benbaroukh”), Elias Shokrian  (“Shokrian”), Edward Villegas aka Eduardo Villegas (“Villegas”), and DOES 1  through 10, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) foreclosure of  mechanic’s lien; (2) unpaid regular wages; (3) overtime wages (Labor Code §  510); (4) liquidated damages (Labor Code § 1194.2); (5) waiting time penalties  (Labor Code § 203); (6) unreimbursed business expenses and attorney’s fees  (Labor Code § 2802); (7) itemized wage statements (Labor Code § 226); and (8)  late payment of wages (Labor Code § 210). The Complaint arises from Defendants’  alleged failure to pay wages to construction laborers at 13755 Roscoe  Boulevard, Panorama City, CA 91402.    On  September 22, 2022, Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian filed a joint Answer to  the Complaint. In their Answer, Defendants set forth the five following  affirmative defenses: (1) the claims are all barred by the applicable statutes  of limitations, including without limitation, CCP § 330, et seq.; (2) the  claims are barred by the doctrines of unclean hands, waiver, and laches; (3)  the claims are barred by the actions and omissions of the Plaintiff and third  parties; (4) Plaintiff, and the alleged employees who are beneficiaries of this  action, failed to exhaust the applicable administrative remedies; and (5)  Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the allegations contained in the related  cross-complaint. (Answer at p. 2: 6-17.)    Also, on  September 22, 2022, Defendant Benbaroukh filed a Cross-Complaint for breach of  contract against Cross-Defendants Fredy E. Duarte (“Duarte”) and Oscar Antonio  Beltran Pineda (“Pineda”) and for declaratory relief against  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Labor Commissioner and Cross-Defendants Duarte and  Pineda.     On April  24, 2023, default was entered against Defendant Villegas.    On August  29 and 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed motions to compel the attendance at deposition  and production of documents for Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian.     On  September 12, 2023, Substitution of Attorney forms were executed which  indicated that Neil C. Evans was no longer representing Defendants Benbaroukh  and Shokrian, and that Jason M. Stone was representing Defendants Benbaroukh  and Shokrian.    On November  15, 2023, after hearing oral argument, the Court granted the respective motions  to compel deposition filed by Plaintiff as to Defendants Benbaroukh and  Shokrian. (11/15/23 Minute Order.) The Court ordered the Person Most Qualified  for Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian to appear for deposition and produce  documents at a date, time, and place as agreed between the parties and properly  noticed and set forth in a subpoena by Plaintiff’s counsel. (11/15/23 Minute  Order at p. 2.) The Court also awarded Plaintiff monetary sanctions in the  amount of $1,400.00 against Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian, and their  counsel of record, Neil Evans, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days of  the Court’s order. (11/15/23 Minute Order at p. 8.)    On  December 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served notice of the Court’s November 15,  2023 order.    On February  7, 2024, Jason M. Stone and Laura H. Park filed a motion to be relieved as  counsel for Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian.    On March  20 and March 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served motions for terminating  sanctions or, alternatively, issue, evidentiary and/or monetary sanctions  against Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian (the “Motions”). The Motions are  made on the grounds of Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian’s non-compliance with  the Court’s November 15, 2023 order. Plaintiff seeks terminating sanctions  against Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian pursuant to the Motions.  Alternatively, pursuant to the Motions, Plaintiff seeks issue sanctions against  the respective defendants which will bar them from prosecuting any parts of  their claims or defenses in this action and that designated facts shall be  established in accordance with Plaintiff’s claim. Each motion requests additional  sanctions in the amount of $1,800.00.    The  Motion is unopposed as of April 30, 2024.    On April  11, 2024, after hearing, the Court granted the motion to be relieved as counsel  for corporate Defendant Benbaroukh only and continued the hearing on the motion  to be relieved as counsel for individual Defendant Shokrian to April 22, 2024  for counsel to address procedural defects. (04/11/24 Minute Order at p. 7.) The  Court set an OSC re: Status of Defendant Benbaroukh’s Legal Representation or  in the Alternative, Why Defendant Benbaroukh’s Answer filed on September 9,  2022 Should Not Be Stricken for April 22, 2024 at 10:00 AM. (04/11/24 Minute  Order at p. 7.)    On April  22, 2024, the Court granted the motion filed by Counsel Jason M. Stone, Esq. to  be relieved as counsel for Defendant Shokrian. (04/22/24 Minute Order at p. 4.)  The Court indicated that the Court’s ruling and the attorney’s relief as  counsel of record for Defendant Shokrian is not effective until a proof of  service of the order signed by the Court upon the client is filed in this  action. (04/22/24 Minute Order at p. 4.)    Also, on  such date, the Court held an OSC re: Status of Defendant Benbaroukh’s Legal  Representation or in the Alternative, Why Defendant Benbaroukh’s Answer filed  on September 9, 2022 Should Not Be Stricken. (04/22/24 Minute Order at p. 1.)  There was no appearance for Defendant Benbaroukh at the OSC nor was there any  substitution of attorney filed on its behalf. (04/22/24 Minute Order at p. 5.) Due  to this fact, the Court ordered the Answer to the Complaint filed by Defendant  Benbaroukh thereby stricken. (04/22/24 Minute Order at p. 5.)    On April  24, 2024, the Court held a hearing on the Motions. (04/24/24 Minute Order at  p.1.) Only counsel for Plaintiff appeared at the hearing. (04/24/24 Minute  Order at p.1.) As to Defendant Shokrian, the Court continued the hearing to May  1, 2024 “to allow Plaintiff to file supplemental papers.” (04/24/24 Minute  Order at p. 2.) Plaintiff was ordered to “file a separate statement pursuant to  CRC 3.1345(a)(7) and (c) detailing plaintiff’s specific request of the court,  including as to any issue sanction pursuant to CCP 2023.030, specifically  identifying either the designated facts that must be taken as established in  accordance with Plaintiff’s claim, or the designated claim or defense it seeks  to prohibit Defendant Elias Shokrian from prosecuting in this action,  consistent with the discovery sought through Defendant Elias Shokrian’s  deposition.” (04/24/24 Minute Order at p.2.) Plaintiff was ordered to file the  separate statement by April 26, 2024. (04/24/24 Minute Order at p.2.)    As to  Defendant Benbaroukh, the Court denied Plaintiff’s request for terminating and  issue sanctions against Defendant Benbaroukh as moot. (04/24/24 Minute Order at  p. 13.) The Court also denied Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions  against Defendant Benbaroukh. (04/24/24 Minute Order at p. 13.) The Court  deemed Plaintiff’s request for terminating sanctions against Defendant  Benbaroukh as moot because the Court had already struck the Answer of Defendant  Benbaroukh in connection with the Court’s April 22, 2024 OSC. (04/24/24 Minute  Order at p. 12.) The Court found that it had “already granted the relief that  Plaintiff [sought] against Defendant Benbaroukh through the . . . motion.”  (04/24/24 Minute Order at p. 12.) As to issue sanctions, the Court denied such  request as to Defendant Benbaroukh as moot because “[b]y striking the Answer of  Defendant Benbaroukh in connection with the OSC, the Court has already granted  terminating sanctions relief sought by Plaintiff against Defendant Benbaroukh.”  (04/24/24 Minute Order at p. 12.) The Court denied Plaintiff’s request for  monetary sanctions against Defendant Benbaroukh due to counsel’s declaration failing  to set forth counsel’s hourly rate or the time spent on the motion. (04/24/24  Minute Order at p. 13.)    On April  26, 2024, pursuant to stipulation between the parties, the Court entered an  order continuing non-jury trial from April 30, 2024 to October 1, 2024.  (04/26/24 Stipulation and Order to Continue Trial.)    On April  29, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel, Edelmira Diaz-Weaver, submitted a separate  statement to the Court. The separate statement was served electronically on  April 29, 2024.  As of April 30, 2024,  such separate statement and proof of service are not reflected as accepted in  the Court’s electronic filing system. However, it is before the Court and the  Court therefore has reviewed such document.      According  to Plaintiff’s separate statement, Plaintiff seeks that the following facts be  taken as established in this action: (1) all workers who performed construction  work at 13755 Roscoe were employees of Defendant Benbaroukh and paid only with  a salary, as defined in the building permit, under the owner-builder  declaration; (2) Defendant failed to maintain time records for the claimants in  this matter, Freddy Donato and Oscar Beltran; and (3) Defendant has no  documentary evidence that claimants Freddy Donato and Oscar Beltran did not  work the hours alleged in the Complaint. (Separate Statement at p. 2:8-16.)    Plaintiff  also requests that issue sanctions be imposed and that Defendant Shokrian be  prohibited from supporting or opposing the following designated claims or  defenses: (1) Defendant is prohibited from supporting at trial his Second  Separate and Affirmative Defense; (2) Defendant is prohibited at trial from  supporting at trial his Third Separate and Affirmative Defense; (3) Defendant  is prohibited from supporting at trial his Fifth Separate and Affirmative  Defense; and (4) Defendant is prohibited from supporting at trial his First  Cause of Action in his Cross-Complaint.[1] (Separate Statement at p. 2:17-28.)    Given  that the Court has already ruled on the motion as to Defendant Benbaroukh  pursuant to its April 24, 2024 order, the Court’s analysis below will solely  address the requested sanctions against Defendant Shokrian.      MOVING PARTY  POSITION               Plaintiff  requests an order that terminating sanctions be imposed against Defendant  Shokrian. Alternatively, Plaintiff requests that issue sanctions be imposed  against Defendant Shokrian, which will bar such defendant from prosecuting any  part of his claims or defenses in this action and that designated facts shall  be established in accordance with Plaintiff’s claim. Plaintiff also seeks  monetary sanctions of $1,800.00 against Defendant Shokrian. Plaintiff moves for  sanctions against Defendant Shokrian on the grounds that he has failed to  comply with the Court’s November 15, 2023 order.    OPPOSITION               No  opposition filed as of April 30, 2024.      ANALYSIS   I.          Sanctions   A.                 Legal Standard   “A trial court may impose  sanctions, including terminating sanctions, for a party’s misuse of the  discovery process, which includes disobedience of a court order.” Sole  Energy Co. v. Hodges (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 199, 207. A misuse of the  discovery process includes “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized  method of discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).) A misuse of the  discovery process also includes a failure “to confer in person, by telephone,  or by letter with an opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and good faith  attempt to resolve informally any dispute concerning discovery, if the section  governing a particular discovery motion requires the filing of a declaration  stating facts showing that an attempt at informal resolution has been made.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (i).)    A terminating sanction may be  imposed by the court by one of the following orders: (1) an order striking out  the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of  the discovery process; (2) an order staying further proceedings by that party  until an order for discovery is obeyed; (3) an order dismissing the action, or  any part of the action, of that party; or (4) an order rending judgment by  default against that party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d)(1)-(4).)    “The discovery statutes evince an  incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions  and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.” Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174  Cal.App.4th 967, 992. “Discovery sanctions should be appropriate  to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the  interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” Ibid. “[C]ontinuing misuses of  the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until the  sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.” Ibid. Where  discovery violations are “willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the  evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with  discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate  sanction.” Ibid. A trial court has broad discretion  to impose discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally a prerequisite to  the imposition of nonmonetary sanctions. Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004)  124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327. Where discovery sanctions are requested against  a party, there must be a failure to comply with a court order and the failure  must be willful. Ibid.     “A decision to order terminating  sanctions should not be made lightly.” Creed-21 v. City of Wildomar (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702.  A trial court’s order to impose terminating sanctions will be reversed only if  it “was arbitrary, capricious, or whimsical.” Ibid.  “[W]here a  violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows  that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery  rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” Ibid. Trial courts have properly  imposed terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders. Los  Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223  Cal.App.4th 377, 390. Terminating sanctions are warranted when a party’s  lack of compliance with the discovery process has caused the opposing party  prejudice. Doppes v. Bentley  Motors, Inc., supra, 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 989.   As an alternative to terminating  sanctions, “[t]he court may impose an issue sanction ordering that designated  facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance with the claim  of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process. The  court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting any party  engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing  designated claims or defenses.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).)    California Code of Civil  Procedure, Section 2023.030 provides that “[t]he court may impose a  monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery  process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable  expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that  conduct.”    B.        Analysis a.         Terminating/Issue  Sanctions        On April 25,  2023, Plaintiff propounded to Defendant Benbaroukh a notice of deposition of  its person most qualified, to take place on May 15, 2023, with a request for  production of documents.[2] (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 4; Exh. A.) On May  11, 2023, Defendant asked Plaintiff for a continuance of all discovery,  including the noticed depositions citing a breakdown in communication between  counsel and Defendant. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. B.) On May 12, 2023,  Plaintiff agreed to continue the depositions if the parties could continue the  trial, due to impending discovery deadlines, and Defendant agreed to draft a  stipulation for Plaintiff’s review. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. B.) Plaintiff  never received a stipulation from Defendant and the deposition remained on  calendar. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 7; Exh. B.)    On  May 16, 2023, Plaintiff called the deposition and Defendant did not show, nor  did it object. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 8.) Counsel then sets forth meet and  confer efforts to reschedule the depositions, and attests that Plaintiff agreed  to reschedule the deposition after communications with Defendant’s counsel, and  the deposition was noticed for June 28, 2023. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶¶ 9-11;  Exhs. D and E.) On June 22, 2023, Defendants cited a breakdown in communication  with counsel and Defendant’s counsel stated that he would be unable to proceed  with the deposition and would be filing to withdraw as counsel the following  week. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 12; Exh. F.) On June 28, 2023, Plaintiff agreed to  reschedule the depositions once again and asked that Defendant’s counsel move  forward with any plans to withdraw if he was going to do so. (Diaz-Weaver  Decl., ¶ 13; Exh. F.) On July 14, 2023, Plaintiff propounded a new deposition  notice on Defendant for August 8, 2023, which requested that the deponent also  produce documents. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 14; Exh. G.)    On  July 20, 2023, Defendant’s counsel emailed Plaintiff and stated that he would  file a motion to withdraw the following day, and Plaintiff confirmed that the  depositions would remain on calendar and that as soon as Defendant’s counsel  withdrew, she would serve the notices on Defendant directly. (Diaz-Weaver  Decl., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff provided the link for a virtual deposition and resent  the notice of deposition and request for production of documents. (Diaz-Weaver  Decl., ¶ 15; Exh. H.) Defendant has not served a valid objection under Section  2025.410. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 16.) Defendant failed to appear for examination  on August 8, 2023. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 17; Exh. L.) On August 11, 2023,  Plaintiff sent an email to meet and confer regarding the missed deposition.  (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 18; Exh. J.) Plaintiff then filed motions to compel the  depositions of Defendants Shokrian and Benbaroukh in August of 2023.  (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 20.)    On  November 15, 2023, after hearing, the Court issued an order compelling the  depositions of the PMK for Defendant Benbaroukh and for Defendant Shokrian, as  well as monetary sanctions. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 21; Exh. K.) After  coordinating with counsel for Defendants Shokrian and Benbaroukh, Plaintiff  noticed the depositions for December 19, 2023, along with production of  documents. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 22; Exh. L.) Defendants paid a portion of the  sanctions ordered by the Court. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 23; Exh. M.) Defendants’  counsel communicated that it needed more time for the depositions due to the  production of documents request included and the depositions were continued to  February of 2024. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 24; Exh. N.)    After  coordinating with opposing counsel again, Plaintiff agreed to continue trial to  a mutually acceptable date of April 30, 2024, and noticed the depositions for  February 14, 2024. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 25; Exh. O.) On February 7, 2024,  opposing counsel served Plaintiff with the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel,  and when Plaintiff asked about the scheduled depositions, opposing counsel  stated that they needed to be rescheduled and that Plaintiff could speak  directly with Defendant Shokrian to secure dates. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 26;  Exh. P.) Plaintiff emailed Defendant Shokrian on February 26, 2024, regarding  the scheduling of the depositions and has not received any response.  (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 27; Exh. Q.) On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff sent an email  to opposing counsel advising them of the filing of the present motion and the  date set for the motion. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 28; Exh. P.) Plaintiff has yet  to hear from opposing counsel or Defendant Shokrian. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 29.)     Given  that the instant motion is unopposed, it is undisputed that Defendant Shokrian  has failed to comply with the Court’s November 15, 2023 order. Given that the  motion is unopposed, the Court finds that Defendant Shorkrian’s non-compliance  is willful.    The  Court does not find that monetary sanctions will compel Defendant Shokrian’s  compliance with this Court’s orders. Defendant Shokrian and his counsel of  record have been ordered to pay monetary sanctions; however, such sanctions have  not been fully paid in compliance with this Court’s orders.    The  Court, however, finds that terminating sanctions are not appropriate at this  time. Although Defendant Shokrian has failed to comply with the Court’s November  15, 2023 order, the Court must take an incremental approach to discovery  sanctions pursuant to Doppes v.  Bentley Motors, Inc., supra, 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992. The declaration of counsel does not state  that Plaintiff has been prejudiced due to the non-compliance of Defendant  Shokrian with such order.    Accordingly, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s  request for terminating sanctions as to Defendant Shokrian.     As  to Plaintiff’s request for issue sanctions, Plaintiff requests issue sanctions  which will bar Defendant Shokrian “from prosecuting any part of its claims or  defenses in this action and designated facts shall be established in accordance  with Plaintiff’s claims.” (Notice of Motion at p. 2:12-14.) Plaintiff has  provided a separate statement indicating that it seeks an order that the  following facts be taken as established: (1) all workers who performed  construction work at 13755 Roscoe were employees of Defendant Benbaroukh and  paid only with a salary, as defined in the building permit, under the  owner-builder declaration; (2) Defendant failed to maintain time records for  the claimants in this matter, Freddy Donato and Oscar Beltran; and (3)  Defendant has no documentary evidence that claimants Freddy Donato and Oscar  Beltran did not work the hours alleged in the Complaint. (Separate Statement at  p. 2:8-16.)   Plaintiff  also requests that issue sanctions be imposed and that Defendant Shokrian is  prohibited from supporting or opposing the following designated claims or  defenses: (1) Defendant is prohibited from supporting at trial his Second  Separate and Affirmative Defense; (2) Defendant is prohibited at trial from  supporting at trial his Third Separate and Affirmative Defense; (3) Defendant  is prohibited from supporting at trial his Fifth Separate and Affirmative  Defense; and (4) Defendant is prohibited from supporting at trial his First  Cause of Action in his Cross-Complaint. (Separate Statement at p. 2:17-28.)    Initially,  the Court notes that Plaintiff’s motion is made on the grounds that Defendant  Shokrian has not complied with the Court’s November 15, 2023 order because he  has yet to appear for deposition.  Plaintiff  argues that “Defendant is refusing to engage in the discovery process.  Defendant has failed to appear or (sic) rescheduled depositions more than five  times.” (Memorandum of Points and Authorities at p. 1:4-5.)  However, upon the Court’s review of  Plaintiff’s Supplemental Facts for Terminating Sanctions or Alternatively,  Issue, Evidentiary, And/Or Monetary Sanctions Against Defendant Elias Shokrian, it is clear that  Defendant Shokrian presented himself for deposition on April 12, 2024, upon  Defendant Shokrian’s request after being served with the Motion. (See  Plaintiff’s Supp. Facts 4/23/2024, p.2:8-14).   In fact, Plaintiff’s separate statement indicates that Defendant  Shokrian was deposed but refused to answer certain questions, refused to answer  several questions without proper objections, and failed to produce any  documents. (Separate Statement at pp. 3-5, 6:17-7:17.)    As  such, the Court finds that Defendant Shokrian has failed to comply with the  Court’s November 15, 2023 order. The Court finds that issue sanctions are  appropriate against Defendant Shokrian. Defendant Shokrian has failed to comply  with a discovery order issued by this Court and—due to the lack of opposition  to the motion—the Court finds that Defendant Shokrian’s non-compliance was  willful. Plaintiff has been unable to obtain relevant discovery from Defendant  Shokrian despite an order from this Court. Moreover, as stated above, monetary  sanctions will not and have not compelled Defendant Shokrian’s compliance with  this Court’s orders.   The  Court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for issue sanctions against  Defendant Shokrian.    The  Court will deem the following facts as established: (1) all workers who  performed construction work at 13755 Roscoe were employees of Defendant  Benbaroukh and paid only with a salary, as defined in the building permit,  under the owner-builder declaration; (2) Defendant failed to maintain time  records for the claimants in this matter, Freddy Donato and Oscar Beltran; and  (3) Defendant has no documentary evidence that claimants Freddy Donato and  Oscar Beltran did not work the hours alleged in the Complaint. (Separate  Statement at p. 2:8-16.)  The  Court will also impose issue sanctions prohibiting Defendant Shokrian from  supporting or opposing the following designated claims or defenses: (1)  Defendant is prohibited from supporting at trial his Second Separate and  Affirmative Defense; (2) Defendant is prohibited at trial from supporting at  trial his Third Separate and Affirmative Defense; (3) Defendant is prohibited  from supporting at trial his Fifth Separate and Affirmative Defense; and (4)  Defendant is prohibited from supporting at trial his First Cause of Action in  his Cross-Complaint. (Separate Statement at p. 2:17-28.)                 b.         Monetary Sanctions                     As to Defendant Shokrian, Plaintiff  requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,800. The Court, however, notes that  the respective declarations of counsel do not set forth counsel’s hourly rate or  the time spent on the respective motions. Plaintiff merely argues that  “Plaintiff’s counsel spent hours researching terminating sanctions under the  Code of Civil Procedure and drafting this motion, as well as its exhibits. In  addition, Plaintiff’s counsel anticipates spending more hours drafting a reply  and appearing at the hearing for this motion.” (See Memorandum of Points and  Authorities at p. 5:16-18.) The Court reminds Plaintiff that “[i]n law and  motion practice, factual evidence is supplied to the court by way of  declarations.” Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53  Cal.App.4th 216, 224. The Court lacks a factual basis to ascertain whether  the amount of monetary sanctions requested are reasonable. The Court cannot  ascertain the hours spent on the respective motions as counsel’s declaration is  void of facts to substantiate the requested amount of monetary sanctions.               The Court therefore DENIES  Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant Shokrian.   II.        Conclusion                           Based on the foregoing, the motion as to Defendant Elias Shokrian  is GRANTED IN PART, as follows:   The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for terminating and  monetary sanctions against Defendant Elias Shokrian; however, the Court GRANTS  Plaintiff’s request for issue sanctions against Defendant  Elias Shokrian.    The Court will deem the following facts as established:  (1) all workers who performed construction work at 13755 Roscoe were employees  of Defendant Benbaroukh, LLC and paid only with a salary, as defined in the  building permit, under the owner-builder declaration; (2) Defendant failed to  maintain time records for the claimants in this matter, Freddy Donato and Oscar  Beltran; and (3) Defendant has no documentary evidence that claimants Freddy  Donato and Oscar Beltran did not work the hours alleged in the Complaint.  (Separate Statement at p. 2:8-16.)  The Court will also impose issue sanctions prohibiting  Defendant Elias Shokrian from supporting or opposing the following designated  claims or defenses:    (1)   Defendant Elias Shokrian is prohibited  from supporting at trial his Second Separate and Affirmative Defense;   (2)   Defendant Elias Shokrian is prohibited  at trial from supporting at trial his Third Separate and Affirmative Defense;    (3) Defendant Elias  Shokrian is prohibited from supporting at trial his Fifth Separate and  Affirmative Defense; and   (4)   Defendant Elias Shokrian is prohibited  from supporting at trial his First Cause of Action in his Cross-Complaint.  (Separate Statement at p. 2:17-28.)     Counsel for Plaintiff  is ordered to serve and electronically submit a proposed form of Order  consisting with this Court’s Ruling, within 10-days.               Moving party is ordered to give  notice.       