  Case Number:  23STCV28088    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




May 20


July 10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV28088




MOTION:  


Motion for Attorneys’ Fees




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant LA-Fig Parking Lot Lessee, LLC




OPPOSING PARTIES:


Plaintiffs Mohill Holdings, LP and MO Foundation Holdings,
  LLC



 
MOTIONS
            Plaintiffs
Mohill Holdings, LP and MO Foundation Holdings, LLC (“Plaintiffs”) dismissed
their claims against Defendant LA-Fig Parking Lot Lessee, LLC (“Defendant”).  Now, Defendant seeks attorney fees.  Plaintiff opposes
the motion.  
ANALYSIS
The parties
disagree as to whether this case is a contract or tort action.  In a contract action, “[w]here an action has
been voluntarily dismissed . . . , there shall be no prevailing party . . .
.”  (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (b)(2).)  Plaintiffs’ complaint in this action is for
unlawful detainer.  Plaintiffs voluntarily
dismissed their complaint on February 21, 2024. 
As such, Plaintiffs argue Defendant is not the prevailing party and is
not entitled to attorney fees.
However, Plaintiffs’
claims do not constitute an action on the contract.  “[T]he unlawful detainer statute encompasses
breach of lease (arguably contract-type matters) and holdover possession after
expiration of the lease (arguably a noncontract issue).”  (Drybread v. Chipain Chiropractic Corp.
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1063, 1074.)  In
the instant case, Plaintiffs’ claims are based on Defendant’s holdover
possession and are, therefore, noncontractual. 
Plaintiffs claim Defendant failed to surrender the premises after
Plaintiffs served Defendant with a notice to quit.  The 30-day notice to quit attached to the
complaint does not identify any breach of the lease, rather it informs Defendant
the month-to-month tenancy is terminated, and Defendant is required to quit and
surrender possession of the premises.  (See
Complaint, filed November 13, 2023, Exhibit 2.) 
As such, Plaintiffs’ claims “did not sound in contract.”  Thus, the prohibition on an award of attorney
fees under Civil Code section 1777 for the voluntary dismissal of the complaint
does not apply.  
The court
determines Defendant is a prevailing party pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1032, subdivision (a)(4).  (Drybread
v. Chipain Chiropractic Corp. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1063, 1077.)  The prevailing party must seek an award of
attorney fees through the filing of a noticed motion and bears the burden of
proof to justify the amount sought. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd.
(c)(5)(A).)  
Defendant seeks an
award of $50,000 in attorney fees. 
Defendant has not, however, advanced any billing records to support this
amount. The court considers a request for attorney fees based on “careful
compilation of the time spent and reasonable hourly compensation of each attorney
involved.”  (Serrano v. Unruh
(1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 626, fn. 6, internal quotations and citations
omitted.)  Without such evidence, the court
cannot grant Defendant’s request for attorney fees.  
Defendant cites Steiny
& Co., Inc. v. California Electric Supply Co. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 285,
which is not on point.  In that case, the
Court of Appeal stated, “An attorney's testimony as to the number of hours
worked is sufficient evidence to support an award of attorney fees, even in the
absence of detailed time records.”  (Steiny
& Co., Inc. v. California Electric Supply Co. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th
285, 293.)  The court also noted the
attorney’s declaration in that case “included detailed evidence of hours spent,
tasks concluded, and billing rates.”  (Ibid.)  
In the instant
case, Defendant does not present any evidence of the number of hours
Defendant’s attorneys billed on the matter, the specific nature of the services
they provided, or the specific tasks that were completed.  Defendant advances a declaration of its
attorney, Navi Signh Dhillon (“Dhillon”) who simply states, “I reviewed the
billing records for this matter and I am confident that the number of hours
billed are commensurate with the tasks performed.”  (Declaration of Navi Singh Dhillon, ¶
7.)  Dhillon does not aver to the number
of hours he and/or any other attorney worked on this case nor the specific
tasks that were performed.  Although
Dhillon suggests he has discounted the number of hours worked by as much as a
half of the hours expended in the case and is, therefore, seeking only $50,000
for 50 hours of work at $1,000 an hour, that is not a sufficient
accounting.  Moreover, he has not established
a billing rate of $1000 an hour in an unlawful detainer action is a reasonable
hourly rate that is in keeping with the industry standard in Los Angeles.  
Defendant fails to
present evidence to support the requested fees. 
Accordingly, the motion for attorney fees is denied without prejudice. 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of this order and to
file proof of service of same.
 