  Case Number:  22VECV02618    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  W JANE DOE 1, et al. vs LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT
 
defendant los
angeles unified school district’s motion for protective order to exclude todd
bloomfield from the deposition of curtis johnson and limit the scope of the
examination 

 
Date
of Hearing:        July 10, 2024                                      Trial
Date:       None
set 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        22VECV02618
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District 
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Jane Doe 1, Jane Doe 2, Jane Doe
3, and Jane Doe 4 
Meet and Confer:      Yes.[1]
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 30, 2022, Plaintiffs Jane Doe 1, Jane Doe 2, Jane Doe 3, And
Jane Doe 4 filed a lawsuit against Defendants Los Angeles Unified School
District for negligence. Plaintiffs were minors and students at elementary
schools in LAUSD where their perpetrator was employed. Plaintiffs allege the
perpetrator groomed and sexually abused Plaintiffs and LAUSD breached their
duty by failing to protect Plaintiffs from sexual abuse. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s
Motion for Protective Order to Exclude Todd Bloomfield from the Deposition of
Curtis Johnson and Limit the Scope of the Examination is DENIED. 
 
discusion
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District moves
the court for a protective order to: (1) exclude non-party counsel, Todd
Bloomfield, from attending the remaining portion of the deposition of non-party
deponent former LAUSD Principal Curtis Johnson; and (2) limit the scope of the
deposition examination to those matters relevant to alleged perpetrator Rene
Tenas. LAUSD makes the motion on the grounds non-party counsel Todd Bloomfield
has a recently pending case in Los Angeles Superior Court involving similar
sexual abuse allegations against the same perpetrator in this case and where Mr.
Johnson and the District are also named defendants. Moreover, any other matters
outside the scope of Rene Tenas, including those post-incident involving Curtis
Johnson’s personnel file, are otherwise annoying, harassing, embarrassing and
oppressive to the District and Mr. Johnson.
 
Non-Party Curtis Johnson joins Defendant Los Angeles
Unified School District’s Motion for Protective Order to exclude Todd
Bloomfield from the deposition of Curtis Johnson and limit the scope of the
Examination. Additionally, Mr. Johnson requests that the second session of his
deposition be conducted remotely, rather than in-person. 
 
A court may make any order that justice requires to protect
a party from “unwanted annoyance, embarrassment or oppression or undue burden
and expense.”  (CCP §2025.420(b).)  The burden of proof is on
the party seeking the protective order to show “good cause” for the order he or
she seeks.  (Fairmont Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22
Cal.4th 245, 255.) A motion for a protective order “shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (CCP §2025.420(a).) 
“A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing
a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.”  (CCP §2016.040.)   
 
LAUSD contends the first part of the non-party
deponent deposition of Principal Curtis Johnson occurred on April 26, 2024, but
could not be completed at that time, leaving 2.9 hours to be completed at a
future date. Present at the first part of Mr. Johnson’s deposition were the
parties and their counsel and Mr. Johnson and his counsel. Also present was
Todd Bloomfield, who was (according to Plaintiffs’ counsel) assisting them in
the deposition. (Ochoa Decl. ¶12, Exh. 3.) At the time of the deposition,
LAUSD’s counsel was unaware that Mr. Bloomfield was counsel on other childhood sexual
assault cases against the District and Mr. Johnson based on Tenas. In light of
Mr. Bloomfield’s participation in these other actions, including a newly filed
action against the District and Mr. Johnson by Mr. Bloomfield, Mr. Bloomfield’s
conduct amounts to unwarranted harassment, annoyance, and oppression. Specifically,
allowing non-party attorneys who have other pending cases against the deponent
and another party to be present during the deposition intimidates and harasses
the deponent and creates a slippery slope of unethical behavior for future
cases. LAUSD also notes that Mr. Bloomfield was not silent participant as Mr.
Bloomfield was seated directly next to Plaintiffs’ counsel throughout the
entire deposition, passing hand-written notes, and leaning over to speak to
Plaintiffs’ counsel during the questioning. 
 
LAUSD further contends during the deposition, the
examination included matters not relevant to the litigation that should also be
precluded by the court. LAUSD contends Plaintiffs should not be allowed to
conduct a fishing expedition and should instead adhere to the guidelines
established in the Court’s holding in its December 14, 2023 Order whereby the
Court held that Plaintiffs were entitled to post-incident documents and
information only related to Tenas. (Ochoa Decl. ¶13, Exh. F.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue Mr. Bloomfield explicitly
identified himself as specially appearing on behalf of Plaintiffs and the
District’s interpretation of Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420(b)(12) is
too narrowly tailored. Plaintiffs contend LAUSD has not provided any authority
wherein a California court interpreted the language of Section 2025.420(b)(12)
to specifically infer that “counsel” means “counsel of record in the instant
case” or that it was the legislative intent behind Section 2025.420(b)(12) that
the counsel of any party or deponent who is not listed as “counsel of record” on
the court’s docket. Moreover, LAUSD has not established how Mr. Johnson’s
presence constitutes unwarranted annoyance, harassment, embarrassment, or
oppression when he spoke no more than nine words.             As for limiting the deposition, Plaintiffs assert LAUSD’s
position that Plaintiffs cannot question Johnson about events that occurred
after 2011 is not supported by law and accepting this position would also deeply
prejudice Plaintiffs’ ability to prove their claims. Additionally, it is
critical for Plaintiffs to determine if LAUSD’s investigation of Johnson
resulted from its knowledge of Tenas’ inappropriate behavior. 
 
The court finds LAUSD has not adequately shown Mr.
Bloomfield’s presence constitutes unwarranted annoyance, harassment, or
oppressive conduct so as to warrant a protective order. Moreover, LAUSD has not
adequately shown good cause limiting the scope of the deposition examination to
those matters relevant to the perpetrator Rene Tenas. First, Mr. Bloomfield has
represented that he is “of counsel” to the Carrillo Law Firm, LLP, and
identified himself on the record as specially appearing on behalf of the
Plaintiffs. Section 2025.420 does not specify who can attend a deposition.
Rather, it only states who can bar someone from attending. Moreover, LAUSD has
not demonstrated how Mr. Bloomfield’s participation in related cases harms
non-party Mr. Johnson or LAUSD’s defense. 
 
The court notes, however, no more than two attorneys
– including Mr. Bloomfield – should be present at the deposition, because
additional attorneys may feel intimidating to the witness. Plaintiff can elect
to have two of its “in house” counsel present, or it can have one counsel and Mr.
Bloomfield.   Only one counsel can ask
questions.   
 
Next, the court finds the limitation defendant seeks
on the line of questioning would bar Plaintiffs from seeking relevant
information. The court did not limit discovery strictly to matters occurring
before 2011. Subsequent history with the District is discoverable and
Plaintiffs are entitled to ask Mr. Johnson about his interactions with the
district and its employees as they relate to Tenas, as well as his employment
history subsequent to the events surrounding Tenas.   
 
The court will discuss with counsel at the hearing
any specific areas for which Johnson is seeking a protective order, as well as
the additional request by Johnson that he appear remotely. The court is
disinclined to grant the latter request unless there is a strong showing that
remote appearance is requested due to health issues, especially if plaintiff
has noticed that it intends to videotape the deposition.   
 
Accordingly, the motion for protective order is
DENIED. 
 
Sanctions
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs seek $3,500.00 in
sanctions for the preparation, filing, and arguing of Plaintiffs’ Opposition to
LAUSD’S Motion. Plaintiffs contend Defendant LAUSD has not cited a single
statute and a single case in support of its Motion to prevent Bloomfield from
attending Johnson’s deposition and to impose sweeping restrictions on the
Plaintiffs’ rights to conduct discovery.      
 
The court DENIES
the request. 
 


