  Case Number:  23CHCV01350    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  F51  JANUARY 9, 2024    DEMURRER WITH  MOTION TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV01350    Demurrer with Motion to  Strike Filed: 10/26/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Jose Zamora and Brenda  Valadez (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Eric Beebe (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving Defendants demur the second cause of action for public nuisance. Moving  Defendants also move to strike attorney fees and punitive damages allegations  in the Complaint.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The demurrer  is OVERRULED. The motion to strike is DENIED IN PART and GRANTED IN PART as  follows. The request to strike Paragraphs 12, 18, 20, 26, and Plaintiff’s  Prayer, ¶ 5, “For punitive damages,” is denied. The request to strike Plaintiff’s  Prayer, ¶ 4, “For attorney’s fees,” is granted. Moving Defendants shall file  and serve an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint within 30 days.   BACKGROUND    This is a nuisance action.  Plaintiff alleges that the defendants are his neighbors. (Compl., ¶¶ 7, 8.)  Ever since the defendants moved into their property, they have generated loud  noise that grossly interferes with Plaintiff’s use of his property and the  quiet enjoyment of the entire neighborhood. (Compl., ¶¶ 9, 28.) As a result of  the defendants’ noise, Plaintiff suffered a unique and special injury,  specifically, the inability to use a portion of his own home, inability to  sleep in his bedroom at night, and loss of income. (Compl., ¶ 29.)   On 10/26/23, Moving Defendants filed  the instant demurrer and motion to strike. On 12/27/23, Plaintiff filed his  oppositions to the demurrer and motion to strike. On 1/2/4, Moving Defendants  filed their replies to the oppositions.   DEMURRER   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight  enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action” and is uncertain, meaning “ambiguous  and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on  the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here, Moving Defendants demur the second cause of action for public nuisance, arguing  that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.    A.     Meet-and-Confer    Defense counsel testifies that on or about October 20,  2023, he called Plaintiff’s counsel to discuss the demurrer and motion to  strike. (Declaration of Daniel Ip ¶ 2.) When Plaintiff’s counsel did not pick  up the phone, defense counsel left a voicemail and sent a meet and confer email  the same day. (Ibid.) Defense counsel did not receive any response from Plaintiff’s  counsel. (Ibid.)    The Court finds that the Moving Defendants have satisfied  the meet and confer requirement.   B.      Public Nuisance   Moving  Defendants demur the second cause of action for public nuisance, arguing that  Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to show that the alleged noise  caused him to suffer harm that is of a character different kind than that  suffered by the rest of the neighborhood.    In  opposition, Plaintiff argues (among other things) that he adequately alleged an  injury that is different in kind by alleging that the defendants’ noise caused  him the inability to use a portion of his own home and incur a loss of income.  According to Plaintiff, “it is not a natural consequence for the general public  to incur ‘loss of income’ due to noise intrusion.” (Opposition, p. 2:12-15.)   In reply, Moving  Defendants agree that loss of income “is not a natural consequence for the  general public … due to noise intrusion,” but confusingly argue that injury is  not actionable as a public nuisance because of that reason. (Reply, pp. 1:27-2:1  [“Plaintiff’s loss of income would be insufficient as a special injury to  warrant a public nuisance claim since it is generally not of the type of harm  suffered while exercising the right common to the general public”].) They add  that even if Plaintiff’s alleged inability to sleep and use a portion of his  home was a type of harm suffered by the general public, that harm is not  actionable because Plaintiff can only maintain a claim for public nuisance only  if the injury differs in kind and not just in degree. (Reply, p. 2:22-23.)   Civil Code “[s]ection  3479 defines a ‘nuisance’ as ‘[a]nything which is injurious to health, ... or  is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of  property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or  property.’” (Hacala v. Bird Rides, Inc. (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 292, 324  (“Hacala”).)   “Section  3480 defines a ‘public nuisance’ as a nuisance ‘which affects at the same time  an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,  although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon individuals may  be unequal.’” (Hacala, supra, 90 Cal.App.5th at p. 324.) “‘“The  public nuisance doctrine is aimed at the protection and redress of community  interests and, at least in theory, embodies a kind of collective ideal of civil  life which the courts have vindicated by equitable remedies since the beginning  of the 16th century.” [Citation.] “To qualify, and thus be enjoinable, the  interference [with collective social interests] must be both substantial and  unreasonable.... ‘“... It is an obvious truth that each individual in a  community must put up with a certain amount of annoyance, inconvenience and  interference and must take a certain amount of risk in order that all may get  on together.”’”’ [Citations.]” (Ibid. [italics removed].)    “Under [Civil Code] section 3493, ‘[a] private  person may maintain an action for a public nuisance, if it is specially  injurious to himself [or herself], but not otherwise.’” (Hacala, supra,  90 Cal.App.5th at p. 324.)   The special  injury must be “of a character different in kind—not merely in degree—from that  suffered by the general public.” (Institoris v. City of Los Angeles  (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 10, 20; Civ. Code, § 3493; Department of Fish &  Game v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1323, 1352 [explaining that “[t]he  elements of a public nuisance, under the circumstances of [a] case, [are] as  follows: (1) the [alleged nuisance] obstructed the free use of property, so as  to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property; (2) the  [nuisance] affected a substantial number of people; (3) an ordinary person  would be unreasonably annoyed or disturbed by the [nuisance]; (4) the  seriousness of the harm occasioned by the [nuisance] outweighed its social  utility; (5) plaintiffs did not consent to the [nuisance]; (6) plaintiffs  suffered harm as a result of the [nuisance] that was different from the type  of harm suffered by the general public; and (7) the [nuisance] was a  substantial factor in causing plaintiffs’ harm” (emphasis added)].)   Here, the  Court agrees with Moving Defendants that the inability to use a portion of one’s  home or sleep at night due to noise is not an injury that is of a character  different in kind from that suffered by the general public. It is reasonable to  expect that loud noise would prevent the public from sleeping at night and  deter them from using a portion of their homes.    However,  loss of income is a special injury that is of a character different in kind,  not merely in degree, from that suffered by the general public. Indeed, it is  not expected that loud noise would lead the general public to lose income. In  their reply, Moving Defendants concede this by agreeing that Plaintiff’s loss  of income is generally not of the type of harm suffered by the general public.   Accordingly,  the demurrer to the second cause of action for public nuisance is overruled.    MOTION TO STRIKE   The  court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any  pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or  any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this  state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving  to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Id., § 437.)   A.     Punitive Damages and Attorney’s Fees Allegations     Moving Defendants move to strike the  following portions of the Complaint.    1.       Paragraph 12, Furthermore, when Defendants generate the  same type of noise in the morning and upon being openly requested by Plaintiff  to stop being so loud, Defendants will routinely respond with gesture of foul  language and then generate even louder noise intentionally to spite Plaintiff. 2.       Paragraph 18, However, instead of abating the problem,  Defendants simply gestured Plaintiff with a sign of foul language, yelled out  they would continue to be loud and then intensified the noise level. 3.       Paragraph 20, By and through their action and threats,  Defendants have indicated to Plaintiff that they will not abate the nuisance  but instead will continue to maintain the nuisance to spite or harm Plaintiff  unless the court specifically restrains them from doing the same. 4.       Paragraph 26, In maintaining the nuisance, Defendants  are acting with full knowledge of the consequences and damage being causaed  [sic] to plaintiff, and their conduct is willful, oppressive and damge [sic]  being caused to plaintiff, and their conduct is willful, opporessive [sic] and  malicious; accordingly, plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages against  Defendant. 5.       Plaintiff’s Prayer, ¶ 4, “For attorney’s fees.” 6.       Plaintiff’s Prayer, ¶ 5, “For punitive damages.”   (Notice of Motion to Strike, p. 2:1-18.)               The Court does  not find anything improper with Paragraphs 12, 18, and 20 above. Plaintiff is  merely describing the Moving Defendants’ alleged conduct in those paragraphs.    Accordingly, the request to strike  Paragraphs 12, 18, and 20 in the Complaint is denied.    Plaintiff states in his opposition that he  withdraws his request for attorney’s fees for now. (Opposition to Motion to  Strike, p. 1:19-23; Hom v. Petrou (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 459, 464 [“‘A  party may not recover attorney fees unless expressly authorized by statute or  contract. [Citations.] In the absence of a statute authorizing the recovery of  attorney fees, the parties may agree on whether and how to allocate attorney  fees. [Citations.]…. The parties may agree to award attorney fees on claims  sounding in both contract and tort.’ [Citation]”]; Motion, pp. 1:26 -2:3  [arguing (among other things) that Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney’s fees is  improper because (1) the Complaint does not allege any contractual or statutory  basis for the fees and (2) although   Civil Code section 3496 would allow recovery of such fees, the statute  is inapplicable here because the action is not brought by a governmental  agency].)   The request to strike Plaintiff’s Prayer, ¶  4, “For attorney’s fees,” is granted.    “In order to state a prima facie claim for  punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the  general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section 3294.” (Turman v.  Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 (“Turman”).)   The Complaint alleges the following. The  defendants “have routinely, continuously, and unreasonably generated an extreme  level of loud noise and music that grossly interfer [sic] with Plaintiff’s use  of his home and in fact force him to abandon a good part thereof.” (Compl., ¶  14.) “Such extreme loud noise include but is not limited to the playing of  extremely loud music well beyond the midnight hours.” (Compl., ¶ 15.) “Plaintiff  requested Defendants to stop generating such unreasonable level of noise. Plaintiff  also informed Defendants that their actions had caused Plaintiff damages that  included his not being able to use a good portion of his own home as well as  his inability to sleep in his own bedroom.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) “However, instead  of abating the problem, Defendants simply gestured Plaintiff with a sign of  foul language, yelled out they would continue to be loud and then intensified  the noise.” (Compl., ¶ 18.)   The Court finds the above allegations support  Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages by showing an intentionally maintained  nuisance.     Accordingly, the request to strike Paragraph  26 and the prayer for punitive damages in the Complaint is denied.     CONCLUSION    The demurrer  is OVERRULED.    The motion to strike is DENIED IN PART and GRANTED IN PART  as follows. The request to strike Paragraphs 12, 18, 20, 26, and Plaintiff’s  Prayer, ¶ 5, “For punitive damages,” is DENIED. The request to strike  Plaintiff’s Prayer, ¶ 4, “For attorney’s fees,” is GRANTED.    Moving Defendants shall file and serve an answer to  Plaintiff’s complaint within 30 days