  Case Number:  23STCV12216    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ALEXANDER
  FRANKIAN,  
  
         vs.
 
JESSICA COOK. 


 Case No.: 23STCV12216
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 4, 2024



 
Defendant
Jessica Cook’s special motion to strike Plaintiff Alexander Frankian’s
complaint as a whole is denied. 
Defendant’s special motion to strike is granted as to the 4th cause of
action and 5th cause of action as it pertains to the threat of prosecution as
leverage to extort money from Plaintiff.  Defendant may separately move for an award of
attorneys’ fees and costs.  
 
Defendant Jessica
Cook (“Cook”) (“Defendant”) moves to strike the complaint (“Complaint”) of Plaintiff
Alexander Frankian (“Frankian”) (“Plaintiff”) on the grounds that Plaintiff’s
Complaint is based entirely on allegations that arise from conduct that
occurred during a family law legal proceeding between the parties and is
therefore unlawfully based on Defendant’s act in furtherance of her right under
the First Amendment of the United States Constitution.  (Notice of Motion, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §425.16.)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
Defendant’s 11/7/23 request
for judicial notice of (1) Defendant’s temporary against Plaintiff (D-RJN, Exh.
A); (2) Defendant’s application for an emergency protective order against
Plaintiff (D-RJN, Exh. B); and (3)
Plaintiff’s petition for custody and visitation of the child (D-RJN, Exh. C),
is granted.
 
Background 
          This matter arises from Plaintiff’s and Defendant’s former
romantic relationship; cohabitation at 1140 W. Lancaster Blvd., Lancaster,
California 93534 (“Lancaster Residence”), which was leased by Plaintiff; and
Plaintiff’s and Defendant’s parentage of two minor children together.  (See Complaint ¶¶6-7.)  Plaintiff alleges his relationship with
Defendant ended on May 16, 2022.  (See
Complaint ¶6.)
          Plaintiff alleges during the last year of their
relationship, Defendant requested Plaintiff pay for Defendant’s personal
expenses and promised to repay Plaintiff for amounts he loaned to her for such
expenses in the approximate sum of at least $41,600, which, to date, Defendant
has not repaid.  (Complaint ¶8.)
          Plaintiff alleges on May 16, 2022, Defendant made a false
report of domestic violence against Plaintiff, which resulted in Plaintiff’s
arrest by the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department.  (Complaint ¶9.)  Plaintiff alleges on May 18, 2022, Defendant
filed a request for Domestic Violence Restraining Order without giving notice
to Plaintiff, and as a result, the court issued a temporary restraining order
(“TRO”), which only included the limited orders to “not abuse.”  (Complaint ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges after his arrest, the
district attorney’s office declined to prosecute any charges against him
arising from Defendant’s allegations. 
(Complaint ¶11.)
          Plaintiff alleges after May 16, 2022, Plaintiff did not
return to the Lancaster Residence until Defendant confirmed that she had moved
out.  (Complaint ¶12.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that Cook moved out of the Lancaster Residence sometime between May 28 and May
30, 2022.  (Complaint ¶13.)
          Plaintiff alleges during the move-out from the Lancaster
Residence, Defendant, without Plaintiff’s authorization or permission,
unlawfully opened the safe in the Lancaster Residence and took $49,000.00 in
cash, valuable watches, jewelry, passports, and important personal, business,
and financial documents that belonged to Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant also removed,
without Plaintiff’s authorization or permission, furniture, furnishings, and
high-end designer clothing, handbags, and accessories that belonged to
Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶14.)
          Plaintiff alleges after May 16, 2023, Defendant published
by making false oral statements to third parties, including but not limited to
Hollis McClard (“Hollis”), Kelly McClard (“Kelly”), Avedis Oksazian
(“Oksazian”), and Thomas
Galloway (“Galloway”), about Plaintiff
claiming that he committed acts of domestic violence on Defendant, including,
but not limited to, allegations that Plaintiff physically abused Defendant,
threatened to kill Defendant, and threatened to physically harm Defendant.  (Complaint ¶15.)
          On May 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed his complaint against
Defendant alleging five causes of action: (1) conversion; (2) defamation; (3)
breach of oral contract; (4) civil extortion; and (5) intentional infliction of
emotional distress.
Defendant filed the instant
motion on November 8, 2023.  Plaintiff
filed his opposition on December 20, 2023. 
As of this hearing, no reply has been filed, however, Defendant’s
counsel filed a declaration in reply on December 26, 2023.
 
Special Motion to Strike
          “Litigation of an anti-SLAPP motion involves a two-step
process. First, ‘the moving defendant bears the burden of establishing that the
challenged allegations or claims ‘aris[e] from’ protected activity in which the
defendant has engaged.’ [Citation.] Second, for each claim that does arise from
protected activity, the plaintiff must show the claim has “at least ‘minimal
merit.’ [Citation.]”  (Bonni v. St.
Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009, citations omitted.)  As to the second step inquiry, a plaintiff
seeking to demonstrate the merit of the claim “may not rely solely on its
complaint, even if verified; instead, its proof must be made upon competent
admissible evidence.”  (Sweetwater Union High School District v.
Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 940, citations omitted.)
A defendant opposing a
special motion to strike has the burden to “state [] and substantiate [] a
legally sufficient claim.”  (Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88 & 93.)  “‘Put another way, the defendant “must
demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a
sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the
evidence submitted by the defendant is credited.”’ [Citations.]”  (Id. at pgs. 88-89.)  To that end, the defendant must present
competent evidence, “that would be admissible at trial.”  (HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co.
(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 204, 212.)  “[D]eclarations
may not be based upon ‘information and belief’ [citation]” and documents
submitted without the proper foundation will not be considered.  (Id.) 
The complaint, even if verified, is insufficient to carry the plaintiff’s
shifted burden.  (Roberts v. Los
Angeles County Bar Association (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 604, 614; Karnazes
v. Ares (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 344, 354 [“pleadings do not constitute
evidence”]; see also Burke, Anti-SLAPP Litigation (The Rutter Group,
Civil Litigation Series 2018 § 5:13) [“To satisfy prong two, the plaintiff must
submit admissible evidence that if credited is sufficient to sustain a
favorable judgment against the legal theories asserted by the defendant.”].)
 
Prong One: Arising from
Protected Activity
“A cause of action is subject
to a special motion to strike if the defendant shows that the cause of action
arises from an act in furtherance of the defendant’s constitutional right of
petition or free speech in connection with a public issue and the plaintiff
fails to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the claim. [Citations.]”  (Digerati
Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873,
883.) 
“An ‘act in furtherance of a
person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue’ is defined by statute to
include ‘(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or
oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum
in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the
constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an
issue of public interest.’  [Citation.]
If the defendant shows that the cause of action arises from a statement
described in clause (1) or (2) of section 425.16, subdivision (e), the defendant is not
required to separately demonstrate that the statement was made in connection
with a ‘public issue.’ [Citation.]”  (Id.)
“A cause of action is one
‘arising from’ protected activity within the meaning of section 425.16,
subdivision (b)(1) only if the defendant’s act on which the cause of action is
based was an act in furtherance of the defendant’s constitutional right of
petition or free speech in connection with a public issue. [Citation.] In
deciding whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is satisfied, ‘the court shall
consider the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the
facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’ [(C.C.P. §425.16(b)(2).)]
Whether the ‘arising from’ requirement is satisfied depends on the ‘gravamen or
principal thrust’ of the claim. [Citations.] A cause of action does not arise
from protected activity for purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute if the
protected activity is merely incidental to the cause of action.
[Citations.]”  (Digerati Holdings, LLC, 194 Cal.App.4th at pgs. 883-884, citations omitted.)  To show that a claim arises from protected
activity under §425.16(b)(1), it is not sufficient to show that the claim “was
filed after, or because of, protected activity, or when protected activity
merely provides evidentiary support or context for the claim.”  (Rand Resources,
LLC v. City of Carson (2019) 6 Cal.5th 610, 621.)  “Rather, the protected activity must ‘supply
elements of the challenged claim.’ [Citation.]”  (Id., citations omitted.)
“At the first step, the
moving defendant bears the burden of identifying all allegations of protected
activity, and the claims for relief supported by them. When relief is sought
based on allegations of both protected and unprotected activity, the
unprotected activity is disregarded at this stage.  If the court determines that relief is sought
based on allegations arising from activity protected by the statute, the second
step is reached. There, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate that
each challenged claim based on protected activity is legally sufficient and
factually substantiated. The court, without resolving evidentiary conflicts,
must determine whether the plaintiff’s showing, if accepted by the trier of
fact, would be sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. If not, the claim is
stricken. Allegations of protected activity supporting the stricken claim are
eliminated from the plaintiff, unless they also support a distinct claim on
which the plaintiff has shown a probability of prevailing.”  (Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 396, emphasis added.)
The burden is on the
plaintiff to produce evidence that would be admissible at trial—i.e., to
proffer a prima facie showing of facts supporting a judgment in plaintiff’s
favor.  (Chavez v. Mendoza (2001)
94 Cal.App.4th 1083, 1087.)
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s
entire Complaint is based on actions that are being litigated by the parties
(Family Court Case No. 22DVRO00174, and LASC Case No. 22STFL0637), and is
therefore based solely on protected activity, to wit, oral or written
statements made by Defendant before a judicial body, and the statement that
underlies Plaintiff’s allegations is absolutely privileged pursuant to Civil
Code §47(b), and thus cannot support liability. 
(Motion, pgs. 1-2; see C.C.P. §425.16(e)(1).)
 
Statements Made in Connection with Issue
under Judicial Review (C.C.P. §425.16(e)(1))
Defendant failed to meet her
burden to show the entirety of the causes of action alleged in
Plaintiff’s Complaint arises from an “act in furtherance of a person’s
right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue.”  (C.C.P. §§425.16(b),
(e).)  
Defendant’s 1st cause of
action for conversion does not supply an element of the challenged claim, as
the claim for conversion is not based on the filing of the TRO or emergency
restraining order; therefore, the protected activity is
merely incidental to the cause of action. 
(See Digerati Holdings, LLC, 194 Cal.App.4th at pgs. 883-884; Rand Resources, LLC, 6 Cal.5th at pg. 621.)  Similarly, with regard to the 3rd cause of
action for breach of oral contract, the protected activity is merely incidental
to the cause of action; no element of the cause of action implicates the TRO or
emergency petition.  Finally, the 2nd
cause of action explicitly states its allegations pertain to Defendant’s
publication to third parties Hollis, Kelly, Oksazian, and Galloway about
Plaintiff’s alleged domestic violence against Defendant and not Defendant’s TRO
or emergency petition.  (Complaint ¶¶23,
27.)  Therefore, Defendant has not met
her burden on the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd causes of action.
However, Defendant met her
burden to demonstrate the 4th cause of action for civil extortion and 5th cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, as
it pertains to civil extortion, arises from her statement made in
connection with an issue under judicial review, specifically, reporting
Plaintiff to law enforcement for committing alleged acts of domestic violence
against her and threatening to have Plaintiff prosecuted for the crime of
domestic violence.  (Complaint ¶¶38, 43;
D-RJN, Exhs. A, B; Decl. of Cook ¶¶3-4, Exhs. 1-2.)
“The constitutional right to
petition, as we have seen, includes the basic act of filing litigation or
otherwise seeking administrative action.”  (Ludwig v. Superior Court (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 8, 19.)  The right of
petition includes access to the courts.  (Briggs, 19 Cal.4th at pg. 1115 [“[j]ust
as communications preparatory to or in anticipation of the bringing of an
action or other official proceeding are within the protection of the litigation
privilege of Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b) . . . such statements are
equally entitled to the benefits of section 425.16.”].)  Defendant argues the filing of the TRO and
emergency petition are protected activity under the anti-SLAPP statute as well
as protected under the litigation privilege. 
(Motion, pg. 2.)  However, the
issue of litigation privilege is not relevant to the first prong of an
anti-SLAPP, but rather the second prong. 
Defendant’s alleged wrongful act of filing and prosecuting a TRO and
emergency petition are indisputably protected activity under the anti-SLAPP
statute.  
Plaintiff’s argument that the
4th cause of action for civil extortion is not protected by the anti-SLAPP
statute and therefore Defendant cannot shift the burden to Plaintiff on the
second prong is misplaced.  (Opposition,
pg. 13; Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 325.)  In Flatley, this State’s Supreme Court
cautioned that its discussion of what constitutes “extortion as a matter of
law” was “limited to the specific facts of this case.”  (Id. at pg. 333 n.16.)  It further “emphasize[d] that the question of
whether the defendant’s underlying conduct was illegal as a matter of law is
preliminary, and unrelated to the second prong question of whether the
plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing, and the showing
required to establish conduct illegal as a matter of law—either through
defendant’s concession or by uncontroverted and conclusive evidence—is not the
same showing as the plaintiff’s second prong showing of probability of
prevailing.”  (Id. at pg. 320.)  Here, there is no such concession by
Defendant or uncontroverted or conclusive evidence of civil extortion before
the Court to preclude Defendant’s filing of a TRO or emergency petition to
preclude anti-SLAPP protections from attaching. 
(See Decl. of Cook ¶¶3-9, Exhs. 1-4.)
Therefore, Defendant met her
burden of demonstrating the 4th and portions of the 5th causes of action in
Plaintiff’s Complaint against her arises from protected activity.  The burden shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate
a probability of prevailing on the 4th and portions of the 5th cause of action
against Defendant.  Plaintiff met his
burden as to the 4th cause of action and failed to meet his burden as to the
relevant portions of the 5th cause of action.
 
Prong
Two: Probability of Prevailing
A.   Civil Extortion (4th COA)
“‘Extortion is the obtaining
of property from another, with his consent . . .  induced by a wrongful use of force or fear . .
. .’ (Pen.Code, § 518.) Fear, for purposes of extortion ‘may be induced by a
threat, either: [¶] . . . [¶] 2. To accuse the individual threatened . . . of
any crime; or, [¶] 3. To expose, or impute to him . . . any deformity, disgrace
or crime[.]’ (Pen.Code, § 519.) ‘Every person who, with intent to extort any
money or other property from another, sends or delivers to any person any letter
or other writing, whether subscribed or not, expressing or implying, or adapted
to imply, any threat such as is specified in Section 519, is punishable in the
same manner as if such money or property were actually obtained by means of
such threat.’ (Pen.Code, § 523.).”  (Flatley,
39 Cal.4th at pg. 326.) 
          Plaintiff alleges Defendant attempted to obtain money from him
through the intentional and wrongful threats of accusing and falsely reporting Plaintiff
of a crime.  (Complaint
¶38.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant
threatened to and did accuse him of committing domestic
violence and threatened to have him prosecuted for the crime of domestic
violence, which he did not commit, in order to demand
money from Plaintiff to which
Defendant was not entitled.  (Complaint
¶38.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant
falsely reported to law enforcement that Plaintiff committed acts of domestic
violence against her and had him arrested. 
(Complaint ¶38.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant then demanded money from Plaintiff, to which
she was not entitled, in order to drop the criminal case against him.  (Complaint ¶38.)

          Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s intentional acts as described
in Paragraph 38 above constitute extortion as defined by Penal Code §519.  (Complaint ¶39.)  Plaintiff alleges each act of extortion as
described in Paragraph 38 above is punishable by a fine of up to ten thousand
dollars ($10,000) under Penal Code §524. 
(Complaint ¶39.)  Plaintiff
alleges as a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s threats,
Plaintiff has been injured both financially and emotionally in a sum to be
proven at trial.  (Complaint ¶40.)  Plaintiff alleges in doing the acts alleged
in this Complaint, Defendant acted with oppression, fraud, and malice as
defined in Civil Code §3284 and Plaintiff is entitled to an award of exemplary
or punitive damages.  (Complaint ¶41.)
          Plaintiff failed to demonstrate a likelihood of prevailing
on the 4th cause of action for civil extortion as it pertains to committing
domestic violence and threatening to have him prosecuted for the crime of
domestic violence.  Plaintiff submitted
evidence that Defendant sent a text message to Plaintiff’s friend, Hollis, with
a photo of IDs she found in Plaintiff’s safe that contained different names
Plaintiff used in his youth, and followed up with a call to Hollis asking, “how
much is this worth to you guys?” and for $100,000 from Plaintiff or she will
“go to the newspapers and the internet and ruin [Plaintiff’s] life and reputation
and that he would never see his kids again.” 
(Decl. of McClard ¶¶2-6; Decl. of Frankian ¶23.)  Such evidence does not relate to Plaintiff’s
allegations in his complaint pertaining to committing the crime of domestic
violence and having Plaintiff prosecuted for the crime of domestic violence.
          Plaintiff also submitted evidence that after Plaintiff was
arrested, Defendant sent a text message to Plaintiff’s friend, Galloway,
telling Galloway she was calling child protective services and that she was in
contact with Mountain Enterprise, a local newspaper for the Lake Hughes
area.  (Decl. of Galloway ¶10; P-COE,
Exh. 10.)  However, this
evidence does not demonstrate Defendant sought money from Plaintiff, but rather
custody of her children, and does not implicate prosecution of the domestic
violence charges.  (See P-COE,
Exh. 10.)
          Plaintiff’s evidence in support of the second
prong is insufficient to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on his cause
of action for civil extortion based on the threat of prosecution for domestic
violence.  Therefore, Defendant’s special
motion to strike Plaintiff’s 4th cause of action is granted.
          
B.   
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (5th COA)
A cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress requires the following elements:
(1) defendant’s conduct was outrageous; (2) defendant intended to cause
plaintiff emotional distress, or defendant acted with reckless disregard of the
probability that plaintiff would suffer emotional distress, knowing that
plaintiff was present when the conduct occurred; (3) plaintiff suffered severe
emotional distress; and (4) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in
causing plaintiff’s severe emotional distress. 
(CACI 1600.)
“A defendant’s conduct is
‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the defendant’s
conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization
that injury will result.’”  (Hughes v.
Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.)
Plaintiff alleges beginning from
May 16, 2022, until the present, Defendant took specific action to cause
Plaintiff emotional distress, as detailed in paragraphs 1 through 41 above,
including the threat of prosecution as leverage to
extort money from Plaintiff. 
(See Complaint ¶43.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s actions were
outrageous, intentional, and malicious, and done with reckless disregard of the
fact that the actions would certainly cause Plaintiff to suffer severe
emotional and physical distress.  (Complaint
¶44.)
Plaintiff alleges as a proximate
result of the acts of Defendant, Plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress
in the form of humiliation, mental anguish, anxiety, emotional distress,
psychosis, and fear.  (Complaint
¶45.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s acts injured Plaintiff in
mind and body.  (See Complaint
¶45.)  Plaintiff alleges as a direct and
proximate result of Defendant’s conduct, Plaintiff has suffered general damages
in an amount to be determined by proof at trial.  (Complaint ¶46.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s conduct was done
knowingly, willfully, and with malicious intent, as defined by Civil Code
§3284, and Plaintiff is entitled to exemplary or punitive damages.  (Complaint ¶47.)
Plaintiff failed to submit
evidence that demonstrates a probability of prevailing on his cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  Specifically, Plaintiff submitted his own
affidavit that merely states, “Defendant’s actions . . . have caused me
unimaginable emotional distress. Going to social events and having people show
me her posts about me being an abuser, or friends and associates asking me
whether I abuse drugs has caused me stress and sleepless nights. In addition,
her threats of taking our children away from me if I don’t pay her money
demands are a different level of emotional distress that only a parent can understand.”  (Decl. of Frankian ¶24.)  First, such evidence does not demonstrate
that the prosecution of the domestic violence charges was the cause of such
alleged emotional distress.  Second,
Plaintiff failed to produce evidence demonstrating such emotional distress was
so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.  Finally, Plaintiff failed to
produce evidence demonstrating he suffered severe emotional distress.
Plaintiff failed to meet his
burden to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on his cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress as to the portion of his 5th cause
of action as it pertains to the threat of prosecution as leverage to extort
money from Plaintiff.  Therefore,
Defendant’s special motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s 5th
cause of action as it pertains the threat of prosecution as leverage to extort
money from Plaintiff is granted.
 
Conclusion
          Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s special motion to
strike Plaintiff’s Complaint as a whole is denied.  Defendant’s special motion to strike
Plaintiff’s Complaint as it pertains to Plaintiff’s 4th cause of action for
civil extortion and 5th cause of action as it pertains the threat of prosecution
as leverage to extort money from Plaintiff is granted.  Defendant may separately move for an award
of attorneys’ fees and costs.  
          Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  January _____, 2024
                                                                             





  