  Case Number:  24STCV17680    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  49 Kingsbarn Realty Capital, LLC, et al. v. Keybank National Association DEFENDANT KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION’S DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendant KeyBank National Association RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Kingsbarn Realty Capital, LLC; Kingsbarn Real Estate Capital, LLC; KB Acquisitions, LLC; and KB Hollywood, DSTSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: The Kingsbarn Plaintiffs are related entities that attempted to purchase the real property at 1601 Vine Street, Los Angeles, CA 90028 from seller Alysanne LLC. Plaintiff alleges that its lender for the purchase, Defendant KeyBank National Association, drastically reduced the loan amount right before the closing date, such that Plaintiffs lacked the requisite financing to close the deal. Plaintiffs were then unsuccessful in completing the deal with alternative financing. Plaintiffs assert causes of action for (1) promissory estoppel, (2) unjust enrichment, (3) negligent misrepresentation, and (4) interference with contract.The matter is related to case number 24STCV09680, KB Acquisitions, LLC v. Alysanne, LLC, et al. In that case, Plaintiff KB Acquisitions asserts causes of action against Seller Alysanne for (1) breach of contract and (2) violations of the UCL based on Alysanne’s alleged failure to return a portion of Plaintiff’s initial deposit on the purchase once certain conditions were met. Defendant now demurrers to each cause of action in the Complaint. Plaintiff opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED in its entirety. Defendant is ordered to file an Answer to the Complaint within 21-days of this Ruling.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:DemurrerI. Meet and ConferThe declaration of attorney Robyn C. Crowther reflects that the meet and confer requirement was satisfied. II. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)III. AnalysisDefendant Keybank demurrers to each cause of action in the Complaint. Each is addressed in turn.A. First Cause of Action for Promissory EstoppelFirst, Defendant argues the First Cause of Action for promissory estoppel fails because Plaintiffs failed to specifically plead (1) any clear and unambiguous promise by KeyBank, or (2) reasonable reliance.As alleged in the Complaint, Plaintiffs are “related and affiliated entities which undertook the acquisition of the real property located at 1601 Vine Street, Los Angeles, California, 90028” commencing in late 2022. (Compl. ¶ 1.) Alysanne LLC was the seller of the Property. (Id. ¶ 2.) On February 7, 2023, Plaintiffs and Alysanne entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement for a purchase price of $121,800,000 and a closing date of March 17, 2023. (Id.) To obtain the necessary financing, Plaintiff Kingsbarn “turned to its long-time lender, KeyBank.” (Id. ¶ 3.) Plaintiffs and Keybank “had developed a strong and successful working relationship,” with Keybank providing “sixteen (16) senior debt loans to affiliated andrelated entities of Plaintiffs totaling $342,355,000” and “seven (7) preferred equity loans to affiliated and related entities of Plaintiffs totaling $77,832,500” over the years. (Id. ¶ 18.) On or about February 8, 2023, Plaintiffs executed a Term Sheet provided by KeyBank containing certain financing terms. (Id. ¶ 19.) “In conjunction with the proposed financing to be provided by KeyBank, Plaintiff Kingsbarn Realty Capital, LLC and KeyBank entered into a Swap Lock Agreement dated as of March 1, 2023…The purpose of the Swap Lock Agreement was to establish the Swap Rate portion associated with the Term Sheet dated 02/08/23 for a loan in the amount of Seventy-One Million and no/100 Dollars ($71,000,000).” (Id. ¶ 21.) Pursuant to the Swap Lock Agreement, Plaintiffs paid Defendant KeyBank the sum of $1,420,000 as a “Lock-In Deposit.” (Id. ¶ 22.) On or about February 28, 2023, Plaintiff and the property seller entered into a First Amendment to the Purchase and Sale Agreement which reduced the purchase price of the property from $121,800,000 to $119,300,000. (Id. ¶ 23.) On March 17, 2023, “KeyBank verballyindicated that a change in the offered loan terms would be forthcoming with no indication as to what the changes would consist of, and whether the changes would affect the senior loan or the preferred equity loan.” (Id. ¶ 25.) Then, on March 22, 2023—the scheduled closing date—KeyBank “verbally floated new loan terms” which reduced the total financing package from $96,000,000 to $60,600,000, a $35,400,000 (approximately 37%) reduction in loan proceeds.” (Id. ¶ 26.) “Plaintiffs were nonetheless told that KeyBank would continue to work to provide better terms.” (Id. ¶ 26.) “In the ensuing days, and despite the fact that the proposed acquisition was ‘out of contract,’ Plaintiffs attempted to obtain improved loan terms from KeyBank to no avail. KeyBank ultimately proffered a Promissory Note for a $50,000,000 loan, and verbally discussed providing a Preferred Equity Loan with terms and conditions so onerous that it knew would not be acceptable, which dramatically differed from prior Preferred Equity Loans made over past years.” (Id. ¶ 27.) This left Plaintiffs no reasonable opportunity to obtain financing from another lender.” (Id.) As a result of KeyBank’s “refusal to provide the required financing in the amount set forth in the Terms Sheet, or to negotiate in good faith anything remotely close to that amount,” Plaintiffs could not acquire the Property. (Id. ¶ 28.) Thus, in support of its First Cause of Action, Plaintiffs allege Defendants “expressly and impliedly promised to either provide financing on the terms and conditions set forth in the Term Sheet as well as in discussions, or to negotiate in good faith to provide the same by, among other things: [1] Proffering the extensively detailed Term Sheet after having reviewed the PSA and otherwise being made aware of the specifics of the proposed transaction, including the purchase price and closing date; [2] Requiring, in writing, in the Term Sheet that Plaintiffs work exclusively with KeyBank in obtaining financing for the subject transaction such that Plaintiffs were completely reliant on KeyBank to provide financing, or entirely lose the benefits of the transaction; and [3] Accepting $1,420,000 from Plaintiffs pursuant to the Swap Lock Agreement in order to specifically lock in the interest rate on a $71,000,000 loan scheduled to close by the end of March 2023.” (Id. ¶¶ 32-33.) Plaintiffs allege they “wholly and in good faith reasonably relied upon the promise of KeyBank” to “either provide financing on the terms in the Term Sheet or negotiate in good faith with Plaintiffs to provide Plaintiffs with sufficient financing to timely close the transaction.” (Id. ¶ 33.) By relying on these promises, Plaintiffs had no alternative sources of funding once Defendant refused to provide the requisite financing. (Id. ¶ 35.) “The elements of a promissory estoppel claim are ‘(1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2) reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) [the] reliance must be both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must be injured by his reliance.’ [Citation.]”  (Jones v. Wachovia Bank (2014) 230 Cal. App. 4th 935, 945.) “The purpose of [promissory estoppel] is to make a promise binding, under certain circumstances, without consideration in the usual sense of something bargained for and given in exchange.  If the promisee's performance was requested at the time the promisor made his promise and that performance was bargained for, the doctrine is inapplicable.” (Avidity Partners, LLC v. State of California (2013) 221 Cal. App. 4th 1180, 1209 [italics in original].)  “In other words, where the promisee's reliance was bargained for, the law of consideration applies; and it is only where the reliance was unbargained for that there is room for application of the doctrine of promissory estoppel.”  (Id.)In support of its demurrer, Defendant argues Plaintiffs have not alleged a “clear and unambiguous” promise because Term Sheet expressly stated that no final agreement had been entered. The first paragraph of the Term Sheet, in relevant part, stated that “[t]his proposal is subject to [KeyBank’s] internal underwriting committee approval, due diligence and other conditions.” (Compl., Exh. 1, p. 1.) The last paragraph states, in relevant part, that “[t]his Term Sheet is provided for discussion purposes only and does not constitute a commitment to lend or an agreement to issue a commitment. Its terms are not all inclusive and are subject to Lender’s internal underwriting committee approval, Lender’s due diligence and other conditions, and satisfactory second market conditions. Additions and changes may be made as Lender and its counsel deem necessary, prudent or desirable. No agreement (oral or otherwise) that may bereached during negotiations shall be binding upon the parties unless a commitment letter and final Loan documents have been executed by all parties.” (Id., Exh. 1, p. 11.) Defendant similarly relies on the Swap Lock Agreement, which contained a disclaimer advising Plaintiffs that “an approval for the forementioned Loan has not been issued by [KeyBank] at this time” and “[i]n the event that [KeyBank] issues its approval to finance the Property, this Agreement . . . shall be considered to be part of the approval or close the loan.” (Id., Exh. 2, § B (bold emphasis omitted). Therefore, in light of these “explicit disclaimers,” Defendant also argues Plaintiffs cannot allege reasonable reliance.Here, for pleading purposes, Plaintiffs have adequately alleged both a clear and unambiguous promise and their reasonable reliance on same. Notably, Plaintiffs allege they paid Defendants an $85,000 “Term Sheet Deposit” and a separate Lock-In Deposit of $1.42 million. With these payments, and in light of the parties’ extensive course of dealings, Plaintiffs might have had a reasonable belief that funding was essentially a “done deal”— even with the stock disclaimers in the documents. At the very least, Plaintiffs’ expenditures induced their belief that Defendants would negotiate the deal in good faith. But Plaintiffs allege Defendants failed to do so, instead “pull[ing] the rug out from underneath the transaction by drastically reducing the loan amounts by tens of millions of dollars” at the last minute. (Compl. ¶ 4.) On these allegations, Plaintiffs have stated a claim for promissory estoppel. Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the First Cause of Action is OVERRULED. B. Second Cause of Action for Unjust EnrichmentThe elements of an unjust enrichment claim are the “receipt of a benefit and [the] unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.” (Lectrodryer v. SeoulBank (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 723, 726.) The modern trend appears to take the position that unjust enrichment is a claim for restitution rather than a standalone cause of action.  (See De Havilland v. FX Networks, LLC (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 845.)Plaintiffs allege they paid Defendants “$1,420,000 to lock the swap rate associated with the February 8, 2023 Term Sheet.” (Compl. ¶ 43.) Despite failing to provide financing to Plaintiffs for the purchase of the Property, Defendant “accepted and retained the benefit of Plaintiffs’ $1,420,000 deposit. (Id. ¶ 44.) Plaintiffs allege “it would be unjust and inequitable for Defendants…to retain the benefit of the $1,420,000 Lock-in Deposit.” (Id. ¶ 46.)KeyBank suggests it was not unjustly enriched from the Lock-In Deposit because it still had to pay for “hedging instruments” even though the loan did not close. However, these contentions are outside the Complaint and cannot be considered for purposes of demurrer. (See SKF Farms, supra, 153 Cal. App. 3d at 905.) Therefore, Plaintiffs have stated a claim for unjust enrichment.Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is OVERRULED.C. Third Cause of Action for Negligent MisrepresentationNext, Defendant argues the cause of action for negligent misrepresentation fails for the same reasons as the promissory estoppel cause of action.The elements of an action for negligent misrepresentation are “(1) misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented; (2) ignorance of the truth and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was directed; and (3) resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill Co. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Assocs., Inc. (2004) 115 Cal. App. 4th 1145.) “While there is some conflict in the case law discussing the precise degree of particularity required in the pleading of a claim for negligent misrepresentation, there is a consensus that the causal elements, particularly the allegations of reliance, must be specifically pleaded.”  (Nat'l Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh, PA v. Cambridge Integrated Servs. Grp., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th 35, 50.)Plaintiffs allege that Defendant “represented to Plaintiffs that: 1) KeyBank would provide financing on the terms and conditions set forth in the Term Sheet as well as in discussions; or alternatively 2) KeyBank would negotiate in good faith to provide the same.” (Compl. ¶ 50.) Plaintiffs allege these representations were not true, that Defendant had no reasonable grounds for believing the representations were true when made, that Defendant knew it had not done sufficient diligence to even preliminarily approve the applicable loan amounts, that Defendant intended that Plaintiffs rely on its representation, and that Plaintiffs reasonably relied on Defendant’s misrepresentations. (Id. ¶¶ 51-54.) Here, for the same reasons discussed in the promissory estoppel cause of action, supra, Plaintiff has stated a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation. Plaintiffs have specifically pleaded their reasonable reliance on Defendant’s representations based on the parties’ past dealings, the Term Sheet and Swap Lock Agreement, and Plaintiffs’ deposits toward the funding. Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is OVERRULED.D. Fourth Cause of Action for Interference with ContractFinally, Defendant argues the fourth cause of action fails because Plaintiffs cannot establish that Defendant was the cause of Plaintiffs’ harm.“The elements which a plaintiff must plead to state the cause of action for intentional interference with contractual relations are (1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant's knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.”  (Pac. Gas & Elec. Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal. 3d 1118, 1126.)  The defendant's conduct need not be wrongful apart from the interference with the contract. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 55.)Plaintiffs allege that Defendant was aware of the existing PSA between it and Alysanne. (Compl. ¶ 57.) Defendant was also aware that its failure to provide adequate financing would prevent performance of the PSA. (Id. ¶ 59.) Defendant then offered “insufficient loan terms on the day the transaction was scheduled to close, without any legitimate reason and offering no realistic alternative to avoid the disruption of the contractual relationship.” (Id. ¶ 60.)As to causation, Plaintiffs allege “[b]ut for Defendants’ actions in interfering with and disrupting performance of the PSA, the transaction would have closed.” (Id. ¶ 62.) “[A]s a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ actions which were designed to interfere with performance of the PSA, Plaintiffs have been harmed by the loss of millions of dollars of deposits and the profits which would have been derived from the purchase and ownership of the Property…” (Id. ¶ 63.) Considering these allegations, Plaintiffs have stated a claim for interference with contract. Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   November 22, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.