Here is the summary in YAML format:

```yaml
Case Information:
  Case Number: 24STCP00944
  Hearing Date: August 12, 2024
  Department: 54

Parties:
  Petitioners:
    - Los Angeles Parks Alliance
  Respondents:
    - Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro)
    - Real Parties in Interest:
      - Zero Emissions Transit
      - Los Angeles Aerial Rapid Transit Technologies LLC

Background:
  March 25, 2024: Los Angeles Parks Alliance filed a petition for a writ of mandate against Metro.
  March 26, 2024: The California Endowment filed a similar action.
  June 10, 2024: The Court related the two cases.

Procedural Issues:
  Petitioners' opposition briefs are procedurally improper because they contain 29 footnotes.
  The Court declines to disregard the footnotes.

Lead Agency:
  Metro is the appropriate lead agency for the Project.
  Metro has principal responsibility for carrying out and approving the Project.

Project Description:
  The Project Description is accurate and complete.
  The EIR provides thorough descriptions, including maps and detailed information about the project's location and setting.

Environmental Impacts:
  The EIR adequately analyzes and mitigates the Project's environmental impacts.
  Metro's mitigation measures are enforceable and contain specific performance standards.

Aesthetic Impacts:
  The EIR's aesthetics analysis complies with CEQA requirements.
  The EIR's comprehensive aesthetics analysis, including a visual impact assessment, lighting study, and shade/shadow analysis, satisfies the standards.

Noise and Vibration:
  The EIR fails to adequately analyze and mitigate the Project's noise and vibration impacts.
  Petitioners argue that the EIR's noise and vibration analysis is inadequate and fails to consider cumulative impacts.

Land Use Impacts:
  The EIR adequately analyzes and mitigates the Project's land use impacts on LASHP and El Pueblo de Los Angeles.
  Metro's mitigation measures are enforceable and contain specific performance standards.

Laws and Statutes:
  CEQA (California Environmental Quality Act)
  PUC (Public Utilities Code)
  Guidelines for the Visual Impact Assessment of Highway Projects (FHA Guidelines)
  Public Park Preservation Act

Dates:
  March 25, 2024: Los Angeles Parks Alliance filed a petition for a writ of mandate against Metro.
  March 26, 2024: The California Endowment filed a similar action.
  June 10, 2024: The Court related the two cases.
  February 22, 2024: Metro approved the project.
  February 26, 2024: The CEQA Notice of Determination was filed with the County Clerk and State Clearinghouse.
  August 12, 2024: Hearing Date.

Roles:
  Judge: Maurice A. Leiter
  Petitioners: Los Angeles Parks Alliance, The California Endowment
  Respondents: Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Real Parties in Interest: Zero Emissions Transit, Los Angeles Aerial Rapid Transit Technologies LLC
  Agencies: State Parks, City of Los Angeles

Significant Statements:
  "Metro is the proper lead agency for the Project."
  "The Project Description is accurate and complete."
  "The EIR's aesthetics analysis complies with CEQA requirements."
  "The EIR's environmental impacts analysis is adequate and complies with CEQA requirements."
  "The EIR's mitigation measures are enforceable and contain specific performance standards."
  "The CEQA Notice of Determination was filed with the County Clerk and State Clearinghouse on February 26, 2024."
```

This summary provides a concise overview of the case, including the parties, background, procedural issues, and key findings. It also highlights the laws and statutes relevant to the case, as well as the dates and roles involved.