  Case Number:  23STCV19725    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Sherman Oaks First
  Plaza, LLC,


 


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV19725




 


Plaintiff,


 


 




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Lorena Sanchez
  & Lorena B. Sanchez dba Honor Yoga, et al.,


 
 
 


 


 




 


 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 
Lorena Sanchez, et
  al.,
 


 
 


 


 




Cross-Complainants,


 


 




 
vs.
 


 


 


 




Sherman Oaks First
  Plaza, LLC,
 


 
 


 


 




Cross-Defendant.
 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: August 12,
2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
 
Demurrer to First
Amended Cross-Complaint
 
Moving Parties: 
Cross-Defendant
Sherman Oaks First Plaza, LLC
 
Responding Party: 
Cross-Complainants
Lorena Sanchez and Lorena B. Sanchez
 
T/R:     The demurrer is sustained with leave to
amend.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
If the parties wish to submit
on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the
hearing. 
 
            The Court considers the moving
papers. No opposition or reply was filed.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This is a commercial
lease dispute. Plaintiff Sherman Oaks First Plaza, LLC sued defendants Lorena
Sanchez, Lorena B. Sanchez, and “Lorena Sanchez and Lorena B. Sanchez dba Honor
Yoga” on September 21, 2023, asserting a single cause of action for breach of
contract. Plaintiff alleges Honor Yoga leased a commercial space from it in
October 2019, stopped paying rent in June 2020, and vacated in October 2022
without paying the balance owed. The individual defendants guaranteed Honor
Yoga’s lease.
 
            The individual
defendants, Lorena Sanchez and Lorena B. Sanchez (“Cross-Complainants”),
cross-complained against Plaintiff on December 12, 2023. The Court sustained
Plaintiff’s demurrer to the cross-complaint with leave to amend on March 25,
2024.
 
            On April 18, 2024,
Cross-Complainants filed their first amended cross-complaint (“FAXC”). The FAXC
asserts causes of action for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing and breach of the parties’ written lease. Cross-Complainants allege
Plaintiff did not deliver them the Premises in a condition suitable for its intended
use and/or that Plaintiff knew the City of Los Angeles would not approve
necessary permits for the site’s intended use but failed to disclose that to
Cross-Complainants.
 
            
ANALYSIS
 
A.        Legal
Standard
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole
complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High
Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat as true the complaint's
material factual allegations, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
B.        Discussion
 
            1.
Breach of Contract
 
            The elements of breach of
contract are (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse, (3)
breach, and (4) injury. (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182,
1186.) Cross-Complainants have not pleaded that Plaintiff breached the
contract. 
 
The FAXC refers to paragraphs 2.2, 2.3, 3.3, 7.2, and 13.5
of the parties’ lease, which it incorporates by reference from Plaintiff’s
complaint. Paragraph 13.5 of the lease refers to the interest rate after
default; its relevance to the dispute is unclear. (See Compl., Ex. 1, p. 12.)
Paragraph 3.3 refers to timely delivery of possession (id., at p. 3); Cross-Complainants
also do not appear to allege that provision was violated.
 
Paragraphs 2.2, 2.3, and 7.2 refer to the Lessor’s
obligation to keep the Premises in good repair and compliant with fire
prevention standards. (Compl., Ex. 1, pp. 2, 6.) Paragraph 6(A) of the FAXC alleges
that “[t]he subject premises were in a deplorable state of disrepair and needed
to be built out before cross-complainants would be able to do business, but
cross-defendants failed and refused to honor its commitments under the lease
regarding cleanup, construction, fire prevention and the other obligations on
its part to be performed[.]” (FAXC, ¶ 6(A).) Cross-complainants also allege
Plaintiff “refused to take fire prevention steps required by the City by either
installing a sprinkler system for the entire building or constructing a fire
wall.” (Id., subp. (F).) The remainder of the allegations appear to
relate to Cross-Complainants’ dispute with the City over permits. 
 
Cross-Complainants’ cursory allegations are insufficient to
give Plaintiff notice of the factual basis for Cross-Complainants’ causes of
action. Although a cause of action need only include ultimate facts, more
particularity is required when the body of the complaint does not clearly
articulate a breach. (See e.g. Levy v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co.
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1, 5-8 [plaintiff must “demonstrate a link” between
facts of breach of relevant contract term].) It is unclear how the contract was
breached, particularly because an addendum to the lease appears to rule out the
breaches they allege. (See Compl., Ex. 2 [“Addendum to Lease”].) The addendum,
signed the same day as the Lease, states that the Premises will be delivered
largely in “as-is” condition, that the Lessee will make the premises suited to
its intended use at the Lessee’s sole cost, and that the Lessee has confirmed
with the City that all permits are in order. (Id., ¶¶ 1, 9, 10.) 
 
Cross-Complainants must provide more facts to establish why
Plaintiff’s alleged conduct breached the paragraphs they identify and was not permitted
by the Addendum.
 
2. Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing
 
“ ‘The [implied] covenant
of good faith and fair dealing [is] implied by law in every contract.’
(Citation.) The covenant is read into contracts and functions ‘as a supplement to
the express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging
in conduct which (while not technically transgressing the express covenants)
frustrates the other party's rights to the benefits of the contract.’ (Racine
& Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031–1032.)
 
A claim for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing does not stand without an underlying
breach of contract. (Green Valley Landowners Assn. v. City of Vallejo (2015)
241 Cal.App.4th 425, 433.) And “[i]f allegations do not go beyond the
statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts,
simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion
contract cause of action, they may be disregarded ….” (Ibid.)
            The cross-complaint alleges at most
a breach of contract and failure to disclose certain information. Cross-Complainants
have alleged no act or omission that goes beyond their breach of contract
claim.
 