 Case Number:  24STCP00965    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Los
  Angeles Parks Alliance,


 
 
 
Petitioners,


 
Case Nos.:

 


 
24STCP00944 
24STCP00965




v.


 


 
Tentative
  Ruling

 




Los
  Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority,

 


 
Respondent.

 


 


 




 
The
  California Endowment,
 
v.
 
Los
  Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority,

 


 
 
Petitioner,
 
 
 
Respondent.

 


 


 




 
Zero
  Emissions Transit, Los Angeles Aerial Rapid Transit Technologies LLC.


 
 
 
 
Real
  Parties in Interest.
 

 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Trial
Date: August 12, 2024
Department
54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Petition
for Writ of Mandate
Moving
Parties: Petitioners Los Angeles Parks
Alliance, The California Endowment 
Responding
Parties: Respondent Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Real Parties Zero Emissions Transit and
Los Angeles Aerial Rapid Transit Technologies
 
T/R:     THE PETITIONS FOR WRIT OF MANDATE ARE DENIED.
 
            The Court finds
that the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro) satisfied
the requirements of CEQA in approving the aerial gondola project connecting
Union Station to Dodger Stadium. It analyzed the environmental and aesthetic impacts
of the project on Los Angeles State Historic Park, El Pueblo de Los
Angeles, and the surrounding areas. It properly adopted a plan
to mitigate the environmental issues, and substantial evidence supports its conclusion that
the aesthetic impacts of the project are not significant. It adequately
considered alternatives, including expanding the existing Dodger Express bus
service. 
 
Metro’s
environmental impact report does not need to address the potential development
of the parking lots at Dodger Stadium, because the evidence does not show that
development of the parking lots is imminent or a reasonably foreseeable result
of the gondola project.
 
            PETITIONER LA
PARKS ALLIANCE TO NOTICE.
            The Court
considers the moving papers, oppositions, and replies filed in both
cases.  
BACKGROUND 
  
On March 25, 2024, the Los Angeles Parks
Alliance filed a petition for a writ of mandate against the Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro). On March 26, 2024, the
California Endowment filed a similar action. The Court related the two cases. On
June 10, 2024, the Court ruled that the petitions are subject to the expedited litigation
requirements of Public Resources Code § 21168.6.9 and Rules of Court
3.2220-3.2231.
 
Both petitions allege a single cause of action
for violation of CEQA, the California Environmental Quality Act. They challenge
Metro's approval of the Los Angeles Aerial Rapid Transit Project. The project
aims to construct a 1.2-mile-long aerial gondola system connecting Union
Station to Dodger Stadium, with an intermediate station (200 feet long, 80 feet
wide, and 98 feet tall) at the entrance of the Los Angeles State Historic Park.
Cables strung between the stations will carry the gondolas. Metro asserts that
the project will have zero emissions, ease vehicle congestion, improve air
quality, and will be the first permanent transit link to Dodger Stadium.
 
Petitioners argue that the station’s
construction and the gondola pathways would unlawfully occupy nearly two acres
of the State Historic Park, benefiting a private venture while negatively
affecting the park's scenic views, open spaces, and activities. They also
assert that the project's Environmental Impact Report (EIR) fails to adequately
address significant environmental effects.
 
Metro approved the project on February 22, 2024,
following a public hearing. It certified the Final EIR, adopted a Mitigation
Monitoring and Reporting Program, and issued CEQA Findings and a Statement of
Overriding Considerations. The CEQA Notice of Determination was filed with the
County Clerk and State Clearinghouse on February 26, 2024. 
 
 
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
In an action challenging an agency’s decision under
CEQA, the trial court reviews the agency’s decision for a prejudicial abuse of
discretion. (PRC § 21168.5.) “Abuse of discretion is established if the agency
has not proceeded in a manner required by law or if the determination or decision
is not supported by substantial evidence.” (Ibid.; see also Vineyard
Area Citizens for Responsible Growth, Inc. v. City of Rancho Cordova (2007)
40 Cal.4th 412, 435.) Challenges to an agency’s failure to proceed in a manner
required by CEQA are subject to a less deferential standard than challenges to
an agency’s factual conclusions. (Vineyard, supra, 40 Cal.4th at
435.) In reviewing these claims, the Court must “determine de novo whether the
agency has employed the correct procedures.” (Ibid.; see Dry
Creek Citizens Coalition v. County of Tulare (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 20,
26.) 
In actions challenging an agency’s factual
determinations, substantial evidence is defined as “enough relevant evidence
and reasonable inferences from this information that a fair argument can be
made to support a conclusion, even though other conclusions might also be
reached.” (14 CCR § 15384(a).) “A court may not set aside an agency’s approval
of an EIR on the ground that an opposite conclusion would have been equally or
more reasonable.” (Laurel Heights Improvement Association v. Regents of the
University of California (1988) 47 Cal.3d 376, 393.) “The reviewing court
must resolve reasonable doubts in favor of the administrative finding and
decision.” (Ibid.)
An agency is presumed to have regularly performed
its official duties. (Evid. Code § 664.) The petitioner bears the burden of
proof to demonstrate, by citation to the administrative record, that the EIR is
legally inadequate and that the agency abused its discretion in certifying it.
(See South Orange County Wastewater Authority v. City of Dana Point (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 1604, 1612; Cherry Valley Pass Acres and Neighbors v. City
of Beaumont (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 316, 327-28.)
Petitioners argue that the critical issues before
the Court must be reviewed as a matter of law, with no deference to Metro’s
decisions. They contend that Respondents’ failure to timely and publicly
consult with trustee agencies constitutes a failure to proceed in the manner
required by law, which should be reviewed as a question of law, citing Vineyard
Area Citizens for Responsible Growth, Inc. v. City of Rancho Cordova (2007)
40 Cal.4th 412, 435. They also claim that the non-disclosure of specific noise
impacts, particularly daytime sleep disturbance impacts, is an omission of
information that warrants review under a non-deferential question of law
standard, as established in Sierra Club v. County of Fresno (2018) 6
Cal.5th 502, 515. 
Whether Respondents employed the correct procedures,
such as timely and publicly consulting with the appropriate agencies, is reviewed
de novo. Metro’s EIR analysis, including noise impacts, is a factual
determination determined under the abuse of discretion standard.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
            The Court GRANTS Petitioners’
requests for judicial notice as to Exhibits A, B, C, D, and E pursuant to
Evidence Code section 451(e), and DENIES the request as to Exhibit F.
DISCUSSION
I.            
Procedural Issues 
Petitioners argue that Respondents’ opposition
briefs are procedurally improper because they contain 29 footnotes totaling 133
lines, making the brief overlong. They ask the Court to ignore the footnotes,
citing Roberts v. Lomanto (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1553, 1562, and Alexander
v. Exxon Mobil (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1236, 1260, fn. 10. 
In Roberts, the court disregarded an
assertion made by a party because it was not presented in a formally recognized
section of her legal brief. In Alexander, the court declined to consider
the respondent’s alternative argument which was raised in a footnote. The court
noted that issues discussed only in a footnote do not need to be considered: “(See
Evans v. CenterStone Development Co. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 151, 160, [“We
do not have to consider issues discussed only in a footnote.”]; Roberts v.
Lomanto (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1553, 1562, [assertions raised only in a
footnote may be properly “disregard[ed”]; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.204,
subd. (a)(1)(B).)” (Alexander, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at 1260.) 
            The Court declines to disregard the
footnotes. They do not contain arguments exclusively discussed there and are
not otherwise improper.
II.           
Metro Is the Proper Lead Agency
Petitioners argue that Metro is not the proper lead
agency for the Project, because agencies with general governmental powers, such
as a city, are preferred over those with a single or limited purpose. Petitioners
say that Metro’s approvals are limited to reviewing and approving plans for
design and construction under PUC § 130252, granting an easement for Union
Station, and issuing an encroachment permit for crossing Metro’s A Line. Approvals
from other agencies are required, including from Caltrans for freeway crossing
and from the Department of Parks and Recreation for using LA State Historic
Park. Petitioners argue that Metro's authority to review Project plans is based
on a private agreement, not statutory authority, and that is improper because
entities cannot choose their preferred lead agency. Metro Directors and County
Counsel have acknowledged that Metro’s role is mainly to consider the EIR,
while actual project approval is the responsibility of the City of Los Angeles
and other agencies. Petitioners state that Guidelines § 15051 subdivisions (c)
and (d) do not apply, as Metro and the City do not equally meet the criteria
for lead agency, and the proper lead agency can be determined under subdivision
(b). 
            In opposition, Respondents argue
that Metro is the appropriate lead agency. They point to Guidelines section
15051, stating that the lead agency for a project carried out by a
nongovernmental entity should be the public agency with the greatest
responsibility for supervising or approving the whole project, generally
favoring agencies with broad governmental powers. Respondents assert that Metro
has extensive statutory power to oversee transit development within Los Angeles
County, as evidenced by its comprehensive planning and operational
responsibilities for the regional transportation system. Public Utilities Code §
130252(a) requires Metro to approve all plans for public mass transit systems
or projects.  
Respondents also argue that the City of Los Angeles
does not have Metro’s regional authority and expertise in managing the regional
transit network, making Metro better suited to conduct the necessary
environmental review. They point to Planning & Conservation League v.
Department of Water Resources, (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 892, where the agency
with broader control was deemed the appropriate lead agency. Metro’s role, they
say, is supported by its ownership of Union Station, a critical component of
the project. And they note that the City of Los Angeles actively participated
throughout the process, ensuring that all environmental issues relevant to the
City were addressed. The City’s representatives on Metro’s Board voted to
certify the EIR and approve the project. 
The Court finds that Metro is the appropriate lead
agency for the Project. It has principal responsibility for carrying out and
approving the Project. Unlike Planning and Conservation League, where a
local agency had a more limited role than the Department of Water Resources,
Metro has extensive statutory authority over transit development in Los Angeles
County, including planning and operational responsibilities for the regional
transportation system. Public Utilities Code § 130252(a) requires Metro to
approve all plans for public mass transit systems or projects. Metro has the
regional expertise and authority to manage the regional transit network, making
it better suited to conduct the necessary environmental review. 
Metro’s ownership of Union Station, a critical
component of the project, also supports its role as the lead agency. The City’s
involvement in the process and the substantial evidence provided in the EIR
process ensured that environmental issues relevant to the City were addressed. The
Court also finds that any procedural error in the designation of the lead
agency did not result in actual prejudice, as the City actively participated
throughout the process. 
III.         
The Project Description is Accurate
Petitioners claim that the Project Description is
inaccurate by failing to include foreseeable development, and by providing
incomplete and misleading information about key elements. They argue that the
EIR does not account for the foreseeable development of Dodger Stadium parking
lots following the Project’s approval and construction, overlooking the cumulative
impacts of that development. Petitioners say that Metro’s communications, media
coverage and public comments show that development of the Dodger Stadium lots is
foreseeable. Petitioners also argue that the EIR’s description of LA State
Historic Park (LASHP) minimizes the Project’s adverse impacts on the park by omitting
significant details about the park’s daily use as a public greenspace and its
historical, cultural, and aesthetic values. And Petitioners claim that the Project’s
description of the Chinatown/State Park Station has been inconsistent; it was
described initially as providing transit service adjacent to LASHP, but the
draft EIR later placed the station partially within the park’s boundaries. They
argue that a station in the park has a greater impact than one outside the park,
and CEQA requires a stable project description to ensure accurate public input
and environmental review. 
            In opposition, Respondents argue
that the Project description is complete, consistent, stable, and finite, and
encompasses the “whole of the project.” They contend it includes maps and
information about its location and setting, including LASHP. It explains
LASHP's recreational, historic, cultural, and aesthetic values. It also
includes a complete analysis of potential growth, finding that the Project does
not create opportunities for growth or lead to unplanned development. Respondents
also argue that the change in the description of the Chinatown/State Park
Station from “adjacent to” LASHP in the Notice of Preparation (“NOP”) to
“within” LASHP in the EIR is a clarification, not a discrepancy, and does not
affect the Project’s assessment or public understanding. They contend Metro did
not alter any measures adopted by State Parks for LASHP’s General Plan, and
future actions by State Parks regarding these measures are not before the Court.
Respondents also argue there is no evidence that the gondola project requires
development of the Dodger Stadium parking lots, and they note that development
of the parking lots could happen in the future even without the gondola
project.
In reply, Petitioners acknowledge there is not “great
evidence” of a particular plan for future development of the Dodger Stadium
parking lots but assert that such evidence is not required. (See Laurel
Heights Improvement Association v. Regents of University of California (1988),
47 Cal.3d 376, 397-398 [requiring analysis of reasonably foreseeable indirect
changes resulting from project approval, even without a formal plan].) They
highlight that the gondola project was proposed by a McCourt Global subsidiary,
and another McCourt subsidiary co-owns the Dodger Stadium parking lots, showing
a clear link between the project and potential future development. The
development agreement includes reducing parking spaces, aligning with the
project's goal of freeing up land for other uses by removing vehicles. Petitioners
assert that even without formal proposals, the EIR should have evaluated the
general effects and environmental impacts of such foreseeable developments. 
In Laurel Heights, the court found that the
EIR's analysis of future activity and effects was inadequate under CEQA. (Laurel
Heights, supra, 47 Cal.3d at 435-346.) There, the EIR described the
project as moving a school’s research units to Laurel Heights and using some
but not all the square footage. But it did not address the environmental
impacts of using the remaining square feet when they became available. (Id. at
393.) The court found it was reasonably foreseeable that the entire Laurel
Heights facility would be used by UCSF primarily for biomedical research,
significantly changing the project’s scope and nature. (Id. at 397.) The
Court emphasized that an EIR must include an analysis of the environmental
effects of future expansion or other actions if they are a reasonably
foreseeable consequence of the initial project and will likely change the scope
or nature of the project or its environmental effects. (Id.)
The Court finds that the facts here are
distinguishable from Laurel Heights. There is no substantial evidence that
future development of the Dodger Stadium parking lots is a reasonably
foreseeable consequence of the Los Angeles Aerial Rapid Transit Project. Unlike
in Laurel Heights, where the expansion and future use of the entire
Laurel Heights facility were clearly foreseeable, the evidence here does not
demonstrate that development of the parking lots is imminent or reasonably certain
to follow the gondola project. 
The Court also finds that the Project Description is
accurate; it sufficiently details the scope and nature of the Project. The EIR
provides thorough descriptions, including maps and detailed information about
the project's location and setting. It provides adequate information about LASHP's
recreational, historic, cultural, and aesthetic values. The description of the
Chinatown/State Park Station does not constitute a discrepancy.  
IV.         
The EIR Adequately Analyzes and Mitigates
Project Impacts
Petitioners argue that the EIR fails to adequately
analyze and mitigate the Project’s impacts. They claim Metro has not performed
an analysis of environmental impacts from the potential development of Dodger
Stadium parking lots, including impacts on vehicle miles traveled (“VMT”) and
greenhouse gas emissions (“GHG”). Even if stadium parking lot development were
considered a separate project, Petitioners argue that Metro’s failure to
consider the cumulative impacts violates CEQA. Petitioners also contend that
the EIR inadequately analyzes and mitigates the Project’s impacts because Metro
failed to properly consult with trustee agencies, consider the full scope of
the project, and avoid shifting mitigation responsibilities to the City of Los
Angeles. Petitioners say this failure is apparent with respect to noise and
vibration impacts, which remain significant even after mitigation efforts. And
they contend the EIR does not adequately address or mitigate the significant
impacts on the Los Angeles State Historic Park, El Pueblo de Los Angeles, or
the surrounding area’s aesthetics. 
As discussed above, the Court finds that the EIR
need not include an analysis of environmental impacts of the potential development
of Dodger Stadium parking lots. The Court turns to Petitioners’ other
arguments.
 
 
a.    Land
Use Impacts and Mitigation 
Petitioners argue that the EIR does not address the Project’s
land use impacts on LASHP and El Pueblo de Los Angeles. They say that ignoring
these land use issues means no effort has been made to mitigate their impact. 
Petitioners point out that State Parks is
responsible for LASHP, which as a state historic park must be conserved for
future generations, allowing only facilities necessary for visitor safety,
comfort, and enjoyment. The Project would permanently take approximately 0.21
acres for the transit station and restrict up to 1.87 acres of the 32-acre park
due to the overhead cable ropeway. Petitioners say there is no basis for State
Parks to authorize the Project’s construction or use within the park because
reasonable access to Dodger Stadium exists outside the park, and transit access
already is provided by local bus lines and nearby Metro rail. Petitioners also point
to the Public Park Preservation Act, which requires compensation or substitute land
if park land is used for public transit purposes. 
Petitioners assert that whether a project has
significant land use conflicts is a mandatory CEQA analysis category. They also
argue that state law does not permit the Project to be constructed within
LASHP, and deferring consideration of these land use conflicts is an abuse of
discretion and an informational failure. (Californians for Alternatives to Toxics
v. Dept. of Food & Agriculture (2005) 136 Cal.App.4th 1, 15-16.) And
they contend the same state law limitations apply to El Pueblo de Los Angeles, requiring
consideration of land use conflicts and feasible mitigations.
            In opposition, Respondents argue
that the challenge to State Parks’ authority is premature until State Parks
approves the Project and an amendment to the LASHP General Plan. Respondents
say that Metro did not improperly defer mitigation since CEQA allows agencies
to defer the specifics of how mitigation will be achieved if they commit to
mitigation, adopt performance standards, and identify feasible actions to
achieve those standards. (North Coast Rivers Alliance v. Marin Mun. Water
Dist. Bd. of Directors (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 614, 630; Guidelines §
15126.4(a)(1)(B).) In Rialto Citizens for Responsible Growth v. City of
Rialto (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 899, 943-947, the court upheld mitigation
measures that required future biological surveys and, if species were detected,
consultation with wildlife agencies to determine the necessary mitigation
steps. The court found that the requirement for agency consultation, adherence
to officially approved protocols, and other specified steps provided substantial
evidence that impacts would be minimized to less-than-significant levels. (Id.)

Respondents say that Metro’s mitigation measures,
which involve future preparation and enforcement by other agencies, are
enforceable and contain specific performance standards. For example, MM-TRA-B
requires that a Construction Traffic Management Plan be reviewed and approved
by the City, and MM-CUL-D mandates an archaeological testing plan with detailed
requirements for excavation and data recovery. 
Respondents also argue that the State Parks land use
mitigation measure (MM-LUP-A) complies with CEQA. They state that the EIR found
the Project to be consistent with the LASHP General Plan, and any perceived
planning inconsistencies do not equate to significant environmental impacts.
The General Plan amendment required by MM-LUP-A is a procedural step and does
not directly or indirectly affect the environment. And Respondents claim that
all mitigation measures are enforceable. CEQA permits mitigation measures
requiring compliance before later approvals, and Metro has legally bound itself
to implement them. Respondents point out that Metro retains general Project
approval authority, and responsible agencies like the City of Los Angeles can
monitor and enforce mitigation measures and design features. If a responsible
agency fails to enforce a mitigation measure in the future, legal action can be
taken at that time. Finally, Respondents argue that the EIR adequately
describes mitigation financing. The EIR identifies potential funding streams,
and the absence of identified sponsors does not undermine the validity of the
mitigation measures.
In reply, Petitioners argue that the EIR’s land use
analysis improperly defers consideration of significant conflicts. The land use
mitigation measure, MM-LUP-A, aims to modify the General Plan to permit transit
uses, but does not address conflicts with specific conditions of the General
Plan’s EIR or State Parks’ legal duties. Petitioners state that these conflicts
have not been analyzed and are deferred to State Parks for later review. Additionally,
Petitioners argue that Rialto Citizens for Responsible Growth v. City of
Rialto is inapplicable because that case involved a specific formal
consultation process under the Federal Endangered Species Act, while
enforcement of Metro’s mitigation measures is unclear. And Petitioners argue
that shifting responsibility for enforcing mitigation measures to the community
or TCE is inappropriate. 
The Court finds that there is substantial evidence
to show that the EIR adequately analyzes and mitigates the Project’s land use
impacts on LASHP and El Pueblo de Los Angeles. Metro did not improperly defer
mitigation. Respondents provide specific examples of mitigation measures such
as MM-TRA-B for traffic management and MM-CUL-D for archaeological testing. These
measures are enforceable and contain specific performance standards. CEQA
permits mitigation measures requiring compliance before later approvals, and
Metro has legally bound itself to implement them. Metro retains general Project
approval authority, and responsible agencies including the City of Los Angeles
can monitor and enforce mitigation measures and design features. Concerns about
future enforcement failures are hypothetical and not ripe for review; legal
action can be taken if a responsible agency fails to enforce a mitigation
measure. And substantial evidence supports the conclusion that the Project and
its mitigation measures will be funded. The EIR identifies potential funding
streams, and the absence of identified sponsors does not undermine the validity
of the mitigation measures. 
 
 
b.    Aesthetic
Impacts
Petitioners argue that the EIR inadequately analyzes
the Project’s aesthetic impacts. They claim that Metro’s use of the CEQA
Guidelines and the LA CEQA Thresholds Guide, along with the methodology from
the 2015 Federal Highway Administration’s Guidelines for the Visual Impact
Assessment of Highway Projects (FHA Guidelines), is flawed. They point out that
CEQA does not protect an agency from analyzing impacts beyond the state
checklist’s scope, under Yerba Buena Neighborhood Consortium, LLC v. Regents
of University of California (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 779, 803, and Protect
the Historic Amador Waterways v. Amador Water Agency (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
1099, 1109. Petitioners contend that the Draft EIR minimizes impacts on Union
Station, El Pueblo, and LASHP by using misleading depictions from “key
observation points” (KOP). They argue that the image angles often obscure views
of Union Station and El Pueblo, and station depictions are from such great
distances that they do not accurately represent the Project’s visual impact.
The say the constant movement of gondola cabins, not adequately depicted in
still photos, may be a significant visual distraction. 
In opposition, Respondents argue that the EIR’s
aesthetics analysis comply with CEQA, and that substantial evidence supports
the conclusion that the Project’s aesthetic impacts are less than significant.
The EIR’s comprehensive aesthetics analysis includes a visual impact
assessment, lighting study, and shade/shadow analysis, along with additional
viewpoints provided in response to comments. The KOPs are photographs of
current conditions with a 3D digital model accurately placing the Project in
context. The Draft EIR evaluated 30 KOPs, including nine from LASHP, and the
Final EIR added seven more viewpoints as requested. These KOPs were prepared by
an expert using the Federal Highway Administration's standard methodology. The
EIR fully analyzes viewshed impacts, finding the Project would not block any
designated scenic vistas or panoramic views. (There are no designated scenic
vistas in the Project area, including LASHP.) Local scenic views, like those of
the San Gabriel and San Bernardino mountains, would not be significantly
impacted. Most views of Downtown Los Angeles from the park would remain unimpeded,
and any partial interruptions are caused by existing buildings and landscaping.
The Project’s cables are like existing powerlines, and the moving cabins would
not significantly impact park views of the Downtown skyline.   
The Court finds that there is substantial evidence that
Metro’s aesthetics analysis complied with CEQA requirements. The EIR’s
comprehensive aesthetics analysis, including a visual impact assessment,
lighting study, and shade/shadow analysis, satisfies the standards. Petitioners’
criticisms of the EIR’s methodology and conclusions do not demonstrate a
deficiency. While Petitioners argue that visual preference workshops should
have been conducted, the FHA Guidelines apply to NEPA review, not CEQA, and suggest
only that such workshops may be conducted. Metro engaged the public on visual
aspects and analyzed all KOPs requested, fulfilling the requirement for public
involvement.
c.    Noise
and Vibration; Mitigation
Petitioners argue that the EIR fails to adequately
analyze and mitigate the Project’s noise and vibration impacts. Petitioners
state that the Project will significantly impact noise levels at various
sensitive sites, including residences, institutions, schools, a day care
center, and the LASHP and El Pueblo. They claim that vibration impacts could
cause physical damage to historic structures such as the Avila Adobe, El Grito
Mural, and Old Winery. For example, construction noise at the Mozaic apartments
will reach 91.8 dBA, far exceeding the acceptable levels for residential areas
and posing serious health risks, especially to vulnerable populations. Petitioners
argue that Metro’s reliance on occupational noise standards to justify exposure
levels at residential sites is inappropriate since these standards are designed
to protect healthy working-age adults and not sensitive residential populations
exposed for longer durations. The EIR suggests that residents can mitigate
noise exposure by keeping windows shut or avoiding outdoor areas, effectively
shifting the mitigation responsibility to the affected individuals. And Petitioners
argue that the EIR does not adequately correlate noise exceedances with
potential human health impacts, such as impaired hearing, high blood pressure,
and sleep disturbance, instead labeling them under the broad term “human annoyance.”

Petitioners also argue that Metro failed to mitigate
noise impacts to human health adequately. The primary mitigation measure in the
EIR is the use of sound barriers, along with maintenance of equipment, use of
electric equipment, and positioning noisy equipment away from sensitive
receptors. Petitioners argue that sound barriers, ranging in height from eight
to 24 feet, are limited in effectiveness, blocking only 5 to 10 decibels of noise,
and failing to reduce noise for upper stories of buildings. No barrier
effectively reduces noise impact to less than significant levels at sensitive
receptor sites, including residential areas and institutions like Mozaic
apartments, First Five LA, TCE, and for LASHP users. Petitioners also say that
the mitigation of noise pollution is impermissibly deferred, and the feasibility
of the mitigation measures is not substantiated due to unclear project
financing. 
In opposition, Respondents argue that substantial
evidence supports the EIR noise and vibration analysis, which thoroughly
evaluated both construction and operational impacts. For construction noise,
Metro measured existing noise levels at 22 locations along the project route
and estimated noise for each construction phase, comparing it to existing
levels. The analysis, using thresholds from the LA CEQA Thresholds Guide and
the FTA, found significant daytime noise impacts. Metro adopted robust
mitigation measures, including 24-foot noise barriers, reducing noise by 5-15
dBA, effectively addressing noise at sensitive receptors such as a daycare
center. Operational noise was also assessed and found to have no significant
impact during day or night, even under worst-case scenarios. Regarding
vibration, the EIR analyzed construction vibration impacts in terms of human
annoyance and potential building damage. With mitigation measures, no building
damage was expected, though human annoyance remained significant at 15
sensitive receptors. Operational vibration impacts were deemed insignificant.
The EIR addressed potential health impacts from noise and vibration, concluding
that construction vibration would not cause health issues. The EIR found no
significant impacts related to hearing loss or sleep disturbance. Construction
noise levels were within OSHA and Cal/OSHA limits, and operational noise levels
were below thresholds set by EPA guidelines for sleep. Respondents say Metro
adopted all feasible mitigation measures, including a Construction Noise
Management Plan (CNMP) and noise barriers. Additional suggested measures, such
as planting trees and retrofitting buildings, were deemed infeasible or
unnecessary due to existing noise reduction measures and the temporary nature
of construction noise.
The Court finds that the EIR adequately analyzed and
mitigates the Project’s noise and vibration impacts, complying with CEQA
requirements. The EIR follows the required methodology and provides a
comprehensive analysis of noise and vibration impacts. Metro’s use of sound
barriers, equipment maintenance, and strategic placement of noisy equipment are
reasonable measures to mitigate noise impacts. The CNMP and other mitigation
plans, though requiring further development post-approval, include specific
performance standards ensuring they are effective and enforceable. As discussed
above, the Court also finds that the mitigation measures are not impermissibly
deferred.
V.          
Metro Notified Trustee Agencies
Petitioners argue that Metro failed to consult all
necessary state trustee and responsible agencies before preparing the EIR,
violating CEQA requirements under Public Resources Code §§ 21080.3 and 21080.4.
They say Metro did not notify the Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy (SMMC)
about the project or provide them with a Notice of Preparation for the EIR,
despite the project being within the Conservancy’s jurisdiction. Petitioners
argue this oversight is significant given the potential impacts on the Rim of
the Valley Trail Corridor, including El Pueblo, making the lack of consultation
presumptively prejudicial. Additionally, Metro did not consult the State
Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO), despite the presence of historically
significant sites in the project area, such as the Los Angeles State Historic
Park, El Pueblo, Avila Adobe, and others. The SHPO was not included in the
initial mailing list for the Notice of Preparation of the Draft EIR or among
the consulted responsible agencies. Petitioners argue that the lack of early
consultation with SHPO prevented meaningful discussion and mitigation of
significant impacts, such as vibration effects on historical structures.
In opposition, Respondents argue that Metro
consulted all required agencies, including the SHPO and the Santa Monica
Mountains Conservancy, and provided them with notices, though neither agency
participated in the EIR process or raised concerns. Respondents state that the SHPO’s
advisory role does not make it a responsible agency, and its lack of comments
indicates no significant concerns. The Mountains Conservancy, a trustee agency
for the Santa Monica Mountains Zone, also did not express interest or concerns
despite being notified about the EIR. Respondents also say that Metro’s
notifications and the agencies’ non-participation contrast with cases where
failure to notify resulted in prejudicial errors. 
The Court agrees with Respondents that Metro
adequately notified the necessary trustee agencies, including the SMMC and the
SHPO. The circumstances here differ from Fall River Wild Trout Foundation v.
County of Shasta (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 482 and Rural Landowners
Association v. City Council (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 1013. In Fall River,
the court found that the county prejudicially abused its discretion by failing
to notify the Department of Fish and Game, a trustee agency, about its intent
to adopt a mitigated negative declaration for a river development project. (Fall
River, supra, 70 Cal.App.4th at 487, 490, 493.) The court
noted that failure to give notice is not always prejudicial, particularly if an
agency receives notice, has an opportunity to comment, and chooses not to. (Id.
at 492.) Here, the Mountains Conservancy was notified of the Draft and
Final EIR publications but did not provide any comments, indicating no
controversy. Similarly, in Rural Landowners, the court found prejudicial
error because the lead agency did not submit a draft EIR to the State
Clearinghouse until after project approval. (Rural Landowners, supra,
143 Cal.App.3d at 1021.) In contrast, Metro notified the State
Clearinghouse and SHPO at various stages of the process and informed the
Mountains Conservancy of both the Draft and Final EIR’s publication. The Court
finds that these notifications and the absence of comments from these agencies
demonstrate that Metro fulfilled its obligations under CEQA.
VI.         
Feasible Project Alternatives Were Not
Constrained by Project Objectives
Petitioners argue that Metro improperly rejected
feasible alternatives and mitigation measures for the Project. They assert that
the EIR defined project objectives so narrowly that only the proposed Project
could meet them, limiting the consideration of viable alternatives. The EIR’s
focus on providing a unique airborne transport experience and scenic views
prevented a fair evaluation of other feasible options. One such option they
identify is the Transportation Systems Management (“TSM”) alternative, which would
expand the existing Dodger Express bus service. Petitioners state that this
alternative could meet many project objectives without significant
environmental impacts, avoiding construction noise, vibration, and the use of
land planned for affordable housing. It would fulfill transportation needs and
reduce impacts on sensitive receptors. Metro dismissed the TSM alternative as
infeasible due to operational challenges, like the need for additional loading
facilities at Dodger Stadium. Petitioners argue these challenges do not make
the alternative impractical. 
In opposition, Respondents argue that the TSM alternative
was studied but found infeasible due to significant economic, land use, and
social costs. The EIR identified 13 project objectives, such as expanding
mobility options, attracting new riders, and reducing vehicles. The inclusion
of the TSM alternative shows that a reasonable range of alternatives was
considered. Metro’s findings explain that the TSM alternative is undesirable
and infeasible because it would require 77 bus trips per hour, redesigning
facilities, increasing pedestrian collision risks, and causing congestion. It
also would fail to deliver the same public benefits as the Project, including
longer travel times and higher VMT. Metro concluded the Project would provide
the quickest, most frequent, and highest capacity transit connection to Dodger
Stadium.
The Court finds that Metro’s analysis of the Project’s
alternatives, including the TSM alternative, was thorough and complied with
CEQA requirements. The EIR’s identification of project objectives was not
overly narrow and allowed for a reasonable range of alternatives to be
considered. The inclusion and subsequent dismissal of the TSM alternative were
based on substantial evidence showing its infeasibility due to significant
operational challenges, economic costs, and social impacts. Metro provided a
comprehensive evaluation of the TSM Alternative and reasonably concluded it
would not meet the project objectives as effectively as the proposed Project. 