  Case Number:  23STCV12007    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Specially Appearing Stylenquaza LLC’s Motion to
Quash Service of Summons for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction. Defendant
Caesarstone LTD.’s Motion for Order Allowing Lydecker to Withdraw its Notice of
Appearance.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs JAIME BLANCO MACIEL and HELEN ORTIZ-BLANCO
(“Plaintiffs”) filed suit against over 50 defendants for injuries sustained by
Plaintiff JAIME BLANCO MACIEL by inhaling dust from working with defendants’
products containing crystalline silica. 
Specially-Appearing Defendant STYLENQUAZA LLC (“Defendant
LLC”) moves to quash service of the Summons and Complaint based on lack of
personal jurisdiction. Plaintiffs oppose the motion. The Court previously
continued Defendant LLC’s motion to quash so that Plaintiffs could take the
deposition of Defendant LLC’s person most qualified. Defendant LLC and
Plaintiff then filed supplemental briefs.
Defendant CAESARSTONE LTD (“Defendant LTD”) moves to
withdraw counsel’s appearance based on the lack of client authority.  Plaintiffs oppose this motion. 
The Court considers both motions in this tentative
ruling. 
I.                  
MOTION TO QUASH
 LEGAL
STANDARD
When a defendant files a motion to quash for lack of
personal jurisdiction, “the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to
establish the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.”  Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007)
148 Cal. App. 4th 556, 568. A plaintiff must demonstrate personal
jurisdiction based upon competent evidence, and not on allegations in an
unverified complaint.  Jewish Defense
Org. v. Sup. Ct. (1999) 72 Cal. App. 4th 1045, 1054-1055.  Personal jurisdiction may be general or
specific. Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal. 4th
434, 445. 
General jurisdiction exists when the defendant has “substantial,
continuous, and systematic contacts with California.” DVI, Inc. v. Superior
Ct. (2002) 104 Cal. App. 4th 1080, 1099. 
Specific jurisdiction exists when a defendant’s
“minimum contacts” with the state shows that the defendant purposefully
directed its acts to the state, “that the cause of action [is] related to or
arise or result from the acts or contacts in the forum, and that the exercise
of personal jurisdiction by the forum would be reasonable.” Muckle v.
Superior Ct. (2002) 102 Cal. App. 4th 218, 227–28. 
EVIDENTIARY RULINGS
The Court sustains Defendant LLC’s objections to the
following paragraphs of the Declaration of Ralphael Metzger: 8, 16, 18, 20-21.
The remaining objections are overruled. 
 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiffs do not contend that the Court has general
jurisdiction over Defendant LLC. The Court thus confines its discussion to
specific jurisdiction. To establish the “minimum contacts” necessary to create specific
jurisdiction, Plaintiffs must establish that Defendant LLC purposefully directed
its acts to California and these acts create a “substantial connection” with
the state. Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 284.
Plaintiffs contend that they have satisfied the
minimum contacts requirement for specific jurisdiction based on (1) Defendant
LLC’s admission of distributing prefabricated tops and 22 stone slabs to
California; (2) a website; (3) three distribution agreements and a Vicostone
JSC annual report. 
Products Shipped to California
Defendant LLC is a Texas corporation with its principal
place of business in Dallas, Texas. Nguyen Decl. ¶ 3. No owners of Defendant
LLC reside in California. Id. ¶ 4. Defendant LLC does business under the
name “Vicostone USA.” Id. ¶ 3. Between 2018 and 2022, Defendant LLC
distributed prefabricated tops to California which did not need any further
fabrication and supplied six shipments to California of stone slabs. Id.
¶ 8. Plaintiffs claim the prefabricated tops needed further polishing that creates
silica dust but they have no admissible evidence to support this contention. Defendant
LLC asserts that the slabs it sent to California amount to 0.001% of the
product it has ever distributed. Nguyen Decl. ¶ 8. Plaintiffs have no other evidence
(even after deposing Defendant LLC’s PMK) of Defendant LLC’s sales of products
in California. Defendant LLC’s sales of slabs to Pental are not relevant to the
jurisdiction analysis because knowledge that a product might enter the forum state
does not, taken alone, show purposeful availment. Bombardier Recreational
Prods v. Dow Chemical Canda ULC (2013) 216 Cal. App. 4th 591, 602. In any
event, Defendant LLC ultimately learned that only 11 of the slabs ended up in
California. Teresi Decl. ISO Reply, Exh. 5 at No. 4.
Defendant LLC’s extremely limited and minimal contact
with California through the distribution of prefabricated tops and slabs does
not warrant a finding of specific jurisdiction. See, e.g., Burger King Corp.
v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 475 (defendant cannot “be haled into a jurisdiction
solely as a result of ‘random,’ ‘fortuitous,’ or ‘attenuated’ contacts”). 
Website
Plaintiffs contend that Defendant LLC operates a
website that directs prospective customers in California to dealers in
California where customers can purchase Defendant LLC’s product. Plaintiffs contend
that Defendant LLC therefore has directed sales of its product to California. 
The evidence does not support Plaintiffs’ contention. The
evidence shows that Vicostone JSC owns and operated the website. Teresi Decl.
ISO Suppl. Reply, Exh. 9 at 77:5-8, 78:17-21, 93:25-94:9. Defendant LLC is a
distributor to several states (not California) for Vicostone JCS. Nguyen Decl.
¶ 5. Whether or not Vicostone JSC-a separate legal entity from Defendant LLC-
operates a website directed to customers in California is immaterial to
determining Defendant LLC’s minimum contacts with California. Sonora Diamond
Corp. v. Superior Ct. (2000) 83 Cal. App. 4th 523, 538 (“[o]rdinarily, a
corporation is regarded as a legal entity, separate and distinct from its stockholders,
officers and directors, with separate and distinct liabilities and obligations”).
The cases relied upon by Plaintiffs concern an entity’s purposeful conduct through
a website maintained by that entity. Neogen Corp. v. Neo Gen Screening Inc.
(6th Cir. 2002) 282 F.3d 883; Snowney v. Harrah’s Entm’t, Inc. (2005) 35
Cal. 4th 1054. That is not the case here and so the holdings in those cases are
inapposite.
Distribution Agreements and Annual Report
Plaintiffs contend that three distribution contracts
between Defendant LLC and Vicostone JSC and Vicostone JSC’s annual report establish
that Defendant LLC is the direct distributor of Vicostone products in North
America. Plaintiffs therefore surmise that as “an affiliate and related entity
of Vicostone,” Defendant LLC has purposefully availed its acts to California by
way of “brand promotion, vendor identification on its website, and distribution
through its warehouses.” Suppl. Opp. at 13:6-8. Plaintiffs also rely on the
fact that the annual report does not mention Pental or any other supplier of Vicostone
JSC’s products on the west coast to conclude that the sales and marketing of Vicostone
JSC’s products in California must be attributed to Defendant LLC.
The evidence does not, however, show that the documents
mention California, let alone prove Defendant LLC’s purposeful activities
towards California. The evidence shows that pursuant to a distribution agreement
with Vicostone JSC, Defendant LLC distributes products in certain territories
that do not include California. Nguyen Decl. ¶ 5. The deposition of Defendant
LLC’s PMK confirmed that Defendant LLC’s distribution area does not include California.
Teresi Decl. ISO Supp. Reply, Exh. 9 at 36:3-19, 79:19-80:9, 91:18-92:9. Thus,
Plaintiffs’ conclusion that Defendant LLC must market and sell products in
California is wholly speculative unsupported by evidence. 
Plaintiffs therefore have not met their burden of
proof of establishing that Defendant LLC has minimum contacts with California that
create a substantial connection with the state. Because Plaintiffs failed to establish
the first requirement for specific jurisdiction, the Court need not address
whether Plaintiffs’ claim are related to or arise out of Defendant LLC’s contacts
and whether the exercise of jurisdiction would be fair and reasonable. 
II.               
MOTION TO WITHDRAW APPEARANCE
The Court’s independent research reveals that indeed there
are directly applicable opinions specifically supporting withdrawal of
appearances, including where counsel has lacked client authority to make an
appearance. 
For instance: “[A] defendant for whom a general
appearance has been entered by unauthorized counsel may withdraw from the
action upon a sufficient factual showing to overcome the rebuttable presumption
that an attorney has authority to appear for the person for whom he professes
to act.” Omega Video Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 470,
476.
Generally, an attorney’s unauthorized disposition of
parties’ substantive rights can be either voidable or void. W. Bradley
Electric, Inc. v. Mitchell Engineering (2024) 100 Cal.App.5th 1, 15.
Attorney acts affecting substantive rights, like settlements, are void, absent
express client consent. Romadka v. Hoge (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 1231,
1236-1237. For example, an attorney cannot settle a case without express client
authority. Blanton v. Womancare, Inc. (1985) 38 Cal. 396, 404. 
Further, cases indicate that there may be a
due-process violation by setting a preferential trial so early that defendants
are deprived of a reasonable opportunity for discovery or pretrial
preparation.  E.g., Roe v. Superior
Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 642, 643. 

Defendant LTD. requests an order allowing counsel’s
withdrawal of an appearance, on grounds including that it mistakenly had thought
that Defendant LTD was a client that authorized counsel’s appearance.
Plaintiffs argue that Code of Civil Procedure Section 473 is inapposite and
Defendant has not satisfied its requirements, such as the failures to include
an answer or a motion to quash service. Further, Plaintiffs claim prejudice
based on predictable delay of trial in this case entitled to trial preference.
Based upon Defendant LTD’s evidence, the Court finds
that counsel purported to appear for a non-client as to which it was not
authorized to appear. This constitutes solid legal grounds to allow Defendant
LLC to withdraw the appearance and to allow it a reasonable time to prepare for
a preferential trial.
CONCLUSION
The Court grants the motion to quash. The Court grants
the motion to withdraw appearance.
 
 