 Case Number:  24STCP02039    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOSEPH GATT, 
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
 
LOS ANGELES COUNTY, et al.,
 
                        Respondents.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCP02039
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING APPLICATION FOR
  ADMISSION PRO HAC VICE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
August 6, 2024



 
Constantine
Z. Pamphilis seeks to be admitted pro hac vice to represent Petitioner Joseph Gatt
in this action.
An
attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction who is not be a resident of California,
regularly employed in California, or regularly engaged in substantial business,
professional, or other activities in California may apply to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in California.  (California Rules
of Court, rule 9.40(a).)  The attorney must
a verified application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the State
Bar of California at its San Francisco office. 
(California Rules of Court, rule 9.40(c).)  The applicant must also pay a $50.00 fee to the
State Bar of California.  (California Rules
of Court, rule 9.40(e).)
The
application must state (1) the applicant’s residence and office addresses; (2) the
courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3) that the applicant is a member in good standing in those courts; (4) that the
applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of
each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone
number of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record
in the local action.  (California Rules of
Court, rule 9.40(d).)
The
$500.00 application fee has been paid.  (Gov.
Code, § 70617, subd. (e)(1).)  However, counsel’s
application does not include his residence address as required.  Counsel also has applied for, been admitted, and
appeared pro hac vice in six other California actions within the past two years.  Accordingly, without additional information
about how significant the California actions are and the extent of counsel’s
practice, at this time the Court cannot find that counsel is not regularly engaged
in substantial business, professional, or other activities in California.
The
application for admission pro hac vice is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 6th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 