 Case Number:  22STCV13627    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



COHAUS LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CHARLES WESTPHAL, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV13627
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION
  FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
August 6, 2024



 
On April 25, 2022, Cohaus LLC filed this action against
Charles Westphal, Hamilton Von Watts, and others.
On April 15, 2024, Defendants filed a
motion for summary adjudication.

BACKGROUND
FACTS
Defendants
are the managers of Family Living Avenue 53 LL, Family Living Vineyard Avenue LLC,
and Family Living Berryman Avenue LLC (collectively, “Family Living”).  (Undisputed Material Fact “UMF” 1.)  When the parties entered into the relevant agreement,
David Chun, Lindon Shiao, Scott Min, and Cynthia Li were members of Plaintiff Cohaus
LLC.  (UMF 2.)
In
October 2019, the parties executed a Collaboration Agreement, which does not explicitly
define its parties.  (UMF 3, 5.)  The Collaboration Agreement contains Defendants’
signatures.  (UMF 4; see Response to UMF 4.)
LEGAL
STANDARD
For
each claim in the complaint, the defendant moving for adjudication must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by showing that one or more elements of a cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense to a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520 (Scalf).)  Then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf,
supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1520.)  To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.”  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151, 162-163.)
DISCUSSION
Defendants
move for summary adjudication of the first (breach of contract), fourth (quantum
meruit), fifth (accounting), and seventh (declaratory relief) causes of action.  The motion is based on “a straightforward issue:
do they owe contractual [or] other duties to Cohaus in light of the undisputed fact
that they are not parties to any contract with Cohaus, were provided no services
by Cohaus, and do not have any relationship with Cohaus that could give rise to
an obligation to account to it.”  (Motion
at p. 9.)
Defendants
argue that they are not parties to the Collaboration Agreement.  (Motion at p. 17.)  This is not as clear as Defendants contend.  The Collaboration Agreement memorandum is directed
at Defendants by their first names.  (Roth
Decl., Ex. 3.)  It refers to things that “the
parties” will do, without explicitly defining the parties.  (See UMF 5.) 
The signature block lists Defendants’ names under “Family Living Avenue 53
LLC” and other individuals under “COHAUS LLC,” but the signatures are not clearly
labeled as being on behalf of the entities.
Defendants
also argue that the parties’ conduct was consistent with the view that Defendants
were not parties to the contract, and “the efforts by Cohaus to further formalize
the parties’ agreement assumed that any such agreements would be between Family
Living and Cohaus, not Mr. von Watts nor Mr. Westphal.”  (Motion at pp. 17-18.)  The individual supporting facts were not included
in Defendants’ Separate Statement.  Instead,
the Separate Statement contained many arguments and conclusions, not facts.  (See also Opposition at pp. 10-11.)  “[T]rial courts have the inherent power to strike
proposed ‘undisputed facts’ that fail to comply with the statutory requirements
and that are formulated so as to impede rather than aid an orderly determination
whether the case presents triable material issues of fact.  If such an order leaves the required separate
statement insufficient to support the motion, the court is justified in denying
the motion on that basis.”  (Reeves v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 95, 106.)
Moreover,
the Complaint also alleges that there are other oral and written expressions of
portions of the agreement, and those expressions along with the Collaboration Agreement
constitute the “Agreement” at issue.  (Complaint
¶ 10.)  Defendants’ motion relies only on
the written Collaboration Agreement to argue that Defendants did not take on any
obligations and were not granted any rights. 
(See Motion at p. 18; UMF 6.)  Notably,
there are no declarations from Defendants themselves to explain any personal understanding
or state of mind.  Defendants do not acknowledge
any of Plaintiff’s other alleged oral and written portions of the combined agreement.
Defendants
have not met their initial burden of showing that they owe no obligations to Plaintiff.  There are triable issues of fact as to who
the parties are to each of the agreements. 
There are also triable issues of fact as to what agreements were reached
given that none of the agreements were integrated.
CONCLUSION
The
motion for summary adjudication is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 6th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 