 Case Number:  23STCV19023    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ELIZABETH ROSALES, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
THE CHEESECAKE FACTORY RESTAURANTS, INC.,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV19023
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING MOTION TO COMPEL
  ARBITRATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
August 6, 2024



 
On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff Elizabeth Rosales filed this
action against Defendants The Cheesecake Factory Restaurants Inc., The Cheesecake
Factory Incorporated, The Cheesecake Factory LLC, and Michelle Javier.
The Complaint alleges (1) failure to provide
meals breaks; (2) failure to provide rest breaks; (3) failure to pay wages; (4)
failure to pay overtime; (5) failure to provide accurate itemized wage statements;
(6) violation of California’s Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”); (7) pregnancy discrimination
in violation of in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”); (8)
sex/gender discrimination in violation of FEHA; (9) failure to prevent discrimination
and harassment in violation of FEHA; (10) failure to provide reasonable accommodation
in violation of FEHA; (11) failure to engage in the interactive process in violation
of FEHA; (12) wrongful termination in violation of public policy and FEHA; (13)
intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”); (14) violation of California’s
Pregnancy Disability Leave law; (15) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (16) battery;
(17) assault; (18) sexual harassment in violation of FEHA; (19) hostile work environment
in violation of FEHA; (20) whistleblower retaliation in violation of the Labor Code,
and (21) negligent infliction of emotional distress (“NIED”).
On January 3, 2024, The Cheesecake Factory
Restaurants Inc. and The Cheesecake Factory Incorporated filed a motion to compel
arbitration.  On January 4, 2024, Michelle
Javier filed a Notice of Joinder.

DISCUSSION
When seeking to compel arbitration
of a plaintiff’s claims, the defendant must allege the existence of an agreement
to arbitrate.  (Condee v. Longwood Management
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) 
The burden then shifts to the plaintiff to prove the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.)  After the Court determines that an agreement to
arbitrate exists, it then considers objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.)
There is a preliminary dispute
about whether the signature on the Arbitration Agreement is in fact Plaintiff’s
signature.  Plaintiff contends that she never
signed the agreement and does not recognize it. 
Specifically, Plaintiff declares, “I do not recognize the arbitration agreement
presented by Defendants . . . I have never signed the arbitration agreement presented
by Defendants.  The signature presented on
page 6 of Exhibit ‘1’ is not my signature and does not match any of the signatures
I executed on the documents in my personnel file . . . I have never used the signature
in Defendants’ arbitration agreement as my signature on any documents.”  (Rosales Decl. ¶¶ 1-3.)  She does not recall ever signing an arbitration
agreement.  (Rosales Decl. ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff’s denial is supported
by the absence of the signed Arbitration Agreement when her counsel requested her
personnel file.  (See Oganesian Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.)  The documents provided by Defendants did not contain
the Arbitration Agreement submitted with this motion; instead, there was an unsigned
arbitration agreement written in Spanish. 
(Oganesian Decl. ¶ 6.)  Defendants’
Vice President of Staff Relations explains the company’s practice and policy of
presenting an Arbitration Agreement and placing it in the employee’s personnel file,
but she does not establish personal knowledge that this policy and practice was
followed for Plaintiff.  (Lambert-Gaffney
Decl. ¶ 5.)
The signatures on both the
Arbitration Agreement and Plaintiff’s other personnel records are not very legible,
defined, or distinctive.  The Court has compared
the signatures and agrees that there is a plausible factual question about whether
the Arbitration Agreement’s signature is really Plaintiff’s signature.   (See Motion, Ex. A; Opposition, Ex. 3.)
Defendants ask that if there
are factual questions about Plaintiff’s signature, the Court should continue the
hearing and allow evidence.  (Cheesecake Reply
at pp. 3-4; Javier Reply at pp. 1-2, 4.) 
The Court agrees that this is appropriate.
CONCLUSION
The
Hearing on Motion to Compel Arbitration is continued to ____________.
All
discovery other than discovery related to the authenticity of Plaintiff’s signature
is STAYED.
At
the hearing, the Court invites the parties to suggest how much time they will need
to conduct discovery and submit supplemental briefing, and whether the trial date
should also be continued.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 6th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 