 Case Number:  23AHCV00659    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PASEO PASADENA HOTEL INVESTMENT, LLC, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ONNI
   CAPITAL, LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00659
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT GP COMMERCIAL INVESTMENT CORP.’S DEMURRER TO THE
   FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

September
   28, 2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Defendant GP Commercial Investment
Corp. (“Defendant” or “Lender”) demurs to the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
filed by plaintiff Paseo Pasadena Hotel Investment, LLC (“Plaintiff” or
“Tenant”).  Plaintiff asserts causes of
action against Defendant for civil conspiracy (Third Cause of Action) and
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, or in the
alternative, negligent interference with prospective economic advantage (Fourth
Cause of Action).  Defendant demurs on
the grounds that the FAC fails to state sufficient facts. 
The demurrer is unopposed. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face.  (City of Atascadero v.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445,
459.)  “We treat the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law.  We accept
the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters
which may be judicially noticed. 
[Citation.]”  (Mitchell v. California
Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb
Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the
facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they
may be”].)  Allegations are to be
liberally construed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  
III.       
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
The Court grants Defendant’s request
for judicial notice of a grant deed and an assignment of deed of trust,
security agreement, assignment of leases and fixture filing, both of which were
filed with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office. 
IV.        
DISCUSSION
A.  
General
Allegations
Plaintiff
alleges that it entered into a lease agreement (“Lease”) with Paseo Colorado
Holdings, LLC (“Original Landlord”) concerning property located at 399 E. Green
Street in Pasadena, California (“Property”), on the shopping center commonly
known as 280 East Colorado Boulevard in Pasadena, California (“Shopping
Center”).  A dispute about the parking
fees paid to the City of Pasadena arose under the Lease and Plaintiff alleges
it entered into negotiations with Original Landlord’s successor-in-interest, CAPREF
(“Second Landlord”).  Plaintiff alleges
that it had an agreement with CAPREF to amend the Lease, but that before the
amendment (the “Fifth Amendment”) was executed, co-defendants Onni Capital, LLC
and Onni Paseo, LLC (collectively, “Landlord”) became the new landlord.  
Defendant
was allegedly the lender to Second Landlord and pursued foreclosure proceedings
which resulted in Landlord acquiring its interest in the Property.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant and Landlord
conspired and agreed not to honor the proposed Fifth Amendment which had been
negotiated with Second Landlord because the amendment “would impact the bidding
at any foreclosure sale pursued by [Defendant] or impact the price [Defendant]
would receive upon any sale of its loan.” 
(FAC, ¶¶ 17, 31.)  As a result of
Landlord and Defendant’s agreement, Landlord refused to sign the Fifth
Amendment in order to force Plaintiff to enter new negotiations.  (FAC, ¶ 33.) 
Plaintiff
asserts causes of action against Defendant arising from these allegations for
civil conspiracy and intentional/negligent interference with prospective
economic advantage.  
B.  
Intentional/Negligent
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage
The elements of a claim of interference
with economic advantage and prospective economic advantage include: (1) an
economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's
knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional or negligent acts on the part of
the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of
the relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by
the acts of the defendant. (Crown Imports, LLC v. Superior Court (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1404.  Here, Defendant
argues that the claim for interference with prospective economic advantage fails
because: (1) there was no prospective economic relationship, (2) there was no
unlawful conduct, (3) there was no disruption, and (4) it owed no duty of care
to Plaintiff. 
As
a threshold matter, Plaintiff cannot allege a claim for interference with
prospective economic advantage because the economic relationship that was
allegedly interfered with was its relationship with Landlord. (FAC, ¶ 38.)
Since this is a preexisting contractual relationship, and not a prospective
economic relationship, this cause of action necessarily fails.  (Roy Allan Slurry Seal, Inc. v. American
Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 505, 517-518.) 
Second,
this cause of action also fails because Plaintiff fails to allege facts
describing the acts which were committed and how the acts were independently
wrongful.  “[A]n act is independently
wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some
constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.” (Korea
Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1159.) Here, Plaintiff
only alleges that there was a conspiracy to negotiate in bad faith and engage
in coercive tactics.  However, parties to
a contract do not owe an obligation to negotiate additional terms in good
faith. (Racine & Laramie, Ltd., Inc. v. Department of Parks and
Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1035 (Racine).) 
For
these two reasons, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the Fourth Cause
of Action.  
C.  
Civil
Conspiracy
“The
elements of a civil conspiracy are the formation and operation of the
conspiracy and damage resulting to plaintiff from an act done in furtherance of
the common design.” (Stueve Bros. Farms, LLC v. Berger Kahn (2013) 222
Cal.App.4th 303, 323.) “Although conspiracy to commit a tort is not a separate
cause of action from the tort itself, alleging a conspiracy fastens liability
on those who agree to the plan to commit the wrong as well as those who
actually carry it out.” (Ibid.) A claim for conspiracy must be based on
a wrongful act and the claim must allege: 1) the formation and operation of the
conspiracy; 2) the wrongful act or acts done pursuant thereto; and 3) the
damage resulting. (Unruh v. Truck Insurance Exchange (1972) 7 Cal. 3d
616, 631.)  
As
discussed above, Plaintiff fails to allege an independently actionable
tort.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s claim fails
to state a viable theory of liability . 
 
V.          
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety. 
As Plaintiff did not oppose this demurrer and show how amendment is
possible, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend. 
Dated
this 28th
day of September, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 