  Case Number:  23STCV16149    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SALVADOR
  DE LA CRUZ, an individual; and AILEEN ZEPEDA, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
MERCEDES-BENZ
  USA, LLC; and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV16149
 Hearing Date:   6/28/24
 Trial Date:        11/19/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiffs’ Motion
  to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of
  Documents, Set One [Res ID # 2902].



 
I. Background
On March 6, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a motion to compel further responses to Request for Production of Documents
(RPDs), Set One, Nos. 16-21, which Plaintiffs served on Defendant Mercedes-Benz
USA, LLC (Mercedez-Benz) on December 21, 2023, and to which Mercedes-Benz
provided objection only responses on January 17, 2024.
On June 14, 2024, Mercedez-Benz
filed an opposition, and on June 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply.
Plaintiffs’ motion is now before
the Court.
 
II. Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production: GRANTED in part.
A. Legal Standard
A motion to compel a further
response is used when a party gives unsatisfactory answers or makes untenable
objections to interrogatories, demands to produce, or requests for admission.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)
To request further production, a
movant must establish: (1) good cause for the production (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1); Sinaiko, supra, at p. 403); and (2) that
a further response is needed because (a) the responding party’s statement of
compliance with the demand to produce is incomplete Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (a)(1)), (b) the responding party’s representation that it is unable
to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (a)(2)), (c) the responding party’s objection in the response is without
merit or is too general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(3); Catalina
Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1127), or
(d) if the responding party objected to the production of ESI on the ground
that it is not reasonably accessible the movant can show that the (i) ESI is
reasonably accessible or (ii) there is good cause for production of the ESI
regardless of its accessibility (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (e)).
B. Court’s Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiffs.
The Court rejects Mercedez-Benz’s
arguments to the effect that discovery here is not relevant or otherwise proper
where the discovery relates to information concerning third-party vehicles of
similar year, make, and model, though the Court agrees that the discovery is
somewhat overbroad.
The Song-Beverly Act provides for
civil penalties through two separate means: (1) where the manufacturer’s
non-compliance with the Act is willful (i.e., intentional violation of the
Act); and (2) penalties where the manufacturer violates its express warranty
obligations. (Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (c), (e)(1)-(5).)¿Here, if discovery
shows that Mercedes-Benz had knowledge from third-party vehicle complaints that
components used in the subject vehicle—e.g., the electrical system in the
subject vehicle—were not conformable to warranty, then that discovery could
support a finding that Mercedes-Benz willfully did not comply with the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act by failing to replace or repurchase the
subject vehicle. As a result, discovery relating to vehicles of the same year,
make, and model is relevant.
However, the Court agrees that the
discovery requests are overbroad insofar as Plaintiff has requested discovery
relating to “2021 Mercedes-Benz GLA 250 4MATIC” vehicles, whereas Plaintiff
appears to have purchased a more specific “2021 Mercedes-Benz GLA 250W4 4MATIC
2.0L, 8 Speed Automatic Transmission.” (See, e.g., Opp’n, Separate Statement,
p. 67.) To the extent the Court grants this motion, discovery is limited to the
“2021
Mercedes-Benz GLA 250W4 4MATIC 2.0L, 8 Speed Automatic Transmission.” The Court
notes, however, that if electrical defects alleged in the Complaint, or mentioned
in reports from visits to Mercedes-Benz authorized dealerships for repair, if
any, are common to all “2021 Mercedes-Benz GLA 250 4MATIC” vehicles,
then the Court’s qualification is a moot point.
The Court also limits the requests
by ordering that, if this motion is granted, Mercedes-Benz need not provide
emails in its ESI discovery.
Mercedes-Benz’s other objections
are unavailing or are not properly supported.
The objections as to vagueness,
ambiguity, unintelligibility, unclear definition, compound, overbreadth (other
than as discussed above), relevance, failure to narrow requests, and
arbitration lack merit. Except as to arbitration, these objections are
insufficiently supported and are contradicted by the clarity and relevance of
the requests, as discussed above. The Court STRIKES these objections per the
moving papers’ request, as qualified by the Court. The Court also STRIKES the
arbitration objection where no such motion appears in the Court’s docket and no
order compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims has been entered by the
Court.
The undue burden objection is not
properly supported. While the opposition’s Gurocak declaration sets out the
burden Mercedes-Benz may face in complying with discovery here, the Court notes
that that burden is diminished by the Court’s above and below orders limiting
the scope of discovery. Moreover, the Court is not persuaded that the burden to
Mercedes-Benz set out in the Gurocak declaration overcomes the need for the
discovery here.
The privacy objection is also not
sufficiently supported because, other than in generalities, Mercedes-Benz does
not discuss the general nature of the private information at issue. Nevertheless,
to the extent that it exists, the Court permits the redaction of third-party
information.
The confidential and proprietary
information objections are not sufficiently supported by the record. The Court,
however, does not strike these objections, as requested by Plaintiff.
Last, the trade secret,
attorney-client privilege, and attorney work product objections may be viable
but need to be supported by a privilege log to the effect of Hernandez v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th
285, 291, fn.
6—provided, of course, that no protective or other order is already in place to
address privilege concerns in discovery.
Based
on the above, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion subject to the above
restrictions relating to (1) the type of vehicle at issue for the same year,
make, or model (“2021 Mercedes-Benz GLA 250W4 4MATIC 2.0L, 8
Speed Automatic Transmission), (2) no email
discovery, and (3) the ability to redact third-party information. The Court
also notes that Mercedes-Benz must support its privilege objections with a
privilege log or pursuant to an applicable protective order, as applicable.
 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiffs’ Request for
Production of Documents, Set One [Res ID # 2902] is GRANTED in part as set
forth above.
Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC is
ordered to provide further responses to Plaintiffs Salvador De La Cruz and
Aileen Zepeda within 45 days of this ruling, subject to the above Court
modifications to discovery. The Court provides this ample time to give
Defendant an opportunity to collect what is represented as a substantial number
of documents that may be responsive to the production requests at issue here.