 Case Number:  23STUD10430    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



Prime/Park
  LaBrea Titleholder, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
Arzu
  Kocgirli, Serra Altan, and Does 1 to 10,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STUD10430
 Hearing Date:   6/28/24
 Trial Date:        7/23/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff’s Motion
  for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication [Res ID #
  5120].



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff Prime/Park LaBrea Titleholder, LLC
filed a Complaint suing Defendants Arzu Kocgirli, Serra Altan, and Does 1 to 10
in unlawful detainer.
On September 1, 2023, Defendants Kocgirli and Altan filed Answers to
the unlawful detainer Complaint.
On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff requested dismissal of Defendant Serra
Altan, which Judge Andrew Esbenshade entered that day.
B. Motion Before the Court
On May 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for summary judgment in its
favor as relates to Defendant Kocgirli, who remains in possession of the
subject premises, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of 11
affirmative defenses raised in Defendant Kocgirli’s September 1, 2023, in pro
per Answer. Plaintiff served the motion on Defendant Kochirgi via email and via
mail at the unlawful detainer subject premises: 5863 West 6th Street, #28-22
Los Angeles, California 90036.
No opposition, reply, or notice of non-opposition appear in the
record.
Plaintiff’s motion is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion
for Summary Judgment or Adjudication: GRANTED as to summary judgment;
MOOT as to summary adjudication.
A. Request for Judicial Notice
Per Plaintiff’s request, the Court
takes judicial notice of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Los
Angeles’s motion to approve resolution and Resolution of Board of Supervisors
of the County of Los Angeles Further Amending and Restating the County of Los
Angeles COVID-19 Tenant Protections Resolution. (Evid. Code, §§ 452, subds.
(c), (d), (h), 453, subds. (a)-(b).)
B. Legal Standard
The procedures governing a motion
for summary judgment in an unlawful detainer action are streamlined (e.g.,
separate statements are not required under section 437c, subdivision (s) of the
Code of Civil Procedure), but such a motion “shall be granted or denied on the
same basis as a motion under [Code of Civil Procedure s]ection 437c.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1170.7; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1351.)
“In moving for summary judgment, a
‘plaintiff ... has met’ his ‘burden of showing that there is no defense to a
cause of action if’ he ‘has proved each element of the cause of action
entitling’ him ‘to judgment on that cause of action.’ … [Citation.]” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849 (Aguilar).) “[S]ummary
judgment law in this state no longer requires a plaintiff moving for summary
judgment to disprove any defense asserted by the defendant as well as prove
each element of his own cause of action. … All that the plaintiff need do is to
‘prove[ ] each element of the cause of action.’ [Citation.]” (Id. at p.
853.)
Once the plaintiff makes an
adequate initial showing, the burden shifts to the defendant to show a triable
issue of fact “as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(1); Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 849.) “‘The
defendant … may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials’ of his
‘pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,’
must ‘set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.’ [Citation.]” (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 849.)
“‘Evidence presented in opposition
to summary judgment is liberally construed, with any doubts about the evidence
resolved in favor of the party opposing the motion. [Citation.] [¶] Summary
judgment is appropriate only ‘where no triable issue of material fact exists
and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’ [Citation.]”
(Regents of University of California v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th
607, 618.)
C. Analysis
1. Summary
Judgment, Complaint, Unlawful Detainer: GRANTED.
a. Relevant
Law
The basic elements of unlawful
detainer for nonpayment of rent contained in Code of Civil Procedure section
1161(2) are: “(1) the tenant is in possession of the premises; (2) that
possession is without permission; (3) the tenant is in default for nonpayment
of rent; (4) the tenant has been properly served with a written three-day
notice; and (5) the default continues after the three-day notice period has
elapsed.” (Kruger v. Reyes (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th Supp. 10, 16.)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
carried its burden on summary judgment.
Plaintiff has provided prima facie
evidence showing that Defendant Kocgirli is currently in possession of the
premises. (Motion (Mot.), Separate Statement Undisputed Material Fact (SSUMF)
No. 8, citing Mot., Kayembe Declaration (Decl.), ¶ 11.)
Plaintiff has provided prima facie
evidence that Defendant Kocgirli’s ongoing possession is without consent based
on an unpaid rent balance of $13,252 as of July 7, 2023, when Plaintiff
prepared a notice to pay rent or quit demanding the past due rent. (Mot., SSUMF
No. 1, citing Mot., Kayembe Decl., ¶¶ 1-2, Ex. 1 [lease agreement, Plaintiff as
owner, Defendant Kocgirli as tenant]; Mot., SSUMF No. 3, citing Mot., Kayembe
Decl., ¶ 3, Exs. 1-2 [lease with original rent amount stated; lease
auto-renewal letter with increased rent amount stated]; Mot., SSUMF No. 5,
citing Mot., Kayembe Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3 [notice to pay or quit with unpaid rent
balance of $13,252]; Mot., SSUMF No. 6, citing Mot., Kayembe Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 7
[service of notice to pay or quit]; Mot., SSUMF No. 7, citing Mot., Kayembe
Decl., ¶ 6 [Defendant Kocgirli has not paid the past due rent].)
Plaintiff has provided prima facie
evidence of a default on the rental agreement between the parties by Defendant
Kocgirli. (Mot., SSUMF No. 5, citing Mot., Kayembe Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3 [notice to
pay or quit with unpaid rent balance of $13,252]; Mot., SSUMF No. 7, citing
Mot., Kayembe Decl., ¶ 6 [Defendant Kocgirli has not paid the past due rent,
i.e., not remedied].)
Plaintiff has provided prima facie
evidence of proper service of a three day notice to rent or quit on Defendant
Kocgirli. (Mot., SSUMF No. 5, citing Mot., Kayembe Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3 [notice to
pay or quit with unpaid rent balance of $13,252]; Mot., SSUMF No. 6, citing
Mot., Kayembe Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 7 [service of notice to pay or quit].)
And Plaintiff has provided prima
facie evidence of an ongoing default by Defendant Kocgirli. (Mot., SSUMF No. 7,
citing Mot., Kayembe Decl., ¶ 6 [Defendant Kocgirli has not paid the past due
rent].)
The burden shifts to Defendant
Kocgirli, who did not file an opposition and thus does not meet the responsive
burden on summary judgment, e.g., burden as to affirmative defenses.
Consequently, summary judgment on
the unlawful detainer Complaint is GRANTED.
2. Summary
Adjudication, Answers to Complaint, Affirmative Defenses: MOOT.
Because the Court has granted
summary judgment, summary adjudication in the alternative is MOOT.
 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication [Res ID # 5120] is
GRANTED in part and MOOT in part as follows:
(1) GRANTED as to summary judgment;
and
(2) MOOT as to summary
adjudication.
The Court concurrently signs the
proposed order, which limits itself to summary judgment.
Plaintiff shall file a proposed
judgment within seven days of this ruling.
 