 Case Number:  21NWCV00133    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  C SAADIA SQUARE LLC
v. ALL WAYS PACIFIC, LLC 
CASE NO.: 21NWCV00133
HEARING:  03/14/24
 
#5
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant SAADIA SQUARE LLC’s Motion for
Entry of Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
This action was filed on March 5, 2021. 
 
On September 26, 2023, Defendants Rialto Merrill Holdings,
LLC; All-Ways Pacific LLC; All-Ways Far East, LLC; and All-Ways Forwarding
International Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment was GRANTED. 
 
On January 30, 2024,
this Court issued an Order stating: “With respect to All-Ways Far East, LLC and
All-Ways Forwarding International, Inc., they are not registered to do business
in the state of California. Nor are they necessary parties to this action.
Accordingly, those entities are dismissed from this action and are stricken
from the complaint…. [¶] Accordingly, Rialto Pacific, LLC f/k/a All-Ways
Pacific, LLC is ORDERED to file an amended complaint within 20 days. Upon doing
so, the Motion to Dismiss will become MOOT.” (Order, 01/30/24.) 
 
Since January 30,
2024, and as of March 11, 2024, no amended pleadings have been filed with this
Court. 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Saadia Square LLC (“Saadia”) now moves for an Order requiring All-Ways Far
East, LLC and All-Ways Forwarding International, Inc. to prepare and submit a
proposed judgment in accordance with this Court’s September 26, 2023 and January
30, 2024 Orders. All-Ways Far East, LLC and All-Ways Forwarding International,
Inc. successfully moved for summary judgment, and have not submitted a proposed
judgment in their favor. Saadia maintains that there are no further claims
between All-Ways Far East, LLC and All Ways Forwarding International, Inc. on
the one hand; and Saadia on the other hand. Saadia argues that All-Ways Far
East, LLC and All-Ways Forwarding International, Inc. should be required to
submit a judgment now to prevent any interference with Saadia’s right to appeal
the September 26, 2023 Order. 
 
In Opposition,
Cross-Complainants Rialto Merrill Holdings, LLC; Rialto Distribution LLC; RD
Real Estate Holdings LLC; All-Ways Far East LLC; All-Ways Forwarding
International, Inc.; and Rialto Pacific LLC (“All-Ways”) argue that entry of
judgment at this time is premature and would violate the one final judgment
rule. All-Ways maintains that there are two other affiliated defendants who
also prevailed on the same summary judgment motion (Rialto Pacific LLC and
Rialto Merrill Holdings, LLC), and these defendants cannot have judgment
entered in their favor because of their pending cross-complaint against Saadia.
Granting Saadia’s request will result in piecemeal disposition and multiple
appeals of a single summary judgment Motion. Allowing Saadia to appeal a
judgment in favor of All-Ways Far East, LLC and All-Ways Forwarding
International, Inc. might be duplicative of a future appeal by Saadia from a
judgment in favor of Rialto Pacific LLC and Rialto Merrill Holdings, LLC based
upon the same summary judgment Order. 
 
California follows
the single judgment rule. “The ‘one final judgment rule’ provides that an
appeal may be taken from a final judgment, but not an interlocutory judgment.
[Citation.] To determine whether a particular declaratory judgment is final,
the general test is that where no issue is left for future consideration except
the fact of compliance or noncompliance with the terms of the first decree,
that decree is final, but where anything further in the nature of judicial
action on the part of the court is essential to a final determination of the rights
of the parties, the decree is interlocutory. [Citations.] [¶] Therefore, an
appeal cannot be taken from a judgment that fails to complete the disposition
of all the causes of action between the parties even if the causes of action
disposed of by the judgment have been ordered to be tried separately, or may be
characterized as separate and independent from those remaining. [Citations.]” (Angell
v. Sup. Ct. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 691, 697.) “The same rule applies when
some of the causes of action are alleged in a cross-complaint. Thus, when a
judgment resolves a complaint, but does not dispose of a cross-complaint
pending between the same parties, the judgment is not final and thus not
appealable.” (Id. at 698.) 
 
However, the
multi-party exception to the one final judgment rule codified at CCP §§578 and
579 “gives a trial court discretion to render judgment against one defendant
and allow the action to proceed against other defendants whenever a several
judgment is proper.” (Oakland Raiders v. National Football League (2001)
93 Cal.App.4th 572, 577.)  “[T]here is
ample authority for the proposition that the trial court, in its discretion,
may enter judgment in favor of one or more defendants when all issues between those
defendants and the plaintiff have been adjudicated, even though the action
remains pending against those defendants who have not obtained adjudication of
all issues.” (Id. at 578.) 
 
Here, it is
undisputed that all issues between All-Ways Far East, LLC and Al-Ways
Forwarding International, Inc. have been resolved by way of summary judgment. Pursuant
to CCP §§578 and 579 a trial court has authority to render judgment for one
defendant and allow the action to proceed against other defendants whenever a
several judgment is just and proper. (See Oakland Raiders v. National
Football League (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 572, 578.) Therefore, this Court has
discretion to enter judgment in their favor. 
 
Entering judgment in
favor of only All-Ways Far East, LLC and All-Ways Forwarding International,
Inc. at this time would open up the possibility of multiple, successive appeals
on identical legal issues where judgment cannot be entered against the other two
prevailing parties on summary judgment (Rialto Pacific LLC and Rialto Merrill
Holdings, LLC) due to issues remining on their pending cross-complaint. The
Court declines to exercise its discretion to enter judgment at this time, to
ensure that a single appeal of the September 2023 summary judgment order
may proceed. 
 
The Motion is
DENIED. 