 Case Number:  23NWCV02191    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  C LONE OAK FUND, LLC
v. GONZALEZ
CASE NO.:  23NWCV02191
HEARING:  03/14/24
 
#3
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s Motion to Vacate Default is CONTINUED to Thursday, April 18, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in
Dept. SE-C.  

 
Moving Party to give Notice. 
 
No Reply filed as of March 12, 2024. 
 
The parties’ Requests for Judicial Notice are GRANTED. (Cal.
Ev. Code §452.) 
 
This action was filed on July 14, 2023. Default was entered
against Cross-Defendant LONE OAK FUND, LLC (“Lone Oak”) on October 24, 2023. 
 
On November 2, 2023, Lone Oak applied ex parte to vacate
default and dissolve the TRO. 
Proceedings were continued several times due to an automatic stay
following bankruptcy proceedings involving Defendant Jose Gonzalez.  The stay has now been lifted.  
 
Lone Oak moves to set aside the default under CCP §§473(d)
and 473.5. 
 
CCP §473(d)
 
At any time, “[t]he court…may on motion of either party
after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or order.” (CCP
§473(d).) “[A] default judgment entered against a defendant who has not been
served with a summons in the manner prescribed by statute is void.” (Dill v.
Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.)
 
Loan Oak argues that the default entered on October 24, 2023
is void because the Cross-Complaint was never served onto counsel for Loan Oak.

 
In Opposition, Cross-Complainant argues that the
Cross-Complaint was properly served onto the email address registered by Loan
Oak with this Court’s electronic filing service.  
 
“A cross-complaint shall be served on each of the parties in
an action in the following manner: (1) If a party has not appeared in the
action, a summons upon the cross-complaint shall be issued and served upon him
in the same manner as upon commencement of an original action. (2) If a party
has appeared in the action, the cross-complaint shall be served upon his
attorney, or upon the party if he has appeared without an attorney, in the
manner provided for service of summons or in the manner provided by Chapter 5
(commencing with Section 1010) of Title 14 of Part 2 of this code.” (CCP
§428.60.) 
 
“(2) A person represented by counsel, who has appeared in an
action or proceeding, shall accept electronic service of a notice of a document
that may be served by mail, express mail, overnight delivery, or facsimile
transmission. (3) Before first serving a represented person electronically, the
person effecting service shall confirm the appropriate electronic service
address for the counsel being served.” (CCP 1010.6(b).) Except where personal
service is otherwise required by statute or rule, a party or other person that
is required to file documents electronically must also serve documents and
accept service of documents electronically from al other parties or persons,
unless the court orders otherwise, or the action includes parties or persons
that are not required to file or serve documents electronically. Those parties
or persons must be served by non-electronic methods unless they affirmatively
consent to electronic service. (CRC Rule 2.251(c)(3).) “A party indicates that
the party agrees to accept electronic service by… (B) Registering with the
court’s electronic filing service provider and providing the party’s electronic
service address. Registration with the court’s electronic filing service
provider is deemed to show that the party agrees to accept service at the
electronic service address that the party has provided, unless the party serves
a notice on all parties and files the notice with the court that the party does
not accept electronic service and chooses instead to be served paper copies at
an address specified in the notice.” (CRC Rule 8.78(a)(2).) 
 
This action was filed on July 14, 2023. All documents in
this action have been filed electronically, and the parties are registered with
the court’s electronic filing service provider. Lone Oak admits that
Cross-Complainant’s Answer and Cross-Complaint were electronically served on
September 6, 2023 onto John Narcise—a paralegal at Lone Oak’s counsel’s firm,
but contends that Loan Oak did not receive actual notice of the filing of the
Cross-Complaint because no attorneys at their law firm were served. The Court
has reviewed it’s file and found that, as of March 12, 2024, the email address
registered with the Court’s electronic filing service provider for Attorney
Aron is the email address for John Narcise— jnarcise@wrslawyers.com. Where it is undisputed that the Cross-Complaint was
electronically served onto Loan Oak at the email address registered by it’s
counsel for filing and service, the Court cannot find that Cross-Complainant
failed to serve the Cross-Complaint in a manner prescribed by statute. The default
is not void, and is not properly vacated under CCP §473(d). 
 
CCP §473.5
 
CCP §473.5 sets the time limit as requiring the motion to be
filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i)
two years after entry of a default judgment; or (ii) 180 days after service on
the party of a written notice that a default or default judgment had been
entered. (CCP §473.5(a).) “Notice of motion to set aside
the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action shall
designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision
(b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under
oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was
not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The
party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or
other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.”  (CCP §
473.5(b).)
 
Lone Oak acknowledges that on September 6, 2023, the
Cross-Complaint was electronically served upon John Narcise, a senior
para-professional at Mr. Aron’s law firm. (Aron Decl., ¶12.) Mr. Narcise informed Mr. Aron on October 30, 2023 that for
some unknown reason he found the emails in his spam folder. (Ibid.) Mr.
Narcise had never worked on the case before and had not previously received any
such emails. (Ibid.) Based thereon, the Court determines that Lone Oak’s
failure to defend the cross-complaint was caused by excusable neglect and Lone
Oak timely sought relief.  
 
Relief under CCP § 473.5(b) cannot
be granted at this time, however, because Lone Oak has not attached a copy of
its Answer or other responsive pleading to the motion.  In the interests of judicial efficiency, this
matter is CONTINUED as indicated above. Accordingly, Lone Oak is ordered to
file and serve an amended motion with a responsive pleading by no later than
April 11, 2024.  A Supplemental
Opposition, and Reply may be filed and served per Code in accordance with the
new hearing date. 
 
The Request to Dissolve the Temporary Restraining Order is
DENIED without prejudice. This request may be made via separately noticed
motion. Moreover, while Loan Oak remains in default, this Court is without
jurisdiction to address the request to dissolve the TRO.  
 
 
 
 