  Case Number:  20NWCV00174    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  C DM EAST 26TH, LLC
v. EXPERIOR TRANSPORT & POLMAX, LLC
CASE NO.: 20NWCV00174
HEARING:  03/14/24
 
#4
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant POLMAX, LLC’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. The alternative Motion for
Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
This action was filed on March 6, 2020 as an unlawful
detainer action. On January 19, 2021, Plaintiffs DM EAST 26TH, LLC
and MALTZMAN E 26TH STREET, LLC (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed
the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants EXPERIOR
TRANSPORT & POLMAX, LLC (“Experior”) and TBI EXPRESS, LLC (“TBI”). 
 
The FAC asserts claims for breach of contract and breach of
guaranty against TBI and Experior. The FAC alleges that “[o]n or about February
19, 2016, Plaintiff and Experior entered into written lease agreement…. The
Lease was for a term of five (5) years and four (4) months commencing on or
about March 1, 2018, and scheduled to expire on June 30, 2023. (FAC ¶9.) “On or
about February 19, 2019, Experior and TBI entered into a written sublease
agreement… whereby TBI leased the Premises. The Sublease was for a term of four
(4) years and four (4) months commencing on or about March 1, 2019 and
scheduled to expire on June 30, 20203. The Sublease was at all times subject to
and subordinate to the Lease, and expressly provided that TBI assumed and
agreed to perform all terms and conditions of the Lease.” (FAC ¶10.) “On or
about December 1, 2019, Defendants breached the Lease by failing to pay their
rental obligations.” (FAC ¶11.) On or about April 11, 2020, Defendants
surrendered possession of the Subject Property to Plaintiffs. (Id.) 
 
Experior filed an Answer and affirmative defenses, asserting
that Plaintiffs failed to mitigate damages, that Plaintiffs novated the Lease,
and that Plaintiffs failed to provide Experior with an opportunity to enforce
the terms of the Sublease with TBI. On March 6, 2020, Experior filed a
Cross-Complaint against TBI alleging that TBI breached the sublease and
guaranty. 
 
Defendant Experior now moves for summary
judgment/adjudication of the following issues: 
 
1.   
Plaintiffs’
Novation Extinguishes any Liability of Experior; 
2.   
Alternatively,
Plaintiffs Assumed the Sublease with TBI; 
3.   
Mitigation
Efforts with TBI Sever any Liability of Experior for Unpaid Rents Attributable
to TBI; and 
4.   
Plaintiffs
are Estopped from Pursuing Experior for Unpaid Rents
 
“Establishing a breach of contract claim requires a showing
of (1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance of excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) resulting damages to the
plaintiff. (D’Arrigo Bros. of California v. united Farmworkers of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.) 
 
Novation
 
Experior argues that the Sublease between it and TBI
constitutes a novation. In Opposition, Plaintiffs argue that there was no
novation. 
 
“Novation is the substitution of a new obligation for an
existing one.” (Cal. Civ. Code §1530.) Novation can occur “[b]y the
substitution of a new debtor in place of the old one, with intent to release
the latter[.]” (Cal. Civ. Code §1531.) “Novation is made by contract, and is
subject to all the rules concerning contracts in general.” (Cal. Civ. Code
§1532.) “It must ‘clearly appear’ that the parties intended to extinguish
rather than merely modify the original agreement.” (Wells Fargo Bank v. Bank
of America (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 424, 432.) “Essential to a novation is
that it ‘clearly appear’ that the parties intended to extinguish rather than
merely modify the original agreement.” (Howard v. County of Amador
(1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 962, 977.) 
 
Experior proffers the following evidence in support of the
Motion: 
·       
On February 19, 2019, Experior entered into a
“Standard Sublease” agreement with TBI. Experior agreed to sublease TBI the
remaining 67.31% of the Subject Property for $28,388 per month. (SS No. 6.) 
·       
Under the terms of the Sublease, TBI is to
indemnify Experior for any loss or liability resulting out of TBI’s failure to
comply with the Sublease. (SS No. 8.) 
·       
Plaintiffs executed the Sublease. (SS No. 10.) 
·       
TBI’s owner, Liang Jin entered into a personal
guaranty. (SS No. 11.) 
·       
Under the terms of the Sublease and Lease, TBI
was to pay rent to Experior and Experior was to pay rent to Plaintiffs. (SS No.
13.) 
·       
When TBI failed to pay rent to Experior under the
Sublease in September 2019, Plaintiff began making demands for rent directly on
TBI. (SS No. 23.) 
·       
On September 5, 2019, Plaintiffs demanded rent
directly from TBI, instructed TBI to cancel checks it sent to Experior,
demanded that TBI pay half of the following year’s insurance, and demanded
payment of the tax bill on the Premises. (SS Nos. 24-31.) 
·       
On September 6, 2019, TBI informed Plaintiffs
that Experior was also demanding rent, but Plaintiffs responded to send rent
directly to them—not Experior. (SS Nos. 33-34.) 
·       
Based on Plaintiffs’ demands, TBI paid Plaintiffs
directly from September 2019 to February 2020. (SS No. 38.) 
·       
Plaintiffs ceased rent collection efforts from
Experior after September 9, 2019. (SS No. 44.) 
In Opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the
Sublease does not contain an express novation clause. Rather, the Sublease
states: “(b) Lessor may accept Rent or performance of Lessee’s obligations from
any persons other than Lessee… Neither… the acceptance of Rent or performance
shall constitute a waiver or estoppel of Lessor’s right to exercise its
remedies for Lessee’s Default or Breach…. (d) In the event of any Default or
Breach by Lessee, Lessor may proceed directly against Lessee, any Guarantors or
anyone else responsible for the performance of Lessee’s obligations under this
Lease, including any assignee or sublessee….” (Opp. SS No. 13.) Moreover,
Plaintiffs produce evidence showing that Plaintiffs demanded rent from both
Experior and TBI when Experior ceased paying rent to Plaintiffs, and that
Plaintiffs were willing to accept rents from either party. (Opp. SS. No. 24.) For
example, a portion of the Maltzman deposition reads: “Yes, because they [TBI]
were sending [the rent] to Experior, and Experior was keeping it and not
sending it to us … so that is why we requested her to send it to us while we
were still billing Experior because Experior is responsible for the entire $42,177.  So it would just offset Experior’s
liability.” (Maltzman Deposition, p. 74:17-23.) 

No evidence has been submitted to show that
Plaintiffs and TBI ever entered into their own separate Lease/Agreement. 
Factual questions exist that prevent this
Court from granting summary judgment on this issue. Because no new contract was
entered into by Plaintiffs and TBI, no express novation occurred, and evidence
has been submitted to show that Plaintiffs demanded payments from Experior, the
Court cannot find that a clear modification/novation exists for summary
judgment purposes. Factual questions exists as to whether a new agreement acted
as a novation that extinguished Experior’s obligations. 
 
Whether
Plaintiffs Assumed the Sublease with TBI
 
Experior argues that
Plaintiffs expressly required that the Sublease attorn to it, and therefore
Experior assumed the obligations of the Sublease. (See SS No. 66.) Section
12.3(b) of the Lease states: “In the event of a Breach by Lessee, Lessor may,
at its option, require sublessee to attorn to Lessor, in which event Lessor
shall undertake the obligations of the sublessor.” (Id.) Experior argues that Plaintiffs
effectuated this provision by forging a direct lessor-lessee relationship with
TBI and financially excluding Experior from this relationship. 
 
Plaintiffs do not expressly
address this argument in Opposition. However, the Court finds, for the same
reasons above, that there are triable issues of fact as to whether Plaintiffs
exercised their option to require that the Sublease attorn to them, where it is
disputed whether Plaintiffs continued to demand payments from Experior. 
 
Mitigation
Efforts
 
In their Moving
Papers, Experior argues that Plaintiffs’ mitigation efforts with TBI severs any
liability of Experior for unpaid rents attributable to TBI. In Reply, Experior
argues for the first time that Plaintiffs failed to satisfy their mitigation duties.

 
At most, the failure
to mitigate/mitigation efforts would reduce the amount of damages, not prevent
a plaintiff from prevailing on a cause of action for breach of contract.
Failure to mitigate is not a complete defense. 
 
Waiver/Estoppel 
 
Experior argues that
Plaintiffs are estopped from pursuing unpaid rents from Experior because
Plaintiffs excluded Experior from the commercial relationship and precluded it
from collecting rents under the Sublease. 
 
“Waiver always rests
upon intent. Waiver is the intentional relinquishment of a known right after
knowledge of the facts. The burden… is on the party claiming a waiver of a
right to prove it by clear and convincing evidence that does not leave the
matter to speculation, and doubtful cases will be decided against a waiver.” (DRG/Beverly
Hills, Ltd. v. Chopstix Dim Sum Cafe & Takeout III, Ltd. (1994) 30
Cal.App.4th 54, 60.) “Generally, the determination of either waiver or estoppel
is a question of fact.” (Platt Pacific, Inc. v. Andelson (1993) 6
Cal.4th 307, 319.) 
 
The facts of this
case do not give rise to a reasonable undisputed inference that Plaintiffs
waived their right to collect unpaid rent from Experior. It is undisputed that
there is no express agreement between the parties outlining an express
intentional waiver. Moreover, Par. 12.2 (b) of the Lease states: “Lessor may
accept Rent or performance of Lessee’s obligations from any persons other than
Lessee… Neither… the acceptance of Rent or performance shall constitute a
waiver or estoppel of Lessor’s right to exercise its remedies for Lessee’s
Default or Breach….” (Brehm Decl., Ex. B.) Also, the Court finds that there are
triable issues on the issue of whether Plaintiffs’ conduct constitutes a waiver
where it is disputed whether Plaintiffs continued to attempt to collect rent
from Experior. 
 
For these reasons,
summary judgment and the alternative motion for summary adjudication are
DENIED. 
 
Experior’s
Evidentiary Objections
1.   
Overruled
2.   
Overruled
3.   
Overruled

4.   
Overruled

5.   
Overruled

6.   
Overruled
7.   
Overruled

8.   
Overruled

9.   
Overruled

10.   
Sustained

11.   
Overruled

12.   
Overruled

13.   
Sustained

14.   
Overruled

15.   
Overruled

16.   
Overruled

17.   
Sustained

18.   
Overruled

19.   
Sustained