 Case Number:  22STCV14538    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  B SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIACOUNTY OF LOS ANGELESDEPARTMENT BTENTATIVE RULINGNOAH CVENGROS, vs. SAM TUCKER. Case No.: 22STCV14538 Hearing Date: OCTOBER 23, 2024Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club’s motion to disqualify counsel is granted.BackgroundOn May 2, 2022, Plaintiff Noah Cvengros (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Sam Tucker (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 10 alleging one cause of action for motor vehicle negligence.On April 18, 2024, Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club (“Interinsurance”) filed an application to intervene. It was granted on April 19, 2024.On June 6, 2024, the case was reassigned to the Honorable Karen Moskowitz in Department B in Van Nuys Courthouse East, effective June 24, 2024.On September 4, 2024, Interinsurance brought the instant motion to disqualify Christpher L. Rudd as counsel for any party in this action.On October 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed their opposition.On October 16, 2024, Interinsurance filed their reply.DiscussionInterinsurance moves to disqualify Christopher L. Rudd as counsel for any party in this action.Cal. Code of Civ. Procedure § 128(a)(5) states that “[e]very court shall have the power . . . to control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter pertaining thereto.” (CCP § 128(a)(5).) “‘A trial court's authority to disqualify an attorney derives from the power inherent in every court [t]o control in furtherance ofjustice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter pertaining thereto. [Citations.]’ [citation] ‘. . . The paramount concern must be to preserve public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of the bar. The important right to counsel of one's choice must yield to ethical considerations that affect the fundamental principles of our judicial process.’ [citation]” (Kirk v. First American Title Ins. Co. (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 776, 791-792.)In ruling on a motion to disqualify, the court should weigh: (1) the party's right to counsel of choice; (2) the attorney's interest in representing a client; (3) the financial burden on a client of change of counsel; (4) any tactical abuse underlying a disqualification motion; and (5) the principal that the fair resolution of disputes requires vigorous representation of parties by independent counsel. (Mills Land & Water Co. v. Golden West Refining Co. (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 116, 126.) Whether an attorney should be disqualified is a matter addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court. (Henriksen v. Great American Savings & Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109, 113.)Interinsurance moves to disqualify Attorney Rudd on the basis that counsel represents both Plaintiff and Defendant, constituting a nonwaivable conflict of interest pursuant to Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct (“RPC”) Rules 1.7(a) and 1.7(d). RPC 1.7(a) and 1.7(d) state as follows:“(a) A lawyer shall not, without informed written consent from each client and compliance with paragraph (d), represent a client if the representation is directly adverse to another client in the same or a separate matter.. . .(d) Representation is permitted under this rule only if the lawyer complies with paragraphs (a), (b), and (c), and . . . (3) the representation does not involve the assertion of a claim by one client against another client represented by the lawyer in the same litigation or other proceeding before a tribunal.”RPC Rules 1.7(a) and (d)(emphasis added).Attorney Rudd holds himself out as counsel for both Plaintiff and Defendant in this action. (See Motion Exh. F [Rudd’s January 2, 2024, letter, claiming representation of both].) Therefore, Attorney Rudd is in direct violation of RPC Rule 1.7(d).In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Interinsurance (1) has no standing to bring the instant motion and (2) its delay in doing so unduly prejudices Plaintiff. However, interinsurance has proper standing. “[W]here an attorney’s continued representation threatens an opposing litigant with cognizable injury or would undermine the integrity of the judicial process, the trial court may grant a motion for disqualification, regardless of whether a motion is brought by a present or former client of recused counsel.” (Kennedy v. Eldridge (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1205.) Here, Interinsurance would be unduly prejudiced by Attorney Rudd’s representation of both Plaintiff and its insured, giving Interinsurance standing to bring this motion. Even if that was not the case, AttorneyRudd’s direct violation of RPC Rule 1.7(d) undermines the integrity of the judicial process, warranting disqualification. Furthermore, Interinsurance filed this motion less than four months after entering the suit as an intervening party. Either way, untimeliness is not a defense to disqualification pursuant to RPC 1.7(d).Accordingly, Interinsurance’s Motion to Disqualify Counsel must be granted.CONCLUSIONInterinsurance’s Motion to Disqualify Counsel is GRANTED.Moving Party to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated: October 22, 2024 ___________________________________Hon. Karen MoskowitzJudge of the Superior Court