 Case Number:  24STCV06387    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  34 The Motion to Stay Preliminary Injunction
is GRANTED.  
BACKGROUND:
 
On March 14, 2024, Plaintiff
Nanette Kinkade (“Plaintiff’) filed her Complaint against Defendant Art Brand
Studios, LLC (“Defendant”) for provisional remedies in aid of arbitration,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.8. 
 
On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her Motion for Preliminary Injunction.
 
On April 22, 2024, Defendant
filed its Answer to the Complaint. 
            On April 25, 2024, the court granted
Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction.
            On May 9, 2024, the court entered
its Order Granting Preliminary Injunction.
            On May 9, 2024, Defendant filed its
Notice of Appeal.
            On May 9, 2024, Defendant filed its
Motion to Stay Preliminary Injunction (“Motion to Stay”). Defendant
concurrently filed its Proposed Order.
            On May 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed her
Opposition to the Motion to Stay.
            On May 29, 2024, Defendant filed its
Reply in support of the Motion to Stay. Defendant concurrently filed
Declaration of Myriah V. Jaworski.
            On May 30, 2024, Defendant filed
Amended Exhibits to Reply.
ANALYSIS:
Legal Standard
“Except as provided in Sections
917.1 to 917.9, inclusive, and in Section 116.810, the perfecting of an appeal
stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed from
or upon the matters embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement
of the judgment or order, but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter
embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 916, subd. (a).)
“In California, a long-established
set of rules governs stays of injunctive orders—that is, orders to do something
or to refrain from doing something. What rule applies depends on which kind of
order it is. An injunction that requires no action and merely preserves the
status quo (a so-called prohibitory injunction) ordinarily takes effect
immediately, while an injunction requiring the defendant to take affirmative
action (a so-called mandatory injunction) is automatically stayed during the
pendency of the appeal.” (Daly v. San Bernardino Cnty. Bd. of Supervisors (2021)
11 Cal.5th 1030, 1035.)
“The provisions of this chapter
shall not limit the power of a reviewing court or of a judge thereof to stay
proceedings during the pendency of an appeal or to issue a writ of supersedeas
or to suspend or modify an injunction during the pendency of an appeal or to
make any order appropriate to preserve the status quo, the effectiveness of the
judgment subsequently to be entered, or otherwise in aid of its jurisdiction.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 923.)
Discussion
The Parties’
Arguments
Defendant moves the Court to either: (a) confirm the Order Granting
Preliminary Injunction is stayed pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
916, subdivision (a); or, in the alternative, (b) exercise its discretion to
stay the Order Granting Preliminary Injunction. (Motion to Stay, p. 5:18–21.)
 
Defendant argues: (1) that the preliminary injunction is mandatory and is
therefore automatically stayed pending appellate review; and (2) that,
alternatively, the Court should grant a discretionary stay because Defendant
should not succeed on appeal only to have a pyrrhic victory. (Motion to Stay,
pp. 2:10–11, 4:19–20.)
 
Plaintiff disagrees, arguing: (1) that Defendant has waived its challenge
to the preliminary injunction; (2) that this is not a mandatory injunction; and
(3) that a discretionary stay is not appropriate because Defendant does not
raise any difficult question of law, Plaintiff established a likelihood of
success on the merits, and Plaintiff will suffer irreparable harm without the
injunction. (Opposition, pp. 8:6, 8:26, 11:23–24, 12:12, 13:21.)
 
In its Reply, Defendant reiterates its arguments, and it argues that it
did not waive its challenge to the preliminary injunction. (Reply, p. 7:12.)
 
Invited Error
Plaintiff points to a “proposed order” by Defendant that purportedly
waived Defendant’s right to challenge the preliminary injunction. (Opposition,
p. 8:7–10 and Exh. D.) Plaintiff argues that this conduct by Defendant was
“invited error,” which should prevent Defendant from claiming it as a ground
for reversal on appeal. (Id. at p. 8:11–16, citations omitted.)
            The court disagrees with this
argument.
            On April 25, 2024, the court granted
Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction. (Minute Order dated April 25,
2024, p. 13.) The court ordered “Plaintiff to prepare the order for the Court.”
(Ibid.) The court also wrote: “If the parties can not [sic] agree on the
language to be used for the proposed Order, then all parties are ordered to
submit a Joint Status Report by 05/02/2024.” (Ibid.)
The court has not been presented with any evidence that suggests
Defendant supported a preliminary injunction prior to the court issuing a
preliminary injunction. Rather, Defendant only submitted a proposed order on
the preliminary injunction after the court already granted the preliminary
injunction and urged the Parties to confer on language for a proposed order.
 
Overall, this evidence does not support an argument that Defendant
“invited error” or “waived” its challenge. 
The Preliminary Injunction is Mandatory and
Automatically Stayed Upon and During Appeal
The Order Granting Preliminary Injunction is a mandatory injunction that
is automatically stayed upon the perfecting (and during the pendency) of an
appeal. (Code Civ. Proc., § 916, subd. (a); Daly, supra, 11
Cal.5th at p. 1035.) 
 
This preliminary injunction is a mandatory injunction because it requires
action that changes the status quo. Specifically, the Order Granting
Preliminary Injunction: (1) immediately restrains and enjoins Defendant from
exercising rights and performing activities that it was exercising and
performing immediately before the injunction was entered; and (2) requires (within
seven business days of the entry of the Order) Defendant to provide Plaintiff
with certain information that Plaintiff did not have before the injunction was
entered. (Order Granting Preliminary Injunction, pp. 2:1–3:25, 3:27–4:23.)
 
The court confirms that the Order Granting Preliminary Injunction is
STAYED. 
A Discretionary Stay Would be Appropriate if
the Preliminary Injunction were Prohibitory 
Even if the Order Granting Preliminary Injunction were prohibitory in
nature, a discretionary stay would still be appropriate here. 
 
Plaintiff’s prayer is for an injunction, costs, and attorney’s fees.
(Complaint, pp. 8:22–9:3.) Given that the Order Granting Preliminary
Injunction—and thus, the entire merits of the case up to this point—is
currently in front of the Court of Appeal, it is wholly appropriate for the court
to stay the preliminary injunction and allow the Court of Appeal to proceed unimpeded
with its review of this matter. 
 
In addition, the court recognizes its prior determination “that the
balance of the harms tips in favor of issuing a preliminary injunction”.
(Minute Order dated April 25, 2024, p. 13.) However, the court has also been
persuaded that it would be prudent to allow the Court of Appeal to finish its
review before the status quo is changed. Otherwise, as Defendant argues,
Defendant might be irreparably harmed (for example, by having to terminate its
employees, and by having to terminate its ongoing commercial relationships
related to the intellectual property at issue) during appellate review, which
would be meaningless even if Defendant won above. (Id. at p. 12.)
Conclusion
The Motion to Stay Preliminary Injunction is
GRANTED.  