 Case Number:  23STCV07238    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  34 Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Highlands Owners Association’s unopposed Motion for Leave to File
Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.  Defendants are ordered to file the Cross-Complaint within 10 days.
Background[1]  
Plaintiff Christy Cuozzo (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Plaintiff is the owner of a Unit at the
housing complex. Defendant Highlands Owners Association (“Defendant”) is the
homeowners’ association that operates and manages a common interest development
in Los Angeles, California. From in or about 2020, Plaintiff alleges issues
relating to repair and maintenance duties and/or obligations of the Association
as it relates to the common area roof, deck and alleged water damage to
Plaintiff’s unit as well as selective enforcement of the governing documents..
On April 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against Defendant and Does 1-50 for:
1.              
Breach of Governing Documents
2.              
Breach of Fiduciary Duties
3.              
Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
4.              
Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
5.              
Negligence
6.              
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
7.              
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
8.              
Harassment
The Final Status Conference is set for August 13, 2024.
Trial is set for August 26, 2024.
Legal Standard
“A party against whom a cause of
action has been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a
cross-complaint setting forth. . . : (a) Any cause of action he has against any
of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him…” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 428.10, subd. (a).) “A party shall file a cross-complaint against
any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or
her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or
cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50, subd. (a).)
“Except as
otherwise provided by statute, if a party against whom a complaint has been
filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related cause of
action which (at the time of serving his answer to the complaint) he has
against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any other action assert
against the plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 426.30, subd. (a).) A “‘[r]elated cause of action’ means a cause of
action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges
in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.10, subd. (c).)
“A party who fails
to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this article, whether
through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to
the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to
assert such cause at any time during the course of the action. The court, after
notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the
parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert
such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50(a).)

Discussion
Defendant moves the
court for an order granting it leave to file a proposed cross-complaint. The
proposed Cross-Complaint alleges causes of action against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
for (1) Breach of CC&Rs; (2) Preliminary and Permanent Injunction; and, (3)
Declaratory Relief.
The proposed cross-complaint is
compulsory, inasmuch as it is asserted against Plaintiff and involves a
“related cause of action” as defined by Code of Civil Procedure § 426.10,
subdivision (c). Causes of action arise out of the “same transaction or
occurrence” if there is “a logical relationship between the prior complaint and
the cross-complaint.” (ZF Micro Devices, Inc. v. TAT Capital Partners, Ltd.
(2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 69, 82). The term “transaction” “is construed broadly; it
is not confined to a single, isolated act or occurrence. . . but may embrace a
series of acts or occurrences logically interrelated.” (Heshejin v. Rostami
(2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 984, 993-994 [internal quotations and citation omitted].)
“In
the breach of contract context, the rule means any claims the defendant has
against the plaintiff based on the same contract generally must be asserted in
a cross-complaint, even if the claims are unrelated to the specific breach or
breaches that underlie the plaintiff's complaint.” (Id. at 994
[quotations and citation omitted].)
Plaintiff’s Complaint and the proposed
Cross-Complaint both pertain to her Unit and the contractual obligations
associated with it. The question remaining, then, is
whether or not Defendants have acted in good faith. “The provision in section
425.60 relating to ‘good faith’ does allow trial courts a ‘modicum of
discretion’ in allowing amendments to cross-complaints. Nonetheless, what constitutes ‘good
faith’ must be determined in conformity with the liberality conferred upon the
trial courts by the section and by prior law.” (Sidney v. Superior Court
(1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710, 718.) “[T]his principle of liberality requires that
a strong showing of bad faith be made in order to support a denial of the right
to file a cross-complaint under this section.” (Id. [quotations and
citation omitted].)
There is no evidence that Defendants
have acted in bad faith; in fact, the motion is not opposed. The motion, then,
is granted. Defendants are ordered to file the Cross-Complaint within 10 days.


