 Case Number:  24STCP03287    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  73 11/13/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon.
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
PCAM, LLC v. SOCAL MAINTENANCE PRO X, LLC (24STCP03287) 
Counsel for
Petitioner/moving party:  A. Maria Plumtree (Plumtree & Brunner LLP)
 
PETITION FOR RELEASE OF PROPERTY FROM MECHANICS LIEN (filed 10/14/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
The Petition for Release
of Property from Mechanics Lien is
GRANTED. The Court  enters the order releasing the mechanic’s lien
and awarding attorney fees in the amount of $2,085. 
 
Petitioner to provide
notice. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On October 14,
2024, Petitioner PCAM, LLC dba Parking Company of America filed a petition
against Respondent SoCal Maintenance Pro X, LLC for release of property from mechanics
lien.
 
No opposition or other response has been filed. 
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“The claimant shall commence an action to enforce a lien within 90
days after recordation of the claim of lien. If the claimant does not commence
an action to enforce the lien within that time, the claim of lien expires and
is unenforceable.” (Civ. Code, § 8460.) If a claimant has not commenced an
action to enforce the mechanics lien within the time provided in Civil Code
section 8460, the property owner may petition the court for an order releasing
the property from the lien. (Id., § 8480, subd. (a).) “A release order
does not bar any other cause of action or claim for relief by the claimant,
other than an action to enforce the claim of lien that is the subject of the
release order.” (Id., subd. (b).) A petition for a release order may be
joined with a pending action to enforce the lien claim. (Id., subd.
(c).) 
 
Civil Code section 8484 states: A petition for a release order
shall be verified and shall allege all of the following: 
(a) The date
of recordation of the claim of lien. A certified copy of the claim of lien
shall be attached to the petition. 
(b) The
county in which the claim of lien is recorded. 
(c) The book
and page or series number of the place in the official records where the claim
of lien is recorded. 
(d) The legal
description of the property subject to the claim of lien. 
(e) Whether
an extension of credit has been granted under Section 8460, if so to what date,
and that the time for commencement of an action to enforce the lien has
expired. 
(f) That the
owner has given the claimant notice under Section 8482 demanding that the
claimant execute and record a release of the lien and that the claimant is
unable or unwilling to do so or cannot with reasonable diligence be found. 
(g) Whether
an action to enforce the lien is pending. 
(h) Whether
the owner of the property or interest in the property has filed for relief in
bankruptcy or there is another restraint that prevents the claimant from
commencing an action to enforce the lien.
 
At least 10 days before petitioning for a release order, the owner
must give the claimant a notice demanding that the claimant execute and record
a release of the lien claim. The notice must comply with the requirements of
Civil Code section 8100 et seq. and state the grounds for the demand. (Id.,
§ 8482.) 
 
Civil Code section 8486 states: 
(a) On the
filing of a petition for a release order, the clerk shall set a hearing date.
The date shall be no more than 30 days after the filing of the petition. The
court may continue the hearing only on a showing of good cause, but in any
event the court shall rule and make any necessary orders on the petition not
later than 60 days after the filing of the petition. 
(b) The
petitioner shall serve a copy of the petition and a notice of hearing on the
claimant at least 15 days before the hearing. Service shall be made in the same
manner as service of summons, or by certified or registered mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the claimant as provided in
Section 8108. 
 
Civil Code section 8488 states: 
(a) At the
hearing both (1) the petition and (2) the issue of compliance with the service
and date for hearing requirements of this article are deemed controverted by
the claimant. The petitioner has the initial burden of producing evidence on
those matters. The petitioner has the burden of proof as to the issue of
compliance with the service and date for hearing requirements of this article.
The claimant has the burden of proof as to the validity of the lien. 
(b) If
judgment is in favor of the petitioner, the court shall order the property
released from the claim of lien. 
(c) The
prevailing party is entitled to reasonable attorney's fees.
 
B.     
Discussion
 
Petitioner
alleges that it contracted with the property owners of: (1) 555 W. Temple
Street, Los Angeles, CA 90012; (2) 1200 W. 7th Street, Los Angeles, California
90017; and (3) 241 S. Figueroa St., Los Angeles, California 90012
(“Properties”) to perform parking services on their Properties. (Petition, ¶ 2.)
Petitioner then contracted with Respondent to perform construction work on the
Properties. (Petition, ¶ 3.)
 
On April 23,
2024, Respondent caused to be recorded in the Official Records of the County of
Los Angeles a duly verified claim of Mechanics’ Lien, Document No. 20240217952
against the Properties. (Petition, ¶ 4.) Petitioner attached a copy of the
claim lien. (Petition, Ex. 1.)
 
Respondent
failed to bring an action to enforce the lien within 90 days after recordation.
(Petition, ¶ 6.) Petitioner gave Respondent notice and sent a demand letter to
Respondent on September 25, 2024. (Petition, ¶ 8.) Respondent notified Petitioner’s
counsel that Respondent refuses to release the mechanics lien. (Petition, ¶ 10.)
 
The Court
finds Petitioners have complied with Civil Code section 8484. Petitioners filed
a proof of service indicating that on October 14, 2024, they served Respondent the
petition papers and notice of the hearing. Thus, Petitioners have satisfied
their service requirements and the Court grants the Petition for
Release of Property from Mechanics Lien.
 
Further, as a prevailing
party, Petitioner is entitled to seek attorneys fees. (Civ. Code, § 8488.) Petitioner
requests $1,650 in fees based on 6 hours of work and costs in the amount of $435.
The Court therefore awards the
total sum of $2,085 in attorneys’ fees and costs. 
 
III. DISPOSITION 
 
The Petition for Release
of Property from Mechanics Lien is
GRANTED. The Court  enters the order releasing the mechanic’s lien
and awarding attorney fees in the amount of $2,085. 
 
Petitioner to provide
notice. 