 Case Number:  244TCV06861    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  73 11/13/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
LAM v. MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC, et al.
(24STCV06861)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Banjamin Drake
(Drake Law Firm)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Soheyl Tahsildoost (Theta Law Firm)
 
DEFENDANT MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC’S motion
to compel arbitration (filed 7/30/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court GRANTS
Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC’s motion to compel the arbitration. This action is stayed pending the completion of
arbitration. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff Hugo Lam filed this
action against Defendants Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC and LAD-MB dba Mercedes-Benz
of Los Angeles alleging the following causes of action:
1.     
Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty
2.     
Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty
3.     
Negligent Repair
 
The Complaint
alleges the following. On March 25,
2023, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contract with Defendant regarding a new
2022 Mercedes-Benz E350W, VIN: W1KZF8DB3NB085059, ("Subject Vehicle”). In connection with the lease, Plaintiff received an express written
warranty. Defects and nonconformities to the Subject Vehicle manifested
themselves within the applicable express warranty period that substantially
impaired the use, value and/or safety of the Subject Vehicle. Plaintiff delivered the Subject Vehicle to an authorized repair
facility for repair of the nonconformities. Defendant was unable to conform the Subject Vehicle to the
applicable express warranty after a reasonable number of repair attempts or
within a reasonable amount of time.
 
On
July 30, 2024, Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC
filed the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration arguing:
·       The FAA and CA law requires compliance with the arbitration
agreement.

·       Plaintiff’s claims fall within the scope of the arbitration clause. The allegations in the Plaintiff’s Complaint are all entirely
centered on the purchase and condition of the Vehicle.
·       Defendant has standing to compel arbitration under the lease under the theories of equitable estoppel and
third-party beneficiary standing. 
o  
Third
party beneficiary
§ 
Defendant is a named third-party beneficiary
§ 
Defendant is an intended third-party beneficiary of the
arbitration provision because it falls within the class of persons or entities
for whom the arbitration provision was intended, but is specifically named and
defined as a third-party beneficiary under the Lease.
§  Plaintiff’s
claims arise out of and relate directly to the condition of the Vehicle and
Defendant’s alleged liability.
o  
Equitable
estoppel
§ 
Equitable estoppel applies “when the signatory to a written
agreement containing an arbitration clause ‘must rely on the terms of the
written agreement in asserting [its] claims’ against the non-signatory.” (MS
Dealer Service Corp. v. Franklin (11th Cir. 1999) 177 F.3d 942, 947)
§  The Court of
Appeal in Felisilda held that the non-signatory manufacturer could
compel arbitration under equitable estoppel, which allows a non-signatory to
enforce an arbitration agreement when “the causes of action against the
non-signatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying
contract obligations.” (Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th
486, 495.)
·       Plaintiff’s
claims should be stayed pending arbitration
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff contends:
·       Equitable estoppel does not apply
o   Equitable
estoppel does not apply here because Plaintiff brings his claims against Defendant
based on the warranties received directly from Defendant and none of the claims
depend on the existence or terms of the alleged agreement between the parties
·       Defendant is not a third-party beneficiary of the purchase
agreement
o  
The alleged Agreement does not show an express or implied intent
of the parties to benefit Defendant
·      
Plaintiff Doesn’t Allege A Song-Beverly Claim Against
Any Dealership, Thus, MBUSA Cannot Compel Arbitration Of The Song-Beverly
Claims Alleged Against It
o  
The Song Beverly claim against MBUSA cannot be
compelled to arbitration when the only cause of action alleged against the
Dealership (MB LA) is for negligent repair.
 
In
reply, Defendant argues:
·       Defendant has standing to enforce the arbitration under the
lease
·       Defendant is a third party beneficiary specifically named in the
agreement to arbitrate. Plaintiff does not address this. 
o  
Plaintiff’s entire Opposition is based on rulings
where the manufacturer is not named and has no bearing on this case.
o   Unlike in Ngo, Kielar, and the Ford Motor Warranty cases,
Plaintiff specifically agreed to arbitrate their claims against the Defendant
manufacturer Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC.
 
II.
DISCUSSION 
 
A.      Request for
Judicial Notice 
 
Defendant requests
judicial notice of Plaintiff’s Complaint filed on March 19, 2024 in this matter.
 
The Court may take judicial notice of
its own file. (See Stepan v. Garcia
(1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 497, 500.) The court may take judicial notice of “official
acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United
States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of
this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of
the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably
subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by
resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds.
(c), (d), and (h).)
 
The Court
judicially notices Defendant’s request. 
 
B.      Legal Standard
 
A written
agreement where the parties agree to arbitration is valid, enforceable and irrevocable
unless there is a contract defense. (C.C.P. § 1281.) “On petition of a party to
an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the
revocation of the agreement.”¿¿(C.C.P. § 1281.2.)  
¿ 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence…”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)¿¿“In determining
whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may
examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing
arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties'
intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual
language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made.”¿¿(Weeks
v. Crow¿(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.) “To determine whether a
contractual arbitration clause requires arbitration of a particular
controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is whether that
controversy is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.”¿(Titolo¿v.
Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.) “Doubts as to whether an arbitration
clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending
the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate unless it
is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the
dispute.”¿(California Correctional Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
There is
strong public policy in favor of both arbitration of disputes and resolving any
doubts concerning the scope of arbitrable disputes in favor of arbitration.¿(Moncharsh¿v.¿Heily¿&¿Blase¿(1992) 3
Cal.4th 1, 9.) Arbitration agreements should be liberally interpreted, and
arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly does not apply to
the dispute in question.¿¿(Vianna¿v. Doctors’ Management Co.¿(1994) 27
Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)¿ 
 
C.      Existence of
an Agreement to Arbitrate
 
The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15
Cal.4th 951, 972; see 9 U.S.C. § 2 […an agreement in writing to submit to
arbitration an existing controversy arising out of such a contract,
transaction, or refusal, shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save
upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract.”].) This is usually done by presenting a copy of the signed, written
agreement to the court. “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay
proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must
state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must
be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to
the petition and incorporated by reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1330.)  
 
Defendant
has attached to its moving papers what it asserts to be the Lease Agreement for
the Subject Vehicle, executed on or about March 25, 2023. (Ameripour Decl., Ex.
2.) The Agreement contains an arbitration provision, which states in relevant
part:
 
” Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort
or otherwise (including any dispute over the interpretation, scope, or
validity of this lease, arbitration section or the arbitrability of any issue),
between you and us or any of our employees, agents , successors, assigns, or
the vehicle distributor, including Mercedes-Benz USA LLC (each a “Third-Party
Beneficiary”), which arises out of or relates to a credit application, this
lease, or any resulting transaction or relationship arising out of this lease
(including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this
contract) shall, at the election of either you, us, or a Third-Party
Beneficiary, be resolved by a neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action.”
 
“This lease evidences a transaction involving interstate
commerce. Any arbitration under this lease shall be governed by the Federal
Arbitration Act (9 USC 1, et seq).”
 
(Ameripour
Decl., Ex. 2, p. 4.)¿ 
 
The plain
text of this provision indicates that disputes arising between Plaintiff and Defendant are
covered by the mandatory arbitration provision. Thus, as Defendant asserts, Plaintiff’s
claims fall within the scope of the arbitration clause as the allegations
in the Plaintiff’s Complaint arise out of the Lease and the relationship
between Plaintiff and Defendant.
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant has met its
initial prima facie burden to show that an agreement to arbitrate exists and
that Plaintiff’s claims fall within the scope of the agreement.
 
D.     Nonsignatory
Standing
 
Since Defendant has met its initial burden, the Court next
discusses the objections to the enforceability of the Lease Agreement. First,
the Court discusses whether Defendant has nonsignatory standing to enforce the
Agreement. 
 
The right to arbitration may
generally only be invoked by parties to the purported arbitration agreement.
(Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) 
 
Defendant
moves to compel arbitration at a third-party beneficiary of the lease
agreement.
 
“A contract,
made expressly for the benefit of a third person, may be enforced by him at any
time before the parties thereto rescind it.” (Civ. Code § 1559.) “Third parties
may enforce a contract with an arbitration provision … where they are intended
third party beneficiaries or are assigned rights under the contract.” (Cohen
v. TNP 2008 Participating Notes Program, LLC (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 840,
856.) 
 
To show the
contracting parties intended to benefit it, a third party must show that, under
the express terms of the contract at issue and any other relevant circumstances
under which the contract was made, (1) “the third party would in fact benefit
from the contract”; (2) “a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to
provide a benefit to the third party”; and (3) permitting the third party to
enforce the contract “is consistent with the objectives of the contract and the
reasonable expectations of the contracting parties.” (Goonewardene v. ADP,
LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.) 
 
Here, Defendant is specifically named as a third-party beneficiary to
the lease agreement.
The Agreement contains an arbitration provision, which states in relevant part:
 
” Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort
or otherwise (including any dispute over the interpretation, scope, or
validity of this lease, arbitration section or the arbitrability of any issue),
between you and us or any of our employees, agents , successors, assigns, or
the vehicle distributor, including Mercedes-Benz USA LLC (each a
“Third-Party Beneficiary”), which arises out of or relates to a credit
application, this lease, or any resulting transaction or relationship arising
out of this lease (including any such relationship with third parties who do
not sign this contract) shall, at the election of either you, us, or a Third-Party
Beneficiary, be resolved by a neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action.”
 
(Ameripour
Decl., Ex. 2, p. 4 [emphasis added].)¿ 
 
Therefore, since Defendant is specifically named as a third-party
beneficiary to the lease agreement this shows an intent to confer a benefit to
Defendant.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff provides no authority stating a named
third-party beneficiary cannot compel arbitration. The cases that Plaintiff
relies upon in the opposition are based on rulings where the manufacturer was
not specifically named.
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds that Defendant is an intended third-party beneficiary to the Lease
Agreement, and therefore can compel Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration. Therefore, the Court does
not discuss Defendant’s argument that it may also enforce the arbitration
provision based on equitable estoppel.
 
On these
grounds, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. This action is stayed pending the completion of
arbitration. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

The
Court GRANTS Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC’s motion to compel the
arbitration.
This action is stayed pending the completion of arbitration. 