 Case Number:  22STCV36104    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


March 19, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV36104




MOTIONS


Consolidate




MOVING PARTY


Defendants TSV Sound & Vision LLC and Michael Ernest
  Grieg




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendants TSV Sound & Vision LLC and Michael Ernest Grieg (“Defendants”)
move the Court to consolidate this case with the following cases for all
purposes: 22STCV36727 (Geltch v. That’s Your Ballgame, LLC, et al.),
23STCV03426 (Butchko v. TSV Sound & Vision LLC, et al.), and
23STCV04630 (Cottrell, et al. v. TSV Sound & Vision LLC, et al.)
 
There is no opposition to the Motion.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 1048 states: “When actions involving a common question of law or fact
are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or
all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.” 
 
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.350, subdivision (a)(1), a notice of motion to consolidate must: (A)
List all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and
the names of their respective attorneys of record; (B) Contain the captions of
all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest numbered case shown
first; and (C) Be filed in each case sought to be consolidated. (2) The motion
to consolidate: (A) Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining
the appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting
papers must be filed only in the lowest numbered case; (B) Must be served on
all attorneys of record and all non-represented parties in all of the cases
sought to be consolidated; and (C) Must have a proof of service filed as part
of the motion.  
 
¿“Cases may not be consolidated
unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate two or more
cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different
department, have been¿related¿into a single department, or if the cases were
already assigned to that department.” (LASC Local Court Rules, Rule 3.3(g)(1).)
 
The purpose of consolidation is to
avoid unnecessary costs or delay, avoid duplication of procedure, particularly
in the proof of issues common to both action, and avoid inconsistent results by
hearing and deciding common issues together. 
(See Estate of Baker (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d 471, 485.)  The granting or denial of a motion to
consolidate rests in the trial court's sound discretion, and will not be
reversed except upon a clear showing of abuse of discretion. (Feliner v.
Steinbaum (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.) 
Each case presents its own facts and circumstances, but the court
generally considers the following: (1) timeliness of the motion: i.e., whether
granting consolidation would delay the trial of any of the cases involved; (2)
complexity: i.e., whether joining the actions involved would make the trial too
confusing or complex for a jury; and (3) prejudice: i.e, whether consolidation
would adversely affect the rights of any party. (See State Farm Mut. Auto.
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1956) 47 Cal.2d 428, 430–431.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, the four
cases have been deemed related and are pending in Department 32; 22STCV36104
was designated the lead case. (Min. Order, 12/4/23.) The Court grants
Defendants’ request for judicial notice of the complaints in these cases and
the notice of ruling filed December 29, 2023. 
 
Defendants argue that the four
cases arise out of the same incident that occurred on August 28, 2022 at the
Move for MDS Walk in Griffith Park, Los Angeles. All the plaintiffs allege
injuries that occurred after an LED wall allegedly fell on attendees. As a
result, the Court finds that the four cases involve common questions of law and
fact. 
 
Therefore, in light of the above,
and seeing no opposition, the motion to consolidate for all purposes is
granted.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to
Consolidate is GRANTED.
 
All future papers must be filed in 22STCV36104
only and all future hearings must be scheduled in 22STCV36104 only. All hearing
dates in 22STCV36727, 23STCV03426, and 23STCV04630 are advanced and vacated.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of
this order and file a proof of service of such.
 
 