

Hearing Date:             September 24, 2024
Case Name:                 Monica Sanchez v. Recharge Inc.
et al
Case
No.:                    24STCV14635
Motion:                       Pro
Hac Vice
Moving
Party:             Todd C. Kinney

Responding Party:      None


 

Tentative
Ruling:      GRANT Counsel Todd C.
Kinney’s Motion for Pro Hac Vice  
 

 
On June 12, 2024, Plaintiff Monica Sanchez the complaint
against Defendant Recharge Inc. d/b/a www.getrecharge.com alleging a violation
of California Invasion of Privacy Act.
 
Counsel Todd C. Kinney applies for admission to practice
before this Court pro hac vice, in order to represent Defendant Recharge Inc.
d/b/a www.getrecharge.com.
 
Pro hac vice admission in
California is governed by California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40.  To be
admitted pro hac vice, one must be “a member
in good standing of and eligible to practice before the bar of any United
States court or the highest court in any state, territory, or insular
possession of the United States.”  California Rules of Court, Rule
9.40(a).  However, in no case shall an attorney appear pro hac vice
if the attorney is a resident of California, regularly employed in California,
or “regularly engaged in substantial business,
professional, or other activities in the State of California.”  Ibid.   
 
An
attorney seeking pro hac vice admission must file a verified application
in both court and the State Bar of California establishing  
 
(1) [t]he applicant's residence
and office address; (2)[t]he courts to which the applicant has been admitted to
practice and the dates of admission; (3)[t]hat the applicant is a member in good standing in those
courts; (4)[t]hat the applicant is not currently suspended or
disbarred in any court; (5)[t]he title of court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel¿pro hac vice¿in this state in
the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it
was granted; and (6)[t]he name, address, and telephone number of the active
member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.  (California
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(d). )
 
Lastly, repeated applications for pro hac vice
appearance may result in denial. (California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(b).)
 
Here,
Counsel Kinney has complied with California
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40. Counsel Kinney is not a resident of California and is admitted to practice
in Nebraska. (Kinney Decl.
¶¶ 2-5.) Counsel Kinney is a member in good standing in the State of Nebraska, and United
States District Court for the District of Nebraska and United States Court of
Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. (Id. at ¶¶ 5-6.) Counsel has not been
suspended or disbarred in any court. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Moreover, Counsel
states that within the last two (2) years of the date of this Application, he has
not filed any applications to appear as pro hac vice counsel or as out-of-state
arbitration counsel in California. (Id. at ¶
8.) Counsel also states that he was admitted as pro hac vice in 2021 for Waterlogic
America, LLC v. Michael Rees, David Devlin, Lori McCormack and Vazza Beverage
Systems, LLC, et al in Superior Court of
California, County of San Bernardino Case No. CIVDS2022098. (Id. at ¶ 5.) He also provided the name, address,
and telephone number of Bradley P. Boyer, Esq. (SBN: 179430) who are
counsel of record. (Id. at ¶ 9.) Bradley Boyer
also attached the proof of service and payment to the State Bar of California.
(Boyer Decl. ¶ 3; Ex. A.) Thus, Counsel has complied with California Rules of
Court, Rule 9.40.
 
Therefore,
the Court GRANTS Counsel’s motion to appear as counsel pro hac vice. 
 
 