  Case Number:  21STCV02737    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  W Iuliia Wright
v. Philip Wright¿
 
DEFENDANT PHILIP SPENCER WRIGHT’S MOTION
FOR RELIEF FROM WAIVER OF OBJECTIONS and motion for protective order
 
Date of Hearing:          January 17, 2024                     Trial Date:
      None set. 
Department:               W                                             Case
No.:         21STCV02737
 
Moving
Party:             Defendant Philip
Spencer Wright
Responding Party:       Plaintiff Iuliia Platokhina Wright
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 22, 2021, Plaintiff Iuliia Wright (“Plaintiff” or
“Iuliia”) initiated current proceedings by filing her Complaint against
Defendant Philip Wright (“Defendant” or “Philip.”) The personal injury lawsuit
arises from alleged spousal abuse incidents. Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint on July 28, 2023 for 1. Battery; 2. Assault; 3. False
Imprisonment; 4. Intrusion of Privacy; 5. Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress; 6. Negligence; and 7. Unlawful Eviction. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Wright’s Motion for
Relief from Waiver of Objections is GRANTED
Defendant Wright’s Motion for
Protective Order is DENIED. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff
submits objections to the declaration of Jeffrey Aisen, Esq. submitted in
support of Defendant’s Motion for Relief from Waiver of Objections. The court
OVERRULES Plaintiff’s objections nos. 1-5. 
 
Plaintiff
submits objections to the declaration of Jeffrey Aisen, Esq. submitted in
support of Defendant’s Motion for Protective Order. The court OVERRULES
Plaintiff’s objections nos. 1-16. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM
WAIVER OF OBJECTIONS 
 
Defendant Philip Spencer Wright moves for relief from waiver
of his discovery objections from his responses to Plaintiff Iuliia Platkophina
Wright’s (1) Request for Admissions, Set One; (2) Request for Production of
Documents, Set One; (3) Special Interrogatories, Set One; (4) Form
Interrogatories, Set One; (5) Form Interrogatories, Set Two, and (6) Form
Interrogatories, Set Three on the grounds Defendant has served responses to the
Subject Discovery that substantially complies with the relevant sections of the
Code of Civil Procedure and the failure to serve timely responses was the
result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 

A respondent that misses the 30-day deadline for answering
interrogatories, inspection demands, or requests for admission waives all
objections to said discovery requests, including objections based on privilege
or on the protection for work product.¿(CCP §§ 2030.290(a), 2031.300(a),
2033.280(a).) However, on motion, the judge may¿set¿aside¿waivers to
interrogatories, inspection demands, and/or requests for admission:¿ 
 
(1) if the respondent has subsequently
served a response that is in substantial compliance with¿the relevant CCP
section for the particular discovery request/procedure; and¿ 
 
(2) if the respondent failed to serve a
timely response because of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.¿(Id. §§
2030.290(a), 2031.300(a), 2033.280(a).) 
 
Defendant argues their former counsel served discovery
responses one court day late, on September 5, 2023. However, because this court
determined that they could not be substantially compliant as the responses only
contained objections, Defendant’s current counsel thereafter propounded
substantially compliant responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions on
October 3, 2023. Defendant’s counsel propounded substantially compliant
responses to Plaintiff’s remaining five discovery requests on October 9, 2023.
Defendant further argues former counsel’s relied on a paralegal to calendar
Defendant’s deadline to respond to Plaintiff’s discovery requests; that
paralegal mistakenly calendared the deadline so that Defendant’s former counsel
served responses one day late. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant has failed to
comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 1008. However, Defendant is not
moving under this section. As noted by Defendant, attorney's reliance on office
calendaring system constitutes excusable neglect. (Renteria v. Juvenile
Justice, Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 903, 911.) 
 
As such, Defendant’s motion for relief from waiver of
objections is GRANTED. 
 
II.                 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
AND SANCTIONS RE PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE,
REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS, SET ONE, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, AND FORM INTERROGATORIES
– GENERAL, SETS ONE, TWO, AND THREE
 
Defendant seeks a protective order and sanctions against
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel in the amount of $18,967 in relation to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Request for
Admissions, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories
– General, Sets One, Two, and Three, pursuant to CCP §§ 2030.090, 2031.060,
2033.040.
 
The court shall limit the scope of discovery if it
determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly
outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.  The court may make this determination pursuant
to¿a motion for protective order by a party or other affected person. 
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2016.040.  (CCP § 2017.020(a).)  “A meet and
confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each¿issue
presented by the motion.”  (CCP¿§ 2016.040.)¿¿ 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s discovery in this civil case is
largely a recycling of Plaintiff’s discovery propounded in the family law case and
suffers from the same defects the family Court including Plaintiff’s discovery
not being code-compliant. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff first argue the motion should be
denied for several procedural issues including Defendant’s meet and confer
efforts, the relief sought is not available in the relevant sections on
protective orders, the motion was not filed within 30 days after the requests
were served, and Defendant did not file a separate statement. 
 
The court does not deny the motion on these grounds. First,
Defendant has demonstrated “reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (CCP §2016.040.) Moreover, the
court finds the relief sought is found in the relevant sections. Specifically,
a court may make any order that justice requires to protect a party from
“unwanted annoyance, embarrassment or oppression or undue burden and
expense.”  (CCP §§ 2030.090(b), 2031.060(b), 2033.030(c).) 
The burden of proof is on the party seeking the protective order to show “good
cause” for the order he or she seeks.  (Fairmont Insurance Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) The court finds the relief
sought appropriate under the statute including protection from vague,
ambiguous, overbroad, and not Code-compliant discovery requests. Lastly,
Plaintiff is correct a motion for protective order must be brought promptly and
before the 30-day with which to respond to the written discovery, otherwise the
objection may be waived. (CCP § 2030.090(a), 2031.060(a), 2033.080(a).)
However, the promptness of the request for a protective order turns on the
facts. (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 261, 317.) Here, due to the calendaring issue, Defendant believed
responses were due September 5, 2023 – when Defendant filed their motion for
protective order. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for a protective order was
not untimely. Lastly, no separate statement is required for a motion for
protective order. 
 
Plaintiff next opposes the motion on the grounds the motion
is moot as the court ordered Defendant to respond to the discovery requests,
and Defendant has failed to meet the burden of proof.
 
Review of the October 5, 2023 Minute Orders indicate the
court did not consider the accuracy or content of the discovery requested.
Rather, the court only considered Plaintiff propounded discovery and Defendant
failure to timely respond. However, it is unclear whether the court can strike
Defendant’s discovery responses. Although a party may withdraw or amend an
admission pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300 (only in certain
occasions), there is no similar remedy under demand for production or
interrogatories. At most, the relief Defendant seems to be seeking is
evidentiary sanctions. However, Defendant has not provided grounds for
evidentiary sanctions. 
 
As noted above, the court shall limit the scope of discovery
if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery
clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. (CCP §2017.020(a).) Although Defendant
may seek to limit the scope due to non code-compliant discovery requests as
well as vagueness, Defendant cannot strike their answers to the discovery
requests. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for protective order is
denied. 
 
 