 Case Number:  23STCV24107    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
SCOTT CANALES,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LOCKTON COMPANIES, LLC,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV24107
  Hearing Date:  February 7, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion for reconsideration 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 3, 2023, Plaintiff Scott
Canales filed this action for declaratory relief against Defendants Lockton
Companies, LLC – Pacific Series, Lockton Investment Advisors, LLC, and Lockton
Partners, LLC. 
            Plaintiff filed this action to
establish that he may freely compete against Defendants by soliciting clients
from his former employment for Defendants, despite restrictive covenants
contained in agreements between the parties. Plaintiff alleges that the
covenants are void and unenforceable under California law. Plaintiff also
alleges that the forum selection provisions are unenforceable because they violate
California’s public policy. 
            Defendants moved to dismiss based on
forum selection clauses within the applicable contracts. The Court denied this
motion on December 6, 2023.
            On December 22, 2023, Defendants
filed the instant motion for reconsideration of the December 6 order. Plaintiff
filed his opposition on January 25, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on
January 31, 2024.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“When an application for an order has been
made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or
granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within
10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order
and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to
the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and
modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall
state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge,
what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(a).) 
Additionally, “the trial court retains the
inherent authority to change its decision at any time prior to the entry of
judgment.” (Darling v. Kritt (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 1148, 1156.) “[S]ection
1008 does not govern the court's ability, on its own motion, to reevaluate
its own interim rulings.” (Ibid.) “[T]he only requirement of the court
is that it exercise ‘due consideration’ before modifying, amending, or revoking
its prior orders.” (Id. at p. 1157.)
DISCUSSION
            Defendants request reconsideration
of the Court’s December 6 order because the California Supreme Court has
granted review of a similar decision in Giblin v. Lockton Cos., LLC –
Pacific Series, et al., No. 22STCV39876. Defendants contend that the
Supreme Court’s decision in Giblin will provide dispositive guidance on
the enforcement of the forum selection clause at issue here. Defendants seek revocation
of the December 6 order so as to vacate the deadline for them to file a
petition for writ of mandate challenging the order. 
            However, according to Defendants,
the deadline to file the writ petition was January 10, 2024. The deadline will
have passed by the time this motion is heard. In fact, Defendants have already
filed their petition. Therefore, the issue is moot. 
            Defendants also request a stay pending
the resolution of Giblin. However, in granting the petition for review
of Giblin, the Supreme Court deferred the matter pending resolution of a
different case, EpicentRx, Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th
890. EpicentRx concerns whether a forum selection clause, requiring
litigation in a jurisdiction with no right to a jury in civil cases, violates California’s
public policy against pre-dispute jury waivers. That case does not concern a nonwaivable
statutory right as is the case here. Therefore, it is unlikely that the Supreme
Court would reach a decision in Giblin with a dispositive effect on the
present case. Additionally, as discussed above, Defendants have filed a writ
petition with the Court of Appeal. If the Court of Appeal accepts the petition,
it can issue a stay to the extent it deems necessary.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion for
reconsideration is DENIED. 
 