 Case Number:  23LBCV00091    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Rogelio and Rosa
Martinez filed this action against Defendant, Ed Romero for negligence,
premises liability, and loss of consortium for damages arising out of a fall
sustained when Plaintiff was trimming a tree on Defendant’s property.  Plaintiff alleges he was hired by Defendant
in 2017 to maintain his residential property, where he collected rents, did
repair and maintenance work, and trimmed trees. 
He alleges Defendant requested that he trim the trees at the property,
and he fell while doing so.  Plaintiff
alleges he was presumed to be Defendant’s employee at the time of the fall,
because he was doing work for which a license is required, and he lacks such a
license and never represented to Defendant that he has one.  
 
Plaintiff alleges he originally
pursued a workers’ compensation claim against Defendant, but Defendant denied
Plaintiff had worked at least 52 hours during the 90 days prior to his
injury.  The parties exchanged written
discovery, and ultimately the parties stipulated that the claim must be
dismissed because there was insufficient proof that Plaintiff worked 52 hours
in the 90 days prior to his injury, such that he would be a qualified
residential employee qualifying for workers’ compensation benefits.  
 
2.     Demurrer
a.         Parties’ Positions
Defendant demurs to each cause of
action in the complaint, contending the entire complaint is barred by the
statute of limitations, Plaintiff has alleged no negligence on the part of
Defendant, and Plaintiff has not alleged knowledge of a dangerous condition and
sufficient time to correct the condition. 

 
Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer,
arguing the statute of limitations does not bar their claims because it was
tolled while the workers’ compensation proceedings were pending.  Plaintiffs contend negligence is properly
pled, and contend actual or constructive notice need not be pled and/or has
been pled.  
 
Defendant, in reply, contends
Plaintiffs waited too long between dismissal of the workers’ compensation claim
and filing of this lawsuit to be entitled to take advantage of the doctrine of
equitable tolling.  He contends Plaintiff
has not shown evidence of any act of negligence on his part, and does not show
notice of any dangerous condition.   
 
c.         Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other
pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of
the opposing party’s pleading. It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be. 
A demurrer can
be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.
Blank v. Kirwan 39 Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered (i.e., no “speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP §
430.10 [grounds], § 430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial
notice may be taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or
any cause of action within]. Specifically, a demurrer may be brought per CCP §
430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action
asserted. Per CCP §430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no
jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.
Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the
complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably respond. CCP §
430.10(f). 
 
However, in construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to
specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or
conclusory allegations. Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189
Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the facts pled in the complaint are
inconsistent with facts which are incorporated by reference from exhibits
attached to the complaint, the facts in the incorporated exhibits control.
Further, irrespective of the name or label given to a cause of action by the
plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if the facts as pled in the
body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief. Special demurrers are
not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).) 
Leave to amend
must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. Goodman v. Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the
complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer
pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person
or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP
§430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the
date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the
demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and
confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).) 
 
d.         Meet and Confer
Defense Counsel submitted a declaration in compliance with the meet and
confer requirements.  The issue is
therefore ripe for determination on its merits. 

 
e.         Workers’ Compensation and Equitable
Tolling
Plaintiff sustained his injury on
6/06/19.  Complaint, ¶12.  Plaintiff filed a workers’ compensation claim
on 12/11/19.  ¶33.  The workers’ compensation judge approved the
parties’ stipulation to dismiss the claim on 10/26/22.  Plaintiffs filed their complaint on 1/17/23.  
 
Defendant argues, in the demurrer,
that the statute of limitations bars the complaint, and Plaintiff has not pled
tolling because (a) the exhibits mentioned in the complaint are not attached,
(b) Plaintiff alleges mere conclusions re: equitable tolling, and (c) a
workers’ compensation claim would not toll the loss of consortium claim, which
is separate and distinct.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the
demurrer, cites numerous cases holding that the timely filing of a workers’
compensation claim equitably tolls the statute of limitations on a civil action
arising out of the same events. 
Plaintiff also attaches the exhibits that were missing from the
complaint to the opposition.  It is
unclear how anything other than “mere conclusions” could be pled concerning the
facts that give rise to equitable tolling.
 
Defendant, in reply, does not
revisit the arguments made in the demurrer. 
Defendant, instead, contends there was a thirty-day time period during
which Plaintiffs were required to file their civil complaint after the
dismissal of the workers’ compensation claim, and Plaintiffs failed to file
within thirty days.  Defendant relies on
Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 402, 409 to support his
position.  In Kolani, the Court
considered the issue of whether the plaintiff’s filing of a federal action
equitably tolled the time for her to file those claims in state court.  It held that 28 USC §1367(d) requires any
such action to be filed within thirty days after the federal claims are
dismissed, and failure to do so mandates dismissal of the claims.
 
The Court rejects this argument for
two reasons.  First, Defendant raised the
argument for the first time in reply, and Plaintiffs had no opportunity to
address the argument.  Second, Defendant
failed to show that 28 USC §1367(d), which expressly deals with a situation
where a plaintiff attaches pendent state claims to a federal action, also
applies in the workers’ compensation context.
 
f.          Negligence
Defendant argues Plaintiffs have
alleged mere conclusions concerning negligence, and have not alleged any facts
showing he was negligent.  Plaintiffs,
however, allege Defendant failed to act to ensure trimming the fifteen-foot
tree, which requires a license Plaintiff did not have, was a safe
activity.  ¶22.  Plaintiffs allege there was no policy,
condition, or procedure for the trimming. 
¶22.  It has long been the law in
California that a plaintiff can plead negligence in general terms.  Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26
Cal.2d 149, 154-155.  The Court finds the
allegations sufficient, at the pleading stage, to allege negligence.  
Notably, Plaintiffs allege
Plaintiff was Defendant’s employee at the time of the fall, because trimming
trees requires a license, and Plaintiff lacks such license.  ¶¶13-16. 
Defendant, in his reply papers, cites various cases holding workers are
not entitled to workers’ compensation benefits under the circumstances of this
case.  None of those cases, however, hold
that this is so because the plaintiff is not the defendant’s employee; the
cases so hold because the plaintiff is not the defendant’s “qualified”
employee.  The word “qualified” is the
key distinction, as a person can be an employee without qualifying to workers’
compensation benefits.  
 
Labor Code §2750.5, cited by
Plaintiff in the complaint and not challenged by Defendant in the demurrer or
reply, makes a person a legal employee when the person is performing work for
which a license is required but lacks that license.  
 
The Court finds Defendant failed to
meet his burden to show Plaintiff was not his employee and/or to negate the
claim for negligence.  The demurrer to
the negligence cause of action is therefore overruled.
 
g.         Premises Liability
Defendant argues the premises
liability cause of action fails to state a cause of action because it fails to
allege Defendant had actual or constructive notice of a dangerous condition on
his property.  Plaintiffs allege
Defendant hired Plaintiff to trim a tree, but failed to ensure he had a license
and failed to provide him with necessary safety equipment.  Plaintiffs therefore allege Defendant created
the safety condition, which is sufficient at the pleading stage.  The demurrer is overruled.  
 
h.         Loss of Consortium
Defendant argues, in the moving
papers, that the loss of consortium cause of action is barred by the statute of
limitations because it is an independent claim. 
Plaintiffs, in opposition to the demurrer, show that a loss of
consortium claim is precluded per the workers’ compensation exclusivity
doctrine, and therefore it could not be filed while the workers’ compensation
proceedings were pending.  Defendant does
not address this argument in reply.  The
demurrer to the loss of consortium cause of action is therefore also overruled.
 
i.             
Conclusion 
Defendant’s demurrer is
overruled.  Defendant is ordered to file
an answer to the complaint within ten days. 

 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar today concurrently with the hearing on the above
demurrer.  The Court asks Counsel to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the demurrer.  
 