  Case Number:  21LBCV00497    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  S27 Defendants propounded RPDs, set two
on Plaintiff on 7/11/23.  To date,
despite an attempt to meet and confer, Plaintiff has not served responses.  Defendants therefore seek an order compelling
Plaintiff to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery and to
pay sanctions.
 
As an initial note, Defendants
reserved the hearing on the motion as a “motion to compel further responses.”  The motion is a motion to compel initial, not
further, responses.  The Court asks
Counsel to ensure motions are reserved using the correct category in the future
in connection with this and other actions.
 
Defendants’ motion is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified
responses to RPDs, set two, without objections, within ten days.  CCP §§2031.300(a),(b).  
 
Sanctions are mandatory.  §2031.300(c). 
Defendants seek sanctions in the amount of $1172.50 against Plaintiff and
his attorney of record, jointly and severally. 
Defense Counsel bills at the rate of $250/hour.  The Court awards one hour to prepare this form
discovery motion.  No opposition was
filed and therefore no time to file a reply is awarded.  The Court awards one hour for the remote
appearance in connection with the motion. 
The Court therefore awards a total of two hours of attorney time at the rate
of $250/hour, or $500, in attorneys’ fees. 
The Court also awards the filing fee of $60.  
 
Sanctions are sought and imposed against
Plaintiff and his attorney of record, jointly and severally.  They are ordered to pay sanctions to
Defendants, by and through their attorney of record, in the total amount of $560,
within twenty days.     
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  