 Case Number:  21STCV01257    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Matthew
Hernandez filed this action against Defendants, Silverstar Express, Inc.,
Direct Chassislink, Inc., and Apollo Global Management, LLC for personal injury
damages.  Plaintiff alleges he was
injured when a Utility Tractor Rig and chassis he was driving overturned.  He was using the UTR to move a reel of steel
cable.  The reel was stowed on a flatrack
container on the chassis.  Plaintiff alleges
the subject chassis was not equipped to handle this type of cargo, and DCLI,
the owner of the chassis, failed to warn the necessary persons and entities
that the chassis should not be loaded with this type of cargo.  Plaintiff has added additional doe defendants
to the action.  
 
2.    
Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
The parties have participated in settlement discussions, and the
negotiations resulted in a settlement between Plaintiff and Defendant,
Silverstar Express, Inc..  Pursuant to the
agreement, Silverstar will pay Plaintiffs $1,000,000 in exchange for a release
of all claims against it.  Notably, this
is the limit on Silverstar’s insurance policy covering Plaintiff’s claims.  Silverstar seeks a determination that its
settlement with Plaintiff is in good faith. 
Silverstar timely and properly served all parties to the action with its
moving papers.  Any opposition to the
motion was due on or before 9/29/23.  No
party has filed opposition to the motion. 
CCP §877.6(d) places the burden on a motion for determination of good
faith settlement on the party who opposes the motion.  In light of the lack of opposition, the
motion is granted.  
 
Silverstar is
ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   