 Case Number:  23LBCV00046    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Julio Contreras filed this action against Defendant, City of
Long Beach for damages arising out of an automobile accident that occurred on
7/10/22.  Plaintiff filed the complaint
on 1/09/23.  
 
2.    
Motion for Leave to Amend
a.     Initial Note
While Plaintiff’s proof of service shows he served his motion on
Defendant in August, Plaintiff did not actually file his motion until 10/03/23,
only eight days prior to the hearing on the motion, in violation of CCP
§1005(b).  This led to confusion about
whether the motion was on calendar, and the motion was added to the calendar at
a very late date.  The Court asks
Plaintiff’s attorney to ensure papers are timely filed, as well as served, in
the future in connection with this and other actions.  The Court has read and considered the moving
papers despite this defect.  
 
b.     Relief Sought
Plaintiff, when he served Defendant with his government tort claim,
also included the claims of two third parties, Luis and Marco Bonilla, both of
whom were also involved in the subject accident.  When Plaintiff filed his complaint, however,
he erroneously failed to include the Bonillas in the action.  Plaintiff concedes the statute of limitations
has run as to the Bonillas’ claims, but seeks leave to add them to his
complaint because the failure to include them was the result of his attorney’s mistake
or neglect.  
 
Plaintiff does not cite any on point authority permitting him to add
two previously un-named plaintiffs whose claims are barred by the statute of
limitations to the complaint.  The Court
has considered the various possible mechanisms to name the new plaintiffs, and
finds Plaintiff cannot do so.
 
c.     Relation Back
The claims clearly do not relate back to the named plaintiff’s
claims.  Amendments naming a new party
plaintiff are permissible if there is no change in the claim being asserted:
e.g., amendments to reflect an assignment of the claim; or, on plaintiff's
death, to substitute their executor or administrator.  Plaintiffs who lack standing to sue on a
claim or cause of action may seek leave to amend their complaint to substitute
a plaintiff with standing to sue (the “real party in interest”). Such an
amendment is authorized under CCP § 473(a)(1), which allows amendments “by
adding or striking out the name of any party.” See Branick v. Downey Sav.
&Loan Ass'n (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 243. 
However, where the amendment adds a plaintiff whose claim is independent
of the claims previously asserted, the amendment does not “relate back” to the
original complaint. I.e., the plaintiff proposed to be substituted may not
“state facts which give rise to a wholly distinct and different legal
obligation against the defendant.”  Id.
at 243.
Plaintiff seeks to add wholly distinct claims by other plaintiffs, and
not to merely substitute the new plaintiffs’ claims for his own.  The proposed amended complaint, therefore,
does not relate back to the original complaint, and amendment is not proper
under §473(a).
 
d.    
Neglect
or Mistake
While Plaintiff does not expressly mention §473(b), he does contend he
should be granted leave to amend because his attorney made a mistake or neglected
to name the other two plaintiffs when he filed the complaint.  §473(b) governs relief from attorney
errors.  Pursuant to Life Sav. Bank v.
Wilhelm (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 174, 178, §473(b) does not provide a
mechanism for relief when the attorney error was failure to comply with the
applicable statute of limitations.  
 
e.    
Gov
Code §946.6
Plaintiff also argues relief should be granted pursuant to Gov Code
§946.6.  §946.6 permits a plaintiff whose
application for leave to file a late claim was denied to then file a petition,
with the Superior Court, for relief from failure to file a timely claim.  §946.6 does not have any application to this
case, because the proposed new plaintiffs did not file any application for
leave to file a late claim, and did not initiate this action by way of a
petition for relief.  If the proposed new
plaintiffs have any procedural mechanism to assert their claims, such as a
petition for relief, they are free to file any such petition.  They have failed, however, to show that
§946.6 permits them to proceed in this action by way of a motion for leave to
amend to add claims that are barred by the statute of limitations.  
 
f.     
Conclusion
Plaintiff failed to cite any authority for his position that it would
be appropriate to add plaintiffs whose claims are barred by the statute of limitations
as parties to this action.  The motion for
leave to amend is therefore denied.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice. 

 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does
not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   