 Case Number:  23LBCV00268    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Raul Field Escandon
filed this action against Defendants, Universal Iron Works, Appleby Property
Management, Olive Crest Homeowners Association, Ara Agopian, and HOA Board of
Directors on 2/21/23.  Plaintiff’s complaint
includes various causes of action and spans 73 pages.  Plaintiff seeks an injunction providing for
various forms of relief, and also seeks compensatory damages.  
 
2.     Motion
for Preliminary Injunction
a.    
Procedural History of Motion
On 5/24/23, Plaintiff filed a
motion for preliminary injunction, emergency injunctive relief, and
restraining/protective order, setting it for hearing on 9/14/23.  On 6/21/23, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex
parte application to advance the hearing on the motion, and rescheduled the
hearing for 7/27/23.  The Court indicated
Plaintiff could not combine motions, and limited Plaintiff to hearing on a
motion for protective order.  On 7/14/23,
Defendants filed opposition papers.  On 7/18/23,
Plaintiff filed reply papers.
 
On 7/27/23, the Court ruled on the
motion.  The Court noted various
procedural defects, and then ultimately concluded:
Plaintiff attempts to clarify, in
his reply papers, exactly the relief he seeks. 
He indicates the relief sought is as follows:
The Defendants including Olive Crest
HOA Directors Agopian, Huerta, and  Garcia are ordered to refrain and hereby restrained
and enjoined from taking any adverse acts, directly or indirectly, by themselves
or by others on their behalf against Plaintiff, and/or against other Owners acting
in support of this litigation's objectives, for matters related to this Case, including
acts of retaliation intimidation, harassment, or harm to their persons and/or property
for which said  Defendants or HOA Directors
may be held civilly and/or criminally liable.
 
The motion is denied for several
reasons.  First, the procedural defects
detailed above each warrant denial of the motion.  Second, despite the prior order limiting Plaintiff
to seeking a protective order, the order sought is clearly for injunctive relief.  Third, and most importantly, pursuant to
Evans v. Evans (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1157, 1169, the Court cannot
issue an injunction that is overbroad, vague, or generally phrased, because there
is no available remedy if there is a violation of the injunction.  Plaintiff’s requested injunction is so broad
and subjective that the Court cannot possibly enforce it if it is entered.  
 
3.     Motion
for Reconsideration
On 8/09/23, Plaintiff filed this
motion for reconsideration.  Plaintiff contends
he has fixed all the procedural errors in the original motion, and seeks a protective
order restraining Defendants in the manner detailed in the reply papers in
connection with the original motion. 
Plaintiff clarifies the fact that he is seeking relief pursuant to CCP
§527.6, which permits the Court to grant a restraining order where it finds the
plaintiff has suffered harassment due to the defendants’ acts.  
 
The Court will assume, without
deciding, that Plaintiff has shown new facts, circumstances, or law, such that
reconsidering its prior order is justified under CCP §1008.  Even if that is the case, the motion for
reconsideration must be denied.  
 
As an initial note, Plaintiff has
confused the proceedings by referring to his requested relief as a “protective
order,” when §527.6 refers to the relief available as a “restraining order.”  In reviewing §527.6, it is clear it does not
govern the relationship between Plaintiff and Defendants herein.  The types of acts Plaintiff contends
constitute harassment include bolting a fence and fumigating (see motion, pages
9-11)  This is not the type of harassment
contemplated by §527.6, which defines harassment as follows:
(b) For purposes of this section,
the following terms have the following meanings:
(1) “Course of conduct” is a pattern
of conduct composed of a series of acts over a period of time, however short,
evidencing a continuity of purpose, including following or stalking an
individual, making harassing telephone calls to an individual, or sending
harassing correspondence to an individual by any means, including, but not
limited to, the use of public or private mails, interoffice mail, facsimile, or
email. Constitutionally protected activity is not included within the meaning
of “course of conduct.”
(2) “Credible threat of violence”
is a knowing and willful statement or course of conduct that would place a
reasonable person in fear for the person's safety or the safety of the person's
immediate family, and that serves no legitimate purpose.
(3) “Harassment” is unlawful violence,
a credible threat of violence, or a knowing and willful course of conduct
directed at a specific person that seriously alarms, annoys, or harasses the
person, and that serves no legitimate purpose. The course of conduct must be
that which would cause a reasonable person to suffer substantial emotional
distress, and must actually cause substantial emotional distress to the
petitioner.
 
Plaintiff’s described conduct does
not constitute an act of violence, a threat of violence, or a course of conduct
as defined by §527.6(b)(1).  Plaintiff’s
only contention that even comes close to meeting the definition is found at
page 10, lines 10-12, wherein Plaintiff says another owner asked him if he was afraid
to be on the premises.  It appears,
however, that the owner was asking because the property was being fumigated,
and it is not safe to be on the property when it is being fumigated.  The question, therefore, does not appear to
be a credible threat of violence.  Even if
it were, any restraining order would be appropriate against the owner,
Diekmann, only, and Plaintiff’s proposed order is against Agopian, Huerta, and
Garcia.  
 
Plaintiff has therefore failed to
show he is entitled to the relief he seeks, and the motion for reconsideration
is denied.  
 
4.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above motion.  The Court asks the parties to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the hearing on the motions and the CMC.  