 Case Number:  23LBCV00347    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  S27 1. Background FactsPlaintiff, Kemechukwu Agu filed this action against Defendants, Win Chevrolet, Inc. and Hyundai Motor Financial, alleging a sole cause of action for breach of contract. Plaintiff alleges Defendants breached the parties’ contract by overcharging him in connection with the purchase of an automobile, including by charging a sale price in excess of the stipulated maximum loan amount in the unsolicited letter of offer, creating and multiplying fictitious fees that were not part of the parties’ sale contract, etc.Plaintiff filed the complaint on 3/03/23. Defendants filed answers to the complaint on 4/03/23 (Win) and 4/19/23 (Hyundai). Win filed this motion to compel arbitration on 7/18/23, and Hyundai filed a timely joinder on 9/11/23.2. Motion to Compel ArbitrationDefendant moves to compel arbitration pursuant to the parties’ written retail installment sales contract agreement, which is attached to the complaint as Exhibit 2. The contract is between Win and Plaintiff. The contract contains a provision, at the bottom of page one, requiring the parties to arbitration any dispute arising under the contract.Notably, any opposition to the motion was due on or before 9/29/23, and the Court has not received timely opposition to the motion.CCP §1281.2 obligates the Court to grant a motion to compel arbitration if it finds a binding contract providing for arbitration exists, unless the party opposing arbitration provides evidence establishing grounds for refusal to enforce the agreement. In light of the lack of opposition, Plaintiff necessarily failed to meet his burden to establish any such grounds, and the motion to compel arbitration is granted.CCP §1281.4 requires the Court to stay the pending action pursuant to completion of arbitration proceedings. Defendant seeks an order staying this action. The request is granted. This action is stayed pending completion of arbitration proceedings.3. JoinderHonda joins in the motion. It supports its joinder with the Declaration of Nayeli Saldivar, a manager with knowledge of the facts that support the joinder. Saldivar declares, at ¶9 of the declaration, that Plaintiff agreed to an assignment of the sales contract from Win to Honda. Saldivar declares Exhibit A, page 1, shows this agreement. The Court has reviewed Exhibit A, page 1, and cannot locate the assignment clause. The points and authorities in support of the joinder explain that the subject clause islocated at the bottom of page 5 of the agreement. The Court located the clause at the bottom of page 5. The Court finds Plaintiff agreed to Win’s assignment of the contract to Honda, such that the arbitration clause governs Plaintif’s claims against Honda also.As with the motion, there is no timely opposition to the joinder. The joinder is granted for the reasons detailed above in connection with the motion to compel.4. Future Hearing DateThe Court notes that there are no future hearing dates scheduled in this case. The Court sets an OSC re: completion of arbitration and dismissal for Friday, 10/11/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.Win is ordered to give notice.Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. If the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar. If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.