 Case Number:  22LBCV00071    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Expert
Exchange
Both parties served demands for
expert witness designation exchanges. 
Plaintiff demanded an exchange on 9/25/23.  Defendant demanded an exchange on
9/26/23.  Defendant served its
designation on 9/25/23, but Plaintiff did not serve its until 9/26/23.  Plaintiff’s attorney declares the 9/25/23
deadline was calendared, but was not migrated to his new cloud-based software;
only the 9/26/23 deadline was properly calendared and migrated.  
 
2.     9/29/23
Ex Parte Application
On 9/29/23, the Court heard and
granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application to shorten time for the hearing on
this motion.  Both parties appeared at
the hearing, and the parties waived notice of the order.  Defendant was ordered to file any opposition
to the motion on or before 10/05/23. 
Defendant has not filed timely opposition to the motion.  
 
3.     Analysis
a.    
Law
Governing Late Designations
A party who failed to exchange
under CCP § 2034.260 on time (normally 50 days before trial) may seek leave to
submit the required material on a later date. 
(CCP § 2034.710.)
 
            Absent
“exceptional circumstances,” the motion for permission to file a tardy list
must be made early enough to permit deposing the experts involved before the
15–day cut-off on expert witness depositions. 
(CCP §§ 2034.710(b), 2024.030.)  
 
            The court
may permit tardy submission of expert witness lists and information if the
following matters are shown (CCP § 2034.720):
 
(a) Excuse: The failure to exchange
expert witness information on time resulted from “mistake, inadvertence,
surprise or excusable neglect.” (CCP §2034.720(c)(1).)  
 
(b) Relief sought promptly: The
motion for relief is being made promptly after learning of such excuse;
 
(c) Information belatedly served on
all other parties: The moving party has already served a copy of the proposed
expert witness list and declarations on all other parties to the action;
 
(d) Availability for deposition:
The moving party will make the witness available immediately for a deposition
if leave is granted;
 
(e) No prejudice to opposing party:
The court must “take into account” the extent to which the opposing party has
relied on the absence of an expert witness list from the moving party. Before
granting leave to submit the tardy list, the court must determine that it will
not prejudice the opposing party's ability to maintain its action or defense on
the merits; and
 
(f) Attempt to resolve informally:
The usual declarations are required stating a “reasonable and good faith
attempt” to resolve informally each issue presented by the motion. (CCP §
2034.710(c).)
 
In ruling on the motion, the court
must consider all of the § 2034.720 factors enumerated above.  (Plunkett v. Spaulding, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th
at pp. 135–136—denial based solely on timing of motion was abuse of
discretion.)  If relief is granted, it
must be conditioned on the moving party making the expert available for
deposition “immediately.”  (CCP §
2034.720(d).)   
 
b.     Analysis
Plaintiff made the required showing
that it failed to designate experts due to a calendaring error, that it
promptly sought relief, and that it has provided the expert designation to
Defendant.  The Court finds Plaintiff and
Defendant could have met and conferred additionally in good faith to resolve
these issues, as there was no meaningful “meet and confer,” only a series of
accusations about whether the designation was timely or not.  The Court will rule on the motion despite the
lack of meaningful meet and confer, but asks Counsel to work together in good
faith in the future in connection with this and other actions.  
Defendant has not opposed the
motion, and has therefore not shown any grounds for denial of the motion.  The case is set for trial on 11/13/23, making
time of the essence, but also providing sufficient time for deposition of the
experts.  The motion is granted.  Plaintiff must make its experts available for
deposition immediately.  Counsel must
meet and confer to schedule the expert depositions.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.   
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s
email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on
the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   