 Case Number:  21STCV19312    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Claudia and Josue Morales
filed this action against Defendants, Long Beach Memorial Medical Center and
Ali Khoynezhad, M.D., PhD for negligence, hospital negligence, and loss of
consortium.  The complaint arises out of
Defendants’ care and treatment of Claudia Morales for cardiothoracic
surgery.  
 
On 2/07/23, the Court granted
Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend.  On
2/27/23, they filed their operative FAC, which includes causes of action for:
Negligence
Hospital Negligence
Loss of Consortium
Corporate Negligence
Intentional Misrepresentation
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
Willful and Wanton Misconduct
Fraud
Battery
 
2.     Demurrer
to FAC
a.     Parties’
Positions
Defendants demur to the complaint,
contending (a) the fourth cause of action is duplicative of the second, (b)
wanton and willful misconduct is not a separate cause of action, (c) the
fraud-based causes of action are not sufficiently pled, and (d) the battery
cause of action is not sufficiently pled. 

 
Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer.  They argue the fourth and second cause of
action are not duplicative, wanton and willful misconduct is properly pled, and
the fraud-based claims are properly pled.
 
Defendants, in reply, contend Plaintiffs’
cited cases do not support a separate cause of action for willful and wanton
misconduct, fraud is not properly pled, and the demurrer to the battery cause
of action should be sustained without leave to amend in light of Plaintiffs’
failure to address the issue.
 
b.     Initial
Note
Plaintiffs, with their opposition,
present their attorney’s declaration, an LA Times article, and Dr. Khoynezhad’s
deposition testimony.  Defendants, in
reply, object to consideration of the material, contending it is not subject to
judicial notice and cannot be considered on demurrer.  The Court will not consider the evidence in
determining whether the FAC states a cause of action, which can be decided
based solely on the face of the FAC; the Court will, however, consider the
declaration and evidence, to the extent necessary, to determine whether leave
to amend should be granted in the event the demurrer is sustained.
 
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other
pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of
the opposing party’s pleading. It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be. 
A demurrer can
be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.
Blank v. Kirwan 39 Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered (i.e., no “speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP §
430.10 [grounds], § 430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial
notice may be taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or
any cause of action within]. Specifically, a demurrer may be brought per CCP §
430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action
asserted. Per CCP §430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no
jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.
Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the
complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably respond. CCP §
430.10(f). 
 
However, in construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to
specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or
conclusory allegations. Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189
Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the facts pled in the complaint are
inconsistent with facts which are incorporated by reference from exhibits
attached to the complaint, the facts in the incorporated exhibits control.
Further, irrespective of the name or label given to a cause of action by the
plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if the facts as pled in the
body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief. Special demurrers are
not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).) 
Leave to amend
must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. Goodman v. Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the
complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer
pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person
or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The
parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the
responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring
party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer
efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).) 
 
d.         Meet and Confer
Defense Counsel submitted a declaration in compliance with the meet and
confer requirements.  The issue is
therefore ripe for determination on its merits. 

 
c.     Initial
Note re: Sixth Cause of Action
Defendants’ demurrer, at page 3,
line 21 through page 4, line 1 purports to challenge Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of
action.  Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of
action is for breach of fiduciary duty. 
Defendants’ points and authorities do not mention this cause of action or
articulate any basis for their pleading challenge.  To the extent there is a demurrer to this
cause of action, it is overruled as unsupported.  
 
d.     Second
and Fourth Causes of Action
Defendants demur to the fourth
cause of action for corporate negligence, contending it is duplicative of the
second cause of action for hospital negligence. 
Plaintiffs, in opposition to the demurrer, explain that the second cause
of action for hospital liability is pled against LBMMC, but their fourth cause
of action for corporate liability is pled against MHS, and is therefore not
duplicative.  
 
Defendants do not address this
issue in reply.  The demurrer to the
fourth cause of action is therefore overruled.
 
e.     Seventh
Cause of Action
Defendants demur to the seventh
cause of action for willful and wanton misconduct, contending it is not a
separate cause of action and is duplicative of the negligence cause of action.  Defendants rely on Berkly v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 527 to support their position.  Berkly, however, set forth the elements of a
cause of action for willful misconduct, noting that they are more strict than
the elements of mere negligence.  If
there are elements of a cause of action, then the cause of action exists.  While it may be only a “heightened” form of
negligence, if Plaintiffs were to merely plead a negligence claim, Defendants
would inevitably argue that they could not recover on a willful and wanton
misconduct theory at trial.  
 
The demurrer to the seventh cause
of action is overruled.
 
f.      Fifth
and Eighth Causes of Action 
i.             
Parties’ Arguments
Defendants demur to the fifth
(intentional misrepresentation) and eighth (fraud) causes of action, contending
the claim is based on an alleged failure to disclose that the subject medical
device was not FDA-approved for Plaintiff’s use, which is not a recognized
basis for a fraud claim.
Plaintiffs, in opposition to the
demurrer, argue their fraud claims are based both on the theory that the hospital
defendants knew Dr. Khoynezhad was dangerous but granted him privileges despite
this knowledge, and also on the theory that Dr. Khoynezhad improperly used an
experimental medical device on Plaintiff. 

 
Defendants, in reply, contend the
claims based on the medical device fail for the reasons stated in the demurrer,
and the claims based on granting privileges sound in negligence, not in
fraud.  
 
ii.            
Allegations of the FAC
Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action
is entitled “intentional misrepresentation – fraud by concealment.”  As an initial note, while not discussed by
the parties, this is confusing, as an intentional misrepresentation is, by its
very nature, false speech, whereas concealment is, by its very nature, failure
to speak.  
 
The cause of action, at ¶105(a)
through (j), alleges Defendants concealed various facts from Plaintiffs
relating to implantation of the non-approved stent.  At ¶105(k) through (m), Plaintiffs allege
Defendants concealed facts relating to Dr. Khoynezhad’s privileges,
specifically, that the medical executive committee had recommended the hospital
NOT grant him privileges because of his history of poor judgment and
inappropriate care and management of patients resulting in serious and
sometimes fatal complications.  
 
Plaintiffs’ eight cause of action is
entitled “fraud.”  The caption of the
cause of action does not indicate which species of fraud (intentional
misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, or concealment) Plaintiffs are
alleging.  At ¶168, Plaintiffs refer to
the cause of action as one for “constructive fraud.”  Pursuant to Assilzadeh v. California Federal
Bank (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 399, “’constructive fraud’ is a unique
species of fraud applicable only to a fiduciary or confidential relationship;
generally, constructive fraud comprises any act, omission or concealment
involving a breach of legal or equitable duty, trust or confidence which
results in damage to another even though the conduct is not otherwise
fraudulent.”  The cause of action alleges
Defendants engaged in constructive fraud by suppressing evidence that the
subject stent was not approved for Plaintiff’s use and also that Dr. Khoynezhad
should not have been permitted to practice in the facility.  Thus, the fifth cause of action and the eighth
cause of action are pled on the same basic set of facts, and are both pled
based on concealment theories.  
 
iii.           
Analysis
Defendants, in their demurrer, failed
to address the arguments that they suppressed the fact that the hospital review
committee recommended not granting Dr. Khoynezhad credentials because he is
unsafe as a physician.  Defendants
attempt to address these arguments in reply, but the Court will not consider an
argument raised for the first time in reply, as Plaintiffs do not have the
opportunity to address the argument.
 
Additionally, the FAC alleges facts
far over and above merely using a stent not approved by the FDA for implementation
under Plaintiff’s circumstances.  It alleges,
at ¶105(d) that the FDA had expressly warned Defendants NOT to use the stent in
the way they did with Plaintiff, at ¶105(g) that Dr. Khoynezhad was a paid
consultant for Medtronic, which manufactured the subject stent graft system,
and, at ¶115, that the hospital defendants were aware of Dr. Khoynezhad’s
financial relationship with Medtronic.  These
facts, among others pled in the FAC, render the FAC different in kind from Daum
v. SpineCare Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 1285, 1313,
relied upon heavily by Defendants in their moving papers.  There were no allegations of financial motivation
in Daum.  
 
The demurrer to the fraud causes of
action is therefore overruled.
g.     Ninth
Cause of Action 
Plaintiffs’ ninth cause of action is
for battery.  Defendants contend that,
pursuant to Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 240, when a patient consents to
a surgery, and the surgery is performed, but complications arise, the claim
does not sound in battery.  Plaintiffs do
not oppose the demurrer to the battery cause of action.  The demurrer is therefore sustained without
leave to amend.  
 
h.     Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to the ninth
cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.  Defendants’ demurrer is otherwise
overruled.  Defendants are ordered to
file an answer to the FAC, with the ninth cause of action deemed stricken,
within ten days.  
 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar today.  The Court asks
Counsel to make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the demurrer.  