 Case Number:  23STCV05877    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
March 16, 2023, Plaintiff a Minor, by and through Or Amsalam,
guardian ad litem, filed this action against Defendants Haim Mazar and Does
1-50 for strict
liability (Civ. Code, § 3342), negligence, and premises liability. 
On
July 25, 2023, Plaintiff L.A. (“Plaintiff”), by and through her guardian ad
litem, Or Amsalam, filed a first amended complaint against Defendants Haim Mazar (“Haim Mazar”), Katya Mazar (“Katya Mazar”),
and Does 1-10 for strict liability (Civ.
Code, § 3342), negligence, and premises liability. 
On
August 8, 2023, the Court granted Or Amsalam’s application to serve as
Plaintiff’s guardian ad litem. 
On
September 12, 2023, Haim Mazar filed a general denial.  On
November 21, 2023, Katya Mazar filed a general denial. 
On
January 12, 2024, Haim Mazar and Katya Mazar (“Defendants”) filed a motion for leave
to file a cross-complaint to be heard on April 10, 2024. On March 27, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition. On April 2, 2024, Defendants filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 12, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
request leave to file a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Orly Amsalam,
Or Amsalam, and Roes 1-20 for equitable indemnity and apportionment of fault. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 426.50 provides:           
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject
to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.10 provides: 
“A party against whom a cause of action has been
asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting
forth either or both of the following: 
“(a) Any cause of action he has against any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this
subdivision authorizes the filing of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in
an action commenced under Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3. 
“(b) Any cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50 provides: 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any
of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her
before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. 
“(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any
time before the court has set a date for trial. 
“(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b).  Leave may be granted in the
interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.) 
          “A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the
course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is
demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as
oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient
grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.”  (Silver Org. Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  “Cross-complaints
for comparative equitable indemnity would appear virtually always
transactionally related to the main action.” 
(Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All American Development
Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The first
amended complaint 
The first
amended complaint alleges that on June 28, 2020, while Plaintiff and her mother
were visiting Defendants’ home, Defendants’ dog attacked Plaintiff and bit and
clawed at Plaintiff’s face and upper lip, injuring her. 
B.    Defendants’ motion for leave to file
cross-complaint 
Defendants
argue that the incident occurred when Plaintiff’s parents (father Or Ansalam
and mother Orly Amsalam) left Plaintiff, then 16 months old, alone in
Defendants’ home with Defendants’ dog.  While unsupervised, Defendants contend, Plaintiff fell off a table onto the sleeping dog.  According to Defendants, Plaintiff’s parents are
therefore partly or entirely responsible for Plaintiff’s injuries. 
Plaintiff
opposes the motion, arguing (1) Defendants have not explained their delay in
seeking leave to file a cross-complaint, (2) Defendants are not acting in good
faith, and (3) granting leave to file a cross-complaint will unduly prejudice
Plaintiff, waste judicial resources, and violate important public policy
principles. 
C.      Ruling 
Despite
Defendants’ delay in seeking leave to file a cross-complaint, and having
considered Plaintiff’s arguments, the Court concludes that Plaintiff has not
shown Defendants are acting in bad faith.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.50.)  Liberally construing
the statute to avoid forfeiture of a cause of action (see ibid.), the
Court grants the motion in the interest of justice. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Defendants Haim Mazar and Katya Mazar for leave to
file a cross-complaint.  The Court orders
Defendants Haim Mazar and Katya Mazar to file and serve the cross-complaint
within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.