  Case Number:  20STCV10214    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
March 13, 2020, Plaintiff Michael Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Starbucks Corporation (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for
general negligence and premises liability. 
On
April 23, 2020, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
March 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to amend his complaint, to be
heard on April 10, 2024.  Defendant has
not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently set for January 13, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff
asks for leave to file an amended complaint. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’ ”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“[I]t
is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:656, p. 6-193 (Cal.
Practice Guide).) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on February 8, 2020, at 1789 W Jefferson Blvd, Los Angeles, CA 90018: 
·       “Defendants negligently, carelessly and recklessly
served drinks that were too hot.”
·       “Defendants did not securely fasten the lids of each
hot beverage that were negligently, carelessly and recklessly served to
Plaintiff.”
·       “Defendants negligently, carelessly and recklessly
served Plaintiff hot drinks in a beverage container that was not structurally
sound and/or flawed in design.”
·       “Defendants negligently, carelessly and recklessly
handed over the hot beverages to the Plaintiff without the Plaintiff having a
secure grip on the hot beverages.”
Plaintiff
allegedly suffered injuries as the result of Defendants’ negligence. 
B.   Plaintiff’s motion to file an amended complaint 
Plaintiff
requests leave to amend his complaint in response to Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment, which is set for hearing on September 30, 2024.  Plaintiff bases the proposed amendments on a
video received during discovery which purportedly shows “specific negligent
actions taken by the Defendant.”  (Motion
p. 2.)  Plaintiff contends that “There was no need to amend even after having seen the
video, as the general allegations do encompass the negligent conduct alleged in
the complaint.”  (Motion p. 2.)  Nonetheless, arguing that Defendant has
construed the complaint’s general allegations “narrowly,” Plaintiff asks for
leave to “amend the complaint to conform to proof so that this court can
properly rule on the facts in dispute in this case against a specific
allegation that appeared through discovery.” 
(Motion p. 2.) 
“If
either party wants the trial court to consider a previously unpleaded issue in
connection with a motion for summary judgment, it may request leave to amend at
or prior to the hearing on the motion.” 
(Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 10:51.5, p. 10-22.)  “ ‘Given the longstanding California court policy
of exercising liberality in permitting amendments to pleadings at any stage of
the proceedings, and of disregarding errors or defects in pleadings unless
substantial rights are affected, . . . a party should be permitted to introduce
. . . [an unpleaded defense] in a summary judgment [proceeding] so long as the
opposing party has adequate notice and opportunity to respond.’ ”  (Id., ¶ 10:51.6, p. 10-23, quoting Cruey
v. Gannett Co. (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 356, 367.) 
Plaintiff's proposed amended complaint adds factual allegations that are not
contained in Plaintiff’s original form complaint.  The proposed amended complaint also removes the
premises liability claim and certain other factual allegations.  The amendments do not, however, change the basic nature of the case.  
D.      Ruling  “[I]t
is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge, supra,
213 Cal.App.3d at p. 1048.)  “Prejudice
exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of
critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery,
etc.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 6:656, p. 6-193.) 
Defendant
does not assert that allowing Plaintiff to amend the complaint would prejudice or mislead Defendant. 
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Michael Garcia’s motion for leave to file a first
amended complaint. 
Plaintiff Michael Garcia is ordered to file and serve
the first amended complaint within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.