 Case Number:  22STCV01951    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 18, 2022, Plaintiff Vanessa Coats (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Michael V. Jenkins (“Jenkins”) and Does 1-50 for general
negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff later amended the complaint to
include Defendant Emotional Health Association dba Share! (“EHA”) as Doe 1. 
On
March 29, 2022, Jenkins filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Norma Burks (“Burks”) and Roes 1-25 for declaratory relief,
implied indemnity and equitable apportionment. 
On
June 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint. 
On
July 12, 2023, Jenkins filed an answer. 
On
September 7, 2023, the Court sustained EHA’s demurrer with leave to amend. 
On
October 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint against Jenkins,
EHA, and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
November 6, 2023, Jenkins filed an answer. 
On December
12, 2023, the Court sustained EHA’s demurrer to the second amended complaint
with leave to amend. 
On
January 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a third amended complaint against Jenkins,
EHA, and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
January 10, 2024, Jenkins filed an answer.  
On
January 18, 2024, EHA filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendant Norma Burkes (“Burkes”) and Moes 1-25 for indemnification,
apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. 
On
January 24, 2024, EHA filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication to be heard on April 10, 2024. On March 27,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On
April 5, 2024, EHA filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 9, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
EHA asks
the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. EHA's evidentiary objections Sustained. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  
          When the moving party is a
defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one
element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p.
854.) The defendant must “present evidence, and not simply point out that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the
defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters
of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant
may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as
through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect
that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id.
at p. 855, original emphasis.)  
          “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .
shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
“Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a
witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
          In addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth
plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are
undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary judgment];
see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary adjudication
“shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment”].)
The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate
statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving
party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or
disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth
plainly and concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends
are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party
fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that
failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide
the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(b)(1), (3).)   
          In ruling on the motion, the court
must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences reasonably drawn
from it and must view such evidence and inferences in the light most favorable
to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  “[A] court
cannot grant summary judgment based on inferences that are contradicted by
other inferences or evidence. And a triable issue of fact exists when the
evidence permits a reasonable trier of fact to find a contested fact in favor
of the party opposing the motion. 
[Citation.] Put slightly differently, a summary judgment may not be
granted unless the evidence is incapable of supporting a judgment for the
losing party.” (California-American Water Co. v. Marina Coast Water Dist.
(2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1272, 1296.) 
B.   Negligence and premises liability 
“The elements of a negligence claim and a premises
liability claim are the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and
proximate cause resulting in injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1159.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The third amended complaint 
The first
amended complaint alleges the following: 
Jenkins
owned the property at 3241 Flower St, Lynwood, CA 90262-4226.  Jenkins hired EHA to help manage the property
including finding tenants, addressing tenant problems, resolving conflicts
between tenants, and relocating tenants. 
Plaintiff,
a tenant, reported to EHA and Jenkins that Burks, another tenant, had
threatened her.  EHA and Jenkins did not
take reasonable steps to protect Plaintiff from Burks.  EHA was aware of Burks’s prior violent acts and
threats against other tenants. 
On
April 2, 2020, Burks pushed Plaintiff out of a window on the second floor of
the property, injuring Plaintiff. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
Plaintiff
lived in a shared housing property owned by Jenkins, located at 3241 Flower
Street, Lynwood, CA 90262.  Under an
agreement between Jenkins and EHA, the property was intended to house men or
women with disabilities who were able to live independently. The Property had
four bedrooms large enough to place two people in each room.  Jenkins would provide each resident a rental
agreement and furnishings, encourage residents to attend at least three weekly
self-help groups, and encourage residents to hold a weekly house meeting.  EHA would provide referrals for potential
residents, find appropriate self-help support groups for them to attend,
respond to residents’ concerns, and help resolve disagreements between
residents. 
Amberlin
Morse (“Morse”), an EHA employee, was the “peer bridger.”  Morse's job was to support residents, visit the homes managed by EHA, help the residents solve their
problems, and receive their complaints. 
On
or around February 15, 2020, Plaintiff signed a Resident Agreement with EHA to live
at the property.  On or around February
16, 2020, Burks signed a Resident Agreement with EHA to live at the property. 
When
Burks moved into the property, she shared a room with Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff
alleges that Burks threatened her with physical harm and that even after she
communicated her fears to EHA, EHA did nothing to have Burks either removed or
relocated from the property. 
Plaintiff
alleges that on April 2, 2020, she was standing near a window on the second
floor when Burks pushed her out of the window and caused significant
life-threatening injuries. 
C.   EHA’s summary judgment motion 
EHA
argues that it is entitled to summary judgment because it was not foreseeable
that Burks would push Plaintiff out of the window.  In particular, EHA argues (1) Jenkins did not
know that Burks had “violent propensities,” (2) there were no prior physical
altercations among the residents, and (3) Morse did not recall Plaintiff
informing her of any safety concerns. D.   Analysis  The
Court finds that EHA has not carried its initial summary judgment burden of making a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact regarding foreseeability.  At Morse’s
deposition, she testified that Burks “would make a lot of threats” including
statements that she was going to knife someone and was “going to whoop your a-s-s.”  Although Morse could not recall if Burks made
these statements before or after the incident, Morse testified that as a result
of these threats and what Plaintiff told her, Morse was concerned about
Plaintiff’s safety.  (Exh. 4, pp. 32, 38.)  A reasonable trier of fact could conclude that Morse was aware of these threats and became concerned about Plaintiff's safety before the April 2, 2020 incident.
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Emotional Health Association’s motion for summary judgment
or, in the alternative, summary adjudication. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.