  Case Number:  23CMCV01322    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  A 
23CMCV01322
 Michael Brian Smith v. Seiko Epson Corporation r/t
Thursday,
June 20, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADING 
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
alleges that Plaintiff’s staffing agency, (“Volt”) assigned Plaintiff to work at
Seiko Epson Corporation (“Seiko”). Plaintiff alleges that he was racially
profiled, targeted, and harassed by “Rodger,” a manager, who also defamed
Plaintiff’s reputation by calling Volt and demanding that Plaintiff be removed
from a second work assignment upon Plaintiff’s termination from Seiko. (FAC
¶ 5.) Plaintiff alleges claims for “defamation under the
vicarious liability doctrine, willful and wanton conduct, and punitive damages.”
(FAC,
filed 10/11/23.) 
       On March 1, 2024, Seiko filed its answer
to the FAC. 
 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Seiko argues that the first amended
complaint does not allege sufficient facts to support claims for defamation, wanton,
and malicious conduct, and for harassment and retaliation. In opposition, Plaintiff
cites the pleading to argue that the elements for each claim are supported by
the allegations.
       In reply, Seiko reiterates that the court
previously determined that the amended pleading did not adequately allege
claims when the court denied Plaintiff’s request for a court judgment.
 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       A
party can move for judgment on the pleadings on grounds the complaint does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438 subd. (c)(B).) The
motion performs the same function as a general demurrer and attacks only
defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters subject to
judicial notice. (Burnett v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123
Cal.App.4th 1057, 1064). For the purposes of this motion, all
properly alleged material facts are deemed true. (Fire Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.)
       As
with demurrers, the court may not consider contentions, deductions, or
conclusions of fact or law. (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7
Cal.4th 634, 638.) Plaintiff is required to allege facts sufficient
to establish every element of each cause of action. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th
39, 43.)
IV.   
DISCUSSION
A.     
The defamation fails to state a
cause of action.
       The elements of a defamation claim are a
“(1) publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5)
has a natural tendency to injure or causes special damage.” (Medical
Marijuana, Inc. v. ProjectCBD.com (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 869, 888.)

       In cases of libel involving a written
publication, the “general rule is that the words constituting an alleged libel must
be specifically identified, if not pleaded verbatim, in the complaint.” (Id.)
Slander is a false and unprivileged publication, “orally uttered,
including communications by radio or any mechanical or other means.” (Medical
Marijuana at 893.) To state a claim for slander, Plaintiff must allege the
substance of the defamatory statement. (Id.) 
       The alleged defamatory statement must be a
provably false factual assertion. (Gilbert
v. Sykes (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 13, 32.) The court considers the
totality of circumstances to determine whether the statement is fact or
opinion. (Balla
v. Hall (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 652, 678.) Whether a statement constitutes actionable defamation is a
question of law for the court. (Id.) 
       The FAC alleges that Rodger “emailed” and
“called” Plaintiff’s employment agency and stated that “Plaintiff was
disciplined because of behavior problems and had issues with Rodger.” (FAC, ¶
33.) Rodger allegedly and maliciously caused harm as Plaintiff was subsequently
terminated from his employment with unidentified Doe defendants. (FAC, ¶ 36-37.)

       The FAC states facts that undermine the requirement
that statements must be provably false in order to be actionable; rather the
allegations demonstrate the truth of Rodger’s belief that Plaintiff had behavioral
problems and that Plaintiff had “issues” with Rodger. Plaintiff alleges that
Rodger would follow Plaintiff around the warehouse and/or watch plaintiff
through video cameras.  Rodger allegedly harassed,
confronted, and interrogated Plaintiff without Plaintiff’s immediate manager
being present; Rodger accused Plaintiff of leaving trash in the work area,
although Plaintiff denied it; Plaintiff admits he felt threatened by Rodger and
reported Rodger to his supervisor; Plaintiff’s supervisor advised Plaintiff that
he needed to have a meeting with Rodger before filing grievances against Rodger
which ultimately occurred; Plaintiff alleges he was satisfied with the meeting;
Rodger engaged in acts to keep track of Plaintiff’s production numbers “in an
attempt to keep an eye on Plaintiff”; Rodger allegedly had a personal grudge
with Plaintiff over a “harassment meeting” that occurred in 2018. (FAC, ¶¶ 14-22.)

       The foregoing allegations negate the
contention that Rodger’s alleged statements were false. 
B.     
Plaintiff admits he did not allege
claims for harassment and retaliation.
       In his opposition, Plaintiff alleges that
he does not claim harassment or retaliation as causes of action. (Opp. p. 6, ¶
26.) Rather, Plaintiff alleges that he obtained his “right to sue letter” for a
second lawsuit in the near future. (Id.)

       The first page of the pleading identifies
three causes of action, none of which include harassment or discrimination
claims. Accordingly, the motion is not directed at an actual cause of action in
this respect.
 
C.     
The second and third causes of
action for willful and wanton conduct and for punitive damages are not
supported by the alleged facts.
 
       “Willful and wanton” misconduct is not a
cause of action standing alone. Rather, such conduct has legal consequences
that justify imposition of punitive damages. (Donnelly
v. Southern Pac. Co. (1941) 18 Cal.2d 863, 869.)

       Punitive damages may be imposed by
statute where the defendant
is guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code,
§ 3294 subd. (a).) The predicate acts to support a claim for punitive damages must be
intended to cause injury or must constitute “malicious” or “oppressive” conduct
as defined by statute. “Malice” is defined as “conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (c)(1);
College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725
["malice involves awareness of dangerous consequences and a willful and
deliberate failure to avoid them"].) "Oppression" is defined as
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294 subd. (a)
subd. (c)(2).)
       These claims all arise from the same set of facts,
namely Rodger’s alleged defamatory statements. (FAC, ¶¶ 30-31, 40.) As
previously stated, the allegations do not support a claim for defamation in the
absence of provably untrue statements, and as a consequence, does not support a
claim for punitive damages based on willful or wanton misconduct or malicious, fraudulent,
or oppressive conduct. 
 
V.     
CONCLUSION
       Leave to amend is ordinarily given if there is a reasonable possibility that the
defect can be cured. It is Plaintiff’s burden to demonstrate how he or she can
amend the complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading. "]. (Association
of Community Organizations for Reform Now v. Department of Industrial Relations (1995) 41
Cal.App.4th 298, 302.) The factual circumstances as alleged do not support actionable
conduct. Accordingly, the motion for judgment on the pleading is GRANTED without leave
to amend. 
       
 