  Case Number:  23STCV27978    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  49 Julio Garcia v. The County of Los AngelesPLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED MOTION FOR DISCOVERY OF PEACE OFFICERS PERSONNEL RECORDS (PITCHESS MOTION) MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Julio Garcia RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant County of Los AngelesSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Julio Garcia, a Hispanic American male, worked as a Supervising Deputy Probation Officer for the County. Plaintiff alleges Defendant County discriminated against him based on his ethnicity by transferring him to a new work location and giving him increased work compared to non-Hispanic employees. Plaintiff brings causes of action for (1) FEHA discrimination, (2) FEHA harassment, (3) FEHA retaliation, (4) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, or retaliation, and (5) violation of Labor Code Section 1102.5.Plaintiff now moves to compel disclosure of peace officer personnel records of Victor Banuelos, Janice Jones, Sharrieff Myers, and Jessica Carrington. Defendant opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Plaintiff’s Pitchess Motion is GRANTED as modified herein. Defendant is ordered to produce the subject records for in camera review. The Court sets an in camera hearing for a date TBD in Department 49, Stanley Mosk Courthouse. Moving party to give notice, unless waivedDISCUSSION: Pitchess MotionI. Objections to EvidenceDefendant County has submitted various objections to the declaration of Plaintiff Julio Garcia. This court is unaware of any legal authority which requires a court to rule on evidentiary objections on a motion, except as to a motion for summary motion/adjudication (CCP § 437c (q)) or a special motion to strike (CCP § 425.16 (b)(2)); see also, Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 947-949.)As such, the court respectfully declines to rule on these objections.  The court is well aware of the rules of evidence, and to how much weight, if any, should be given to any of the proposed evidence.  II. Legal Standard The Pitchess procedure applies when “discovery or disclosure is sought of peace or custodial officer personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of the Penal Code or information from those records.” (Evid. Code § 1043(a).) Obtaining discovery of peace officers’ personnel records is a two-step process. First, the party seeking discovery “must file a motion supported by affidavits showing ‘good cause for the discovery,’ first by demonstrating the materiality of the information to the pending litigation, and second by ‘stating upon reasonable belief’ that the police agency has the records or information at issue.” (Warrick v. Superior Court (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011, 1019.) Second, if the Court finds good cause for the discovery, “it reviews the pertinent documents in chambers and discloses only that information falling within the statutorily defined standards of relevance.” (Ibid.)This initial burden is a “relatively relaxed standard[].” . . . Information is material if it “will facilitate the ascertainment of the facts and a fair trial.” . . .  “[A] declaration by counsel on information and belief is sufficient to state facts to satisfy the ‘materiality’ component of that section.” (Haggerty v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1086, citations omitted, emphasis added.)III. AnalysisPlaintiff moves for discovery of the peace officer personnel records of Janice Jones, Victor Banuelos, Sharieff Myers, and Jessica Carrington. Plaintiff contends these persons are “management officials who allegedly discriminated against Plaintiff in the present case due to his Hispanic ethnicity.” (Mtn. 7: 10-11.) Plaintiff seeks documents that “refer, relate or reflect upon disciplinary actions taken by” Jones, Banuelos, Myers, and Carrington “against Hispanic-Americans such as Plaintiff, both evidencing harassment, discrimination, retaliation or failure to prevent same.” (Id. 7: 11-15.) Plaintiff Julio Garcia worked as Supervising Deputy Probation Officer at the Dorothy Kirby Center in Los Angeles County. (Compl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff, who is Hispanic, alleges that directors at Dorothy Kirby transferred “many employees of Hispanic American ethnicity” to other locations and “replace[d] them with African American County employees.” (Id. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff further alleges that Hispanic American employees were assigned “more difficult work” than African American employees. (Id. ¶ 11.) Plaintiff alleges that after he raised concerns of the “obvious favoritism” exhibited toward African American employees, he was transferred out of the Dorothy Kirby Center in retaliation. (Id. ¶¶ 18, 20.) Plaintiff now asserts causes of action against the County for (1) FEHA discrimination, (2) FEHA harassment, (3) FEHA retaliation, (4) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and/or retaliation, and (5) violation of Labor Code § 1102.5. Defendant opposes the motion. Defendant contends the discovery is a “fishing expedition” that seeks records irrelevant to Plaintiff’s case. In particular, Defendant objects to the temporal scope of the request, which seeks records going back ten years.Here, Plaintiff has included declarations from himself and his attorney, Steven H. Haney, demonstrating the materiality of the discovery sought. This court concludes that Plaintiff has met the good cause showing under the “relatively relaxed standard” in step one, as the employee records sought are clearly material to the subject matter involved in the litigation. The court agrees with Defendant, however, that the ten-year scope is excessive, and Plaintiff has failed to establish the relevance or need for documents going back that far. Therefore, the requests are modified and limited to only documents going back five (5) years, i.e. from 2018 through 2023. Thus, this justifies an in camera inspection of the files going back five years. (Haggerty, supra, 117 Cal. App. 4th at 1087.) At that time, this court will review those portions of the files in camera and make the standard threshold relevance analysis required under step two of the Pitchess procedure.Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion is GRANTED as modified herein. Defendant is ordered to produce the subject records for in camera review. The Court sets an in camera hearing for a date TBD in Department 49, Stanley Mosk Courthouse. Moving party is ordered to give notice, unless waived.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   July 16, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court 