 Case Number:  24STCV11599    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   November
14, 2024                                        
 
CASE NAME:           Michael
Kim v. Jeung-Ho Park a/k/a JP Park, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                24STCV11599

 
MOTION
TO DISMISS FOR LACK OF PERSONAL JURISDICTION
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Jeung-Ho Park, Jay Song, Global One Bancshares, Inc., and Global One Bank
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Michael Kim
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order dismissing the Complaint for lack of personal jurisdiction.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Dismiss is GRANTED as to Defendants Global One Bancshares, Inc. and Global
One Bank;
2.      Motion
to Dismiss is DENIED as to Defendants Jeung-Ho Park and Jay Song;
3.      Defendants
Jeung-Ho Park and Jay Song are ORDERED to file their responsive pleading within
30 days of notice of this ruling.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff Michael Kim (Plaintiff) filed a
Complaint against Defendants Jeung-Ho Park a/k/a JP Park, Jay Song, Global One
Bancshares, Inc., and Global One Bank (Defendants) with seven causes of action
for: (1) Fraud, (2) Negligent Misrepresentation, (3) Breach of oral contract,
(4) Defamation, (5) Intentional infliction of emotional distress, (6) Negligent
infliction of emotional distress, and (7) Quantum meruit.
 
According to the Complaint, Defendants enticed Plaintiff to
work for them as part of a banking project in Texas. Defendants offered
Plaintiff a role as Chief Operating Officer. Plaintiff alleges that he
diligently worked to advance the banking project to the detriment of his own
independent business. Despite this, Defendants reneged on their promises and
offered Plaintiff subpar employment terms knowing he would have no choice but
to accept. 
 
On July 24, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion to
dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction. 
 
On October 92, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. Replies
were due on or before November 6, 2024. As of November 8, 2024, the court has
not received a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Motion to Quash 
 
“A defendant, on or before the
last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court
may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more
of the following purposes: To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., (CCP) § 418.10,
subd. (a)(1).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
A defendant may move to quash service of summons on the
ground the court lacks personal jurisdiction.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10,
subd. (a)(1).)¿¿ The plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts
justifying the exercise of jurisdiction. (Burdick
v. Superior Court (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 8, 17 (Burdick); Vons Companies,
Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 449 (Vons).) ¿By¿statute, the courts of this
state may exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresident defendants to the
extent permitted by the United States Constitution.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
410.10.)¿ Under the Constitution, due process requires that a nonresident
defendant have¿“certain minimum contacts” with a forum such that the court’s
exercise of personal jurisdiction does not offend traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.¿ (Int’l
Shoe Co. v. Wash.¿(1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.)¿¿ 
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
The court GRANTS Defendants’ request for
judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452(d), (h); See Kalnoki v. First American Trustee Servicing
Solutions, LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 23,37.) However, the court only takes
judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content
and authenticity of public records and other specified documents”; it does not
take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those
documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022)
87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)[1]¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Defendants contend the court lacks personal jurisdiction
because they are domiciled, incorporated, and headquartered in Texas and that
the facts giving rise to this lawsuit occurred in Texas. Defendants also
contend they have not purposefully availed themselves of California’s forum and
the costs related to enforcing the action in California would be substantially
greater than enforcing it in Texas.[2]
 
California courts have personal jurisdiction over an
out-of-state defendant only if (1) jurisdiction is available under California’s
long arm statute and (2) the exercise of jurisdiction over the defendant does
not offend principles of due process. (Buchanan
v. Soto (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1361-1362; see also Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29
Cal.4th 262, 268.) Where, as here, a state has construed its long-arm statute
to provide jurisdiction to the constitutional limits of due process under the
Fourteenth Amendment, the focus is solely on whether the exercise of
jurisdiction would comport with due process. (See In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
100, 107-108 (2005); Pavlovich, supra, 29
Cal.4th at p. 268.) Due process requires that a nonresident defendant have
certain minimum contacts with the forum state “such that the exercise of
jurisdiction does not offend ‘traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice.’” (Buchanan, supra, 241
Cal.App.4th at p. 1362 (quoting Int’l
Shoe Co. v. Wash. (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316).)¿ 
¿ 
It is the plaintiff who has the burden of proving personal
jurisdiction by showing that the defendant had the requisite “minimum contacts”
with California, under either a general jurisdiction or a specific jurisdiction
theory. (Floveyor International, Ltd. v.
Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789, 797.) “Although the defendant is
the moving party and must present some admissible evidence (declarations or
affidavits) to place the issue [of personal jurisdiction] before the court (by
showing the absence of¿minimum contacts with the state), the burden of proof is
on the plaintiff to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, a basis for
jurisdiction (minimum contacts between the defendant and the forum state) and
valid service of process in conformance with our service statutes.”¿(School Dist. Of Okaloosa County v. Superior
Court¿(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1126,¿1131.)¿¿ 
 
Specific
Jurisdiction
 
Defendants contend there is no specific jurisdiction because
no Defendant purposefully availed itself of California’s forum and Plaintiff’s
claim does not arise out of or relate to any Defendant’s conduct with
California.[3]
Alternatively, Defendants contend that it would not be reasonable to find
purposeful availment.[4]
Plaintiff argues Defendants JP and Jay Song individually and on behalf of the
entity defendants travelled to California multiple times to meet with Plaintiff
to move the Project forward. Plaintiff also contends that his claims do arise
out of the conduct in California and that a substantial number of witnesses
live in California.
 

Purposeful Availment¿ 

 
“[P]urposeful¿availment¿occurs where a nonresident defendant
purposefully directs¿its activities at residents of the forum
[citation],¿purposefully derives¿benefit¿from’ its activities in the forum
[citation],¿creates a substantial connection with the forum
[citation],¿deliberately has engaged in significant activities within’ the
forum [citation],¿or has created continuing obligations between itself¿and
residents of the forum.” (Anglo Irish
Bank Corp. v. Superior Court¿(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 969, 978 (Anglo Irish), internal quotation marks
and citations omitted.)¿The relevant period during which “minimum contacts”
must have existed is when the cause of action arose rather than when the
complaint was filed or served. (See Boaz
v. Boyle & Co. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 700, 717; Cadle Co. II, Inc. v. Fiscus (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1232, 1239.) 
 
Here, the court agrees in part with Plaintiff. As alleged, the
conduct at issue in the Complaint occurred in California. (Complaint ¶¶ 12-29.)
Additionally, Plaintiff provided unrebutted evidence that the individual
defendants, JP and Jay Song, purposefully availed themselves of California’s
forum. First, JP and Jay Song traveled to California at least eight times in
2022 to work with Plaintiff on the Project. (Kim Decl. ¶ 4.) Second, JP and Jay
Song called Plaintiff numerous times spanning November 2020 to December 2022 to
discuss the Project. (Kim Decl. ¶¶ 9-12.) Third, JP emailed Plaintiff numerous
times to discuss the Project. (Kim Decl. ¶¶ 14-17.) JP and Jay Song used these
communication methods to direct Plaintiff, residing in California, on
particular tasks to keep developing the Project. (Kim Decl. ¶ 18.) Defendants
JP and Jay Song thus “derived a benefit” from their activities within
California because Plaintiff rendered services for the Project over a three-year
period while living in California. (Kim Decl. ¶ 19.) Defendants’ argument that
the breach occurred in Texas does not change that the majority of the alleged
harmful conduct was directed to Plaintiff in California.
 
As such, Plaintiff met his burden to show that the
individual defendants purposefully availed themselves of California’s forum. 
 
However, Plaintiff did not provide evidence that the entity
defendants, Global One Bancshares, Inc., and Global One Bank, purposefully
availed themselves of California’s forum. Notably, Plaintiff concludes that “JP
and Jay Song were acting individually and also as the representatives of the
two corporation entities to be established as a result of the Project.” (Kim
Decl. ¶ 4.) Indeed, it is questionable that the entities existed when JP and
Jay Song were engaging with Plaintiff. (Id.
[noting “future director” and “future CEO” of the entities.]) Plaintiff
provided no other evidence. 
 
As such, Plaintiff did not meet his burden to show that
the entity defendants purposefully availed themselves of California as a forum.
 

Fair Play and Substantial Justice¿ 

 
Courts may consider the following: “¿“the burden on the
defendant,” “the forum State's interest in adjudicating the dispute,” “the
plaintiff's interest in obtaining convenient and effective relief,” “the
interstate judicial system's interest in obtaining the most efficient
resolution of controversies,” and the “shared interest of the several States in
furthering fundamental substantive social policies.”” (Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz¿(1985) 471 U.S. 462, 477.)¿¿¿ 
 
Here, the factors weigh in favor of exercising jurisdiction
over the individual defendants but not the entity defendants. First, Plaintiff
is a citizen of California and so California has a strong interest in enforcing
his rights. (See Epic Communications,
Inc. v. Richwave Technology, Inc. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 314, 336.) Second,
Plaintiff provided unrebutted evidence that most of the witnesses also live in
California. (Kim Decl. ¶ 20.) Third, the court infers that the individual
defendants would not suffer undue economic burden litigating in California
because Plaintiff provided evidence that the JP and Jay Song frequently traveled
to California for business. (Kim Decl. ¶ 5.) However, there is insufficient
evidence that hailing the entity defendants to California is just. The court
will not foreclose on Plaintiff’s ability to uncover evidence showing otherwise
in discovery.
 
Therefore, the court will exercise jurisdiction over the
individual defendants but not the entity defendants.
Accordingly, the court GRANTS the motion to quash service
of summons as to Defendants Global One Bancshares, Inc. and Global One Bank but
DENIES the motion to quash service of summons as to Defendants Jeung-Ho Park
and Jay Song.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Dismiss is GRANTED as to Defendants Global One Bancshares, Inc. and Global
One Bank;
2.      Motion
to Dismiss is DENIED as to Defendants Jeung-Ho Park and Jay Song;
3.      Defendants
Jeung-Ho Park and Jay Song are ORDERED to file their responsive pleading within
30 days of notice of this ruling.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              November 14, 2024                __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


