  Case Number:  22STCV22996    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   November
14, 2024                                        
 
CASE NAME:           Carmen
Barton v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                22STCV22996

 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Elijah Burton, M.D.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Carmen Barton
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
1.      An
order granting summary judgment.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
1.      Summary
Judgment is DENIED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On July 14, 2022, Plaintiff Carmen Barton (Plaintiff) filed
a Complaint against Defendants Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Jonas
Castaneda-Panuco, Elijah Burton, and Bayliss Yarnell (Defendants) with two
causes of action for: (1) Pain and Suffering and (2) Wrongful Death.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff’s husband, Anthony
Nicholas Cathan, Jr. (Decedent), died due to Defendants’ negligence in his
medical care. Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ failed to correctly diagnose
Decedent’s condition and discharged him.
 
On September 1, 2022, Defendant Cedars-Sinai Marina Del Rey
Hospital, erroneously sued as Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (Cedars-Sinai) filed
an Answer.
 
On September 26, 2022, Defendant Elijah Burton (Burton)
filed an Answer.
 
On October 13, 2022, Defendant Jona Castaneda-Panuco, M.D.,
erroneously sued as Jonas Castaneda-Panuco (Castaneda-Panuco) filed an Answer.
 
On January 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a fictitious name
amendment changing DOE 1 to Premier Emergency Physicians of California Medical
Group.
 
On April 21, 2023, Defendants Bayliss Yarnell, M.A.,
erroneously sued as Bayliss Yarness (Yarnell) and Premier Emergency Physicians
of California Medical Group (Premier) filed an Answer.
 
On May 1, 2024, Castaneda-Panuco filed a motion for summary
judgment (MSJ) which the court GRANTED after Plaintiff did not oppose.
 
On June 13, 2024, Burton filed a joinder to
Castaneda-Panuco’s MSJ.
 
On October 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to
Burton’s Joinder.
 
On November 1, 2024, Burton filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
A party may move for summary judgment in any action or
proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding. (Code Civ. Proc., §437c, subd. (a).) To
prevail on a motion for summary judgment, the evidence submitted must show
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc., §437c, subd. (c).)
In other words, the opposing party cannot present contrary admissible evidence
to raise a triable factual dispute. 
 
“A defendant or cross-defendant has met his or her burden of
showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or
more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action. Once
the defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The
plaintiff or cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials
of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but,
instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
¿ 
When ruling on a summary judgment motion, the trial court
must consider all inferences from the evidence, even those contradicted by the
moving party’s evidence. The motion cannot succeed unless the evidence leaves
no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts; the court has no power
to weigh one inference against another or against other evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998)
65 Cal. App. 4th 833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a
triable issue of material fact, "the facts alleged in the evidence of the
party opposing summary judgment and the reasonable inferences there from must
be accepted as true.” (Jackson v. County
of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal. App. 4th 171, 179.) 
¿ 
With a summary judgment motion, a three-step analysis is
required of the trial court. (AARTS
Productions, Inc. v. Crocker Nat’l Bank (1986) 179 Cal. App. 3d 1061,
1064–65.) First, the trial court must identify the issues framed by the
pleadings since it is these allegations to which the motion must respond by
establishing a complete defense or otherwise showing there is no factual basis
for relief on any theory reasonably contemplated by the opponent’s pleading. (Ibid.) Secondly, the court must
determine whether the moving party’s showing has established facts which negate
the opponent’s claim and justify a judgment in movant’s favor. (Ibid.) When a summary judgment motion prima facie justifies a judgment, the
third and final step is to determine whether the opposition demonstrates the
existence of a triable, material factual issue. (Ibid.) On a plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment, the plaintiff
bears the burden of persuasion that each element of the cause of action in
question has been proved, and that there is no defense thereto. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(1); Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Company, et al. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 850.) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Burton contends that Plaintiff cannot show that Dr. Burton’s
alleged failure to report a widened mediastinum was a substantial factor in
causing Decedent’s death because the undisputed facts show that there was not
enough time to treat Decedent by ordering a CTA and transferring him to the
nearest facility for surgery. Plaintiff argues there is a disputed material
fact as to Dr. Burton’s misinterpretation of the x-ray and whether Decedent
could have received non-surgical stabilizing intervention with a correct
diagnosis.[1]
 
“The elements of a wrongful death cause of action are “(1) a
‘wrongful act or neglect’ on the part of one or more persons that (2)
‘cause[s]’ (3) the ‘death of [another] person.’ ” (Arista v. County of Riverside (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th
1051, 1060, as modified on denial of
reh'g (Dec. 13, 2018)). In “‘any medical malpractice action, the
plaintiff must establish: “(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill,
prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and
exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between
the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage
resulting from the professional's negligence.” (Powell v. Kleinman (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 112, 122). In
professional malpractice cases, expert opinion testimony is required to prove
or disprove that the defendant performed in accordance with the prevailing
standard of care [citation], except in cases where the negligence is obvious to
laymen.” (Garibay v. Hemmat (2008)
161 Cal.App.4th 735, 741). 
 
Further, the court in Bromme
stated that a plaintiff proves causation if they can demonstrate ““reasonable
medical probability” that the negligence was sufficient of itself to bring
about the death, i.e., the death was “more likely than not” the result of the
negligence.” (Bromme v. Pavitt (1992)
5 Cal.App.4th 1487, 1499 (Bromme).) “[A] plaintiff who alleges a
statutory cause of action for wrongful death arising from medical negligence
must prove by reasonable medical
probability based on competent expert
testimony that a defendant's acts or omissions were a substantial factor in bringing about the decedent's death. Where
the alleged negligence relates to the failure to diagnose and treat a
potentially terminal condition, a plaintiff fails to satisfy the requisite
causation if the evidence shows the decedent did not have a greater than 50 percent chance of survival had the
defendant properly diagnosed and treated the condition. (Id. at pp. 1492–1493.) “When a defendant moves for summary judgment
and supports [the] motion with expert declarations that [the] conduct fell
within the community standard of care, [defendant] is entitled to summary
judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.”
(Webster v. Claremont Yoga (2018) 26
Cal.App.5th 284, 288–289.) 
 
Here, Burton has not met his prima facie burden that
Plaintiff cannot meet the causation element. Notably, Burton’s reliance on Dr.
Castaneda-Panuco’s expert, Dr. Pfeiffer, backfires. Dr. Pfeiffer’s opinion is
limited to Dr. Castaneda-Panuco’s conduct. (Decl. of Cynthia Pfeiffer, M.D.
(Pfeiffer Decl.) ¶¶ 10(k)-(j).)[2]
Burton provides no other evidence. (See Undisputed Material Fact (UMF) No. 19
[relying solely on Dr. Pfeiffer’s declaration.]) 
 
Even assuming Burton met his initial burden, Plaintiff met
her burden to demonstrate a triable material fact. There is no dispute that a
chest x-ray cannot diagnose an aortic aneurysm or aortic dissection and that
such would need a CT Angiogram. (UMF Nos. 20.) However, Burton’s expert opinion
conflicts with Dr. Pfeiffer’s, who opined only to surgical intervention. (UMF
No. 19, 21.) Plaintiff’s expert, Dr. Larson opines that nonsurgical
intervention (drugs and aspiration) could have controlled Decedent’s condition.
(Larson Decl. ¶ 16.) Burton did not respond to this on reply.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Burton’s motion for summary
judgment.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              November 14, 2024                __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


