 Case Number:  23VECV04983    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  W SARA DIBA v.
KHOSROABADI ALIREZA
 
defendant
alireza khosroabad’s motions to compel further discovery responses 
 
Date
of Hearing:        December 3, 2024                 Trial
Date:       March
3, 2025 
Department:              W                                            Case No.:        23VECV04983
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Khosroabadi Alireza       
Responding Party:     No
opposition. 
Meet and Confer:      Attempted. (Shagzho Decl. ¶¶6-9.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a habitability case. On November 8, 2023,
Plaintiff Sara Diba filed a complaint against Defendant Alireza Khosroabadi
(erroneously sued as “Khosroabadi Alireza”) for 1.
Violation of California Civil Code § 1942.4; 2. Tortious Breach of the Warranty
of Habitability; 3. Private Nuisance; 4. Business and Professions Code § 17200,
et seq.; 5. Negligence; 6. Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; 7.
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 8. Violation of Consumer Legal Remedies
Act, California Civil Code § 1750, et seq.; 9. Intentional Influence to Vacate;
10. Violation of Los Angeles Municipal Tenant Antiharassment Ordinance 11.
Unpermitted/Illegal Unit In Violation of Common Law. 
 
This action is related to Shabnam
Mahdavi Doraji, et al. vs Khosroabadi Alireza (23VECV03761).
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
I.                   
Defendant Alireza Khosroabadi’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses of Plaintiff Sara Diba to Defendant’s Requests to Defendant’s
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. 
II.                 
Defendant Alireza Khosroabadi’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Plaintiff Sara Diba to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories,
Set One is GRANTED. 
 
discuSsion
 
Requests for Production of Documents 
 
Defendant Alireza Khosroabadi moves to compel Plaintiff
Sara Diba’s further responses to Requests for Production, Set One (“RPD”) on
the grounds Plaintiff’s responses indicating production are not code-compliant,
Plaintiff’s responses claiming inability to comply are legally insufficient,
Plaintiff’s responses to Request Nos. 47-51 are inadequate and evasive, and
Plaintif’s boilerplate objections are meritless. Defendant also requests
monetary sanctions. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310,
parties may move for a further response to requests for production of documents
where a statement of compliance is incomplete or where a representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  A motion to
compel further response to requests for production “shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand.”  (CCP. § 2031.310(b)(1).) 
 
Defendant first argues Plaintiff’s responses to Request
Nos. 2, 5, 7-12, 18-19, 26, 33-35, 39-40, and 45-46 are not code compliant as
they fail to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.220. Plaintiff’s
response simply states they are producing the documents in full, referencing
Bates Stamp Numbers: 0000001-0000008. The court agrees this is not code
compliant. As noted by Defendant, Plaintiff fails to state “that all documents
or things in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or
control of that party and to which no objection is being made will be included
in the production.” (CCP §2031.220.) 
 
Next, Defendant argues the remaining requests
(except medical records requests) are not code compliant because Plaintiff
responded that they "do[] not have the documents or information requested.”
Defendant contends when a party claims inability to comply with a document
demand, they must affirm that a diligent search was conducted, explain why
compliance is impossible, and identify others who may have responsive
documents. The court agrees the responses are insufficient. When the responding
party states they do not have the documents or information requested, they are
supposed to provide that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been
made in an effort to comply with that demand and explain why the inability to
comply. (CCP §2031.230.) 
 
Defendant next argues the responses are inadequate
and evasive as to RPD Nos. 47-51 because Plaintiff is the one who put their
medical records at issue. When conducting discovery, it is their duty to obtain
discoverable documents from third parties over whom they have a right of access
or control. The court agrees the responses are insufficient. Plaintiff does not
provide why they wouldn’t have documents relating to their health and if they
truly do not, it must comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230 as
noted above. 
 
Lastly, Defendant argues each of the responses
contain identical boilerplate objections. The court agrees. Plaintiff has not
shown the objections are with merit. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant Alireza Khosroabadi’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses of Plaintiff Sara Diba to Defendant’s Requests to
Defendant’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. 
 
Form Interrogatories 
 
Defendant Alireza Khosroabadi moves to compel
Plaintiff Sara Diba’s further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos.
6.4, 6.5 and 10.3 (“FROG”) on the grounds Plaintiff’s “unknown” responses are
evasive and incomplete and Plaintiff’s boilerplate objections are meritless. 
 
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the
propounding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a
particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the
option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the
required specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.”¿ (CCP § 2030.300(a).)¿ 
¿ 
Defendant first argues Plaintiff's responses
claiming that information about medical consultations, medication, and injuries
is "unknown at present" are not credible and demonstrate a failure to
conduct the required reasonable investigation. Defendant notes the Form
Interrogatories seek basic information about Plaintiff's own medical treatment
and condition—information that would be readily available to Plaintiff through
personal knowledge, medical records, insurance records, pharmacy records, and
billing statements. Defendant further argues Plaintiff’s responses to FROG Nos.
12.6 and 12.7 are similarly evasive as these interrogatories seek
straightforward factual information about the investigation of Plaintiff’s
claims. Moreover, Defendant argues the objections are all meritless. For
example, Plaintiff objects on the grounds the requests are burdensome and
oppressive yet does not explain how so. They also object on attorney-client
privilege and work product protection but these interrogatories fall within the
broad scope of permissible discovery. 
 
The motion is unopposed. The court agrees
Plaintiff’s responses are deficient. As noted by Defendant, the interrogatories
seek basic information regarding Plaintiff’s medical treatment and condition.
If “unknown at this time” actually means “not at this time” then Plaintiff
needs to say as much. Similarly, Plaintiff’s blanket “unknown” responses fail
to answer the interrogatory to the best of their ability. Moreover, the court
further agrees the objections are without merit. Plaintiff has not satisfied their
burden as to why the objections should stand and the court finds such discovery
requests are not burdensome or oppressive or seek to invade any potential
attorney-client privilege. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant Alireza Khosroabadi’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff Sara Diba to Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED.
 
Sanctions 
 
Defendant seeks monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
and their counsel of record for failing to meet and confer as well as providing
evasive responses. Defendant seeks $2,060.00 for their motion to compel further
responses to Defendant’s RPD, Set One and $1,560.00 for their motion to compel
FROG, Set One. 
 
The court GRANTS the request for sanctions in the
reduced amount of $560.00 for Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Diba’s
further responses to the FROG and $560.00 for Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Plaintiff Diba’s further responses to the RPD, as the motions to compel are
very simple, contain little argument and are unopposed. 