  Case Number:  23VECV03761    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  W NIZNICK
ENTERPRISES, INC. vs SILVERADO MANAGEMENT AND HOLDING COMPANY, et al. 
 
plaintiff’s
motions to compel discovery 
 
Date
of Hearing:        December 3, 2024                 Trial
Date:       February
3, 2025 
Department:              W                                            Case No.:        23VECV02019
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Niznick Enterprises, Inc.      
Responding Party:     No
opposition. 
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Issagholi Decl. ¶¶4-5.)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 4, 2024, Plaintiff Niznick Enterprises
Inc. filed a complaint against Defendants Silverado Management and Holding
Company, Finance California, Lisa A. Barkett, William J. Barkett, Anthony R.
Barkett and Gerald H. Weiner for breach of promissory notes, breach of guaranty
agreements, breach of security and pledge agreements, and fraud. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order Compelling Responses by
Defendant Finance to Plaintiff’s First Set of Form Interrogatories is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Compelling Responses
by Defendant Finance California to Plaintiff’s Second Set of Form
Interrogatories is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Deeming Plaintiff’s
First Set of Requests for Admissions Admitted by Defendant Finance California is
GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Compelling Responses
by Defendant Finance California to Plaintiff’s First Set of Request for
Production of Documents is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Compelling Responses
by Defendant Finance California to Plaintiff’s Second Set of Request for
Production of Documents is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Compelling Responses
by Defendant Silverado Management and Holding Company to Plaintiff’s First set
of Form Interrogatories is GRANTED.  
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Compelling Responses
by Defendant Silverado Management Holding Company to Plaintiff’s First Set of
Request for Production of Documents is GRANTED. 

 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Compelling Responses
by Defendant Gerald H. Wiener to Plaintiff’s First Set of Form Interrogatories
is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Compelling Responses
by Defendant Gerald H. Wiener to Plaintiff’s Second Set of Form Interrogatories
is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Compelling Responses
by Defendant Gerald H. Wiener to Plaintiff’s First Set of Requests for
Production of Documents is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Compelling Responses
by Defendant Gerald H. Wiener to Plaintiff’s Second Set of Requests for
Production of Documents is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Deeming Plaintiff’s
First Set of Requests for Admissions Admitted by Defendant Gerald H. Wiener is
GRANTED. 
 
discuSsion
 
Plaintiff Niznick Enterprises, Inc. moves this court
for an order compelling Defendant Finance California, Silverado Management and
Holding Company, and Gerald H. Weiner to provide verified responses to
Plaintiff’s discovery requests. Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions. 
 
Under California law, unsworn responses are
tantamount to no responses.  (See Appleton v. Superior Court (1988)
206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636 (holding that unverified responses are tantamount to no
responses.) Where a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery
requests, the court may make an order compelling responses.  (CCP §§
2030.290, 2031.300; Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)   A party that
fails to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including
ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product.  (CCP §§
2030.290(a), 2031.300(a).) 
 
Finance California 
 
Plaintiff requests this court order Defendant
Finance California to provide verified responses as well as an order deeming
requests admitted by Defendant for failure to provide verified responses.
Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant. 
 
Plaintiff propounded Form Interrogatories (Set One),
Form Interrogatories (Set Two), Requests for Admissions (Set One), Request for
Production of Documents (Set One), and Request for Production of Documents (Set
Two) onto Defendant Finance California on various dates. (Issagholi Decl. ¶2,
Exh. 1.) Defendant Finance California served unverified responses, without
objections, to Plaintiff’s FROG (Set 2), RFA (Set 1), and RPD (Set 2). (Issagholi
Decl. ¶3.) Defendant also served unverified responses, containing answers and
objections, to Plaintiff’s FROG (Set 1) and RPD (Set 1). (Issagholi Decl. ¶3,
Exh. 2.) Plaintiff’s counsel attempted several times to remedy the issues with
the responses, including the fact they were not verified. (Issagholi Decl. ¶4, Exh.
3.) This led to an informal discovery conference before the court on February
5, 2024, followed by Finance California’s service of supplemental responses
without objections on April 29, 2024 – which were also not verified. (Issagholi
Decl. ¶5, Exh. 4.) Plaintiff followed up for verifications but still has
received no verifications for any of the discovery propounded on Finance
California. (Issagholi Decl. ¶6.) 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Order Compelling
Responses by Defendant Finance to Plaintiff’s First Set of Form
Interrogatories, Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Compelling Responses by
Defendant Finance California to Plaintiff’s Second Set of Form Interrogatories,
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Deeming Plaintiff’s First Set of Requests for
Admissions Admitted by Defendant Finance California, Plaintiff’s Motion for an
Order Compelling Responses by Defendant Finance California to Plaintiff’s First
Set of Request for Production of Documents, and Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order
Compelling Responses by Defendant Finance California to Plaintiff’s Second Set
of Request for Production of Documents are GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions against
Defendant in the amount of $1,810.00 per motion. (Issagholi Decl. ¶7.) The
court GRANTS the request for sanctions in the reduced amount of $760.00 for the
first motion and $410.00 for the remaining motions, totaling $2,400.00. 
 
Silverado Management and Holding Company
 
Plaintiff requests this court order Defendant
Silverado Management Holding Company to provide verified responses and impose
monetary sanctions against Defendant. 
 
Plaintiff propounded Form Interrogatories (Set One)
and Request for Production of Documents (Set One) onto Defendant Silverado
Management Holding Company on July 20, 2023. (Issagholi Decl. ¶2, Exh. 1.)
Defendant Silverado served its responses on October 6, 2023. (Issagholi Decl.
¶3, Exh. 3.) Plaintiff met and conferred with Defendant regarding deficiencies
in the responses. (Issagholi Decl. ¶4.) This led to an informal discovery
conference before the Court on February 5, 2024, followed by Silverado’s service
of supplemental responses without objections on March 20, 2024 – which were not
verified. (Issagholi Decl. ¶5, Exh. 4.) Plaintiff followed up for verifications
but still has received no verifications for any of the discovery propounded on
Silverado. (Issagholi Decl. ¶6.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order
Compelling Responses by Defendant Silverado Management and Holding Company to
Plaintiff’s First set of Form Interrogatories and Plaintiff’s Motion for an
Order Compelling Responses by Defendant Silverado Management Holding Company to
Plaintiff’s First Set of Request for Production of Documents are GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions against
Defendant in the amount of $1,810.00 per motion. (Issagholi Decl. ¶7.) The
court GRANTS the request for sanctions in the reduced amount of $410.00 for
each motion, totaling $820.00. 
 
Gerald H. Wiener 
 
Plaintiff requests this court order Defendant Gerald
H. Wiener to provide verified responses as well as an order deeming requests
admitted by Defendant Wiener for failure to provide verified responses.
Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant. 
 
Plaintiff propounded Form Interrogatories (Set One),
Form Interrogatories (Set Two), Requests for Admissions (Set One), Request for
Production of Documents (Set One), and Request for Production of Documents (Set
Two) onto Defendant Gerald H. Wiener on various dates. (Issagholi Decl. ¶2,
Exh. 1.) Defendant Wiener served unverified responses, without objections, to
Plaintiff’s FROG (Set 2), RFA (Set 1), and RPD (Set 2). (Issagholi Decl. ¶3.)
Defendant also served unverified responses, containing answers and objections,
to Plaintiff’s FROG (Set 1) and RPD (Set 1). (Issagholi Decl. ¶3, Exh. 2.)
Plaintiff’s counsel attempted several times to remedy the issues with the
responses, including the fact they were not verified. (Issagholi Decl. ¶4, Exh.
3.) The parties participated in an IDC; however, Defendant continued to provide
non verified discovery responses despite Plaintiff’s counsel’s repeated
requests.  (Issagholi Decl. ¶5, Exh. 4.)
Plaintiff followed up for verifications but still has received no verifications
for any of the discovery propounded on Wiener. (Issagholi Decl. ¶6.) 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order
Compelling Responses by Defendant Gerald H. Wiener to Plaintiff’s First Set of
Form Interrogatories, Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Compelling Responses by
Defendant Gerald H. Wiener to Plaintiff’s Second Set of Form Interrogatories,
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Compelling Responses by Defendant Gerald H.
Wiener to Plaintiff’s First Set of Requests for Production of Documents,
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Compelling Responses by Defendant Gerald H. Wiener
to Plaintiff’s Second Set of Requests for Production of Documents, and
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order Deeming Plaintiff’s First Set of Requests for
Admissions Admitted by Defendant Gerald H. Wiener are GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions against
Defendant in the amount of $1,810.00 per motion. (Issagholi Decl. ¶7.) The
court GRANTS the request for sanctions in the reduced amount of $410.00 for
each motion, totaling $2,400.00. 