 Case Number:  23STCV20836    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



YELLOW OWL PROPERTIES MANAGEMENTS, INC.,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CRISTIAN ARTURO LLAMAS,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV20836
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
  FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER 
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
April 30, 2024



 
On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff
Yellow Owl Properties Managements, Inc. filed this quiet title action against Cristian
Arturo Llamas.
On
March 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for protective order for the depositions
of Plaintiff’s principals (Jessica Llamas and Claudia Llamas) and the production
of documents at the depositions.
Upon
a showing of good cause, the Court may issue a protective order to protect a party
or deponent from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden
and expense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420,
subd. (b).)  The protective order may include
directions that the deposition not be taken, be taken at a different time or place,
be taken on certain specified terms and conditions, be taken by written instead
of oral examination, or that the scope be limited to certain matters.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).)  “[T]he burden is on the party seeking the protective
order to show good cause for whatever order is sought.”  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
Plaintiff
seeks a protective order instructing that several matters not be inquired into at
deposition or in written discovery: (1) Arturo Llamas’s assets; (2) Arturo Llamas’s
Mexican will; (3) White Egg ownership; and (4) horse ownership.
At
the depositions, Defendant’s counsel asked the deponents about “any property deeds
under the name of Arturo Llamas,” “any documents that relate in any way to Arturo
Llamas’ corporate ownership or limited liability company ownership,” and ownership
of White Egg.  (See Motion, Ex. L.)  Counsel also asked, “How is Tizok doing?” and
assrted that it was Cris’s horse.  (Motion,
Ex. L at p. 73.)  Claudia Llamas denied that
it was her brother’s horse, and counsel asked if her father would have or did give
Cris a horse.
The
Complaint alleges that there is a quitclaim deed purporting to transfer ownership
of the property from Plaintiff to Defendant, but the signature of Arturo Llamas
(President of Plaintiff) was forged.  (Complaint
¶¶ 25-27.)  As Plaintiff states (Motion at
p. 3), Arturo Llamas’s assets and full corporate records from other entities are
irrelevant to the validity of the quitclaim deed.  Arturo Llamas’s Mexican will and any ownership
of a horse are also facially irrelevant.
Defendant
argues that all of Arturo Llamas’s signatures are discoverable, “especially including
the Plaintiff’s corporate documents (bylaws, minutes, etc.),” and the documents
could help explain the transaction at issue. 
(Opposition at p. 3.)  Defendant also
asserts that the “premise behind this lawsuit [is] that the father did not want
Defendant to inherit anything,” so Jessica’s and Claudia’s testimony and credibility
is called into question with the Mexican will. 
Defendant contends that White Egg “is similarly situated to Yellow Owl and
could lead to evidence that the people behind this lawsuit do not have authority
to act for the Plaintiff,” and this topic “will go to the credibility of the deponent
and further any signatures of Arturo Llamas.” 
Finally, Defendant states that “Claudia Llamas is the one who said that horse
does not belong to Chris Llamas so she should be required to explain the basis for
her statement,” and “[t]he basis for her contention is related to this case because
she also filed this lawsuit without authority claiming that Chris Llamas also does
not own the property in question.”
None
of Defendant’s rebuttal arguments are convincing.  The deponents’ authority to act for Plaintiff
is not at issue here.  The Court does not
see how the deponents’ credibility with respect to the Mexican will and horse is
relevant.
With
respect to Arturo Llamas’s signature, which is at issue for the validity of the
quitclaim deed, that is covered by Topic No. 13: “All originals of Arturo Llamas’s
signatures from January 1, 2016 – December 31, 2019.”  And with respect to explaining the transaction
at issue, Topic No. 1 asks for documents and records of Plaintiff.  Topic Nos. 3-4, 8-11 ask for all communications
between the deponents and various individuals, including communications with Arturo
Llamas.  The relevant goals of Defendant’s
inquiries can be achieved through these other categories.
The
motion for protective order is GRANTED.  Defendant
may not propound discovery regarding (1) Arturo Llamas’s assets; (2) Arturo Llamas’s
Mexican will; (3) White Egg ownership; and (4) horse ownership.  This protective order may be modified in the future
upon a showing of good cause via noticed motion.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 30th day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 