 Case Number:  24SMCV03940    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Churchill Funding I LLC v. 732
Indiana, LLC, Case no. 24SMCV03940
Hearing date October 31, 2024
Plaintiff’s
Ex Parte Application for Appointment of Receiver and OSC Re:
Confirmation of Appointment of Receiver
Plaintiff
Churchill Funding I LLC sues defendants 728 Indiana, LLC, 732 Indiana, LLC,
Kenig, Los Angeles 104 Projects 2016 LP and Marom Kislev Projects 2016 LP for judicial
foreclosure, breach of guaranty, appointment of receiver and injunctive/declaratory
relief pursuant to defaults on two loans totaling over $10 million. The loans
were secured by property held by 728 Indiana and 732 Indiana which the loans
were issued to develop. 
Plaintiff
moved ex parte for appointment of receiver, a TRO and OSC re:
appointment of receiver. The court indicated on 8/21/2024 that it was inclined
to grant the application but continued the hearing so defendants could file
opposition and the parties stipulated to a temporary restraining order. Min.
Orders 8/21/2024 & 8/28/2024. Defendants offer declarations of Appel and
Kenig in support of their opposition. Plaintiff objects.
Defendants’ 10/24/2024 CMC Statement
The
court notes defendants submitted a CMC status statement on 10/24/2024 in
preparation for an informal meet and confer regarding the application,
including authorities supposedely supporting their argument that plaintiff
could not elect to pursue judicial and then non-judicial foreclosure
simultaneously. See CMC Statement 10/24/2024 ex. F. The authority “California
Federal Bank v. Kwong (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1467, 1472” does not exist. The
authority “Security Pacific National Bank v. Wozab 231 Cal.App.3d at
1472-1473” was reported at 51 Cal.3d 991. The court will set an OSC re filing
false pleadings with the court. 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff
objects to the Kenig declaration, as it is not made under penalty of perjury
per Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §2015.5. SUSTAINED. Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections:
Objections 1-6 SUSTAINED (hearsay and speculation), objection 7 OVERRULED,
objections 8-9 SUSTAINED (hearsay and speculation), objections 10-11 OVERRULED,
objection 12 SUSTAINED (hearsay and speculation).
Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections to the Appel declaration: Objection 1 OVERRULED,
objections 2-3 (hearsay and speculation), objection 4 OVERRULED. 
Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application
for Appointment of Receiver and OSC Re: Confirmation
Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. §564(b) permits the Court to appoint a receiver in the
following instances: (1) In an action by a creditor to subject any property or
fund to the creditor’s claim on the application of the plaintiff whose right to
or interest in the property or fund, or the proceeds thereof, is probable, and
where it is shown that the property or fund is in danger of being lost, removed
or materially injured. (2) In an action by a secured lender for the foreclosure
of a deed of trust or mortgage and sale of property upon which there is a lien
under a deed of trust or mortgage, where it appears that the property is in
danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured, or that the condition of
the deed of trust or mortgage has not been performed, and that the property is
probably insufficient to discharge the deed of trust or mortgage debt. (6)
Where a corporation is insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has
forfeited its corporate rights. (9) In all other cases where necessary to
preserve the property or rights of any party.
Plaintiff
argues the appointment is necessary, as defendants failed to pay property taxes,
insure the property and are insolvent. Plaintiff notes defendants consented to
the appointment of a receiver over the property in the event of a default per
their deeds of trust. Plaintiff holds a security interest in the 728 Indiana property
and the 732 Indiana property by virtue of the 728 Indiana deed of trust and the
732 Indiana deed of trust in satisfaction of Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §564(b)(2).
Plaintiff argues its interest in the properties is in danger of being lost due
to defendants’ failure to pay taxes and secure insurance and adequate leases. Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. §564(b)(1). Plaintiff argues defendants are insolvent and are
not protecting plaintiff’s interests in the property or the property itself. Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. §564(b)(9).
Defendants
do not rebut plaintiff's arguments. Instead, they assert the property is in
good shape, under guard and partially leased. Decl. Appel para. 3. Defendants
also assert they are attempting to find a buyer for the property. Decl. Appel
para. 8. Appel and other related parties are leasing the property, creating a
conflict of interest. Decl. Appel para. 4. 
Defendants
do not deny being in default of their secured loans, nor do they deny
consenting to appointment of a receiver in the event of default. These facts
alone would be sufficient for the court to appoint a receiver. Plaintiff also alleged
facts per Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §564(b) that support appointment of a receiver.
Defendants’ attempt to disprove those allegations with the Kenig declaration
are unavailing, as the declaration was not made under penalty of perjury and
objections were sustained. See Decl. Kenig generally. 
The
court disagrees with defendants’ argument that plaintiff cannot elect to pursue
judicial foreclosure, then seek the appointment of a receiver. A “receiver may
be appointed in an action for judicial foreclosure ... even though the
beneficiary is foreclosing under the private power of sale....” 5 Cal. Real
Est. (4th ed.), Miller and Starr, § 13:65. Pursuing both judicial foreclosure
and sale within a deed of trust is not a violation of the one-action rule under
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §726. “Any action by a secured lender to appoint a
receiver pursuant to this section shall not constitute an action within the
meaning of subdivision (a) of Section 726.” Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §564(d). Plaintiff
may seek appointment of a receiver while reserving its right to pursue judicial
foreclosure. 
Plaintiff
is entitled to relief under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §526(a) and 564(b) and
demonstrated a preliminary injunction is necessary to allow an appointed
receiver to exercise control over the property. Plaintiff established the
elements required for the appointment of a receiver. The ex parte
application for appointment of receiver and OSC re: confirmation of appointment
of receiver is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s request for a preliminary injunction requiring
all defendants named in this case, including principals, agents, officers,
directors and assigns to cooperate with the appointed receiver is GRANTED.