 Case Number:  23SMCV06061    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Huynh v. Chiaravanond, Case no. 23SMCV06061
Hearing date October 31, 2024
Defendant’s
Motion to Stay Proceedings
Plaintiff
Huynh sues defendants Chiaravanond, Pacific Shangrila LLC and ILU LLC for
fraud, unjust enrichment and breach of fiduciary duty COAs arising from
defendants’ alleged embezzlement via purchase of properties in Arizona and
California. Defendants seek to stay the action, arguing it is duplicative of Huynh
v. Chiaravanond, et al., Case Number: 3:23-cv-08622-JJT, pending in U.S.
District Court for the District of Arizona.
“It
is black letter law that, when a Federal action has been filed covering the
same subject matter as is involved in a California action, the California court
has the discretion but not the obligation to stay the state court action.” Caiafa
Prof. L. Corp. v. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co. (1993) 15 Cal. App. 4th
800, 804 (citing Farmland Irrigation. Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d
208, 215). In determining whether to grant a stay, courts consider whether the
rights of the parties can best be determined in the other jurisdiction due to
the nature of the subject matter, the availability of witnesses, or the stage
of the proceedings. Farmland, supra. 
Defendants
argue the instant action is duplicative of the Arizona action, as it involves
the same plaintiff, overlapping COAs and most of the same defendants. The
Arizona action additionally names defendants Cathedral Shangrila LLC and Nido
di Stelle LLC and alleges additional COAs covering plaintiff’s claims against
the Arizona properties. Compl. ex. 1. 
Plaintiff
asserts California law offers unique remedies not available under Arizona law,
specifically the right to record a lis pendens. See Farmland,
supra (holding in part that denial of a stay where the state action
involved distinct remedies unavailable in a pending federal action). 
Defendants
argue plaintiff previously recorded a lis pendens, expunged on 5/30/2024.
See Min. Order 5/30/2024. Plaintiff argues he can petition for leave to record
a subsequent lis pendens under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §405.36, so a
substantive difference between the remedies remains. Plaintiff argues the court
need not evaluate the likelihood of success on future petitions for lis
pendens, and the mere existence of a difference of law is enough to deny the
motion for stay. 
Plaintiff
argues defendants seek a stay to facilitate fraudulent conduct. Plaintiff
asserts defendants Pacific Shangrila LLC and ILU LLC were unregistered and not
qualified to do business in California until 7/30/2024, so were not registered
to do business when they filed the motion to expunge plaintiff’s lis pendens.
Decl. Fancher exs. 1 and 2. Plaintiff asserts defendants may have been
suspended in Arizona and Nevada, so he may be entitled to interim relief. 
Defendants
note per Cal. Corp. Code §17708.07(b), the failure of a foreign limited
liability company to have a certificate of registration does not prevent the
corporation from defending an action or proceeding in California. Defendants
assert the principal of comity in support of the motion to stay. 
Plaintiff
argues comity does not apply, as staying the action would irreparably harm
plaintiff’s alleged interest in the California properties, which are listed for
sale. The court ruled 5/30/2024 that plaintiff has alleged an interest in
defendant LLCs, not in the California real property. Min. Order 5/30/2024. Plaintiff
alleged a claim to revenues generated by the California properties, not to the
properties themselves. Id.
Plaintiff’s
opposition is based upon plaintiff’s possible future petition for another lis
pendens, defendants’ alleged fraudulent conduct, and plaintiff's potential
for harm if the action is stayed and the California properties are sold. The federal
Arizona case is substantially similar to and overlapping of this case, so there
is a real risk of overlapping or conflicting rulings. Further, none of
plaintiff’s arguments supports the notion that a stay is required to prevent
harm to plaintiff. Plaintiff can recover any interest in defendant LLCs via the
Arizona action, which all defendants are party to, or subsequently upon
resumption of the instant action. There is no compelling reason to advance this
action when the risk of judicial inefficiency and overlapping rulings is
substantial. GRANTED.