  Case Number:  22SMCV02593    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   OLIVER KABILKA, et al.,   Plaintiffs, v.  STARRY, INC., et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  22SMCV02593     Hearing Date:  August 16, 2024   ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT GTP STURCTURES I, LLC’S    LLC’S DEMURRER TO SECOND    AMENDED COMPLAINT   BACKGROUND This case arises from the installation of antennas and transmission equipment in an apartment complex which purportedly caused Plaintiffs Oliver Kabilka and Phillip Kabilka to suffer headaches, dizziness, fatigue and difficulty falling or staying asleep.   Plaintiffs are tenants in an apartment complex located at 2700-2800 Neilson Way, Santa Monica, California (the “Property”).  (Compl. ¶8.)  Non-party Shores Barrington LLC is the owner of the Property.  (Id. ¶9.) Shores entered into a rooftop lease agreement (“Lease”) with non-party Global Tower Assets Inc. for the purpose of subleasing portions of the rooftop to telecommunication companies for the installation of wireless communication equipment.  (Id.)  Global Tower Assets Inc. assigned its interest in the Lease to GTP Structures I LLC (“GTP”).  (Id. ¶10.) GTP then entered into a Rooftop License Agreement (“License”) with non-party Starry Inc., giving Starry a non-exclusive license to use space designated in the Lease.  (Id. ¶12.)  Pursuant to the License, Starry installed equipment including six atypically high frequency radio transmission devices.  (Id. ¶18.)  The equipment was installed directly above Plaintiffs’ apartment unit.  (Id. ¶29.) Plaintiff alleges that Starry’s installation is in breach of the Lease which expressly states that GTP shall not use the rooftop area “in any way that interferes with the use of the building by …. Tenants of the Landlord or licensing space in the Building.”  (Id. ¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges GTP also breached the Lease which required compliance with applicable laws and ordinances including but not limited to local zoning requirements.  (Id. ¶¶20-21.)  Plaintiff claims the installation was in direct violation of the City of Santa Monica’s local zoning ordinance, which states “No personal wireless service facilities shall be located in any residential zone.  (Id. ¶¶23, 25.)  In fact, the City of Santa Monica issued a notice of violation stating that the transmission equipment installed by Starry is a “public nuisance.”  (Id. ¶28.) Plaintiff also alleges Starry’s use of the rooftop area violated the License Agreement which states Starry “shall not use the Licensed Premises or the Licensed Facilities in any way that interferes with the use of the property by …. in-building tenants.”  (Id. ¶32.)  The License Agreement also required Starry to “apply for and obtain all applicable licenses, permits, authorizations, consents and approvals required under Applicable Law,” but Starry failed to obtain permits and approvals from the City of Santa Monica, and Starry’s equipment was in violation of the City’s zoning laws.  (Id. ¶¶ 31, 34.) Plaintiffs allege a single claim for negligence.  They allege that “Defendants and each of them were negligent by acting and/or failing to act in allowing the installation, maintenance and/or operation of the above-referenced rooftop equipment, which interfered with Plaintiffs’ use of their apartment home in direct violation of both the provisions of the Rooftop Lease Agreement and the Rooftop License Agreement which has been harmful to the health of, and has been offensive to the senses of, the Plaintiffs.”  (Compl. ¶54.) This hearing is on GTP’s demurrer.  GTP argues that Plaintiffs’ sole claim for negligence fails because Plaintiffs have made no allegations that would support a finding that GTP owed any duty to Plaintiffs.  MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 requires that before the filing of a demurrer the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)  GTP submits the Declaration of Amin Al-Sarraf, which shows the parties complied with the meet and confer requirements of §430.41.    LEGAL STANDARD “[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Plaintiffs request judicial notice of: (1) Environmental Health Trust: 5G, Cell Towers and Small Cells scientific research, publicly available on 5G, Cell Towers and Small Cells Scientific Research Policy Document (ehtrust.org) (Ex. 1 to Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice (“PRJN”)); (2) Environmental Health Trust: Peer Reviewed Published Research on Cell Tower Radiation, Base Station Radiation and Health Effects, publicly available on Compilation of Research Studies on Cell Tower Radiation and Health - Environmental Health Trust (ehtrust.org) (Ex. 2 to PRJN); (3) Environmental Health Trust: Health Effects of Cell Towers Near Homes and Schools, publicly available on Health Effects of Cell Towers Near Homes and Schools - Environmental Health Trust (ehtrust.org) (Ex. 3 to PRJN), and (4) Form 10k annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of American Tower Corporation, the parent company to GTP, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2016, publicly available on https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/ 1053507/000105350716000018/amt1231201510 k.htm (Ex. 4 to PRJN).   Plaintiffs request judicial notice pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d), which allows a court to take judicial notice of “Records of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of the United States.”  This subdivision does not allow a court to take judicial notice of the “scientific and research papers” (Exs. 1-3) and the SEC filing (Ex. 4), or the truth of the information contained therein.   These documents are clearly not records of the court.  Further, while Section 452(h)¿allows the court to¿take judicial notice of “[f]acts and propositions that are not¿reasonably¿subject to¿dispute¿and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of¿reasonably¿indisputable accuracy,” Plaintiffs have not shown that the documents here fall within this section.  Accordingly, the Court denies Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice.   DISCUSSION GTP argues that Plaintiffs’ sole claim for negligence fails because Plaintiffs did not allege facts to support a finding of duty.  The Court agrees. To establish a cause of action for negligence, a plaintiff must allege facts showing a legal duty to use due care, breach of the duty, causation and damages.  (Colonial Van & Storage Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 487, 496.)  As to the first element, a plaintiff must include foundational facts “showing the existence of a legal duty of care.”  (Roy Supply Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1051, 1076; see also Peter W. v. San Francisco Unif. Sch. Dist. (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 814, 820 (complaints that lack facts to show that a duty of care was owed are insufficient).)   Here, Plaintiffs allege that GTP breached the Lease, and Starry breached the License Agreement.  Neither allegation supports a finding that GTP owed Plaintiffs a duty of care.  Plaintiffs are not a party to either the Lease or the License.  Even if they were, mere breach of a contract does not give rise to a claim for negligence.   Although the same wrongful act may constitute both a breach of contract¿and a tort, the¿mere negligent¿breach of a¿contract is not sufficient to support a¿negligence cause of action.¿(Erlich v. Menezes¿(1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551-552.)  “[C]ourts will generally enforce the breach of a contractual promise through contract law, except when the actions that constitute the breach violate a social policy that merits the imposition of tort remedies.”  (Id.¿at 522.)   “[O]utside the insurance context, ‘a tortious breach of contract . . . may be found when (1) the breach is accompanied by a traditional common law tort, such as fraud or conversion; (2) the means used to breach¿the contract are tortious, involving deceit or undue coercion or; (3) one party intentionally breaches the contract intending or knowing that such a breach will cause severe, unmitigable harm in the form of mental anguish, personal hardship, or substantial consequential damages.’” (Id. at 553-554.)  None of these circumstances exist here. Apart from these cases, a party cannot maintain a negligence cause of action based on the breach of duties arising from a contractual relationship unless the defendant has some independent duty.  (Id.¿at p. 552.)  There is no precise method of determining whether a party has a duty independent of a contractual relationship.  One crucial factor is the foreseeability of harm of the defendant’s conduct.  (John B. v. Superior Court¿(2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1189.) “However, foreseeability alone is not sufficient to create an independent . . . duty.”  (Erlich, 21 Cal.4th at 552.)  Rather, a determination that a duty exists is “an expression of the sum total of those considerations of policy which lead the law to say that the particular plaintiff is entitled to protection.”  (Ballard v. Uribe¿(1986) 41 Cal.3d 564, 572, fn. 6.)   The courts have determined that when a special relationship exists between the parties--e.g., the relationship between attorneys and their clients and physicians and their patients--a duty arises independent of¿contract.  (Richelle L. v. Roman Catholic Archbishop¿(2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 257, 268.)  There is no special relationship between Plaintiffs and GTP. However, as Plaintiffs argue, an affirmative duty may also arise where there is a special relationship between the defendant (GTP) and the entity who allegedly created the harm (Starry).  In Brown v. U.S. Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, the California Supreme Court held that “[i]n a case involving harm caused by a third party, a person may have an affirmative duty to protect the victim of another’s harm if that person is in what the law calls a special relationship with either the victim or the person who created the harm.”  (Id. at 215-216) (emphasis added).)  The Court reasoned that “a special relationship between the defendant and the victim is one that gives the victim a right to expect protection from the defendant, while a special relationship between the defendant and the dangerous third party is one that entails an ability to control the third party’s conduct.”  (Id.) (Emphasis added).  Here, the SAC alleges that the License between GTP and Starry require that all use of the rooftop is to be pursuant to all governmental permits and approvals, and no use shall be allowed which would interfere with the use and enjoyment by any of the in-building tenants.  (SAC ¶¶ 31, 32.)  This allegation sufficiently supports a finding that there was a special relationship between GTP and Starry which entitled GTP to control Starry’s actions.  (See Seo v. All-Makes Overhead Doors¿(2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1203 (the common law recognizes that a special relationship of the type that gives rise to a duty to take affirmative action to protect another may be created by contract, or by a statute or government regulation).) Once the court determines there exists a special relationship giving rise to an affirmative duty, the court must then consult the factors described in Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 112-113 to determine whether relevant policy considerations support limiting that duty.  (Brown, 11 Cal.5th at 209.) The¿Rowland¿factors are “¿the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the defendant’s conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant’s conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability for¿breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.” (Rowland¿v.¿Christian, 69 Cal.2d at 113.)  “The¿Rowland¿factors¿fall into two categories.  The first group involves foreseeability and the related concepts of certainty and the connection between plaintiff and defendant.¿The second embraces the public policy concerns¿of moral blame, preventing future harm, burden, and insurance availability.” (Regents of University of California v. Superior Court¿(2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 629.)¿“‘The most important factor to consider in determining whether to create an exception to the general duty to exercise ordinary care … is whether the injury in question was¿foreseeable.’” (Id., quoting¿Kesner v. Superior Court¿(2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1145.) Here, the Complaint fails to allege foreseeability.  Plaintiffs argue that the harm was foreseeable because the City of Santa Monica prohibits this equipment in any residential zone, and upon discovering this condition, the City issued a Notice of Violation of not only its zoning laws but deemed the condition a “public nuisance”.  But there is no allegation that the zoning requirements on cell equipment were enacted for reasons of physical safety rather than mere aesthetics.  Similarly, that Starry breached the License does not establish that the harm was foreseeable where there is no allegation that the provisions in the contract were designed to protect against the precise harm Plaintiff alleges.  Accordingly, there is no reason that GPT should have foreseen that, by violating the zoning laws or allowing Starry to breach the License, the equipment Starry installed would have ill effects on persons residing below it.   The other Rowland factors weigh in favor of not imposing a duty on GTP.  Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged certainty that they suffered injury as a result of the Starry equipment.  Paragraph 38 of the Complaint alleges “[t]hese physical symptoms which Plaintiffs and their mother began experiencing shortly after the equipment was installed by Starry was a direct result of their exposure to the radiation being emitted by the Starry equipment that Defendants negligently allowed to be installed, maintained, and operated on the roof directly over Plaintiffs’ apartment home.”   But the connection between the defendant’s conduct and the injury suffered is not close—GTP merely entered into a license agreement for the use of the rooftop space for telecommunications equipment, which is far removed from the alleged “injury” claimed by Plaintiffs here.  Further, the burden on GTP is great if GTP is made liable to every person in the vicinity of one of its leased rooftop sites, for any injury resulting from the equipment put in place on those sites.  The consequences to the community would also be significant from the resulting shortage of cell towers sites, impacting the ability of vast swaths of the population across the country to access cellular and data service.  Accordingly, on balance, the Rowland factors mitigate in favor of limiting any duty of care to Plaintiffs. In sum, GTP owes a legal duty to Plaintiff based on its special relationship with Starry, but the relevant policy considerations enunciated by the Supreme Court in Rowland warrant creating an exception to that duty.   CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court SUSTAINS GTP’s demurrer to the complaint without leave to amend.    DATED:  August 16, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 