 Case Number:  24STCV06178    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
15, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         United Talent
Agency, LLC, et al. v. Michael E. Kassan, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV06178 
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
      


 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Michael E. Kassan and Michael Kassan, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiffs United
Talent Agency, LLC and MediaLink, LLC
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
            Michael Kassan (“Kassan”)
is a media and advertising executive.  In
2003, Kassan founded the strategic advisory firm MediaLink LLC (“MediaLink”).  In 2021, United Talent Agency LLC (“UTA”)
MediaLink, and Kassan entered into the Partner Services Agreement (the “PSA”) for
UTA’s acquisition of MediaLink.  The PSA
contains restrictive covenants for noncompetition and nonsolicitation.  As part of the acquisition, Kassan remained
CEO of MediaLink and became a partner at UTA. 
After joining UTA, allegedly Kassan abused his title and authority by using
company funds to pay for extravagant personal expenses and fostering a toxic
culture at MediaLink.  Kassan was
terminated for cause pursuant to the Agreement. 
Thereafter, Kassan embarked on a misinformation campaign, falsely
claiming he had voluntarily resigned. 
Kassan also started a competing company in direct competition with UTA
and MediaLink in violation of the PSA. 
On March 12, 2024, UTA and MediaLink (hereafter,
“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Kassan and Michael Kassan, Inc.
(hereafter, “Defendants”), for (1) Constructive Fraud, (2) Breach of Partner
Services Agreement, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and (4) Breach of Duty of
Loyalty.  
            On March 21, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) for Breach of
Partner Services Agreement – Injunctive Relief. 
On March 25, 2024, Defendants filed this Motion to
Compel Arbitration.  
            Plaintiffs filed an
opposition.  Defendants replied. 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
            Under both the Federal
Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or
equity for voiding a contract.  (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  The party moving to compel arbitration must
establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties.
 (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)  In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration,
the court must first determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate
the dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the
court in making this determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care
Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)¿ 
            Once petitioners
allege that an arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to respondents
to prove the falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or
authentication is required to find the arbitration agreement exists.  (See Condee v. Longwood Mgt. Corp. (2001)
88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)  However, if
the existence of the agreement is challenged, “petitioner bears the burden of
proving [the arbitration agreement's] existence by a preponderance of the
evidence.”  (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413; see also Espejo
v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1058-1060.)¿¿¿ 
            “With respect to the moving
party's burden to provide evidence of the¿existence¿of an agreement to
arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the
contract to the court.” (Condee, supra, 88 Cal.App.4th at p. 218;
see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [“A petition to compel arbitration or
to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and
1281.4 must state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of
the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The
provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or
electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference”].) Once
such a document is presented to the court, the burden shifts to the party
opposing the motion to compel, who may present any challenges to the
enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those challenges.
[Citation]” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC¿(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th
1152, 1160.)¿ 
III.       DISSCUSSION
            There is no dispute an
arbitration agreement exists.  The sole
issue to be decided is whether the PSA and agreement to arbitrate exempts
claims for injunctive relief.  The court
is therefore called upon to interpret the terms of the PSA and arbitration
agreement.
Interpretation of an arbitration provision employs
the ordinary rules of contract interpretation. (EFund Capital Partners v.
Pless (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1311, 1321.)  A court must give effect to the mutual
intention of the parties at the time the contract was formed. (Ibid.)
The contractual language must be given its usual and ordinary meaning, the
agreement must be interpreted as a whole, and the language must not be
determined to be ambiguous in the abstract. (Ibid.) California has a
strong public policy favoring arbitration and, as a result, ambiguities or
doubts about the scope of the arbitration provision should be resolved in favor
of arbitration. (Gravillis v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2006)
143 Cal.App.4th 761. 771.)  In accordance
with this policy, “an exclusionary clause in an arbitration provision should be
narrowly construed.” (Ibid.) The policy favoring arbitration, however,
does not apply when unambiguous language shows the parties did not agree to
arbitrate all or a part of the dispute.  (Id.
at p. 772.)
Here, this matter turns upon Sections 11 and 16 of
the Agreement and two portions of the arbitration agreement.  
Section 11 provides:
Executive acknowledges and agrees that Executive’s
breach of any of any provision of Sections 5 through 8 of this Agreement may
cause the Company, UTA and their respective Affiliates great and irreparable
injury and damage which cannot be reasonably or adequately compensated in any
action at law. Therefore, in addition to any other remedies that may be
available to the Company and UTA, the Company and UTA shall be entitled to seek
obtain temporary restraining orders, preliminary and permanent injunctions and/or
other equitable relief to specifically enforce Executive’s duties and
obligations under Sections 5 through 8 of this Agreement, or to enjoin any
breach of this Agreement, or to restrain Executive from engaging in any conduct
that would constitute a breach of Sections 5 through 8 Agreement, all without
the need to post a bond or other security and without the need to demonstrate
special damages. Nothing herein contained shall be construed as prohibiting the
Company or UTA from pursuing any other remedies available to the Company or UTA
for such breach or threatened breach, including, without limitation, the
recovery of damages from Executive, the clawback and recovery of any Earn-Out
Payment made by UTA pursuant to Section 4 while Executive was in breach of this
Agreement or the Release Agreement and/or the release of UTA and the Company
from its obligation to continue making any Severance payment or Earn-Out
Payment hereunder. For clarity, neither UTA nor the Company can engage in self-
help remedies as set forth in Section 4. 
(PSA, ¶ 11.)
            Section 16 provides:
Attached as Exhibit E hereto and deemed a part hereof
is the Mutual Agreement To Arbitrate Claims (the “Arbitration Terms”), all of
the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference and are binding on the
Parties. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein or in the Arbitration
Terms, injunctive relief may be sought in aid of arbitration in any court of
competent jurisdiction and the site of any Arbitration shall be Los Angeles
County, California. 
(PSA, ¶ 16.)
            And, as relevant here, the arbitration agreement provides,
Claims Covered and Excluded by the Agreement:
In consideration of my employment or continued employment with the Company, the
Company, UTA and I agree to submit to final and binding arbitration of all claims, disputes and controversies arising out of,
relating to or in any way associated with my employment or its termination
(hereinafter, “Claims”) that I may have against the Company, UTA or their
respective affiliates, assigns, predecessor or successor entities, past or
present, or any of its or their officers, directors, employees, shareholders or
agents in their capacities as such, and all Claims that the Company or UTA may
have against me.
[¶]
Entire Agreement; Survivability; Modifiability;
Severability: Subject to Section 11 of the Partner Services Agreement,
this Agreement constitutes and contains the entire agreement and final
understanding between the Company, UTA and me regarding the arbitration of
Claims between us, is intended by the parties as a complete and exclusive
statement of the terms of our arbitration agreement, and supersedes and
replaces all prior or contemporaneous oral or written negotiations or
agreements on the subject. 
(Arbitration Agreement, pp. 1, 3.)
            Based on the foregoing, the
court finds that the parties did not exempt from arbitration claims for
injunctive relief.  The parties expressly
agreed to submit “all claims, disputes and controversies arising out of,
relating to or in any way associated with [Kassan’s] employment”  to final and binding arbitration.  There is nothing in the Agreement which
expressly carves out claims for injunctive relief.
Focusing on Section 11 of the PSA and the last
paragraph of the arbitration agreement, Plaintiffs argue that the agreements
should be read as carving out claims for injunctive relief.  In support, they cite Eminence Healthcare,
Inc. v. Centuri Health Ventures, LLC (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 869 (Eminence
Healthcare) for the proposition that parties to an arbitration
agreement may carve out claims from the arbitration provision.  Plaintiffs’ argument fails.  As discussed above, none of the quoted
language from the PSA or arbitration agreement expressly exempts any type of
claim.  Eminence Healthcare only
proves the point.  In Eminence
Healthcare, the Court of Appeal was presented with unambiguous contractual
language which provided, “[e]xcept for claims seeking injunctive or other
equitable relief, the Parties shall resolve any dispute [as] set forth
in this Agreement.”  (Eminence
Healthcare, 74 Cal.App.5th at p. 876, emphasis added.)  There is no similar language in the
contractual agreements before this court.[1]  As the agreement directs, Plaintiffs must arbitrate
their claims against Defendants and may seek injunctive relief in the arbitral
forum.    
IV.       CONCLUSION 
            The Motion to Compel Arbitration
is GRANTED.¿ The action is stayed pending completion of binding
arbitration.
            The court sets a Status Conference
re: Arbitration for November 15, 2024, at 9:00 am.  
            Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated:   May 15, 2024                                    




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 


