  Case Number:  23STCV21685    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 15, 2024                                                  TRIAL
DATE:  February 15, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Santiago Sanchez v. Suzanne De Passe
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV21685
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTIES:           Defendant Suzanne
De Passe
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff
Santiago Sanchez
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a fraud and breach of contract action.  Plaintiff Santiago Sanchez (“Sanchez” or
“Plaintiff”) provides gardening services.  As relevant here, Sanchez provided gardening
services on the property of Defendant Suzanne De Passe (“De Passe” or
“Defendant”) for approximately 18 years.  From 2003 through May 2021, Sanchez performed
services in the total sum of $36,000. De Passe did not pay the balance owed.
 
On September 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendant
for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Fraud, and (3) Common Counts.  
 
On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (FAC) against Defendant for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Fraud,
(3) Common Counts, (4) Accounting, and (5) Declaratory Relief.
 
            On April 23,
2024, Defendant filed this Demurrer to the FAC, and concurrently filed  a Motion to Strike the request for attorney’s
fees and punitive damages from the FAC.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Demurrer only.   Defendant replied.
 
The Motion to Strike is unopposed. 
 
II.        DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Meet and Confer 
 
Before filing a demurrer or motion to strike, the party demurring
and moving to strike must meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video
conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer or
motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.41(a). 435.5(a).)¿ Here, Defendant has satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
 (See Declaration of David Hakimfar, ¶¶ 4-6.)
 
 
B.    
Legal Standard for Demurrer
 
            A demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and will be sustained only where
the pleading is defective on its face.¿ (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)¿
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿ We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed.¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Mitchell v. California Department of
Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged
in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].)
Allegations are to be liberally construed.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)¿ In
construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual
allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory
allegations.¿ (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿           
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).)¿“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint
is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under
modern discovery procedures.”¿(Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
Where the complaint contains substantial factual allegations
sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a
demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to
amend.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135,
139, fn. 2.)¿ Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment.¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to show the court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)¿ 
 
C.    
Application 
 
Defendant argues the FAC fails to allege facts sufficient to
state a cause of action for breach of contract, fraud, common counts, account,
or declaratory relief.  The court
addresses each in turn.
 
1.     
First Cause
of Action for Breach of Contract
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that on “May 21, 2021, after receiving the Defendant’s last invoice
making the total then due $ 36,000.00, Defendant sent Plaintiff the following
signed writing acknowledging the debt and agreeing to pay it by July 2021: “Hi
Chago 5/21/21 So sorry but I am not yet back to work. Hope to be whole [sic] sometime
in July. Thank You, Suzanne”. This writing constitutes a written agreement as
it acknowledges the debt due, confirms the agreement to pay it and is signed by
the party to be charged, namely the Defendant.” 
(FAC, ¶ 22.)  Further, “Defendant
breached the parties’ agreement by failing to pay the outstanding balance owed
by Defendant in the amount of $36,000.00.” 
(FAC, ¶ 23.)
 
            Defendant
argues the breach of contract claim fails because the FAC does not allege
essential terms of the contract and mutual assent.  Defendant further argues that the allegations
lack specificity which prevents ascertaining whether a contract exists at all.  
 
The elements of a breach of contract cause of action are:
(1) the existence of a valid contract between the plaintiff and the defendant,
(2) the plaintiff’s performance, (3) the defendant’s unjustified failure to
perform, and (4) damages to the plaintiff caused by the defendant’s breach.
(CACI No. 303; Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business, Inc.
(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1388 (Careau); Otworth v. Southern Pac.
Transportation (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458.) “[T]he complaint must
indicate on its face whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by
conduct.” (Otworth, 166 Cal.App.3d at pp. 458-459.)¿ The elements of a
breach of oral contract claim are the same as those for a breach of written
contract. (Careau, 222 Cal.App.3d at p. 1388.)  A claim for breach
of oral contract must be brought within two years of the breach.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 339.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that the parties entered into a
written agreement.  (See FAC, ¶ 22.)  However, the alleged written agreement does
not state the services to be performed or the amount to be paid for the
services rendered.  Further, contrary to
Plaintiff’s position, the writing does not evidence Defendant’s promise to pay
for (unidentified) services rendered.  The
allegations do not show that a written agreement was formed.  As Defendant argues, the allegations lack sufficient
specificity to apprise Defendant of the nature of Plaintiff’s claims.  The FAC is vague.  
 
2.     
Second Cause
of Action for Fraud
 
Plaintiff alleges that De Passe “made material
representations of fact, namely that she would agree to pay for the gardening
services provided by Plaintiff, and that she would pay the outstanding balance
owed to Plaintiff that accumulated.” 
(FAC, ¶ 26.)  Further, De Passe “wrote
several notes to Plaintiff indicating her gratitude for his patience in waiting
to receive the outstanding balance owed to him, expressing her regret that she
could not pay him yet, but with an indication that she would be paying off the
outstanding balance owed. An example of several such representations made
include the following:
 
a.      
“Chago — Many thanks for your
patience S. de Passe”
b.     
“Chago — Thank you for being
patient. Best Regards, S. de Passe”
c.      
“Dear Chago — I am sorry that I
cannot address the outstanding invoices until I can go back to work. I
appreciate your long standing patience S. de Passe”
d.     
“Hi Chago 5/21/21 So sorry but I am
not yet back to work. Hope to be whole sometime in July. Thank You, Suzanne”.
 
(FAC, ¶ 27.)
 
            Defendant
argues that the FAC lacks the required specificity to state a claim for fraud
and does not demonstrate Defendant’s intention to deceive or Plaintiff
justifiable reliance on the 
misrepresentation. 
 
“Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than with
general and conclusory allegations.”  (Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184 (cleaned up).)  The specificity requirement means a plaintiff
must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the
plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who made the representations,
their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when the representation was made.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th
780, 793.)  
 
“The facts essential to the statement of a cause of action
in fraud or deceit based on a promise made without any intention of performing
it are: (1) a promise made regarding a material fact without any intention of
performing it; (2) the existence of the intent at the time of making the
promise; (3) the promise was made with intent to deceive or with intent to
induce the party to whom it was made to enter into the transaction; (4) the
promise was relied on by the party to whom it was made; (5) the party making
the promise did not perform; (6) the party to whom the promise was made was
injured. (Regus v. Schartkoff (1957) 156 Cal.App.2d 382,
389.)  
 
            Here,
the court finds that the allegations are pleaded with sufficient particularity
to state a cause of action for fraud. 
Plaintiff specifically pleads the identity of the speaker (De Passe),
what was said (see FAC, ¶ 27), to whom (Sanchez), and when at least one of the
statements were made (see FAC, ¶ 27(d)). 
Plaintiff further alleges that De Passe “made these representations with
the intent to defraud Plaintiff and induce Plaintiff to act by continuing to
perform gardening services on Defendant’s promise that she would pay the
outstanding balance. At the time Plaintiff acted, Plaintiff did not know the
representations were false and believed they were true. Plaintiff acted in
justifiable reliance upon the truth of the representations.”  (FAC, ¶ 30.) 
Plaintiff relied on De Passe’s conduct and suffered damages in an amount
of not less than $36,000.  (FAC, ¶ 31.)  Each element for a fraud claim has been
sufficiently pleaded. 
 
3.     
Third Cause
of Action for Common Counts
 
Plaintiff alleges that De Passe “became indebted to
Plaintiff within the last four (4) years for work, labor, services, and
materials rendered at the special instance and request of Defendant and for
which Defendant promised to pay Plaintiff in the sum of $ 36,000.00.”  (FAC, ¶ 33.)
 
Defendant argues that the Third Cause of Action lacks
specific information on when the debt was incurred or when the payments were
due.  Thus, Defendant contends it is
impossible to determine the appropriate limitations period.
 
A cause of action for services rendered must state that (1)
Defendant requested, by words or conduct, that Plaintiff perform services for
the benefit of Defendant, (2) Plaintiff performed the services as requested,
(3) Defendant has not paid Plaintiff for the services, and (4) the reasonable
value of the services that were provided.  (CACI No. 371.)   
 
            Here, the
Third Cause of Action fails.  “When a
common count is used as an alternative way of seeking the same recovery
demanded in a specific cause of action, and is based on the same facts, the
common count is demurrable if the cause of action is demurrable.” (McBride
v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 394.)  The Third Cause of
Action is based upon the same facts as the First Cause of Action and seeks to
recover the same sum of money.  As
discussed above, the court has found that the breach of written contract claim
fails for lack of certainty.  Because the
First Cause of Action is demurrable, the Third Cause of Action is demurrable on
the same grounds. 
  
4.     
Fourth Cause
of Action for Accounting
 
Plaintiff alleges that he is owed payment from Defendant in
the amount of not less than $36,000 and requests an accounting for all accounts
owed by Defendant.  (FAC, ¶ 37.)
 
“An action for an accounting has two elements: (1) that a
relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an
accounting and (2) that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be
ascertained by an accounting.  (Sass
v. Cohen (2020) 10 Cal.5th 861, 869 (cleaned up).)
 
Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action is deficient.  “The action carries with it an inherent
limitation; an accounting action is not available where the plaintiff alleges
the right to recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by
calculation.”  (Sass, at p.
869.)  Here, Plaintiff seeks to recover a
sum certain: $36,000.  Plaintiff’s Fourth
Cause of Action is barred. 
 
5.     
Fifth Cause
of Action for Declaratory Relief
 
“To qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to
demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject
of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable
questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.”¿ (Jolley v. Chase
Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, [cleaned up].)  A demurrer to a declaratory relief cause of
action may lie where it is wholly derivative of a claim that is invalid as a
matter of law.  (See Ball v.
FleetBoston Fin. Corp. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 794, 800 [sustaining demurrer
to declaratory relief claim which was wholly derivative of a statutory claim].)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges, without more, that “[a]n actual
controversy exists between Plaintiff and Defendant” which requires a judicial
determination of the issues as alleged in the preceding paragraphs.  (FAC, ¶¶ 38-40)  As alleged, the Fifth Cause of Action is
wholly derivative of the breach of contract and fraud claims.  Moreover, there is no actual controversy as
the allegations of the FAC make clear that past conduct is at issue.  The Fifth Cause of Action is deficient.
 
D.   
Motion to
Strike 
 
Defendant seeks to strike the request for attorney fees and
punitive damages from the FAC.  She
argues that the attorney fees are not supported by a statute or by contract and
that there are insufficient allegations to support a claim for punitive
damages.  The court agrees.  Plaintiff, having not filed an opposition to
the Motion to Strike, does not offer any argument or authority to the contrary.[1]
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The Demurrer to the First, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Causes
of Action is SUSTAINED.  
 
            The
Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
            The Motion
to Strike is GRANTED.
            
            Leave to
amend is GRANTED as to the First and Third Cause of Action only.
 
            Plaintiff Santiago
Sanches is to file and serve the Second Amended Complaint within 20 days of
this order.
 
Clerk of the Court to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   May 15, 2024                                                




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


