 Case Number:  23STCV26493    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 19, 2024                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Herbert Capital, LLC, et al. v. Bryce
Egbert, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV26493            
 
MOTION
FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Herbert Capital, LLC and 1010 Eighty, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Bryce
Egbert and Egbert Enterprises, LLC
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a shareholder derivative action that was filed on October 31,
2023. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants Bryce Egbert and Taisiia Popova
conspired to raid the assets of a pair of LLCs in the business of cannabis oil
manufacture. 
 
Plaintiffs move for an order (1)
confirming a majority vote of stakeholders in nominal Defendant Deeper Dive LA,
LLC for the removal of Defendant Egbert from control of both nominal Defendants
and his replacement with Matthew Novello as manager; and (2) to continue the injunctions
levied against Defendant Egbert in a temporary restraining order issued
November 22, 2023. Plaintiffs also seek monetary sanctions for violation of
that order. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED IN PART. The Court issues the following orders:
 
(1) Defendant Egbert shall ensure that
the video cameras required to be working for the entity are operational and
recording; 
(2) Defendant Egbert shall not sell any
cannabis products to any unlicensed persons or entities; 
(3) Defendant Ebgert shall not transfer
or cause of be transferred any personal or real property belonging to the
nominal LLC defendants; and (4) Defendant Egbert shall not obtain any loans or
take any actions inconsistent with the operating agreements for the nominal LLC
defendants.
 
            The
Court also orders that Defendant Egbert pay sanctions to the Court in the
amount of $1,500 for violation of the November 22, 2023 Temporary Restraining
Order requiring that the video cameras required to be working for the entity
are operational and recording. Payment shall be made within 10 days of this
order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiffs move for an order (1)
confirming a majority vote of stakeholders in nominal Defendant Deeper Dive LA,
LLC (“DDLA”) for the removal of Defendant Egbert from control of both DDLA and
Deeper Dive LA Management, LLC (“DDLM,”)  and his replacement with Matthew Novello as
manager; and (2) to continue the injunctions levied against Defendant Egbert in
a temporary restraining order issued November 22, 2023. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiffs
request that the Court take judicial notice of (1) the Complaint in this
action; (2) the October 31, 2023 Notice of Ruling filed in this action as to Plaintiffs’
ex parte application for order for removal of managing member and
appointment of receiver; and (3) the November 22, 2023 Notice of Ruling filed
in this action as to Plaintiffs’ ex parte application for a Temporary
Restraining Order to (1) remove managing member; (2) appoint receiver of two
nominal defendant companies; and (3) to restrain managing member from taking
certain actions. These requests are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section
452(d) (court records). 
 
Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of (1) a Notice of Interim
Suspension against Matthew Novello issued by the Michigan Attorney Discipline
Board on December 12, 2022, Case No. 22-76-GA; (2) a Notice of Suspension and
Restitution dated March 15, 2023 in the same matter; (3) the Declaration of Andrew
Kramer filed in opposition to the November 22, 2023 ex parte application
in this Court; (4) the Declaration of Tab Perry filed the same date in this
matter; (5) Plaintiffs’ October 31, 2023 ex parte application; (6) the
Court’s October 31, 2023 Minute Order in this action; (7) Plaintiffs’ November
22, 2023 ex parte application for a Temporary Restraining Order; (8) the
Declaration of Matthew Novello filed on November 21, 2023 in support of the
second ex parte application; (9) the Court’s November 22, 2023 Minute
Order in this action; (10) Plaintiffs’ Motion for Preliminary Injunction filed
December 13, 2023; (11) Plaintiffs’ Motion for Preliminary Injunction filed
December 20, 2023; and (12) the Declaration of Matthew Novello filed in support
of the December 13, 2023 Motion for Preliminary Injunction. 
 
As to Requests Nos. 1-2, these
requests are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code sections 452(c) and (d)
(official acts and court records). As to Requests Nos. 3-12, these requests are
GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records). In so doing,
the Court emphasizes that, except for the Court’s Minute Orders, judicial
notice is taken of the existence of these documents only, and not of the truth
of their contents. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A party may request a preliminary injunction “by serving a
noticed motion,” as Plaintiffs have in this case, when the party against whom
the preliminary injunction is sought has appeared in the action. (Cal. Rule of
Court 3.1150(a).) 
 
“An injunction is a writ or order requiring a person to
refrain from a particular act.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 525.) “A preliminary
injunction may be granted at any time before judgment upon a verified
complaint, or upon affidavits if the complaint in the one case, or the
affidavits in the other, show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist
therefor.” (Code Civ. Proc.§ 527(a).) An injunction may be granted in the
following cases:    
 
(1) When it
appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded,
and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or
continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period or
perpetually.  
 
(2)¿When it
appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or continuance of
some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or irreparable
injury, to a party to the action. 
 
(3)¿¿When
it appears, during the litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act
in violation of the rights of another party to the action respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual. 
 
(4) When pecuniary compensation would not afford adequate
relief.  
 
(5) Where
it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation which
would afford adequate relief.  
 
            . . . . 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a)(1)-(5).) 
 
In deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction, two
factors must be considered prior to issuing a preliminary injunction: (1) the
balance of the harm to the applicant should the injunction not issue, compared
to the harm to the enjoined party should the injunction issue; and (2) whether
the applicant is ultimately likely to prevail on the merits. (Common Cause
v. Board of Supervisors (1989) 49 Cal.3d 432, 441442.)  A trial court
has broad discretionary powers to grant or deny a request for a preliminary
injunction if it does not act capriciously.  The court should exercise its
judgment in favor of the party most likely to be injured. (Robbins v.
Superior Court (1985) 38 Cal.3d 199, 205.)  In addition, the two
factors are interrelated: the greater the Plaintiff’s showing as to one of the
factors, the less that must be shown as to the other factor. (Butt v. State
of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678.) 
 
Balance of Harms
 
“Irreparable harm” arises when monetary damages would not be
sufficient to remedy the injury. (Wind v. Herbert (1960) 186 Cal.App.2d
276, 285; Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a)(4).) Injuries rising from wrongs of
“continuing character” may also constitute “irreparable harm.” (People ex
rel. Gow v. Mitchell Bros.’ Santa Ana Theater (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 863,
871.) An injunction preventing disposal of property is proper if disposal would
render the final judgment ineffectual. (Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a)(3); Wilkins
v. Oken (1958) 157 Cal.App.2d 603, 606-607.) In the context of a derivative
suit, irreparable harm includes disposal of profits of a transaction by
officers or directors. (See Heckman v. C.L. Ahmanson (1985) 168
Cal.App.3d 119, 127 [affirming preliminary injunction imposing trust on profits
from sale of corporation].) Other examples include circumstances where “the
directors and majority of the stockholders are so managing or disposing of its
business or assets in their own interest that they will probably be lost or
destroyed before a decree can be rendered,” or “where there are such
dissensions within the corporation that its business cannot be honestly or
properly managed.” (Misita v. Distillers Corp. (1942) 54 Cal.App.2d 244,
250-51 [appointment of receiver].) 
 
Plaintiffs argue that if the injunction does not issue, they will
suffer greater harm in that Defendant Egbert will continue to damage the LLCs’ business
and assets by, inter alia, incurring debts against the LLCs while
keeping the loan proceeds for himself, enacting a plan to sell both LLCs to a
third party whom Plaintiffs contend is not licensed to operate a cannabis oil
business, and disposing of equipment belonging to the LLCs without compensation.
In support of these serious accusations, Plaintiffs offer substantial evidence
of Defendant Egbert’s lending activities, wherein he borrowed $700,000 for
personal use but has diverted products from the LLCs to cover the balance of
the loan. (Declaration of Matthew Novello ISO Mot. ¶¶ 10, 16, 20, 22-23, 25-27;
Declaration of Elan Chen ISO Mot. ¶p 3, 7, 8, 10; Declaration of Patricia
Bogart-Christiansen ISO Mot. ¶ 16, Exhs. 2-5.) Plaintiffs also offer evidence of
Egbert’s attempt to sell an interest in the LLCs to a third party, Tad Perry,
in exchange for the return of sales proceeds for processing marijuana products.
(Christiansen Decl. ¶¶ 20-21, 25-26, Novello Decl. ¶¶ 4-6, 8, 17, 28-33, 40-41;
Chen Decl. ¶ 4.) Finally, Plaintiffs offer evidence that Defendant Egbert disposed
of equipment valued at $300,000 and is attempting to remove more equipment.
(Christiansen Decl. ¶¶ 22-25, Novello Decl. ¶¶ 35-36, Chen Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.) 
 
In opposition, Defendants assert that Plaintiffs have shown neither
imminent injury nor irreparable harm and have thus failed to carry their burden
to support a preliminary injunction. The Court disagrees. Plaintiffs have
offered substantial evidence of continuing misuse and misappropriation of
corporate assets such that, if relief is not granted, the businesses and their
assets will likely be lost or destroyed before judgment can be rendered. 
 
Defendants also assert that the balance of equities favors them
because Mr. Egbert has “personally invested at least $1.8 million in capital,” (see
Declaration of Bryce Egbert ¶ 4,) and “is the only owner who can manage and
operate DDLA and DDLM successfully.” The first contention is immaterial because
Plaintiffs do not seek to divest Defendant Egbert of his interest in the LLCs.
The second is merely an unsupported argument, not evidence of a threat of harm,
irreparable or otherwise. 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs have demonstrated that the balance of
harms favors granting equitable relief. Plaintiffs must next demonstrate that
they are likely to succeed on the merits. 
 
Likelihood
of Success
 
            The Complaint alleges three causes
of action: (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) conversion; and (3) unfair
competition. 
 
On this factor, a preliminary
injunction may not issue unless the judge is persuaded that it is “reasonably
probable” that the moving party will prevail on the merits.  (San
Francisco Newspaper Printing Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d
438, 442.)  The judge does not determine the merits of the action or
decide that the plaintiff necessarily will prevail.  The judge only
determines whether there is a reasonable probability that the plaintiff will
prevail.  (Youngblood v. Wilcox (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1368, 1372.)
The moving party need only demonstrate a likelihood of success on a single
cause of action to sustain a preliminary injunction. (Lam v. Ngo (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th
832, 844 [“A single cause of action can sustain a preliminary injunction”].)
 
Plaintiffs argue
that they are likely to succeed on the first cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty. To prove a claim for breach of fiduciary duty, a plaintiff must
establish a fiduciary relationship, a breach of the duty, and resulting damage.
(See, e.g., Cleveland v. Johnson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1338.) A
majority stakeholder and managing member owes a fiduciary duty to the minority
stakeholders. (Meister v. Mensinger (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 381, 395.) A
shareholder derivative suit is properly brought against the corporation as a
nominal defendant, and against the majority shareholder or managing member for injuries
to the corporation. (See Grosset v. Wenaas (2008) 42
Cal.4th 1100, 1108.) In support of their position, Plaintiffs point to the
substantial evidence of Defendant Egbert’s appropriation of corporate assets to
pay personal loans, (Novello Decl. ¶¶ 10, 16, 20, 22-23, 25-27;
Chen Decl.  ¶p 3, 7, 8, 10; Christiansen
Decl. ¶ 16, Exhs. 2-5), attempts to sell interest in the corporations to a
buyer using proceeds from a previous transaction with that buyer, (Christiansen
Decl. ¶¶ 20-21, 25-26, Novello Decl. ¶¶ 4-6, 8, 17, 28-33, 40-41; Chen Decl. ¶
4), and that Defendant Egbert disposed of equipment valued at $300,000 and is
attempting to remove more equipment. (Christiansen Decl. ¶¶ 22-25, Novello
Decl. ¶¶ 35-36, Chen Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.) 
 
In opposition, Defendants concede that that the funds from the $700,000
loan were diverted to Egbert Enterprises, LLC, but contend that this was done
because DDLM did not have a bank account. (Egbert Decl. ¶ 15.) Defendant Egbert
states that the loan was taken on behalf of DDLM, and the proceeds were used to
pay for DDLM’s operations. (Id.) Defendants also contend that Defendant
Egbert never attempted to sell existing inventory off-books for any purpose,
whether to pay down the balance of the $700,000 loan or not, instead claiming
that Plaintiffs’ witness, Mr. Chan was engaging in off-books transactions. (Id.
¶¶ 32-36, 40, Exhs. Q-S.) Defendants also claim that Mr. Novello was involved
in the illegal transactions and froze Defendant Egbert out of access to the
relevant records because they revealed the existence of those transactions. (Egbert
Decl. ¶ 43.) Defendants offer no evidence, however, that Defendant Egbert
disposed of the loan funds in the way he claims he did beyond his self-serving
declaration, Further, although Defendants offer security footage which they
claim captures improper transactions involving cannabis products, nothing about
this footage establishes that the exchanges shown were improper, only that they
occurred. Defendant Egbert’s assertion that the transactions are off-the-books
are not supported by any evidence, such as, for example, a printout of the
METRC records showing that the exchange recorded on the security footage is not
accounted for. Moreover, Mr. Novello has offered a supplemental declaration in
reply stating under penalty of perjury that these exchanges were properly
tracked and involved licensed individuals and would produce the relevant
records if he still had access to them. (Supplemental Declaration of Matthew
Novello ISO Reply ¶ 7.)
 
Defendants also attack Mr. Novello’s credibility on the grounds that
he was suspended from the practice of law in Michigan for abandoning
representation of clients and failing to answer requests for investigation.
(See Defendants’ RJN Exh. A-B.) Mr. Novello’s conduct as an attorney does not
bear on his ability to testify as a fact witness. 
 
As to the allegation that Defendants attempted to sell ownership of
the LLCs to a third party, Defendant Egbert concedes that he was attempting to
do so, but states that he determined that Tad Perry “was not the right fit for
the company.” (Egbert Decl. ¶ 17.) 
 
With respect to the allegations that Defendant Egbert improperly
disposed of corporate property, Defendant contends that he believed that
selling equipment was appropriate and in the interest of the corporation to pay
down debt and purchase better equipment, and that the equipment was disposed of
with the apparent approval of its owners. (Egbert Decl. ¶¶ 13, 37-38.) 
 
            The bulk of Defendants’ evidence
opposing the allegations of breach of fiduciary duty consists of conclusory
assertions and self-serving declarations by the person accused of misconduct.
Although Defendant Egbert’s sworn statements have some probative value, the
Court finds them to be of little persuasive force in the face of multiple
witnesses testifying in Plaintiffs’ favor. Moreover, Defendants admit to much
of the conduct which Plaintiffs contend was improper and injurious to the
interests of the LLCs. The Court therefore finds that Plaintiffs have shown a
likelihood of success on the merits such that a preliminary injunction should be
issued. 
 
Scope of Injunction
 
            Plaintiffs request that the Court order
confirmation of the majority vote of stakeholders in DDLA, LLC for removal of
Bryce Egbert as managing member and his replacement with Matthew Novello as
manager. Plaintiffs also request that the Court issue the following orders in
conformity with the Temporary Restraining Order issued November 22, 2023:
 
(1) Defendant Egbert shall ensure that
the video cameras required to be working for the entity are operational and
recording; 
(2) Defendant Egbert shall not sell any
cannabis products to any unlicensed persons or entities; 
(3) Defendant Ebgert shall not transfer
or cause of be transferred any personal or real property belonging to the
nominal LLC defendants; and (4) Defendant Egbert shall not obtain any loans or
take any actions inconsistent with the operating agreements for the nominal LLC
defendants.
 
(November 22, 2023
Minute Order.) 
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs are not
entitled to a preliminary injunction removing Defendant Egbert because they
have failed to establish that a majority of the ownership voted to remove
Defendant Egbert from his managing position. Defendant Egbert contends that he did
not transfer sufficient interest in DDLA to eliminate his controlling interest
in the corporation, challenging Plaintiffs’ calculation of the relevant
ownership interests. (Compare Plaintiffs’ Exh. 19 [ownership interests as of
December 15, 2023], Egbert Decl.  Exh. P
[ownership as of July 6, 2022].) Defendants also contend that DDLA does not own
DDLM because Defendant Egbert owns 85% of DDLM. (Egbert Decl. ¶¶ 24-26.)
Defendants assert that the Amended Operating Agreement presented as Plaintiffs’
Exhibit 2 bears a forged signature, which they impute, without evidence, to Mr.
Novello. Plaintiffs fail to meaningfully address these contentions beyond
dismissing them as mere “math errors” or asserting that, if there are issues
with accounting, it is Defendant Egbert’s responsibility. Plaintiffs argue that
even if Defendants’ arguments are valid, they are merely evidence of an
irreconcilable dispute between the shareholders such that a receiver is
appropriate. 
 
            Plaintiffs cite no authority
directly supporting the position that an injunction ordering the removal of a
director of a corporation is appropriate relief. Instead, Plaintiffs
principally rely on Misita v. Distillers Corp. supra,
54 Cal.App.2d at 250-51, which states that a Court may issue a preliminary
injunction to appoint a receiver to prevent loss of corporate assets or the
business. However, Plaintiffs do not specifically seek appointment of a
receiver according to their notice of motion. Further, as Defendants state in opposition, an
interested party cannot serve as receiver for a corporation as a matter of law.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 566.) Plaintiffs do not address this requirement in their
reply brief, and in fact appear to concede the issue by acknowledging Mr.
Novello’s interest in DDLA and DDLM as evidencing his personal knowledge of the
LLCs’ finances, because Defendant Egbert stated that Novello’s interest was
conveyed for conducting the accounting and legal work on behalf of the
corporations. (See Reply p.5:24-26.) 
 
            The Court is not persuaded by
Plaintiffs’ contentions. Plaintiffs have not established that Defendant
Egbert’s removal was agreed upon by a majority of shares of DDLA, or that DDLA
has a controlling interest in DDLM. Nor have Plaintiffs demonstrated that an
injunction removing Defendant Egbert from his position is authorized by any
applicable law, especially in the absence of the appointment of a neutral
replacement, or that Mr. Novello is the proper individual to be named as a
receiver. 
 
            As to the continuation of the
Temporary Restraining Order, neither Plaintiffs nor Defendants challenge the
scope of that Order, and the Court finds that the Order is appropriately
tailored to the threatened injuries identified by Plaintiffs. 
 
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiffs seek sanctions against
Defendant Egbert in the amount of $1,500 for failure to comply with the
Temporary Restraining Order by failing to ensure that video cameras were
operational and recording. Code of Civil Procedure section 177.5 empowers the
Court to impose reasonable sanctions not to exceed $1,500 payable to the court
for any violation of a lawful court order without good cause or substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc. §177.5.) 
 
            Plaintiffs contend that Defendant
Egbert did not keep all security cameras operational as required by the
Temporary Restraining Order, and that the cameras have been offline since
November 27. (Novello Decl. ¶¶ 4-5, Exh. 20.) However, the evidence offered by
Plaintiffs purporting to show that the cameras were not functioning is dated
November 2, 2023, predating the Court’s order by 20 days. (Id.) In
opposition, Defendant Egbert states that the cameras have been online since
November 27. (Egbert Decl. ¶ 32.) Defendant Egbert states that, on or about
October 10, 2023, he had to create a new Spectrum internet account to restore
internet access to the facility and keep the cameras operational, because the
account with which they were associated was in bad standing for non-payment,
and Defendant Egbert had to create a new Spectrum account to return the cameras
to operation. (Egbert Decl. ¶ 32.) Defendants do not speak to the ability of
Plaintiffs or any other stakeholder to access the relevant surveillance footage
beyond a statement that the surveillance recordings are stored for 90 days
on-site. (Id.) Plaintiffs argue in response that keeping the cameras
online but inaccessible is not meaningfully different from failing to keep the
cameras functioning at all. 
 
            The Court concurs with Plaintiffs. Although
the letter of the Court’s November 22nd order only states that the cameras
should be kept “operational and recording,” it would defeat the purpose of that
order for the cameras to be operational and recording but their footage
inaccessible to all but Defendant Egbert. The Court therefore finds that
Defendant Egbert violated the Court’s order without good cause or substantial
justification and that sanctions are warranted in the amount of $1,500.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED IN PART. The Court
issues the following orders:
 
(1) Defendant Egbert shall ensure that
the video cameras required to be working for the entity are operational and
recording; 
(2) Defendant Egbert shall not sell any
cannabis products to any unlicensed persons or entities; 
(3) Defendant Ebgert shall not transfer
or cause of be transferred any personal or real property belonging to the
nominal LLC defendants; and (4) Defendant Egbert shall not obtain any loans or
take any actions inconsistent with the operating agreements for the nominal LLC
defendants.
 
            The
Court also orders that Defendant Egbert pay sanctions to the Court in the
amount of $1,500 for violation of the November 22, 2023 Temporary Restraining
Order requiring that the video cameras required to be working for the entity
are operational and recording. Payment shall be made within 10 days of this
order. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 19,
2023                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 