

Hearing Date:             July 30, 2024
Case Name:                 Neman et al. v. Bahari et al.
Case
No.:                    22STCV39168
Motion:                       Special
Motion to Strike (Anti-SLAPP)
Moving
Party:             Cross-Defendants Morad
Ben Neman and Lancaster Eagle, LLC

Responding Party:      Cross-Complainant Caster Modelo, LLC


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The special motion to
strike is denied.
 

 
Background
 
Plaintiffs Morad Ben Neman and
Lancaster Eagle, LLC sued defendants Payam Bahari, Freydoon “Fred” Bahari
Moghadam, Haim Bahari, Tal Bahari, 114 Grand Cypress, LLC, Cavalini, Inc., and
Caster Modelo, LLC, on December 16, 2022, and filed their operative second
amended complaint (“SAC”) on February 9, 2024. The SAC asserts causes of action
for breach of a joint venture agreement, breach of fiduciary duty, aiding and
abetting the same, and fraudulent conveyances. Plaintiffs allege they entered a
joint real estate investment venture with Defendants, then Defendants exploited
the venture’s investment leads and directly invested for their own gain in
properties discovered by Plaintiffs for the venture.
 
Defendant Caster Modelo, LLC (“Modelo”)
cross-complained against Plaintiffs and against Vivoli Saccuzo, LLP on April
19, 2024, and filed its operative first amended cross-complaint (“FAXC”) on
May 3, 2024. The FAXC asserts causes of action for an accounting, breach
of contract, conversion, declaratory relief, and receipt of stolen property. Modelo
alleges that it and Plaintiff/Cross-defendant Lancaster
Eagle entered a written tenancy-in-common agreement (“TIC”) related to a
property located in Lancaster (“Property”). The parties expressly disclaimed
any joint venture arrangement in the TIC. When the parties sought to sell the
Property, Lancaster Eagle first threatened to scuttle the deal unless it
received more than 50% compensation from the sale, then it stole collectively-owned
funds from the TIC.
 
On June 5, 2024, Plaintiff/Cross-defendants
specially moved to strike Modelo’s second cause of action for breach of
contract, third cause of action for conversion, and fifth cause of action for receipt
of stolen property, under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, California’s
“anti-SLAPP” law. On July 17, 2024, Modelo filed its opposition. On July 23,
2024, Plaintiffs replied.
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 permits a defendant
to specially move to strike a cause of action that arises from certain conduct
privileged under the law. The Legislature recognizes these sorts of actions,
termed strategic lawsuits against public participation (“SLAPPs”), as a tactic in
which a litigant may impose litigation costs on a party for exercising
fundamental First Amendment rights. Thus, under section 425.16, a party may
move to strike a cause of action that arises from any act of that person in
furtherance of the person's right of petition or free speech under the United
States Constitution or the California Constitution in connection with a public
issue, and may recover her fees and costs for doing so.   
  
Section 425.16 posits a two-step process for determining
whether an action is a strategic lawsuit against public participation. Courts
first decide whether moving parties have made a prima facie showing that the
attacked claims arise from a protected activity, including defendants’ right of
petition or free speech.  (See e.g. Healy v. Tuscany Hills Landscape
& Recreation Corp., (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1, 5; Soukup v. Law
Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 278; Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16(e).) Moving parties have the initial burden to demonstrate that a cause
of action is subject to a special motion to strike.  (Martinez v.
Metabolife Inter. Ins. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 181, 186; Fox Searchlight
Pictures Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 304.) If the defendant
makes a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising
from protected activity, the burden shifts to the party opposing the motion to
establish a likelihood of prevailing on the complaint. (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 425.16.) If that party fails to do so, then the Court may strike the claim.
 
Discussion
 
            Prong
One: Protected Activity
 
Under the first step of the analysis, the court must decide
whether the moving parties (Plaintiff/Cross-defendants Neman and
Lancaster Eagle) have met the threshold burden of
showing that the opposing party’s cause of action arises from the moving
party’s constitutional rights of free speech or petition. This burden may be
met by showing the act underlying the Plaintiff/Cross-defendants’ cause of action falls within one of the four categories of
conduct set forth in Code of Civil Procedure Section 425.16, subdivision (e).
The categories include, as relevant here, “(1) any written or oral statement or
writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, [and]¿(2) any written or oral
statement or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or
review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law....”
 
Plaintiffs/moving parties argue subdivisions (e)(1) and/or (e)(2)
describe Modelo’s second, third, and fifth causes of action, because all three
causes of action assertedly arise from litigation between Plaintiffs and Modelo.

 
In opposition to the anti-SLAPP motion, Modelo argues that its claims
do not arise from the litigation initiated by Plaintiffs, but from their
misappropriation of TIC funds and larger-scale breaches of the
parties’ agreement.
 
The Court need not accept either party’s characterization of the FAXC
at the first prong of the anti-SLAPP inquiry. (See Wilson v. Cable News
Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 887 [courts may go beyond the pleadings
and consider evidence at prong one].) An anti-SLAPP movant might show, with
evidence, that a complaint arises from protected activity, even if a plaintiff
has artfully framed its allegations to fall outside the auspices of section
425.16. (Ibid.) “[I]t is the defendant’s activity allegedly giving rise
to liability that is the focus of the anti-SLAPP scheme, not the manner in
which the plaintiff pleads causes of action.” (Sheley v. Harrop (2017) 9
Cal.App.5th 1147, 1164 (Sheley).)
 
The moving parties cite Wilson, supra, to argue that the
Court must evaluate the facts underlying Modelo’s claims to determine if
section 425.16 applies. But Plaintiff/Cross-defendants
have not given the Court facts to consider. Neman’s declaration concedes it was
improper to write a check from the parties’ joint account to his own lawyer. (Neman
is silent on whether the funds were returned to the account.) Otherwise, Plaintiff/Cross-defendants’
declarations fail to address the conduct underlying the claims
asserted in the Cross-complaint. 
 
As the parties seeking anti-SLAPP protection from the
Cross-complaint, Plaintiff/Cross-defendants bear the
burden to show their alleged conduct was protected under section 425.16. They
merely assert in conclusory fashion that “the very face of Caster Modelo’s
Cross-Complaint makes clear the [challenged] causes of action arise from
protected conduct ....” (MPA, 14:9-10.) 
 
As Plaintiff/Cross-defendants characterize it,
Modelo has sued them solely because they have sued Modelo. Plaintiffs assert the
second cause of action arises from “Lancaster Eagle’s assertion ... of a joint
venture relationship in this case,” which is an assertion Plaintiffs have made
in the course of this judicial proceeding and therefore protected under section
425.16(e)(1). 
 
But in the second cause of action of the FAXC, Modelo accuses
Lancaster of breaching nine sections of the TIC. (FAXC, ¶ 44(a)-(i).) Among the
sections allegedly breached is section 2 of the TIC, “Disclaimer of Entity
Status”, which among other things, according to Modelo, forbids Lancaster from acting
as Modelo’s agent. (Id., subp. (a).) Plaintiffs argue that these claims
of breach arose from protected activity. First, whether the parties created an
agency relationship is a disputed fact in this litigation. Plaintiff/Cross-defendants
cannot use the anti-SLAPP law against Modelo merely because the parties have
opposing views of that ultimate fact.  Second,
the moving parties offer no evidence for the assertion.
 
Moreover, Plaintiffs disregard the other eight breaches alleged by
Modelo. The cause of action relies on allegations of, for instance, improper
distributions of TIC funds (FAXC, ¶ 44(c) and (f)), failing to provide access
to books and records (id. (g)), and taking various actions on behalf of
the TIC without proper authorization. (id. (b), (d), (e), (h)). These
are all simple breaches of Plaintiffs’ duties under the TIC which do not – have
anything to do with protected activity or Plaintiffs’ litigation.
 
            Even if Modelo’s Cross-complaint was
a response to Plaintiffs’ suit, this does not mean it is “arising from” the
suit.  As our Supreme Court explained in City
of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, the mere fact that an
action was filed after protected activity took place does not mean the action
arose from that activity for the purpose of the anti-SLAPP statute. And even if
a cause of action was “triggered” by protected activity, that does not establish
that the claim arose from it.  (Id.
at pp. 76-78.)  “In the anti-SLAPP
context, the critical consideration is whether the cause of action is based
on the defendant’s protected free speech or petitioning activity.”  (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th
82, 89.)  Plaintiffs’ motion urges this Court
to disregard these precedents.
 
Similarly, the conversion and civil theft causes of action arise from
Plaintiffs’ alleged misappropriation of funds. Although Modelo alleges some of
that money went to pay Plaintiffs’ lawyer, it also alleges the funds were
stolen, and it does not know how the funds were eventually used, if at all.
(FAXC, ¶¶ 24-25.) Modelo’s claims arise from the funds’ alleged theft, not how
the funds may have been spent.  The
elements of conversion do not include how wrongfully obtained property is used.
(See Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)
Accordingly, such asides are merely incidental to the cause of action.
 
Plaintiff/Cross-defendants’
motion seeks to strike entire causes of action when most, if not all, of the
specific claims within them are unprotected activities.[1]  The Court does not view any of the causes of
action in Modelo’s Cross-complaint as “mixed” – in the anti-SLAPP context, “a
cause of action that rests on allegations of multiple acts, some of which
constitute protected activity and some of which do not.”  (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System
(2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1010.) Here, the moving parties have not
established that any protected activity was the basis for any claim asserted in
Modelo’s Cross-complaint.  
 
But
even if any claim arose from protected activity, the motion seeks to strike
entire causes of action. As our Supreme Court has made clear, in a mixed cause
of action case, that approach is mistaken.  In Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1
Cal.5th 376, the Court explained: “Typically, a pleaded cause of
action states a legal ground for recovery supported by specific allegations of
conduct by the defendant on which the plaintiff relies to establish a right to
relief.  If the supporting allegations
include conduct furthering the defendant’s exercise of the constitutional
rights of free speech or petition, the pleaded cause of action ‘aris[es] from’
protected activity, at least in part….” 
(Id. at pp. 381-382.) The high court noted that
some courts, “have held that the motion lies only to strike an entire
count as pleaded in the complaint.”  In Baral, the Court concluded that such a practice leads to “anomalous results
when the count is supported by allegations of unprotected activity as well as
protected activity.”  (Id. at p. 383.)  As applicable here,
the Supreme Court explained:  “At the
first step, the moving defendant bears the burden of identifying all
allegations of protected activity, and the claims for relief supported by them.
When relief is sought based on allegations of both protected and unprotected
activity, the unprotected activity is disregarded at this stage.”  (Id. at p. 396.)  
 
Even where, as here, Plaintiff/Cross-defendants
move to strike entire causes of action that include multiple claims, a
“claim-by-claim approach” rather than “attempting to evaluate a cause of action
as a whole” is the proper analysis.  Our
Supreme Court’s so concluded in Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System (2021)
11 Cal.5th 995, 1010-1011. Requiring a much more refined approach
than Plaintiff/Cross-defendants utilize here, the Bonni decision
explained that “a claim is subject to an anti-SLAPP motion to strike if its
elements arise from protected activity. [Citations.] Courts deciding an
anti-SLAPP motion thus must consider the claim’s elements, the actions alleged
to establish those elements, and whether those actions are protected.”  (Id. at p. 1015.)  Here, at most, Plaintiff/Cross-defendants
have pointed to a line or two in the Cross-complaint that – they speculate – could
indicate that Modelo is seeking redress because Plaintiffs used stolen funds to
pursue this litigation. Thus, they argue, the entire breach of contract cause
of action, and the related causes of action for conversion and receiving stolen
property, must be stricken. This argument is overbroad misconceives the
statute.
 
First,
in their motion, Plaintiff/Cross-defendants failed to identify the specific
allegations of protected activity. Instead they opted to strike entire causes
of action. Second, as Baral explained, those activities do not form the
basis of any claim for relief:  “Assertions
that are ‘merely incidental’ or ‘collateral’ are not subject to section 425.16
[Citations.].  Allegations of protected
activity that merely provide context, without supporting a claim for recovery,
cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Baral, supra, 1
Cal.5th at p. 394.)  Even if Plaintiff/Cross-defendants
had specifically pointed to allegations that their breach of contract resulted
in funding this litigation, or that converting jointly held funds were paid to their
own lawyers, such allegations are not part of the elements of the claims, are
incidental, and not subject to a special motion to strike.  
 
Plaintiff/Cross-defendants
rely on Sheley v. Harrop (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 1147, but
that case does not aid them.  In Sheley,
the majority shareholders of a corporation sued the minority shareholder for, inter
alia, refusing to allow access to corporate records. (Id. at pp.
1154-1155.) The minority shareholder cross-complained, accusing the plaintiffs
of “paying themselves excessive salaries, ... wrongfully converting corporate
assets, ... filing and maintaining a frivolous lawsuit against [her] and
... failing to make pro-rata disbursements to [her] ... .” (Id. at p.
1155, italics and bracketing in original.) 
The Court of Appeal modified the trial court order, striking only the
allegations referring to maintaining a lawsuit.
 
Here, Modelo’s Cross-complaint does not allege that Plaintiff/Cross-defendants
breached the TIC or converted joint funds by filing their lawsuit.  Plaintiff/Cross-defendants Neman and Lancaster fail to identify any specific claims in the
amended Cross-complaint that are based on their protected activity. Rather,
they seek to strike all claims in a cause of action, including those based on
unprotected activity.  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff/Cross-defendants have
failed to meet their burden at prong one.
 
None of Plaintiff/Cross-defendants’ other
authorities requires a different result. 
 
In PrediWave v. Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
(2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 1204 and Optional Capital, Inc. v. Akin Gump Strauss,
Hauer & Feld LLP (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 95, the parties’ postures were
fundamentally different than they are in this case. In each of those cases, clients
or litigants had directly sued attorneys for conduct occurring during, or in
close proximity to, litigation. Similarly, in Lunada Biomedical v. Nunez
(2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 459, the plaintiff unsuccessfully tried to characterize consumer
protection lawsuits as unfair business practices. 
 
In Kashian
v. Harriman (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 892 (Kashian), the moving party
prevailed because the plaintiffs’ cause of action “arose directly from [the
defendant’s] acts or statements ... made in connection with environmental
litigation”. (Kashian, supra, at p. 907.) The Kashian court’s
discussion distinguishing another case, Kajima Engineering &
Construction, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 921 (Kajima),
is informative.
 
In Kajima,
a construction contractor sued the City of Los Angeles; the City
cross-complained, claiming fraud, unfair business practices, and related claims.  Contractor filed an anti-SLAPP motion, arguing,
as Plaintiffs do here, that the City was suing the contractor for suing the
City. (See Kajima, supra, at pp. 924-925.) The Kajima
court opened its decision by stating: “We publish this opinion ... to emphasize
that a cross-complaint or independent lawsuit filed in response to, or in
retaliation for, threatened or actual litigation is not subject to the
anti-SLAPP statute simply because it may be viewed as an oppressive litigation
tactic.” (Id., at p. 924.) The Kajima court permitted the City’s
cross-complaint to survive because the City’s claims arose from the
contractors’ suspect “bidding and contracting practices,” not its litigation
against the City. (Ibid.)
 
The cross-complaint in Sheley, as in this case, depended on
allegations of corporate malfeasance that had nothing to do with protected
conduct. Unlike the cross-complaint in Sheley, the FAXC here makes few express
references to litigation, and none of those provide elements for the claim;
they are merely contextual and incidental. Similarly, like the cross-complaint
in Kajima, the allegations in Modelo’s FAXC relate to the underlying
dispute that launched this litigation. But this does not mean that any claim in
the FAXC is based on, or arose from, protected litigation activity.
 
Plaintiffs fail to carry their threshold burden to show the
cross-complaint arises from protected activity under section 425.16.
 
            “Prong
Two”: Likelihood of Prevailing
                        
The FAXC does not arise from
activity protected by section 425.16. Because Plaintiffs failed to carry that
threshold burden, Modelo does not have to show a likelihood of prevailing on
its claims.
 
Conclusion
 
The motion to strike is denied.


