

Hearing Date:             July 30, 2024  
Case Name:                 Dominic Adua Nyaaba v. Quility
& Asurea Insurance Services
Case
No.:                    23STCV12479
Motion:                       Demurrer
Moving
Party:             Defendant Quility &
Asurea Insurance Services LLC

Responding Party:      N/A - Unopposed


 

Tentative
Ruling:      Defendant Quility &
Asurea Insurance Services LLC’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint
is SUSTAINED in its entirety. Leave to amend is denied.
 

 
Background – 
 
Procedural Background
            This case arises out of the
termination of the alleged employer-employee relationship
between
Plaintiff Dominic Adua Nyaaba (“Nyaaba” or “Plaintiff”) and Defendant Quility-
Asurea
Agency Insurance Services, LLC (“Quility” or “Defendant”) which Plaintiff
alleges
constitutedn a breach of contract. Plaintiff filed an initial
Complaint on June 5, 2023. On May 8, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant’s
demurrer to the initial Complaint in its entirety, granting leave to amend. On
May 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
 
            Defendant
Quility demurs to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. No opposition was filed.

 
Factual Background 
            Plaintiff
alleges that he began an employer-employee relationship with Defendant via
contract on May 25, 2021 to sell insurance services. (FAC, pgs. 2 & 5.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant promised to pay Plaintiff $100,000.00
annually. (FAC, pg. 4, lines 5-9.) However, Plaintiff was allegedly never paid
proper compensation nor commissions, and alleges he was wrongfully terminated
“due to his accent and originality.” (FAC, pg. 43, lines 3-4.) During his
employment, Plaintiff alleges that he suffered assault, battery, and emotional
distress. As a result, Plaintiff claims he lost wages and sues for a total
amount of $165,700.00.  
 
Meet and Confer
            “Before
filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§430.41(a).) Filed concurrently with their moving papers, Defendant files the
Declaration of Alina N. Gatto which states that the parties conferred
telephonically on June 12, 2024, but were unable to come to an agreement. Nonetheless,
the requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a) have been satisfied. The Court
now turns to the demurrer.   
 
Discussion – 
 
Legal Standard
            “[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in
ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not
subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a
complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the
truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Analysis
 
a)    
Breach of Contract Claim
            To state a
cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish
“(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v.
Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
            Plaintiff’s
first listed cause of action is for “loss wages”. Upon demurrer, Defendant
notes that lost wages are a form of damages not a cause of action. The Court
agrees. Within the cause of action, Plaintiff attempts to plead a breach of
contract claim, attaching portions of the alleged contract. The prior demurrer
was sustained because Plaintiff did not demonstrate the existence of a contract
nor a meeting of the minds. That deficiency remains. 
 
            First, Defendant
points out that the purported contract attached identifies the contracting
party as Asurea Insurance Services, Inc., not Quility-Asurea Insurance
Services, LLC, the defendant here. With no allegations tying the contract to
Defendant, the cause of action fails for lack of a contract between Plaintiff and
Defendant. Second, the attached contract is missing several pages, so much so
that the terms of the contract are unclear. Finally, consideration is lacking.
Plaintiff first alleges that Defendant promised to pay Plaintiff $100,000.00
annually. (FAC, pg. 4, lines 5-9.) But Plaintiff also alleges that he “would
make $100,000.00 every 24 months.” (Id. at pg. 6, lines 25-27.)
Additionally, Plaintiff states in the FAC that Plaintiff would be providing
“his time, energy, intelligence, and skill, insurance license, E&O License,
Anti-Money laundering license to work for the organization.” (Id. at pg.
7, lines 6-9.) However, the complaint is unclear as to what services Plaintiff
was to provide Defendant in actuality. Moreover, because the attached contract
is missing several pages, none of the terms of the bargained for exchange are
available for review by the Court. Accordingly, the demurrer to the breach of
contract claim is sustained.     
 
b)   
Assault and Battery Claim
            Plaintiff
also alleges both assault and battery. “The essential elements of a cause of
action for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or
offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive
manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed [he or] she was about to be touched
in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that
defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to
defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was
a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.)
 
            “The
essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched
plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend
plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was
harmed or offended by defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in
plaintiff’s position would have been offended by the touching.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652,
668-669.)
 
            As to the
assault claim, the FAC states that “On September 20, 2020, Chadd Parker and
Elmer subjected me to mockery in the office located at 600 Brand Boulevard,
Glendale California. In the event of trying to solve the issue of selling
mortgage insurance products to clients, Chadd held all the documents in my
hands, and snatched them from my hands. Krystal Yelled [sic] at me and pulled
out a gun. Elmer chased me out of the office…” Here, Plaintiff alleges assault
was committed by three separate individuals. However, it is unclear what
relationship these individuals have to Defendant, how Defendant is liable for
their actions, nor why either of them was not made party to the suit. 
 
            As for
battery, the FAC fails to mention how Defendant, or any employee or agent
thereof, made physical contact with Plaintiff’s person. Accordingly, the
demurrer to the assault and battery claims is sustained.  
 
c)    
Negligence Claims
            In order to
state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the
existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
            Here, the
FAC states that Defendant was negligent “when the office manager shouted
plaintiff out of a meeting by stating, ‘not now’.” The FAC goes on to state
that Defendant “owed a duty to protect plaintiff because he was hired…”
However, as previously noted, the employment relationship is based on a
contract that Plaintiff has not demonstrated exists. Therefore, the FAC identifies
no cognizable legal duty on the part of Defendant. Without a legal duty, any
cause of action based in negligence cannot stand. Accordingly, the demurrer to
Plaintiff’s negligence claims is sustained.  
 
d)   
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
            “The
elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant
with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must
be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012)
207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)
 
            The
demurrer to the cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress fails because the FAC fails to identify any extreme and outrageous
conduct by Defendant. The FAC states that “Chadd Parker instead of accepting my
sales refused to accepted sale and assaulted.” As stated above, it is unclear
who Chadd Parker is and what relationship he has to Defendant to confer
liability. Without alleging facts as to the misconduct of Defendant and how
Defendant caused severe or extreme emotional distress, the cause of action
fails. The demurrer is sustained.
 
e)    
Wrongful Termination and Discrimination
Claims
            “The
elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in violation of public policy are
(1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the employer terminated the
plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was substantially motivated by a
violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge caused the plaintiff harm. It
is well established that a termination premised on an employee’s refusal to
violate either a statute or an administrative regulation may support a claim
for wrongful termination in violation of public policy.” (Nosal-Tabor v. Sharp Chula Vista Medical Center (2015) 239
Cal.App.4th 1224, 1234, citation omitted.)
 
            The FAC’s
final claim is a wrongful termination claim where Plaintiff claims that part of
the reason he was fired was for his “accent and originality.” However, the FAC
is devoid of any facts demonstrating bias or animosity against any protected
characteristic of Plaintiff. Without those facts a discrimination claim cannot
survive. Similarly, the FAC fails to allege how the termination was motivated
by a violation of public policy, without it any wrongful termination claim
falls to demurrer. Therefore, the demurrer to both claims is sustained.   
 
Leave to Amend
            Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to
amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment”]. Plaintiff has the burden to show that the defects can be cured.
This is Plaintiff’s second attempt to plead a cause of action. There is no
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. 
Leave to amend is denied.  
 
Conclusion – 
            Defendant
Quility & Asurea Insurance Services LLC’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint is sustained in its entirety without leave to amend.