  Case Number:  20STCV46144    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling   Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47     HEARING DATE:     February 7, 2024                   TRIAL  DATE: September 10, 2024                                                             CASE:                         Edward Allen v. Lloyd Kraus et al.   CASE NO.:                 20STCV46144 consolidated with 22STCV18652               MOTION  FOR LEAVE TO FILE CONSOLIDATED THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT    MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Lloyd and Nancy Allen.   RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Lloyd  Kraus and Electroease Inc. d/b/a Electropedic Beds   CASE  HISTORY: ·          12/02/20: Complaint filed in lead case ·          06/14/21: First Amended Complaint filed in lead  case. ·          09/13/21: Second Amended Complaint filed in lead  case. ·          06/07/22: Complaint filed by Plaintiff Nancy  Allen in this case ·          05/24/23: First Amended Complaint filed by  Plaintiff Nancy Allen in this case.    STATEMENT  OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:                          This is an action for breach of contract, fraud, product liability, and  negligence arising from a defective stair lift.   Plaintiffs move for leave to file a  consolidated Third Amended Complaint.              TENTATIVE RULING:             Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to  File a Consolidated Third Amended Complaint is GRANTED.   Plaintiffs are ordered to file a  stand-alone copy of the Third Amended Complaint within 10 days of this order. DISCUSSION:   Plaintiffs move for leave to file a  consolidated Third Amended Complaint.   Legal Standard   The Court may, “at any time before  or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such  terms as may be proper, . . . allow the amendment of any pleading.” (Code Civ.  Proc. § 576.) A motion to amend a pleading before trial must meet the following  requirements:   (a)  Contents of motion   A  motion to amend a pleading before trial must:   (1)  Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be  serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;   (2)  State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if  any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations  are located; and   (3)  State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if  any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations  are located.   (b)  Supporting declaration   A  separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:   (1)  The effect of the amendment;   (2)  Why the amendment is necessary and proper;   (3)  When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and   (4)  The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.   (CRC 3.1324.)   //   Contents of  Motion   Plaintiffs  included a copy of the proposed third amended complaint attached to the motion,  as required by Rule of Court 3.1324(a)(1). (Plaintiff’s Exh. A.) Plaintiff’s  motion does not state which allegations are proposed to be added or deleted by  page, paragraph, and line number, as required by subdivisions (a)(2) and  (a)(3). However, the purpose of this motion is to obtain leave to file a single  pleading that consolidates the several pleadings filed in this action. Thus, identification  of specific alterations is not necessary, as the entire proposed Third Amended  Complaint is replacing all the previous pleadings in their entirety. The Court  therefore finds that Plaintiff has substantially complied with the requirements  of Rule 3.1324(a) by demonstrating with sufficient clarity what amendments are  sought.    Supporting Declaration               The  Declaration of Michael Alfera attached to the motion clearly states the effect  of the proposed amendments as required by Rule 3.1324(b)(1). These effects  include, inter alia, adding new claims under the Song Beverly Act and  the Elder Abuse Act, presenting the facts of the case in a chronological  narrative, and providing further detail for existing allegations. (Declaration  of Michael Alfera ISO Mot. ¶ 7.)  The  Alfera Declaration also states that the amendments are necessary and proper  because they eliminate any issues of confusion posed by competing pleadings, present  the factual allegations with greater clarity, and allow Plaintiffs to assert  all potentially viable claims based on these facts. (Alfera Decl. ¶ 8.)  Plaintiffs have thus demonstrated compliance with Rule 3.1324(b)(2). Plaintiffs  state that there are no new facts giving rise to the amended allegations, thus  satisfying subdivision (b)(3). (Alfera Decl. ¶ 9.) Finally, Attorney Alfera  states that amendment was not sought earlier because Plaintiffs’ current  counsel took over the case in September 2023, and needed time to get up to  speed on the facts of this matter. (Alfera Decl. ¶ 10.) Plaintiffs have thus  complied with Rule 3.1324(b)(4). The Court therefore finds that the Declaration  demonstrates compliance with Rule 3.1324(b).)    Defendants’ Opposition               Defendants  oppose this motion on the basis that the proposed consolidated Third Amended  Complaint asserts several new causes of action. Defendants assert that the  proposed causes of action under the Song Beverly Act, the Elder Abuse Act, and  Business & Professions Code section 7031 are “another and distinct cause of  action,” relying on early jurisprudence concerning when amendment is proper. (Dubbers  v. Goux (1875) 51 Cal. 153, 155; Klopstock v. Superior Court (1941)  17 Cal.2d 13, 20 [“The right to amend should be denied if a change is made in  the liability sought to be enforced against the defendant.”]) As Plaintiffs  state in reply, however, a closer reading of Klopstock belies  Defendants’ argument, to wit:   [T]his court has said: ‘It is obvious  that the unqualified way in which the rule is sometimes stated—i. e. that a new  or different cause of action cannot be introduced by amendment—cannot be  accepted; for the most common kinds of amendments are those in which complaints  are amended that do not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action,  and in these, and often in the case of new parties, a new cause of action is in  fact for the first time introduced. All that can be required, therefore (to use  the language of Mr. Pomeroy), is that ‘a wholly different cause of  action’ shall not be introduced.   (Klopstock, supra, 17 Cal.2d at 20 [emphasis added].)  Put differently, Klopstock holds that amendment is proper so long as the  amendment does not attempt “to present an utterly different set of facts.” (Thomas  v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150, 155.) Plaintiffs are not asserting an  “utterly different set of facts” in seeking leave to amend. The allegations in  the proposed Third Amended Complaint are, in essence, unchanged: that  Defendants improperly installed a chair lift which was defective. The Court is not  persuaded that leave to amend should be denied on this basis.               Defendants  also argue that they will be unfairly prejudiced if leave to amend is granted  because, they claim, there will be insufficient time to fully evaluate the new  claims before mediation scheduled for February 21, 2024. Defendants also assert  that the new claims will require “additional extensive discovery.” (Opp. p.  10:19.) The Court is unmoved. The risks described by Defendants are an inherent  consequence of any amendment to the pleadings, and do not amount to  justification to depart from the strong presumption in favor of leave to amend.                 As  Plaintiffs have demonstrated substantial compliance with the requirements for a  motion for leave to amend under the Rules of Court, and Defendants have offered  no valid justification for denial, the Court finds that leave to file  consolidated Third Amended Complaint is warranted.    CONCLUSION:   Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion  for Leave to File a Consolidated Third Amended Complaint is GRANTED.    Plaintiffs are ordered to file a  standalone copy of the Third Amended Complaint within 10 days of this order.               Moving  Parties to give notice.   IT IS SO ORDERED.   Dated:  February 7,  2024                                ___________________________________                                                                                     Theresa  M. Traber                                                                                     Judge  of the Superior Court                Any party may submit on the  tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day  before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It  should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still  conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you  have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you  should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an  order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.  