 Case Number:  24TRCV00303    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
LESLIE
  LOPEZ, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00303




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 22, 2025
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Leslie Lopez
Motion
to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
The motion to compel plaintiff’s deposition
is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Leslie Lopez is ordered
to appear at a mutually agreeable time and place within twenty days.
Plaintiff Leslie Lopez and her
attorney of record Strategic Legal Practices, APC are ordered to pay monetary
sanctions to defendant in the amount of $810 within thirty days.
BACKGROUND
            On January 30, 2024, plaintiff
Leslie Lopez filed a complaint against American Honda Motor Co., Inc. for
Song-Beverly Act violations as to a 2023 Honda Accord, purchased on March 17,
2023.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §2025.450(a) provides:  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” 
CCP §2025.450(b) provides, “A
motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:
(1)        The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(2)        The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
DISCUSSION
Defendant
Honda requests that the Court compel plaintiff to appear for deposition.
Defendant
explains that on March 26, 2024, defendant served plaintiff with a notice of
deposition for May 9, 2024.  On May 6,
plaintiff served an objection to the deposition notice asserting unavailability
and that plaintiff would meet and confer to reschedule the deposition on a date
and time that was mutually convenient.  On
May 7, having not heard from plaintiff’s counsel regarding plaintiff’s
availability for deposition, defense counsel sent an email requesting
alternative deposition dates.  On June
12, having still not heard from plaintiff’s counsel, defense counsel sent
another email requesting alternative deposition dates.  Having still not heard from plaintiff’s
counsel, defense counsel sent emails on July 2, October 2, November 16, and November
20 regarding plaintiff’s availability for deposition or an IDC.  As of the filing date of the motion,
plaintiff had not provided any available dates.
In
opposition, plaintiff contends that but for the unavailability of plaintiff or
defense counsel, the parties have been unable to complete the deposition.  Plaintiff asserts that she has never been
unwilling to provide defendant with a date for plaintiff’s deposition and
plaintiff’s counsel “is currently in the process of obtaining deposition dates
to provide” to defendant.
In the
reply, defendant points out that plaintiff “still fails to state a single date
of availability” for plaintiff’s deposition. 
The Court
rules as follows:  The Court finds that
defendant served a valid and proper deposition notice and that plaintiff failed
to serve a valid objection based on her unavailability.  Although not being available may be a reason
to not attend as a practical matter, it is not a valid objection under CCP §2025.410.  Further, defendant provided plaintiff with
ample opportunities to offer available dates, but she failed to do so.  Defendant also sufficiently attempted to meet
and confer in multiple emails without any response from plaintiff’s counsel.
Plaintiff
and Plaintiff’s counsel have not responded properly to the deposition notice
and the attempts to obtain a date from them. 
The suggestion by Plaintiff that the motion “was never necessary as
Plaintiff was always willing to be deposed” rings hollow.  Indeed, the claim that “at no point in time
has Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s counsel indicated that Plaintiff Leslie Lopez was
unwilling to be deposed” misses the mark. 
Defendant need not wait until the Plaintiff declares herself unwilling
to be deposed.  Plaintiff was obligated
to attend her deposition and the failure of Plaintiff’s attorney to provide timely
dates subjects both Plaintiff and her attorneys to sanctions.
The motion to compel plaintiff’s
deposition is GRANTED.
Sanctions
Under CCP §2025.450(g)(1), “If a
motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the
party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with
whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
Defendant requests $1,060 ($250/hr.)
in sanctions against plaintiff and her attorney of record.  The Court finds that sanctions are warranted in
the amount of $810 ($250/hr. x 3 hrs.; $60 filing fee) against Plaintiff and
her attorney of record Strategic Legal Practices, APC, joint and several.
ORDER
The motion to compel plaintiff’s
deposition is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is
ordered to appear at a mutually agreeable time and place within twenty days. 
Plaintiff Leslie Lopez and her
attorney of record Strategic Legal Practices, APC are ordered to pay monetary
sanctions to defendant in the amount of $810 within thirty days.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.