  Case Number:  20STCV18438    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  56 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA  
 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES -
CENTRAL DISTRICT 
 
 



ALEJANDRO CONSTANTINO CANSECO,
  
Plaintiff, 
vs. 
 
WIN SECURITY dba METRO PARKING, INC., et al.,  
                                                                               
Defendants.                                


 


      CASE NO.:  20STCV18438
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
APPLICATION FOR
  DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT OF DEFENDANTS WIN SECURITY AND SAM
  YOUNG
 
Date: April 8,
  2024
Time: 10:30
  a.m. 
Dept. 56 
 
 



 
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants Win Security (erroneously sued as Win
Security dba Metro Parking, Inc.) and Sam Young 
RESPONDING PARTY:  None 
The Court has considered the moving papers.  No
opposition or reply papers have been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND 
  On February 24, 2021,
Plaintiff Alejandro Constantino Canseco (“Plaintiff”) filed his operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Win Security dba Metro Parking
Inc. (“Win Security”), 3 Alameda Plaza, LLC (“3 Alameda Plaza”), Sam Young
(“Young”), and Does 1 through 20.  The
FAC asserts six causes of action for (1) Negligent Hiring, Retention, Supervision
and Failure to Terminate; (2) Assault; (3) Battery; (4) Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress; (5) General Negligence; and (6) Negligence-Premises Liability.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Young, a
security guard employed by Defendant Win Security, pepper-sprayed him at a
shopping center owned by Defendant Alameda Plaza. 
 
On April 20, 2021, Plaintiff dismissed his first cause of action for
negligent hiring retention, supervision and failure to terminate.   On May 3, 2021, the Court granted Defendant
Win Security’s motion to strike punitive damages allegations from the FAC. On
October 26, 2021, Intervenor Amguard Insurance Company (“Intervenor”) filed its
Notice of Lien. 
 
On September 7, 2022, Plaintiff filed its Notice
of Settlement.  On December 15,
2022, Intervenor filed its amended Notice of Lien.  On December 21, 2022, Intervenor filed its Complaint-in-Intervention
for recovery of workers’ compensation benefits. 
On August 15, 2023, Intervenor filed its Request for Dismissal as to its
Complaint-in-Intervention.  
 
Now, Plaintiff and Intervenor and Defendants Win Security and Young
(“Moving Defendants”) have reached a full and final settlement, subject to the
instant application for determination of good faith settlement filed by Moving
Defendants.  No opposition has been filed
to the application. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(2) states as
follows: 
In the alternative, a settling party
may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an
application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order.
The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and
amount of the settlement. The notice, application, and proposed order shall be
given by certified mail, return receipt requested,
or by personal service. Proof of service shall be filed with the court.
Within 25 days of the mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order,
or within 20 days of personal service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of
motion to contest the good faith of the settlement. If none of the nonsettling
parties files a motion within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application,
and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, the court may
approve the settlement. The notice by a nonsettling party shall be given in the
manner provided in subdivision (b) of Section 1005.  However, this paragraph shall not apply to
settlements in which a confidentiality agreement has been entered into
regarding the case or the terms of the settlement.
 
 The issue of the good faith of a
settlement may be determined by the court based on affidavits served with the
notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or the court
may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)  
A party asserting lack of good faith in settlement has the burden of
proving lack of good faith.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).)  The
objecting party may carry its burden by demonstrating that the settlement is so
far “out of the ballpark” in relation to various factors, including: 
 
(1)  A rough
approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate
liability;  
(2)  The
amount paid in settlement;  
(3)  The
allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs;  
(4)  A
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than it would if it
were found liable after a trial;  
(5)  The
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants;
and  
(6)  The
existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of the non-settling defendants.
 
(Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Assocs. (1985) 38 Cal.3d
488, 499-500.)  When the motion for
determination of good faith settlement is unopposed, then it may be granted
without consideration of the Tech-Bilt factors and on the basis of
setting forth the ground for good faith determination and a brief background of
the case.  (See City of Grand Terrace
v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 [“[W]e . . . conclude
that only when the good faith nature of a settlement is disputed, it is
incumbent upon the trial court to consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt
factors.  That is to say, when no one
objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith,
accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is
sufficient.”)
 
Here,
Moving Defendants apply for an order determining that the settlement reached by
and between Plaintiff, Intervenor, and Moving Defendants (the “Settling
Parties”) was entered into and made in good faith pursuant
to the Code of Civil Procedure Section 877.6.  The Settling Parties have agreed, in good
faith, to resolve all of Plaintiff’s claims as to and against Moving Defendants
by settling for payment of $90,000, in exchange for Plaintiff’s and
Intervenor’s dismissal with prejudice of their claims as to and against Moving
Defendants.  The application should be
granted based on the following: 
 
Notice of settlement was given to the Court, Plaintiff,
Intervenor and the non-settling Defendant—3 Alameda Plaza—on March 8, 2024, via
certified mail and e-mail.  (3/8/24
Notice, Proof of Service.)  The
application, notice and proposed order were served as well on March 8, 2024, via
certified mail and e-mail.  (3/8/24
Application, Proofs of Service.)  The
application contains the relevant terms of the agreement.  (Declaration of Nicolas H. Pak, ¶¶ 2-3, 6-8.)
 The non-settling party did not file a
motion challenging the application for good faith settlement determination
within 25 days of service of the application by certified mail.  Since the application is uncontested, it shall be granted
so long as it sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration
setting forth a brief background of the case. 
Upon review, the Court finds both requirements have been met here. 
Accordingly, the Application for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, Section 877.6(a)(2) is
GRANTED. 
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.               
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar. 
 
Dated this 8th day
of April 2024 
 



  


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie 
Judge of the
  Superior Court 
 



 
 