  Case Number:  23TRCV02275    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
CONCEPTUAL
  MANAGEMENT, INC.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02276




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
MW
  RESIDENTIAL SOCAL CORP., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 11, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant MW Residential
Socal Corp.
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Compel
Arbitration and to Stay Proceedings
 
            The court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The action is STAYED pending arbitration.
BACKGROUND
On July 14, 2023, plaintiff
Conceptual Management, Inc., dba Triton Construction filed a complaint against
MW Residential Socal Corp., ST Market D3, Inglewood Market Gateway, LLC, Thomas
Safran & Associates, Inc., and First Republic Bank for (1) breach of
contract (against MW Residential), (2) reasonable value (against MW
Residential), and (3) foreclosure of mechanic’s lien (against all defendants).
On September 27, 2023, plaintiff
filed a FAC against MW Residential Socal Corp., ST Market D3, LLC, Inglewood
Market Gateway, LLC, and Fidelity and Deposit Company of Maryland.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP § 1281, a “written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds
as exist for the revocation of any contract.” 
Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to
arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (c) A party
to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action . . .
with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact. . . . (d) . . . . If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action . . .
with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c) herein, the court (1) may
refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement . . . ; (2) may order intervention
or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among
the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action .
. . pending the outcome of arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration
pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”  
DISCUSSION
            Defendant MW Residential Socal Corp.
(“MW Residential”) requests an order compelling arbitration of the FAC and to
stay any further proceedings.        
The FAC alleges that on August 19,
2020, plaintiff and defendants entered into a written contract wherein
plaintiff agreed to provide specific labor and material for metal framing and
drywall at the Inglewood Market Gateway project.  Defendants agreed to pay plaintiff $5 million
for such labor and material.  Thereafter,
the parties entered into several modifications of the contract whereby
plaintiff agreed to furnish certain labor, material and equipment different
from and/or in addition to that originally agreed to be furnished and
defendants agreed to pay plaintiff the additional sum of $1,008,063 for such
additional work.  FAC, ¶6.  On January 31, 2023, defendants breached the
contract by failing to pay plaintiff pursuant to the terms of the
contract.  Plaintiff has suffered damages
in the amount of $1,033,873.  Id., ¶9
            Existence of an Enforceable
Agreement
“As stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th
625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that
contract.  There is no public policy
favoring arbitration of disputes that the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate.’”  Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th
1224, 1229.
Defendant MW Residential contends
that defendant and plaintiff executed a subcontract (FAC, Exh. A), which sets
forth the general terms and conditions under which plaintiff provided labor,
materials, and services to defendant for the Inglewood Market Gateway
project.  Defendant asserts that Section
15 (“Claims Resolution”) of the subcontract states, in part, “A.
Arbitration.  Subcontractor/Vendor agrees
to binding arbitration as the agreed from of dispute resolution for any claims
arising under this Agreement. . . .”  Defendant
also explains that it is engaged in arbitration against ST Market D3, LLC before
the AAA, and involves the same set of facts and circumstances on the same
project.  See Todd Bressler decl. and FAC,
Exh. A.
There is no opposition.
The court finds the existence of an
arbitration agreement covering the causes of action in the complaint, and that
no grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.
The motion is GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The
motion to compel arbitration and to stay proceedings is GRANTED.  The action is stayed.  
            Moving
defendant is ordered to give notice.