 Case Number:  23TRCV03677    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
KETRIA
  M. LAND, successor trustee of The Louil P. Land, Jr. Revocable Living Trust, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03677




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
EDNA
  HAMILTON, in her capacity as the conservator of the Estate of Angela Land, et
  al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 11,
2024
 
Moving Party:                         Defendant Edna Hamilton,
in her capacity as conservator
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Ketria M. Land, as successor trustee
Demurrer
 
            The court considered the moving and
opposition papers.
RULING
            The demurrer to first and second
causes of action in the complaint is OVERRULED. 
Defendant is ordered to file an answer within twenty days.
BACKGROUND
            On November 6, 2023, plaintiff
Ketria M. Land, successor trustee of The Louil P. Land, Jr. Revocable Living
Trust dated July 14, 2000, filed a complaint against Edna Hamilton, in her
capacity as the conservator of the Estate of Angela Land, and all persons claiming
any legal or equitable right, title, estate, lien, or interest in the property.

LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144
Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th
740, 747.
This demurrer begins and ends with
the well established rule that a demurrer tests the sufficiency of the
pleading, but does not permit the introduction of other facts outside the
pleading.  In other words, since defendant
claims that there are additional facts implicating the divorce, that somehow
invalidates the complaint.  Not so.  The Court shall not entertain the introduction
of “alternative facts” at this point to attack the validity of the pleading.
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
demurs to the first and second causes of action in the complaint on the grounds
that the allegations are insufficient to constitute a cause of action and
plaintiff lacks standing/capacity to sue. 
            The
complaint alleges that this is a garden variety partition action following the
death of one of the two co-owners of real property located at 3533 West 79th
Street, Inglewood, CA 90305 (and a legal description).  Complaint, ¶1.  The property is currently occupied by
co-owner Angela Land.  Id., ¶2.  She has failed to pay the mortgage, property
taxes, and insurance premiums, which are all delinquent.  Id., ¶5. 
Title to the property is currently vested in the name of Angela D. Land
and Louil P. Land, Jr., Trustee, The Louil P. Land, Jr. Revocable Living Trust,
Dated July 14, 2000 (“Trust”), tenants in common.  Id., ¶6.  On July 21, 1998, one-time husband and wife,
Louil and Angela took title to the property as joint tenants with each party
owing a one-half interest.  Id., ¶7.  On July 14, 2000, Louil created the Trust,
which severed the joint tenancy when he recorded a trust transfer deed
transferring his one-half interest in the property to the Trust.  The property is the only trust asset.  Id., ¶¶8-9. 

            The
complaint further alleges that on December 5, 2003, Louil and Angela divorced
when the court entered a default judgment for dissolution in case no.
BC388894.  The judgment provides “there
are no community or quasi-community assets or debts subject to disposition by
the court in this matter.”  Id., ¶11.  On November 20, 2017, Louil died and his son
David Land assumed successor trustee. 
Id., ¶12.  On December 19, 2017,
David commenced a probate proceeding to administer Louil’s probate estate in
case no. 17STPB11292.  On March 2, 2018,
David was appointed the administrator of Louil’s probate estate and letters of
administration issued to him on April 10, 2018. 
Id., ¶13.  On August 7, 2018,
Angela was conserved, and defendant was appointed the conservator of the Estate
of Angela Land in case no. 19STPB04481. 
Letters of Conservatorship issued to defendant.  The property is the conservatorship estate’s
sole asset.  Defendant’s Letters of
Conservatorship expressly grant her the power to commence and maintain an
action for partition.  Id., ¶14.  On June 30, 2020, defendant caused to be
filed an Inventory and Appraisal in Angela’s conservatorship confirming that
Angela owns one-half interest in the property. 
Id., ¶15.  
            The
complaint further alleges that on November 14, 2020, David died survived by his
wife plaintiff and their children in common. 
Plaintiff then petitioned to succeed David as Louil’s administrator,
which was granted on April 26, 2021, and letters of administration issued to
her on January 20, 2022.  Id., ¶16.  On March 22, 2021, plaintiff petitioned the
probate court for the appointment of successor trustee of the Trust given the
vacancy of trusteeship in case no. 23STPB01258. 
Id., ¶17.  On April 20, 2023, the
court granted plaintiff’s petition for the appointment as successor trustee of
the Trust.  The order was filed on
November 6, 2024.  Id., ¶18.
                        First
cause of action for partition
            Under
Civil Code §872.230, “[t]he complaint shall set forth:  (a) A description of the property that is the
subject of the action. . . . In the case of real property, the description
shall include both its legal description and its street address of common
designation, if any.  (b) All interests
the plaintiff has or claims in the property. 
(c) All interests of record or actually known to the plaintiff that
persons other than the plaintiff have or claim in the property and that the
plaintiff reasonably believes will be materially affected by the action,
whether the names of such persons are known or unknown to the plaintiff.  (d) The estate as to which partition is
sought and a prayer for partition of the interests therein.  (e) Where the plaintiff seeks sale of the
property, an allegation of the facts justifying such relief in ordinary and
concise language.”
The
complaint alleges that plaintiff seeks partition by sale.  Partition is more equitable than a division
in kind of the property under the circumstances, including the nature of the
property and disagreement and dissension among all parties.  Complaint, ¶26.  The parties have no agreement relative to the
administration of the sale or buyout by one of the other’s interests in the
property.  Id., ¶27.  
Defendant
contends that plaintiff has no standing because her “position as beneficiary is
predicated upon the validity of the purported divorce” and that the “purported
divorce was procured by fraud on its face and therefore is void.”  She contends that in the dissolution, the
decedent made a false statement that there was no community property when at
the filing date of the purported divorce, the conservatee was earning
retirement credits.  Plaintiff also
asserts that the trust was predicated on fraudulent dissolution.
In
opposition, plaintiff argues that the allegations meet the elements for a cause
of action for partition.  Further,
plaintiff point out, nowhere in the demurrer does defendant challenge the
sufficiency of the allegations for partition. 
As to defendant’s argument regarding the invalidity of the divorce,
plaintiff contends that contesting the facts in an otherwise well pled
complaint is not grounds for demurrer, and that defendant’s definition of
“community property” is irrelevant, and that defendant cannot attack a divorce
judgment by demurrer.
The court
finds that the allegations are sufficient to meet the elements for
partition.  The question of whether the
“divorce was procured by fraud” or whether the “trust was predicated on
fraudulent dissolution” is not at issue at the pleading stage.  Further, plaintiff properly alleges standing
as successor trustee based on the probate court’s orders.
            The
demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.
                        Second
cause of action for declaratory relief
            Declaratory
relief is available to a party “who desires a declaration of his or her rights
or 
duties with respect to another, or in respect to,
in, over or upon property . . . may . . . bring an original action . . . for a
declaration of his or rights and duties in the premises . . . .”  CCP §1060. A complaint for declaratory relief
is legally sufficient if it sets forth facts showing the existence of an actual
controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the parties and requests
that the rights and duties of the parties be adjudged by the court.  If these requirements are met and no basis for
declining declaratory relief appears, the court should declare the rights of
the parties whether or not the facts alleged establish the plaintiff is
entitled to favorable declaration.  See Ludgate
Ins. Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2000) 82 Cal. App. 4th 592, 606.
The
complaint alleges that an actual controversy has arisen and now exists between
the parties concerning their respective rights and duties in that plaintiff
seeks partition of the property and defendants refuse to cooperate in the
administration of the sale or buyout by one or more parties of the other’s
interests in the property.  Complaint, ¶31.  Plaintiff also seeks a declaration of rights
and duties and a judicial determination that upon the sale and/or partition of
the property, (a) the parties be paid in accordance with their fractional
interest, (b) the court find it more equitable for defendants to pay all costs
of partition, (c) the court find it more equitable for defendants to pay all of
plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and costs, (d) any applicable party be paid any
expenses incurred to preserve and protect the parties’ interest in the
property, (e) defendants’ reimburse plaintiff for 100% of the money she
advanced for the common benefit and protection and preservation of title, and
(f) recovery of damages and compensatory adjustments from defendants for the
fair market value of the property.  Id., ¶32.
            See
defendant’s and plaintiff’s arguments above.
            The
court finds that the allegations meet the elements for a cause of action for declaratory
relief and that plaintiff has standing.
            The
demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.
ORDER
            The
demurrer to the first and second causes of action in the complaint are OVERRULED.
            Defendant
is ordered to file an answer within 20 days.
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.