  Case Number:  22STCV14601    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept.
30
Calendar
No. 
Care
Plus Medical Group, Inc., et. al. vs. Law Offices of Michael E. Reznick, et.
al., Case No. 22STCV14601 
 
Tentative
Ruling re:  Defendants’ Demurrer to
Second Amended Complaint; Motion to Strike
 
Defendants Miteshkumar Patel, El Monte Clinica Medica
General Medical Center, Inc., Huntington Park Clinica Medica General
Medical Center, Inc., The Valley Clinica Medica General Medical Center, Inc.,
and Los Angeles Clinica Medica General Medical Center, Inc. (collectively,
Defendants) demur to Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint (SAC). The demurrer
is sustained as to the fifth and seventh causes of action against all
Defendants, without leave to amend, and otherwise overruled. The motion to
strike is granted in part.  Defendants
are ordered to answer within ten (10) days of today’s date.
 
In reviewing the legal sufficiency of a complaint against a
demurrer, a court will treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions, or conclusions of law. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318 (Blank); C & H Foods Co.
v. Hartford Ins. Co. (1984) 163 Cal.App.3d 1055, 1062.) It is well settled
that a “demurrer lies only for defects appearing on the face of the
complaint[.]” (Stevens v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594,
601.) “The rules by which the sufficiency of a complaint is tested against a
general demurrer are well settled. We not only treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but also give the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Guclimane Co. v.
Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38 (internal quotes
omitted).) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, the complaint must be
construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts pleaded. (Wilner
v. Sunset Life Ins. Co. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 952, 958.) 
When ruling on a demurrer, the Court may only consider the
complaint’s allegations or matters which may be judicially noticed. (Blank,
supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.) The Court may not consider any other extrinsic
evidence or judge the credibility of the allegations plead or the difficulty a
plaintiff may have in proving his allegations. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson
(1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881.) A demurrer is properly sustained only when the
complaint, liberally construed, fails to state facts sufficient to constitute
any cause of action. (Kramer v. Intuit Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 574,
578.) 
 
            Plaintiffs in this action consist of
a group of corporations that operate medical clinics in California and their owner
and manager, Ailene Bundalian Rivera (Rivera). (SAC ¶¶ 1-2.) Plaintiffs’ claims
arise out of an alleged years-long scheme by Defendants to usurp Rivera’s
control of the companies.
            Plaintiffs allege that demurring Defendant
Miteshkumar Patel (Patel) and Defendant Escobar Mancada “were the shareholders,
owners, directors, officers, managing agents, employees, otherwise in control
of Defendants, Clinica Medical General.” (SAC ¶ 26.) The demurring corporate
defendants allegedly owned by Patel (the CMG Defendants) operate medical clinics in California in competition with
Rivera’s companies. (SAC ¶ 18.)
 
            Other than the allegations regarding
the relationship between Patel, Mancada, and the CMG Defendants, the factual
allegations in the SAC are generally unchanged from the prior complaints.
 
The SAC asserts seven causes of action against all
demurring defendants for: (1) Preliminary Injunction, Permanent Injunction, and
Damages; (2) Unfair Competition; (3) Intentional Interference with Prospective
Economic Relations; (4) Conversion; (5) Fraud; (6) Slander of Title; and (7)
Abuse of Process.
 
Patel demurs to the first, second, fifth, and seventh
causes of action. CMG Defendants demur to all seven causes of action.
 
            As an initial matter, CMG Defendants
argue that the claims against them fail insofar as they are based on conspiracy
liability, due to the intracorporate conspiracy doctrine. (Doctors’ Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 49 Cal.3d 39, 45.) It is unnecessary to address this
argument because Plaintiffs have sufficiently pled their claims against CMG Defendants
without reliance on a conspiracy theory of liability, as discussed below.
 
First Cause of Action for
“Preliminary Injunction, Permanent Injunction, and Damages”; Second Cause of
Action for Unfair Competition
            California’s
Unfair Competition Law (UCL) prohibits unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business
acts or practices. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200 et seq.) “An
‘unlawful business activity’ includes ‘anything that can properly be called a
business practice and that at the same time is forbidden by law.’” (People
v. McKale (1979) 25 Cal.3d 626, 632 [quoting Barquis v. Merchants
Collection Assn. (1972) 7 Cal.3d 94, 113].) “Virtually
any law or regulation—federal or state, statutory or common law, can serve as a
predicate for a Business and Professions Code section 17200 ‘unlawful’
violation. [Citation.]” (Paulus v. Bob Lynch Ford, Inc. (2006) 139
Cal.App.4th 659, 681 [internal quotations omitted].)
Under their first cause of action, Plaintiffs allege Patel
and CMG Defendants’ involvement in the conspiracy to usurp Plaintiffs’ clinics,
and request an order enjoining Defendants from representing themselves as Plaintiffs’
shareholders, officers, and directors; filing any documents with the California
Secretary of State regarding Plaintiffs; contacting any financial institutions
regarding Plaintiffs’ bank accounts; maintaining any legal action in any
Plaintiffs’ name; entering the business premises of any Plaintiff; contacting
any patient, client, or employee of Plaintiffs. (SAC ¶¶ 44, 49.)
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have not requested any
injunctive relief against them. The Court disagrees. It is sufficiently clear
from the pleadings that the requests for injunctive relief described above
pertain to the demurring Defendants. (SAC ¶ 49.)
 
Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs have not pled that
Defendants engaged in any unfair or fraudulent business act against Defendants.
However, as discussed below, Plaintiffs have pled tort claims against
Defendants that may serve as predicates for the UCL cause of action. Because
Plaintiffs’ UCL cause of action allows for injunctive relief, the Court
overrules the demurrer as to both the first and second causes of action.  
 
Third
Cause of Action for Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Relations
The elements for the tort of intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage are: “(1) an economic relationship between the
plaintiff and some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit
to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; (3)
intentional acts on the part of the defendant designed to disrupt the
relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm
to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the defendant.” (Korea
Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1153.)  
In order to establish intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, a plaintiff must show that the
defendant engaged in an independently wrongful act. (See Korea Supply Co.,
supra, 29 Cal.4th at 1158.) “An act is not independently wrongful merely
because defendant acted with an improper motive.” (Ibid.) “[A]n
act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed
by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other
determinable legal standard.” (Id. at 1159.) “[T]o satisfy the intent requirement for this tort, it is
sufficient to plead
that the defendant knew that the interference was certain or substantially
certain to occur as a result of its action.” (Id. at 1153.)
Plaintiffs’ third cause of action alleges that the CMG
Defendants interfered with Plaintiffs’ “economic
relationship with their patients, with referral clinics, with doctors,
hospitals, nurses and other health care providers and vendors.” (SAC ¶ 63.)
The alleged conduct of Patel and Mancada, allegedly owners
and officers of the CMG Defendants acting as the entities’ agents (SAC ¶ 26),
is sufficient to state this cause of action against the CMG Defendants. “[A]
private corporation is generally liable under the doctrine of respondeat
superior for torts of its agents or employees committed while they are acting
within the scope of their employment.” (Persson v. Smart Inventions, Inc.
(2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1167.) A corporation can act only through
its officers and employees,
and “[a]ny act
or omission of an officer
or employee within
the scope of his [authority]
is in law the act or omission of
such corporation.” (Little
v. Stuyvesant Life Ins. Co. (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 451, 468 [quoting BAJI
(5th ed.) 13.30].)
Plaintiffs
allege that Patel induced Noblequest to install office software that he
developed to steal Plaintiffs’ business information, “all as part of
[Defendants’] scheme to take control and ownership of [Rivera’s] clinics.” (SAC
¶ 27.) Additionally, on December 9, 2021, Patel allegedly directed CMG
employees to go to Plaintiffs’ offices and falsely claim that they were new
management, presenting a welcome letter prepared by Patel. (SAC ¶ 38.) Mancada allegedly
became an employee of Plaintiff Care Plus Medical Group in order to obtain
Plaintiffs’ trade secrets, in furtherance of Defendants’ scheme to usurp
control of the companies. (SAC ¶ 28.)
Patel’s and
Mancada’s acts constituted “independently wrongful acts” by the CMG Defendants
whom they were allegedly acting on behalf of, performed with knowledge of
Plaintiffs’ economic relationships and intent to disrupt those relationships,
and resulting in actual harm. Accordingly, Plaintiffs have pled sufficient
facts to state a claim for intentional interference with prospective economic
relations against CMG Defendants.
Fourth
Cause of Action for Conversion
To plead a cause of
action for conversion, one must allege (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right
to possession of personal property; (2) defendant’s disposition of the property
inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.)  “To mandate a conversion action ‘it is not essential that plaintiff
shall be the absolute owner of the property converted but she must show that
she was entitled to immediate possession at the time of conversion.’ ”
(Hartford Financial Corp. v. Burns (1979) 96 Cal.App.3d 591, 598.)
Under their conversion claim, Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants took possession and control of, or prevented Plaintiffs’
access to, their business assets including bank accounts, physical office
equipment, personnel records, patient files, confidential business information,
corporate records, and corporate identities. (SAC ¶¶ 70-71.)
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants, and each of
them . . . “directed Defendants Daniel Callahan [and] Kellie Williams to
present said false documents to [Chase],” after which Defendants “withdrew
funds belonging to Plaintiffs, transferred those accounts to their own custody,
and thereafter closed said accounts.” (SAC ¶ 36.) Plaintiffs also allege that,
beginning November 2021, Defendants “began a course of conduct of harassing and
annoying Plaintiffs’ employees and staff members,” claiming that “they were in
control of the respective businesses.” (SAC ¶ 37.) Defendants attempted to
change the locks on doors or otherwise take physical control of the offices,
“stole computers from Plaintiffs’ offices and stole mail and patient and office
files and other personal property.” (Ibid.) In December 2021, Patel
allegedly directed CMG employees to go to Plaintiffs’ offices and claim that
they were new management, though the CMG employees were made to leave. (SAC ¶
38.)
            The
allegations that Patel stole Plaintiffs’ business information through the
Noblequest software, and that Defendants stole computers, mail, and other
personal property from Plaintiffs’ offices are sufficient to state a cause of
action for conversion against the CMG Defendants. (SAC ¶¶ 27, 37.) As discussed
above, because Patel was allegedly an officer of the CMG Defendants and acting
on their behalf, the CMG Defendants may be held liable for his conduct. The
demurrer is therefore overruled as to the fourth cause of action.
Fifth Cause of Action for Fraud
            The elements of fraud are:
(1) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure);
(2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent to defraud or induce reliance;
(4) justifiable reliance; and (5) damages. (See Civil Code §1709.) Fraud
actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading. (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
216.) 
The liberal construction of pleadings does not apply to a
fraud claim. Instead, a fraud claim must be pled with specificity. (Tenet
Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of California¿(2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 821, 837.) “The particularity requirement demands that a plaintiff
plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) 
            Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants fraudulently represented that they were the authorized
owners, officers, directors, and managing agents of the corporate Plaintiffs in
communications “to the Secretary of State of the State of California, to
Defendant, JPMorgan Chase Bank, dba Chase Bank . . . to the United States
District Court for the Central District of California, to the Superior Court of
the State of California, and to health care providers with whom Plaintiffs have
contractual and financial relationships, as well as to customers and patients
of Plaintiffs.” (SAC ¶ 77.)
            The Court sustained Defendants’ prior demurrer to this cause of
action on the grounds that the fraud was not pled with sufficient specificity,
and that Defendants had not pled detrimental reliance by Plaintiffs. The
underlying allegations are unchanged in the SAC, and so the claim fails again against
all Defendants for the same reasons. Defendants’ representations that they were
Plaintiffs’ owners were allegedly made to Chase, the courts, health care
providers, and Plaintiffs’ customers, but not to Plaintiffs (SAC ¶¶ 77, 79),  and there are no allegations suggesting that
Plaintiffs detrimentally relied upon those misrepresentations.
            Accordingly, the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained
without leave to amend.
Sixth Cause of Action for Slander of Title
“The elements of a cause of action for slander
of title are (1) a publication, which is (2) without privilege or
justification, (3) false, and (4) causes pecuniary loss.” (La Jolla Group II
v. Bruce (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 461, 472 [emphasis in original].)
Plaintiffs’ slander of title claim alleges “[t]hat
Defendants and each of them made statements to, among other persons, the
Secretary of State of the State of California, Defendants, JPMorgan Chase Bank .
. .  and to vendors, health care
providers, customers, patients and others which statements cast doubt about the
ownership and management of Plaintiffs and their assets.” (FAC ¶ 86.) 
As with the
causes of action discussed above, Patel’s alleged conduct as an officer of the CMG
Defendants is sufficient to support a slander of title claim against the CMG
Defendants. Plaintiffs allege that Patel directed CMG employees to go to
Plaintiffs’ offices and falsely tell Plaintiffs’ employees that Defendants were
new management, including by presenting a welcome letter prepared by Patel.
(SAC ¶ 38.) Additionally, Plaintiffs allege more generally that Defendants
committed a similar course of conduct over a period beginning November 2021,
including “stat[ing] that they were in control of the respective businesses” to
Plaintiffs’ employees and staff, and “threatening and discouraging patients
from continuing their care with Plaintiffs.” 
(SAC ¶ 37.) These allegations suffice to show false, unprivileged
publications causing pecuniary loss.
Seventh Cause of Action for Abuse
of Process
The
allegations underlying Plaintiffs’ seventh cause of action for Abuse of Process
are unchanged from the prior complaints; Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
“initiated LASC Case No. 21STCV39991 and various actions in the United States
District Court for the Central District of California – Bankruptcy bringing
suit in the name of various Plaintiffs herein as well as against various
Plaintiffs herein.” (SAC ¶ 97.) Again, this claim fails against all Defendants
because “the mere filing or maintenance of a lawsuit—even
for an improper purpose—is not a proper basis for an abuse of process action.”
(Oren Royal Oaks Venture v. Greenberg, Bernard, Weiss & Karma, Inc. (1986)
42 Cal.3d 1158, 1169; SAC ¶ 97.)
Accordingly, the demurrer to the seventh cause of action is
sustained without leave to amend.
Motion to Strike
            Defendants move to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages
and related allegations. Plaintiffs seek recovery of punitive damages pursuant
to the second through seventh causes of action. (SAC ¶¶ 52, 68, 75, 88, 95, 101,
Prayer 5.)
A plaintiff may recover punitive
damages in an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising out of contract where the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” exists
when the defendant intends to cause injury to the plaintiff or the defendant
engages in despicable conduct with willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression”
exists when the defendant in conscious disregard of a person's rights engages
in despicable conduct subjecting that person to cruel and unjust hardship. (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)
            Because
the demurrer is sustained as to the fifth and seventh causes of action, the
motion is moot as to those allegations. (SAC ¶¶ 88, 101.) 
Punitive damages are
not available under the UCL, and so the motion is granted as to Paragraph 52. (Zhang
v. Superior Court (2013) 57 Cal.4th 364, 376 [“no claim for compensatory or
punitive damages
can be recovered in a [UCL] action”].)
Otherwise,
Plaintiffs’ claims for intentional interference with prospective economic
relations, conversion, and slander of title plead grounds for recovery of
punitive damages. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants appropriated Plaintiffs’
confidential business, financial, and patient information through office
software they supplied to Noblequest on false pretenses. (SAC ¶ 27.) Plaintiffs
also allege that Defendants attempted to physically seize control of
Plaintiffs’ offices, while knowingly misrepresenting that they were owners and
managers to Plaintiffs’ employees and patients. (SAC ¶¶ 37-38.) These
allegations suffice to show “willful and conscious disregard” of Plaintiffs’
rights by Defendants. 