  Case Number:  20STCV13703    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  40                                                                                                                                       
  
Superior Court of California
 
County of Los Angeles
 
Department 40
 



DANNY BAKEWELL, SR.,
Plaintiff,
v.
KEVIN COHEE, ONEUNTED BANK, and DOES 1 to 20, inclusive,
Defendants.
  
 


 Case No.: 20STCV13703
 Hearing Date: July 12, 2024
 Trial Date: July 9, 2024
[TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Danny Bakewell, Sr.’s Motion for Fees and Costs
  Re: Motion to Compel Deposition



 
On April 15, 2020, Plaintiff DANNY BAKEWELL, SR. (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendants KEVIN
COHEE (“Cohee”), ONEUNTED BANK (“OneUnited”), and DOES 1 to 20 (collectively,
“Defendants”). The FAC asserts the following causes of action against all
Defendants: 1. Breach of Contract; 2. Fraud and Deceit; 3. Declaratory Relief; 4.
Unfair Competition – Bus. & Prof. Code §17200; 5. Breach of Fiduciary Duty;
and 6. Fraudulent Sale of Securities (Cal. Corp. Code §25401).
Plaintiff now brings a Motion for Fees and Costs Re: Motion to
Compel Deposition, filed on May 23, 2024, pursuant to a ruling on March 8, 2024
order granting the Motion to Compel the Deposition. Plaintiff seeks $45,905.00
in fees and costs against Defendants, jointly and severally. Defendants opposed
the motion for fees and costs on June 27, 2024. Plaintiff filed a reply on July
3, 2024.  
After review, the Court GRANTS the Motion in a reduced amount. 
 
Background Allegations
This action involves an oral agreement between Plaintiff and
Defendant Cohee for the purchase of preferred stock from Defendant OneUnited in
the amount of $250,000.00 entered into on or about January 2000. (Compl., ¶6.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Cohee orally represented and personally
guaranteed to him that he could redeem the preferred stock shares at any time
upon request and receive $250,000.00 plus any accumulated dividends. (Id.)
Defendant Cohee also represented that he would take care of all the necessary
documentation to consummate the agreement. (Id. at ¶7.) Plaintiff never
received any documentation from Defendant Cohee and no preferred stock
certificates have been delivered to Plaintiff. (Id.)
 
Motion for Fees and Costs Re: Motion to
Compel Deposition
Legal Standard: “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a
person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(a).)¿¿ 
“If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the
deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(g)(1).) 
“If that party or party-affiliated deponent then fails to
obey an order compelling attendance, testimony, and production, the court may
make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction,
an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) against that party deponent or against the party with
whom the deponent is affiliated. In lieu of, or in addition to, this
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) against that deponent or against the party with whom
that party deponent is affiliated, and in favor of any party who, in person or
by attorney, attended in the expectation that the deponent's testimony would be
taken pursuant to that order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(h).) 
At issue is whether Defendants, their counsel of record, and
deponent Robert Cooper should be sanctioned for failing to appear for the
noticed deposition that gave rise to the underlying Ex Parte Motion to
Compel Deposition. 
Here, Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Mr. Cooper for June 1,
2023. (Ivie Decl., ¶5, Ex. 4.) On May 12, 2023, counsel for Mr. Cooper objected
to the noticed deposition on the basis that Mr. Cooper was on a medical leave
of absence for an unknown duration. (Id. at ¶6, Ex. 5.) Subsequently,
Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel Deposition Attendance on July 28, 2023. (Id.
at ¶8, Ex. 6.) This motion was conditionally granted on September 19, 2023, but
Defendants were allowed to substitute a person most knowledgeable (“PMK”) for
Mr. Cooper if he remained unavailable due to his medical condition upon
production of a doctor’s note. (Id. at ¶10, Ex. 7.) 
After a meet and confer in December, 2023, in which Defendants
contended that Mr. Cooper was still unable to proceed for medical reasons,
Plaintiff became skeptical and hired a private investigator to conduct
surveillance into Mr. Cooper’s condition. Plaintiff thereafter filed the
underlying Ex Parte Motion to Compel Deposition, attaching video evidence
of Mr. Cooper driving to work and otherwise appearing to have a normal physical
condition. This led to a continued hearing which allowed Mr. Cooper to provide
a letter from his doctor explaining his medical condition in detail to combat
the video evidence submitted by Plaintiff. (Id. at ¶¶12-15.) The matter
was continued to March 8, 2024, wherein this Court found the evidence submitted
by Mr. Cooper to be insufficient to prevent him from being deposed. (Min.
Order, 03/08/23.) 
Plaintiff asserts that Defendants willfully violated the September
19, 2023 order by not producing Mr. Cooper but John Trotter, its Chief
Financial Officer for deposition. It is true that both parties admit and the
Court notes that Defendants were ordered to produce Mr. Cooper or a PMK as a
substitute if he was still unable to appear for deposition due to his medical
condition. (Fox Decl., ¶¶4-6, Exs. C-G.) The question remains, however, whether
his medical condition actually precluded him from appearing at that time, or
whether this was either a dilatory tactic not taken in good faith or simply
inaccurate. 
The Court notes that the costs requested, including for the
private investigator and the doctor, led to this Court’s reversing its initial decision,
continuing the hearing, and eventually concluding that the doctor’s notes were vague
and did not rebut the video evidence. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s reasonable costs
should be recovered. These costs were reasonably expended to obtain Mr. Cooper’s
appearance at deposition despite his initial contention that he was not able to
attend any deposition. His conclusory doctor’s notes were not supported by any
medical records to justify his contentions, and even after video evidence was
provided which cast doubt on his assertions, he did not provide satisfactory
evidence of his inability to attend the deposition other than a further conclusory
doctor’s note.
On the other hand, the amount requested is high. The Court finds
the hourly rates of counsel ($560), the medical doctor ($450), and the private
investigator ($225) to be reasonable, but finds that the number of hours expended
and sought to be charged to the Defendants is too high. Plaintiff’s counsel
requests 21 hours for working with the investigator and the doctor and preparing
and appearing on the motion for a total of $11,760. Plaintiff also seeks
$32,120 for the private investigator (133 hours according to the invoices,
which, multiplied by 225, equals $29,925, plus another hour to locate an
address at the rate of $195, for a total of $30,120) and $2,025 for the medical
expert. (Mot., Ivie Decl., and Exhibits 12 and 13 thereto.) The Court finds
that a more reasonable sum for total attorney time on the motion to compel and
related work is 10 hours ($5,600) and the reasonable time for the private
investigator is at most half the amount billed in the invoices, or $15,060. The
doctor’s time (4.5 hours) to review documents and prepare an expert declaration
appears reasonable. Thus, the reasonable total fees and costs to be awarded is $22,685.
As to which party will be ordered to pay the costs, there is no
evidence that either Cohee or counsel for Cohee or Cooper was aware of the true
facts underlying Mr. Cooper’s condition. Therefore, this Order will be limited
to Robert Cooper and Defendant OneUnited Bank, of whom Mr. Cooper is General
Counsel and in which capacity he was subpoenaed to testify, jointly and
severally.
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Danny Bakewell, Sr’s Motion for Fees and Costs Re: Motion to Compel Deposition is
GRANTED in the reduced amount of $22,685 against Robert Cooper and OneUnited
Bank, jointly and severally. Such amount is to be paid to Ivie McNeill Wyatt
Purcell & Diggs within 30 days of this Order. 