 Case Number:  20STCV25497    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



ESTATE OF TAT KWOK, by and through his Successor in Interest,
  CONAIL KWOK; and CONAIL KWOK, individually, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
RAMON HEALTHCARE ASSOCIATES, INC. dba MISSION CARE CENTER, and
  DOES 1 through 25.


 Case No.:          20STCV25497 (r/w  
                           21STCV15837)
 Hearing Date:   6/20/24, continued to 7/12/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Consolidate for All Purposes.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
1.
LASC No. 20STCV25497 (Lead Case)
On July 3, 2024,
in LASC No. 20STCV25497 (the Lead Case), Conail Kwok—both as an
individual and as the Successor in Interest of the Estate of Tat Kwok—filed the
operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) suing Defendants Ramon Healthcare
Associates, Inc. dba Mission Care Center (Mission Care Center; originally sued
as Riverside Equities, LLC) and Does 1 through 25. The SAC identifies Ada Kwok
and Melissa Kwok as nonimal defendants. 
The SAC alleges claims
of (1) Elder Abuse and Neglect pursuant to Welfare & Institutions Code
sections 15600, et seq., (2) Violation of Resident Rights pursuant to Health
and Safety Code section 1430, subdivision (b), and (3) Wrongful Death.
The claims arise from
allegations that Mission Care Center failed to provide adequate care for Tat
Kwok and that Mission Care Center’s failure to prevent a wound from developing
in Tat Kwok’s coccyx—the small triangular bone at the base of the spinal column
in humans—contributed to Tat Kwok’s injuries and subsequent death on April 28,
2019.
This action was
assigned to Department 40 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse (the Court) for all
purposes.
2.
LASC No. 21STCV15837 (Brighton Case)
On November 3, 2023,
Conail Kwok—both as an individual and as the Successor in Interest of the
Estate of Tat Kwok—filed the operative FAC in LASC No. 21STCV15837, The
Estate of Tat Kwok, et al. v. Brighton Convalescent, LLC (the Brighton
Case), which sues Brighton Convalescent, LLC dba Brighton Care Center and Does
1 through 25 as Defendants and Ada Kwok and Melissa Kwok as Nominal Defendants.
The FAC alleges claims
of (1) Elder Abuse and Neglect pursuant to Welfare & Institutions Code
sections 15600, et seq., (2) Violation of Resident Rights pursuant to Health
and Safety Code section 1430, subdivision (b), and (3) Wrongful Death.
The claims arose from
allegations that Brighton Care failed to provide adequate care for Tat Kwok and
that Brighton Care Center’s failure to prevent a wound from developing in Tat
Kwok’s coccyx contributed to Tat Kwok’s subsequent and later death on April 28,
2019.
The FAC was subject to
a motion to strike on the basis that it exceeded the parties agreement for
amendment to add nominal defendants by adding substantive allegations to claim
that pressure uclers were the cause of Tat Kwok’s death. (See 1/30/24 Notice of
Non-Opposition filed in the Brighton Case). The parties had been instructed to
submit an amended order with stipulation detailing the terms of the agreement,
but the record does not reflect that such an amended order was filed. (See
2/15/24 Minute Order filed in the Brighton Case.) 
This action was assigned
to four other Departments in the Los Angeles Superior Court prior to being
assigned to this Court for all purposes on May 28, 2024, through an order on a
notice for related case.
B. Motion Before the Court
On April 26, 2024, in the Lead
Case, Plaintiffs filed a motion to consolidate the Lead Case and the Brighton
Case. The motion attaches a proof of service showing service of the motion on
Mission Care Center’s counsel via electronic transmission. The motion was set
for hearing on June 20, 2024.
On May 21, 2024, in the Brighton
case, Plaintiffs filed a motion to consolidate the Lead Case and the Brighton
Case. The points and authorities filed in relation to this motion are identical
to those filed with the April 26th motion. The motion attached a proof of
service showing service of the motion on Brighton Care Center’s counsel via
electronic transmission. The motion was set for hearing on August 21, 2024.
On May 22, 2024, in relation to a
different motion filed in the Lead Case, the Court advised Plaintiffs that in
order to consolidate the two actions, they must be related.
That same day, Plaintiffs filed a
notice of related case in the Lead Case.
On May 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
notice of related case in the Brighton Case.
On May 28, 2024, in the Lead Case
and in the Brighton case, the Court issued an order relating the two actions,
making the 20STCV25497 action the lead case, assigning both cases to this
Court, and taking all hearings other than those in the Lead Case off calendar.
On June 20, 2024, this matter came
before the Court, and Brighton Care Center requested a continuance in order to
oppose the instant motion, representing that they had not been served. The
Court granted the continuance, continuing this matter to July 12, 2024. 
On July 3, 2024, Brighton Care
Center filed its opposition to the instant motion. 
The record fails to reflect any reply
in support of the instant motion.
Plaintiffs’ motion to consolidate,
as filed in the Lead Case, is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Consolidate: GRANTED in part for
trial purposes only.
A. Legal Standard
When cases involving a common question
of law or fact are pending in the same superior court, i.e., in the same
county, the cases can be consolidated on a party’s motion or on the court’s own
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision (a).
Cases can be consolidated for (1)
all purposes (Hamilton v. Asbestos Corp. (200) 22 Cal.4th 1127, 1147;
see Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a)), (2) for trial (Stubblefield Constr.
Co. v. City of San Bernardino (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 687, 701; see Code Civ.
Proc., § 1048, subd. (a)), or (3) for limited purposes, e.g., discovery or
pretrial matters (see Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a); see, e.g., State
v. Altus Fin., S.A. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1284, 1293 [cases consolidated for
discovery and pretrial matters]; Austin B. v. Escondido Un. Sch. Dist.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 870 [cases consolidated for discovery and trial]; Frieman
v. San Rafael Rock Quarry, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 29, 33 [cases
consolidated for discovery and pretrial determinations]).
To prevail on a motion to
consolidate, a movant must establish that (1) the cases are pending before the
same court, (2) the cases share a common question of law or fact, and (3) the
benefits of consolidation outweigh the burdens. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1048,
subd. (a).)
B. Court’s Determination
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion
as to trial only.
The Lead Case and the Brighton Case
were filed in the Los Angeles Superior Court and are related and pending before
Department 40, meeting the first statutory requirement. (See also Super. Ct.
L.A. County, Local Rules, rule 3.3, subd. (g)(1) [“Cases may not be
consolidated unless they are in the same department”].)
As for the second requirement,
Plaintiffs argue that both cases involve common questions of law and fact
because each operative complaint alleges the same causes of action that arise
from the care of Tat Kwok. (Mot. at pp. 9-10.) Additionally, Plaintiffs assert
that Tat Kwok’s transfer between facilities resulted in a continuation neglect
in wound care and infection control. (Id. at pp. 10-11.)  Thus, Plaintiffs assert that these two actions
could have been filed as one comprehensive action. (Id. at p. 11.) 
In opposition, Brighton Care Center
asserts that the requested relief is not warranted because Plaintiff’s claims
in both action arose during different time periods of care and the witnesses
and faculty records would not be the same in both actions. (Opp. at pp. 3-4.) The
cases are against different defendants regarding different time periods of care.
While there may be some similar witnesses and records involved, that does not
undermine the fact that Plaintiffs contend that there has been a continuance of
neglect across both facilities that underscores the cumulative nature of
alleged abuse experienced Tat Kwok. Therefore, the second statutory requirement
for relief is therefore met.
The last statutory requirement
(balancing of benefits) is also met here through the benefits of:
(1)-(2) Saving time and money on
Plaintiffs’ assertion of liability against distinct Defendants based on the
same factual and legal grounds;
(3) Helping prevent inconsistent
adjudications against Mission Care Center and Brighton Care Center as relates
to liability arising from Tat Kwok’s injuries and death;
(4) Lessening the burden on
judicial resources from having to rehear essentially the same case or from
needing to make orders addressing inconsistences;
(5) Promoting the convenience of
Plaintiff’s witnesses and attorneys, where Plaintiffs’ witnesses will be
largely similar between the two actions as based on common factual allegations
against both Defendants, and where Jorge Ledezma Flores, Esq. represents
Plaintiffs in both actions;
(6) Encouraging settlement as
between the parties in what would otherwise be separate two actions, where
Plaintiffs asserts liability for the same factual and legal grounds against Mission
Care Center and Brighton Care Center; and
(7) Avoiding the prejudice of
inconsistent judgments against Mission Care Center and Brighton Care Center.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd.
(a) [setting forth these seven grounds for this element of consolidation].)
Notwithstanding this finding,
Brighton Care Center points out in its opposition that none of the discovery
deadlines were extended in the Brighton Case. (Opp. at pp. 2-3; Tramontano
Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) Thus, the discovery deadlines in the Brighton Case appear
to have elapsed. Considering that discovery is still ongoing in the Lead Case,
the Court would inadvertently reopen discovery in the Brighton Case if the
actions are consolidated for all purposes. Therefore, it would be appropriate
to consolidate these actions for trial only because good cause has not been
shown pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2024.050 to reopen discovery in the
Brighton Case.         
Having met all three statutory
requirements, Plaintiffs’ motion is GRANTED in part for trial purposes only. 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Consolidate is
GRANTED in part for trial purposes only.