 Case Number:  21STCV45077    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SUK YOUNG YUN, an Individual; MYUNG JA YUN, an Individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
CAROLINE KYUNG LEE, an Individual; FREEMAN WANG, an Individual; YOUR
  HOME SOLD GUARANTEED REALTY INC., a California Corporation; and DOES 1-50,
  INCLUSIVE,
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
CAROLINE KYUNG LEE, an Individual; FREEMAN WANG, an Individual; Your
  Home Sold Guaranteed Realty, Inc., a California Corporation,
                        Cross-Complainant,
            v.
STEPHANIE Y. YUN, an Individual; and ROES 1-20, INCLUSIVE,
                        Cross-Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          21STCV45077
 Hearing Date:   7/12/24
 Trial Date:        1/28/25
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants
  Caroline Kyung Lee, Freeman Wang, and Your Home Sold Guaranteed
  Realty, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication. 



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiffs
Suk Young Yun and Myung Ja Yun (the Yun Plaintiffs or Plaintiffs) sue Defendants
Caroline Kyung Lee (Lee), Lee’s supervisor realtor, Freeman Wang (Wang), and
Lee’s realty brokerage group, Your Home Sold Guaranteed Realty, Inc. (YHSG) (collectively
Defendants), allegedly owned by Lee and Wang, and Does 1-50 pursuant to an
October 11, 2022 Second Amended Complaint (SAC).
 
The
SAC alleges claims of (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (2) Fraud, (3) Negligence,
(4) Conversion, (5) Trespass of Real Property, (6) Conversion, (7) Tort of
Another, (8) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (9) Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (10) Unfair Competition.
 
The
claims arise from allegations that—while acting as realtor for the Yun
Plaintiffs in the sale of 7416 Jason Avenue, West Hills, California (the
Subject Property)—Lee, Wang, and YHSG Realty engaged in various actions
amounting to breaches of fiduciary duty, conversion, trespass to real property,
and other harms to the Yun Plaintiffs. Defendants’ conduct included allowing
people to enter the Subject Property without a proper register of persons who
gained admission, which permitted a theft of personal property one day before
closing on escrow, including more than $100,000 in losses comprised of
irreplaceable family jewels, cash, and personal possessions, the theft of which
spurred an ongoing Los Angeles Police Department investigation.
 
In
turn, Defendants Lee, Wang, and YHSG sue the Yun Plaintiffs’ daughter and
counsel, Stephanie Yun, Esq., pursuant to an October 11, 2022 First Amended
Cross-Complaint alleging claims of (1) Equitable Indemnity, (2) Equitable
Contribution, and (3) Declaratory Relief.
 
The
claims arise from allegations that Stephanie Yun was also responsible for the
harm suffered by the Yun Plaintiffs given Stephanie Yun’s conduct as durable
power of attorney for the Yun Plaintiffs during the sale of the Subject
Property.
 
Stephanie
Yun sues Defendant Lee and Does 1-50 pursuant to a July 26, 2022
Cross-Complaint alleging claims of (1) Invasion of Privacy, (2) Public
Disclosure of Private Facts, and Negligence.
 
The
claims arise from allegations that, during Lee’s representation of the Yun
Plaintiffs in the sale of the Subject Property, Lee wrongfully disclosed
confidential information belonging to Stephanie Yun to the Yun Plaintiffs,
i.e., Stephanie Yun’s parents.
 
Motion
Before the Court
On
April 9, 2024, Defendants Lee, Wang, and YHSG filed their motion for summary
judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication, which the Yun Plaintiffs
opposed on June 28, 2024 and to which Defendants replied and filed notice of
errata regarding their separate statement on July 5, 2024. 
 
After
review, the Court DENIES the Motion. 
 
Evidentiary Objections 
In granting
or denying a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court
need rule only on those objections to evidence that it deems material to its
disposition of the motion. Objections to evidence that are not ruled on for
purposes of the motion shall be preserved for appellate review. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) Evidentiary objections not made either in writing or
orally shall be deemed waived. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b).)
 
For the
reasons discussed below, the parties’ evidentiary objections are not material to
the Court’s ruling, and the Court therefore declines to rule on them. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).)
 
Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary
Adjudication 
“The motion [for summary judgment] shall be
supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories,
depositions, and matters of which judicial notice shall or may be
taken. The supporting papers shall include a separate statement setting
forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the moving party contends
are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a
reference to the supporting evidence. The failure to comply with this
requirement of a separate statement may in the court’s discretion constitute a
sufficient ground for denial of the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (b)(1); see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350, subd. (c)(2)
& (d).) 
 
“The separate statement must be in the two-column format
specified in (h). The statement must state in numerical sequence the undisputed
material facts in the first column followed by the evidence that establishes
those undisputed facts in that same column. Citation to the evidence in support
of each material fact must include reference to the exhibit, title, page, and
line numbers.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1350, subd. (d)(3).) 
 
Here, Defendants did not provide a separate statement
supported by evidence as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 437c
subdivision (b)(1), the contents and format of which are described, in detail,
in Rule of Court 3.1350, subdivisions (d) and (h). Defendants’ separate
statement is defective for the following reasons. First, as to UMF 1 and 2 in
Issue No. 1, the separate statement refers to unknown evidence in the form of a
“compendium of evidence in support of Defendant Target
Corporation's motion for summary judgment (“ESM”).” Target Corporation is not a
Defendant here, Second, the separate statement fails to satisfy the two-column
format as to Issues
2-8. Third, the separate statement fails to reference supporting evidence as to
Issues 2-8, which repeat, “Defendants incorporate Undisputed
Material Facts Nos. 1 through XX by this reference as set forth in full herein”;
Defendants do not identify “XX.” The failure
to comply with the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 437c
subdivision (b)(1) is independent grounds for denial of the motion. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c(b)(1).) The failure to comply with the Rules of Court with respect
to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication is also grounds for
denial of the motion. (See Truong v. Glasser (2009) 181 Cal.App.4th 102,
118.) 
 
Further, while Defendants filed notice of errata
regarding their separate statement on July 5, 2024, it did not provide
Plaintiffs with timely notice of the facts and evidence before the July 12,
2024 hearing. Code of Civil Procedure section 437c subdivision (a)(2) provides
that “Notice of the motion [for summary
judgment] and supporting papers shall be served on all other parties to the
action at least 75 days before the time appointed for hearing.” Defendants
served a new separate statement on Plaintiffs on July 5, 2024, which did not
provide timely statutory notice under section 437c subdivision (a)(2). The Second District has considered whether trial courts
may shorten this time and concluded: “we hold that, in light of the express
statutory language, trial courts do not have authority to shorten the minimum
notice period for summary judgment hearings.” (McMahon v. Superior Court
(2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 112, 118; See also Urshan v. Musicians' Credit Union
(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 758, 764 (“the Legislature did not…authorize a trial
court to shorten the minimum notice period for hearings on summary judgment
motions. Such discretionary language is notably absent from the statute.
Moreover, the statutory language regarding minimum notice is mandatory, not
directive.”) See also Cuff v. Grossmont Union High School District
(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 582, 595-596.) 
Finally, even
considering the late-filed separate statement, for each of the issues 2-8, the
moving parties merely incorporated all of the prior UMFs for each Issue.
This hardly comports with the requirement to set forth “plainly and concisely
all material facts that the moving party contends are undisputed.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1350(d)(2).) “The paragraphs in a separate statement should be
limited to facts that address the elements of a cause of action or an affirmative
defense.” (Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97
Cal.App.5th 865, 875.) In that case, the court of appeal held that “[t]rial
courts should not hesitate to deny summary judgment motions when the moving
party fails to draft a compliant separate statement.” (Id. at p. 876.)
Accordingly, the Motion
is DENIED.

Conclusion
Defendants Caroline Kyung Lee, Freeman Wang,
and Your Home Sold Guaranteed
Realty, Inc.’s Motion
for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication filed on April 9, 2024 is DENIED. 