 Case Number:  22STCV39957    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
22STCV39957




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 25, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
(4) Demurrers to First Amended Complaint
and Motions to Strike
Moving Party: Defendants Architectural Surfaces
Group, LLC, Francini Inc., Parsoda USA, Inc. and MS International, Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas and
Alma Delia Llamas
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’
DEMURRERS ARE OVERRULED.
THE MOTIONS TO STRIKE ARE DENIED.
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO THE
FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
DEFENDANTS TO
NOTICE.  
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and replies. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 13, 2023, Plaintiffs Rodolfo
Garcia-Rosas and Alma Delia Llamas filed the operative first amended complaint
against Defendants Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al., asserting causes of
action for (1) negligence; (2) strict liability – warning defect; (3) strict
liability – design defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied
warranties; and (6) loss of consortium. Plaintiff alleges he developed silicosis and consequential injuries through his employment
working with stone products manufactured, distributed, and/or supplied by
Defendants.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Demurrers and Motions to Strike by Defendants
Architectural Surfaces Group, LLC, Francini Inc., and Parsoda USA, Inc.
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendants Architectural Surfaces Group, LLC,
Francini Inc., and Parsoda USA, Inc. demur to the fourth cause of action for
fraudulent concealment on the ground that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts
with the requisite specificity. The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) 
“[T]o establish fraud through nondisclosure
or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant ‘was under a
legal duty to disclose them.’” (OCM Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC
World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 845.) Nondisclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud when: (1) there is a fiduciary
relationship between the parties; (2) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of
material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals
a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. (See Los Angeles
Memorial Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803,
831.)
Plaintiffs allege in detail that Defendants
have been aware of the risks of silicosis
for decades, and Defendants knew that the common protection measures were
insufficient. For example, Plaintiffs allege: “Defendants were aware that their
artificial stone products contained extremely high concentrations of
crystalline silica (approximately 95%), which produced extremely high levels of
respirable crystalline silica in their ordinary and expected use, when
fabricators and installers cut, grind, drill, edge, and polish the products, so
their products presented extreme hazards and risks to the health of exposed
workers, in comparison with natural stone products such as granite (which
contains about 35% crystalline silica) and marble (which only contains about 5%
crystalline silica).” Plaintiffs allege Defendants knowingly concealed this
information from Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs were damaged by the concealment.
This is sufficient to allege fraudulent concealment.
The demurrers are OVERRULED. 
As Plaintiffs have stated sufficient facts to
support a claim for fraud, Plaintiffs have alleged entitlement to punitive
damages. The motions to strike are DENIED.
B. Demurrer Motion to Strike by Defendant MS International

Defendant
MS International demurs to the fourth cause of action on the same grounds as
the above Defendants. Plaintiff alleges in detail that MS International
misrepresented the safety of Quartz and misrepresented the effectiveness of
common protection measures. This is sufficient to state a claim for fraudulent
concealment.
Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.
 
 
 