 Case Number:  23STCV20321    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  76 Attorney Tina Abdolhosseini’s
motion to be relieved as counsel for Defendants Eddie Montes and Crystal
Brianna Montes is GRANTED. The order shall not become effective until the filing of
the proof of service of the signed order upon the client.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion To Be Relieved As Counsel 
 
            Attorney
Tina Abdolhosseini moves to be relieved as counsel for Defendants Eddie Montes
and Crystal Brianna Montes
 
California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362 requires that the following Mandatory Judicial
Council forms be filed for a motion to be relieved as counsel: Notice of Motion
and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (form MC-051); Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel--Civil (form MC-052); and Order Granting Attorney's Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (form MC-053). (See Calif. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(a), (c), (e).)  These three forms must be served on must be
served on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case.
(Calif. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(d).)
 
The Court may issue an order allowing an attorney to
withdraw from representation, after notice to the client. (Code Civ. Proc., §
284(2).) An attorney may withdraw with or without cause as long as the
withdrawal would not result in undue prejudice to the client's interest - i.e.,
counsel cannot withdraw at a critical point in the litigation because that
would prejudice client, but can withdraw otherwise.  (Ramirez
v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) The court has discretion to
deny an attorney’s request to withdraw where such withdrawal would work an
injustice or cause undue delay in the proceeding; but the court’s discretion in
this area is one to be exercised reasonably. (Mandell v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)
 
All mandatory Judicial Council forms have been filled out
and submitted.  


There has
been a significant breakdown in the attorney-client relationship, which has
significantly impeded counsels ability to effectively prosecute this case and
represent the clients’ interest. (Declaration, ¶ 2.)
 
Trial is
set for November 3, 2025, which gives the clients time to locate new counsel,
which they need not do, as individuals may represent themselves in pro per.
 
            As
such, the motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED. The order shall not
become effective until the filing of the proof of service of the signed order
upon the client.