 Case Number:  24NNCV03320    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  X Defendant Mazda’s Motion to Strike Punitive DamagesDefendant Mazda Motor of America, Inc. seeks to strike punitive damages from Plaintiff Kristen Lohnas’ Complaint.This case concerns a motor vehicle accident between Plaintiff Kristen Lohnas and Defendants Corey Carrington and Javonda Renee Hughes.  In addition to claiming injuries Plaintiff Lohnas attributes to these Defendants’ negligent driving, Plaintiff Lohnas also alleges products liability claims against Defendant Mazda Motor of America, Inc.  In this regard, Plaintiff Lohnas claims that Defendant Mazda was negligent in manufacturing its vehicle airbag, such that when the accident occurred, projectiles from the airbag further injured Plaintiff.  Plaintiff Lohnas seeks punitive damages in connection with this claim, which Defendant Mazda seeks to strike.Tentative RulingDefendant Mazda’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s allegations for her punitive damages claim is GRANTED with 10 days leave to amend.Legal Authority and Analysis“Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof[.]”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  In ruling on a motion to strike, a court may “strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading” or “strike all or part of any pleading not filed in conformity with applicable law, court rules, or an order of the court.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §436.)  The grounds for a motion to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or from matters which the court may take judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)Under Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (a), punitive damages are recoverable where it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant acted with malice, oppression, or fraud.  “Malice” means “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)  “Oppression” means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)  “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)To prove that a defendant acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness.  (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 87.)  Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.”  (Id., at p. 90.  See Hilliard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 395 [the plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of its conduct and that it wilfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences].)  Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined as “base, vile or contemptible.”  (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)To survive a motion to strike allegations of punitive damages, ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pleaded.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  Punitive damages may not be pleaded generally.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872; Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.)  While Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that Defendant Mazda’s CX-5 Sport vehicle was defective (Compl. ¶¶ 24, 27, and 28) and that Plaintiff was injured as a result of such defectiveness (Compl. ¶ 30), there are insufficient facts alleged to support Defendant’s willful and conscious disregard.  In particular, there are no facts alleged which would support Defendant Mazda’s knowing disregard of the rights or safety of others.  Paragraph 33 of the Complaint references Plaintiff’s conclusions regarding Defendant Mazda’s knowledge, but no facts which would support such conclusions.  In the absence of these necessary facts, Defendant Mazda’s motion is granted as set forth above.Moving Party is to give notice.