 Case Number:  23STCV26175    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  73 08/14/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
DONALD UNDERWOOD v. HERTZ CORPORATION (23STCV26175)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/opposing
party: Donald Underwood (Pro Per)
Counsel for Defendant/moving
party: Shayne Wulterin (Ford, Walker, Haggerty & Behar)
 
Demurrer TO second amended complaint (filed 4/17/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint
is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to
strike. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On October 26, 2023, Plaintiff Donald
Underwood (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Hertz Corporation (“Defendant”)
asserting a cause of action for negligence. 
 
Defendant
filed a demurrer to the Complaint, which was sustained, with leave to amend, on
February 1, 2024.
 
Plaintiff
attempted to file a First Amended Complaint on February 20, 2024, which was
rejected on February 28, 2024.
 
On March 19,
2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s request to file a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”), which was filed on March 19, 2024. 
 
The SAC alleges the following. On
August 19, 2023, Plaintiff was involved in a motor vehicle accident with Daniel
O’Neal Kirk (“Kirk”). (SAC, p. 1.) Plaintiff alleges that Kirk was driving his vehicle
on the wrong side of the road and collided with Plaintiff. (SAC, pp. 1-2.) Kirk
had rented the vehicle from Defendant. (SAC, p. 2.) Plaintiff requested
Defendant compensate him for the damage from the accident, however, Plaintiff
was not compensated by Defendant. (SAC, p. 1.) The SAC appears to allege a
cause of action for negligence. 
 
On November 29, 2023, Defendant filed a
demurrer and motion to strike portions of the SAC on the following grounds:
·      
The cause of action for negligence fails to allege sufficient
facts to constitute a cause of action. 
o  
The SAC
appears to attempt to assert a negligence cause of action against Hertz by
asserting that Hertz was negligent for renting a vehicle to an unlicensed
driver.
o  
However, facts alleged in the Complaint conflict with the facts
pled in the SAC. The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff took a photograph of
Kirk’s identification card and temporary paper driver’s license at the scene of
the subject accident. (RJN, Exhibit A, Complaint, p. 4.) The SAC alleges that
it was not a temporary paper driver’s license that Plaintiff photographed at
the scene, but rather was the vehicle registration. (SAC, p. 2.)
o  
According to the allegations of the Complaint, Mr. Kirk was a
licensed driver. Hertz complied with the law applicable to car rentals. 
·      
Further, any bad faith cause of action fails because Plaintiff has
not established the parties had a contractual relationship.  
·      
Motion to Strike: Defendant asserts that the SAC contains
references to code sections that are inapplicable and should be stricken.
 
Plaintiff did not file an opposition. 
 
II. DISCUSSION
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.
747.) 
 
B.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendant submitted a declaration stating she discussed
the grounds of the demurrer and motion to strike with the pro per Plaintiff by
telephone on April 11, 2024 but an agreement was not reached between the
parties. (Jensen Decl., ¶
2.) The Court finds the moving party satisfied its
meet and confer obligations.   
 
C.      Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendant
requests the Court take judicial notice of the Complaint filed by Plaintiff in
this lawsuit on October 26, 2023.
 
Evidence Code
§ 452(d) provides that judicial notice may be taken of, “Records of (1) any
court of this state.” Evidence Code § 453 provides that, “The trial court shall
take judicial notice of any matter specified in Section 452 if a party requests
it and: (a) Gives each adverse party sufficient notice of the request, through
the pleading or otherwise, to enable such adverse party to prepare to meet the
request, and (b) Furnishes the court with sufficient information to enable it
to take judicial notice of the matter.”
 
The Court
grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice. 
 
D.     Cause of
Action for Negligence
 
Defendant demurs to the SAC’s cause of action for negligence on
the grounds that Plaintiff fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a
cause of action.
 
Negligence requires: (1) a legal duty owed to plaintiff to use due
care; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to plaintiff. (County
of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richeld Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292,
318.) 
 
The SAC alleges Defendant rented it’s vehicle to Kirk, who did not
have a driver’s license. (SAC, p. 3.) The SAC also alleges that Plaintiff had
taken a picture of “what he believed was [Kirk’s] temporary paper driver’s
license however was the vehicle registration.” (SAC, p. 2.) Thus, it appears
Plaintiff is asserting a negligence cause of action by alleging that Defendant
was negligent in renting a vehicle to an unlicensed driver. 
 
However, Defendant asserts that the SAC’s allegations directly
contradict Plaintiff’s initial Complaint. Plaintiff had alleged in his
Complaint that Kirk had a “temporary paper driver’s license” that he displayed
to Plaintiff at the scene of the accident. (Complaint, p. 2.) A temporary
driver’s license is a valid driver’s license. (California Vehicle Code §
12506.) Thus, the allegations in the Complaint indicate that Kirk was a
licensed driver, which contradicts the allegations in the SAC.
 
When a complaint contains allegations that are fatal to a
cause of action, a plaintiff facing demurrer cannot avoid those defects simply
by filing an amended complaint that omits the problematic facts or pleads facts
inconsistent with those alleged earlier. (Banis Restaurant Design, Inc. v.
Serrano (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1035, 1044.) Absent an explanation for the
inconsistency, a court will read the original defect into the amended
complaint, rendering it vulnerable to demurrer. (Hendy v. Losse (1991)
54 Cal.3d 723, 743.) A subsequent complaint is considered a “sham” pleading if
the amendment contains allegations that contradict the earlier pleading or that
omit previously pled facts that rendered the initial complaint deficient. (Owens
v. Kings Supermarket (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 379, 383-84.)
Here, Plaintiff did not file an opposition. “A party who has not timely filed
written opposition to a motion…may not be afforded an opportunity to offer oral
argument at the hearing.” (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) “The failure to file opposition creates an inference
that the motion or demurrer is meritorious.”¿ (Id.)¿ “In such cases, the
court may hear argument limited to a request for a continuance of the hearing
in order to afford an opportunity for written opposition.” (Id.) “[T]he
rule is patently intended to prevent the introduction of legal theories without
prior notice to opposing counsel and the court.” (Id.) Since Plaintiff
did not file an opposition, he also fails to provide an explanation for the
inconsistency. Absent an explanation, the Court reads the original defect into
the SAC. Therefore, the Court does not find Plaintiff has pled facts establishing that Defendant was negligent relating to this
accident or owed a duty to prevent harm to Plaintiff.
 
The Court notes that Defendant also argues that the SAC fails to
state a bad faith cause of action. 
The last page of the SAC does not explicitly state Plaintiff is
asserting a bad faith cause of action, nevertheless, the Court does not find
Plaintiff has alleged facts supporting that cause of action. “In addition to the duties imposed on contracting parties
by the express terms of their agreement, the law implies in every contract a
covenant of good faith and fair dealing” (Egan v. Mutual of Omaha Ins. Co.
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 809, 818), which requires that “neither party… do anything
which will injure the right of the other to receive the benefits of the
agreement” (Careau & Co. v. Sec. Pac. Bus. Credit, Inc. (1990) 222
Cal.App.3d 1371, 1393, internal quotations omitted). Here, Plaintiff does not
allege he had a contractual relationship with Defendant. 
 
The Court also does not grant leave to amend. “The plaintiff bears
the burden of proving there is reasonable possibility of amendment.” (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians' Service (2000) 81 Cal. App. 4th 39, 43, 96
Cal.Rptr.2d 354, 356). There is no basis in law to grant leave to amend where,
“the facts are not in dispute and the nature of the claim is clear but no
liability exists under substantive law.” (Casterson v. Sup. Ct. (2002)
101 Cal.App.4th 177, 190). Here, Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. Plaintiff
has not carried his burden of showing a reasonable possibility of amendment. 
 
Accordingly, the Court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer without leave to amend.
 
E.      Motion to
Strike
 
A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Civ. Proc. Code § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.) 
 
Defendant
moves to strike the following from the SAC:
1.      Para. 1), p.
3, in its entirety, “In pursuant of U.S. Code § 914 - Art. 114. Endangerment -
Reckless Endangerment. It is factual that Hertz had wrongful, reckless, and
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property by renting to Daniel
O'Neal Kirk who had no driver's license.”
2.      Para. 2), p.
3, in its entirety, “In pursuant of California Code Regs. Tit. 22, § 71811 -
Gross Negligence - Hertz' failed to exercise any care, or exercised so little
care that it is apparent that they are indifferent to the consequences of his
or her conduct and to the welfare of others. Hertz was aware that their
behavior poses a substantial, unjustifiable risk of harm, and intentionally
ignored risk when renting out a car to someone who was not legally authorized
to rent, but also violated their own policy by renting to Daniel O'Neal Kirk.”
 
Defendant
argues these allegations should be stricken because they have not been drawn in
conformity with the law. Defendant asserts the allegations reference code
sections that are inapplicable. The Court agrees. 
 
U.S. Code §
914 – Art. 114, Endangerment – Reckless Endangerment, referenced on page 3 of
the SAC, appears to refer to 10 USC 914: Art. 114, which is the Uniform Code of
Military Justice. This code section from the Uniform Code of Military Justice
has no relevance or application to the instant case involving a property damage
claim from a motor vehicle accident.
 
Further, California
Code Regs. Tit. 22, § 71811, referenced on page 3 of the SAC, provides, “Gross
negligence means the failure of a person to exercise any care, or the exercise
of so little care that it is apparent that the person is indifferent to the
consequences of his or her conduct and to the welfare of others.” This code
section is a definition relating to the California Certified Nurse Assistant
Program, which is likewise not relevant to this
matter.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to
strike. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Defendant’s
demurrer to the Second Amended
Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
The Court
GRANTS Defendant’s motion to strike. 