  Case Number:  22STCV25204    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  73 8/14/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
CULBERSON-STOWERS, INC., et al. v. TOYOTA MOTOR
CREDIT CORPORATION (22STCV25204)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs: Jonathan Micheals (MLG Attorneys at Law, APLC)
Counsel for
Defendant: Brian Paino (Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP)
 
(1)  
DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (filed 2/09/2024) 
(2)  
MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL AS TO PLAINTIFF RICHARD STOWERS (filed 7/09/2024) 
(3)  
MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL AS TO PLAINTIFF CULBERSON-STOWERS, INC. (filed 7/09/2024) 
(4)  
MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL AS TO PLAINTIFF CULBERSON-RENTAL AND LEASING CO., INC. (filed 7/09/2024) 
(5)   defendant’s motion to compel further responses to
special interrogatories, set one AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS (filed 1/08/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Defendant’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
The Motions to be
Relieved as Counsel as to Plaintiffs Richard Stowers, Culberson-Stowers, Inc.,
and Culberson-Rental and Leasing Co., Inc. are GRANTED.
 
Defendant’s motion to
compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, is MOOT. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On August 4, 2022, Plaintiffs
Culberstone-Stowers, Inc.; Culberson Rental and Leasing Co., Inc.; and Richard
Stowers, filed a complaint against Defendant Toyota Motor Credit Corporation (“Defendant”
or TMCC”) and Does 1-25, inclusive.  
 
On September 12, 2022, Defendant filed
a demurrer to the complaint, which was rendered moot by Plaintiffs’ filing of
the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on October 19, 2022.  
 
The FAC alleges the following causes
of action:  
1.       
Breach
of Contract;  
2.     
Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;  
3.     
Civil
Conspiracy – Fraud;  
4.     
Violation
of California Commercial Code; and 
5.     
Conversion
On March 7,
2023, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer as to the FAC’s third and fifth
causes of action, and overruled as to the first, second, and fourth causes of
action.
A.      Allegations
in the First Amended Complaint
The FAC alleges the
following. 
Plaintiff Culberson-Stowers,
Inc., was a family-owned car dealership in business for over 90 years. The
Stowers Family, Mr. Dick Stowers and his wife, Dot Stowers, together with their
son Richard W. Stowers, Jr., ran a new and used car dealership in Pampa, Texas
(the “Dealership” and/or “Culberson-Stowers”). Plaintiff Culberson Rental and
Leasing Co., Inc., owned the real property where the Dealership was located
(the “Real Property”).
(FAC, ¶¶ 9-11.)
Defendant is an automobile
dealership creditor, engaged in the purchase, sale, finance, and service of
consumer vehicles with the public. (FAC, ¶ 12.)
On or about February 9, 2017,
Plaintiffs entered in an Inventory Loan and Security Agreement with Defendant.
The Inventory Loan was secured against the Dealership inventory and other
collateral. (FAC, ¶ 13.)
Plaintiffs subsequently delayed
in making certain payments under the terms and conditions of the Inventory Loan.
(FAC, ¶ 23.) Given Plaintiffs’ breach of
their payment obligations, Defendant commenced a foreclosure sale on November
1, 2018, and sold collateral in ten categories: (1) accounts; (2) inventory;
(3) equipment and fixtures; (4) contract rights; (5) intellectual property; (6)
deposit accounts; (7) investment property; (8) negotiable collateral; (9)
chattel paper; and (10) “[p]roceeds of the foregoing” (the “Collateral”). (FAC,
¶ 27.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendant deprived
Plaintiffs of “fair and rightful compensation from the sale” by selling the
Collateral “at a grossly unfair and inadequate price.” (FAC, ¶¶ 42, 49.)
B.     
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment
 
On February 9, 2024, Defendant filed a Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication, arguing:
·      
Plaintiffs’ remaining first, second and fourth causes of action
fail as a matter for law because they have failed to provide evidence
establishing, among other things, their damages — i.e., an essential element of
all Plaintiffs’ causes of action.
·      
Eighteen months after filing their original complaint, sixteen
months after amending their complaint, three months before trial, and in
contravention of this Court’s Order on TMCC’s Motion to Compel and the Court’s
guidance at the hearing, Plaintiffs still refuse to provide TMCC with even the
most basic information surrounding their claimed damages, which are central to
all of their claims.
o  
Plaintiffs may not avoid their obligation to provide evidence of
damages by complaining they need an expert, as experts cannot make up facts.
·      
In light of Plaintiffs’ failure to comply with their basic
discovery obligations, it is Plaintiffs’ burden to show specific facts which
prove the existence of a triable issue of material fact with regard to their
damages. See Union Bank v. Super. Ct., 31 Cal. App. 4th 573, 590 (1995)
(“A moving defendant may rely on factually devoid discovery responses to shift
the burden of proof” at which point “the plaintiff must set forth the specific
facts which prove the existence of a triable issue of material fact.”). As
Plaintiffs cannot satisfy this standard, Defendant is entitled to summary
judgment.
 
Plaintiffs filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
TMCC has failed to establish that Plaintiffs do not have evidence
in support of their damages claim.
·      
After the Court granted TMCC’s motion to compel further responses
to special interrogatories, Culberson-Stowers timely served supplemental
responses (UMF ¶ 26).
·      
Culberson-Stowers’ supplemental responses complied with the
Court’s October 20, 2023 order and contained substantive information.
·      
TMCC’s Special Interrogatory Nos. 6, 7, 9, 11 and 12 asked
Culberson-Stowers to prematurely provide opinion evidence related to the
calculation of Plaintiffs’ damages (McClure Decl., ¶ 11, Exh. 4 [Supplemental
SROG Responses], Nos. 6, 7, 9, 11, and 12). Among the documents that
Culberson-Stowers identified to TMCC in its supplemental interrogatory
responses were spreadsheets demonstrating that the value of the collateral at
the time of TMCC’s sale was not less than $3,163,397.35 (AMF No. 2).
 
Defendant filed a reply, arguing:
·      
None of the documents Plaintiffs have produced or their discovery
responses are sufficient to establish a triable issue of fact. On the contrary,
Plaintiffs admit in their sworn discovery responses that they are unaware of
the value of Culberson’s assets (the “Collateral”) at the time of their
disposition in November 2018 (the “Sale”).
o  
Plaintiffs argue in their Opposition that their “discovery
responses set forth facts and identify evidence that support their
allegations.” (Opposition, 5:4-5). Plaintiffs cite to their supplemental
responses to TMCC’s Special Interrogatories. Plaintiffs’ reliance on their
responses to special interrogatories in opposition to TMCC’s dispositive motion
is improper. A
party moving for or opposing summary judgment cannot rely on its own
interrogatory responses to “create a genuine issue of material fact.” Bayramoglu
v. Nationstar Mortgage LLC (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 726, 740; Great Am.
Ins. Cos. v. Gordon Trucking, Inc., 165 Cal. App. 4th 445, 450 (2008)
(holding that a defendant could not use its own interrogatory responses as
evidence in support of its motion for summary judgment).
o  
Even if Plaintiffs could rely on the interrogatory responses –
they cannot - the documents cited in the interrogatory responses do not, as
Plaintiffs suggest, evidence the market value of the Collateral as of November
6, 2018, or otherwise support Plaintiffs’ claim that they suffered damages.
o  
Moreover, in response to TMCC’s Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts in Support of Summary Judgment No. 20, Plaintiffs admit that
they have not adduced evidence of damages
·      
While Plaintiffs submit declaratory evidence in an attempt to
support their claims, the declaratory evidence is inadmissible and directly
contradicts Plaintiffs’ discovery responses – i.e., Plaintiffs’ declaratory
evidence includes an opinion on the value of the Collateral, despite their
admission in their discovery responses that they do not know the value of the
Collateral.
·      
Even if the Court were to accept Plaintiffs’ purported evidence of
the market value of the Collateral, this evidence alone is insufficient to
create a triable issue of fact regarding the commercial reasonableness of the
Sale. Plaintiffs instead had the burden of producing evidence to support a
finding that TMCC’s Sale was not consistent with the prescriptions of Cal.
Comm. Code § 9627(b).
 
C.     
Motions to be Relieved as Plaintiffs’ Counsel
 
On
July 9, 2024, counsel for Plaintiffs filed Motions to Be Relieved as Counsel as
to Plaintiffs Richard Stowers, Culberson-Stowers, Inc., and Culberson-Rental and
Leasing Co., Inc.
 
No
opposition or other response has been filed. 
 
D.     Defendant’s
motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
 
On January 8,
2024, Defendant’s filed a motion to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, arguing:
·      
TMCC
propounded thirteen Special Interrogatories targeted to discovering information
regarding Culberson-Stowers' allegations and claimed damages, yet
Culberson-Stowers responded to the Interrogatories by recycling the same
boilerplate objections and refusing to provide a single substantive response.
In June, TMCC was forced to move to compel further responses to these
interrogatories, which this Court granted with sanctions ordered on October 20,
2023.
·      
Then, in
violation of the Court’s Order and the Court’s instructions at the October 20,
2023 hearing, Culberson-Stowers again served deficient, evasive, and factually
devoid supplemental responses.
·      
Regarding Special
Interrogatory No. 1, Culberson-Stowers cannot invoke section 2030.230 here
because the burden of extracting the information from any records (which
Culberson-Stowers has neither produced nor identified) would not be equal for both
parties.
·      
Regarding Special
Interrogatories nos. 6 through 13, Plaintiffs assert they do not have a
complete answer to these interrogatories at this time because Plaintiffs have
not yet calculate the damages and such calculation must be made by an expert
witness. Plaintiffs state they will amend the response when the calculation has
been performed. 
o  
Defendant
argues this case has been active for 17 months and Culberson-Stowers continues
to provide discovery responses devoid of basic information despite a Court
order compelling Plaintiff to provide it.
·      
Monetary
sanctions should be imposed against Plaintiffs.
 
Plaintiffs filed an opposition,
arguing:
·      
Culberson-Stowers
properly responded to four of TMCC’s interrogatories and asserted justified objections
to the five other interrogatories that are the subject of this motion.
·      
Culberson-Stowers
properly identified documents, by bates stamp number, for all the documents
that related to the subject of the interrogatories. Culberson-Stowers identified more
than four hundred pages of responsive documents from the more than two thousand
pages it had produced to TMCC in June 2023 (Declaration of John M. Whelan, ¶
3).
·      
Culberson-Stowers’
expert opinion objections are proper. TMCC’s Special Interrogatory Nos. 6, 7,
9, 11, and 12 all call for Culberson-Stowers to prematurely disclose the
opinions of an expert witness concerning Plaintiffs’ damages. It is improper
for an interrogatory to prematurely seek the identity, writings or the opinions
of an expert prior to expert witness discovery. South Lake Tahoe Public
Utilities District v. Superior Court (1979) 90 Cal. App. 3d 135, 139.
 
Defendant filed a reply, arguing:
·      
The documents to which Culberson-Stowers refers in its response to
Special Interrogatory No. 1 are not responsive to the interrogatory – i.e.,
they do not clearly identify each unit of Collateral that they believe was sold
as part of the Sale. Instead, the document production is comprised of invoices
and cancelled checks dating back to 2015. These documents simply do not enable
TMCC to ascertain which specific items of Collateral Culberson-Stowers believes
were part of the Sale. Notably, Culberson-Stowers tried to justify this same
response in its First Opposition, but the Court disagreed with
Culberson-Stowers’ argument that the response was proper.
·      
Plaintiff’s expert opinion objections contravene the Court’s order
that ordered Culberson-Stowers to provide code-compliant supplemental responses
without objections.
In addition,
as evidenced by its entry of the Order, this Court was not convinced by
Culberson-Stowers’ same contention in the First Opposition that it needs expert
testimony to provide information about damages. (See Mosothoane Decl., ¶ 4,
Exhibit G, 2:15-27, 3:1-28).
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment
 
a.      Legal
Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the
action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or
proceeding.”  (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 437c(a).)   “Summary
judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.  In determining if the papers show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall consider all
of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which
objections have been made and sustained by the court, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence, except summary judgment shall not be
granted by the court based on inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence
if contradicted by other inferences or evidence that raise a triable issue as
to any material fact.”  (Id., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show “that one or
more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2); see also, Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o).) 
 
“The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that
conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action.  The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.  But… the defendant must indeed present
evidence."  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 855 [italics in original].)   “In other words, all that
the defendant need do is to show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least
one element of the cause of action--for example, that the plaintiff cannot
prove element¿X.”  (Id., at 853.) The court in Aguilar
distilled summary judgment to “a single proposition:  If a party moving
for summary judgment in any action . . . would prevail at trial without
submission of any issue of material fact to a trier of fact for determination,
then he should prevail on summary judgment.  In such a case . . . the
‘court should grant’ the motion ‘and “avoid a . . . trial’ rendered ‘useless’
by nonsuit or directed verdict or similar device.  (Id. at
855.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar, “the party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th
at 850.)  Thus, courts usually follow a three-step analysis: “First, we identify
the issues framed by the pleadings . . . . [¶] Secondly, we determine whether
the moving party’s showing has established facts which negate the opponent’s
claim and justify a judgment in movant’s favor. . . . [¶] When a . . . motion
prima facie justifies a judgment, the third and final step is to determine
whether the opposition demonstrates the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.”  (Ojavan Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm. (1997)
54 Cal.App.4th 373, 385 [citation and footnote omitted].) 
  
Opposing parties must present substantial evidence in order to
avoid summary judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151, 163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in probative
value that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire v.
Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced
Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the plaintiff is unable to meet
her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts
are rendered immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts “construe the moving party's affidavits strictly, construe
the opponent's affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of
granting the motion in favor of the party opposing it.’” (Unilab Corp.v.
Angeles-IPA (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation
omitted.)  “The court focuses on issue finding; it does not resolve issues
of fact. The court seeks to find contradictions in the evidence, or inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence, which raise a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 740, 754; internal citation omitted.)   
"[S]ummary judgment cannot be granted when the facts are susceptible [of]
more than one reasonable inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 
 
b.      Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court rules on Defendant’s objections to
Plaintiffs’ evidence in support of its opposition as follows: 
Declaration of Richard Stowers (Nos. 1-3.)
·       Nos. 1-3: Overruled.
Declaration of John Whelan (Nos. 1-2)
·       Nos. 1-2: Overruled. 
 
c.       Discussion
 
Defendant moves for summary judgment of Plaintiffs’ remaining
first, second and fourth causes of action arguing that Plaintiffs have failed
to provide evidence establishing their damages, an essential element of all
Plaintiffs’ causes of action.
 
The FAC alleges that given Plaintiffs’ breach of their payment
obligations to Defendant, Defendant commenced a foreclosure sale on November 1,
2018, and sold collateral in ten categories: (1) accounts; (2) inventory; (3)
equipment and fixtures; (4) contract rights; (5) intellectual property; (6)
deposit accounts; (7) investment property; (8) negotiable collateral; (9)
chattel paper; and (10) “[p]roceeds of the foregoing” (the “Collateral”). (FAC,
¶ 27.)
The FAC further alleges
Defendant deprived Plaintiffs of “fair and rightful compensation from the sale”
by selling the Collateral “at a grossly unfair and inadequate price.” (FAC, ¶¶
42, 49.) Plaintiffs allege that before the Dealership was managed by 805
Hobart, Inc., the company that managed the Dealership prior to the closing, the
value of the collateral was no less than $7,267,488.00. While 805 Hobart, Inc
managed the Dealership, and while being monitored by TMCC, 805 Hobart, Inc.
illegally and fraudulently appropriated the Dealership’s Collateral, thereby
reducing its value by no less than $3,750,000.00. (FAC, ¶ 27.)
The FAC further alleges “at the
time of the sale, the market value of the Collateral was not less than
$3,500,000.00. However, TMCC sold the Collateral to Country II for $2,117,493;
over $1,350,000.00 less than the Collateral was worth at the time of the sale,
and over 5 million dollars less than what the Collateral was worth before 805
Hobart, Inc. began “managing” the Dealership with TMCC’s oversight.” (FAC, ¶ 29.)
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs do not possess needed evidence to
support an essential element of their claims, specifically damages. Defendant
asserts that it can rely on Plaintiffs’ factually devoid discovery responses to
shift the burden to Plaintiffs to show that a triable issue of material facts exists.
(Union Bank v. Super. Ct. (1995) 31 Cal. App. 4th 573, 590.) On April
14, 2023, Defendant propounded thirteen special interrogatories to Plaintiffs. (McClure
Decl. ¶ 3.) On May 23, 2023, Plaintiffs served their responses, which consisted
solely of boilerplate objections. (McClure Decl. ¶ 3.) On October 20, 2023, the Court granted
Defendant’s motion to compel to provide further responses and Defendant’s
request for sanctions. (Court’s 10/20/23 Minute Order.) The Court ordered
Plaintiff to “respond to the interrogatories without objection and with code-compliant
verified responses.” (Ibid.) Defendant asserts that Plaintiff served
supplemental responses that remained evasive, did not comply with the
California Code, and violated the Court’s order. Critically, Defendant contends
that the supplemental responses did not contain substantive information about
Plaintiffs’ purported damages. (McClure Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
For example, in response to Defendant’s interrogatories related to
Plaintiffs’ damages, including the market value of the Collateral, how the
market value was calculated, and an explanation for any discrepancies between
the purported market value and what was paid for each unit, Plaintiff
responded:
 
“At this
time, Plaintiffs have no answer to this special interrogatory because
Plaintiffs have not calculated the market value of each unit of collateral as
of November 6, 2018. Such calculation must be made by one or more expert witnesses who
have not yet performed the evaluation necessary to calculate the market value
of the collateral. Plaintiffs will amend this response when the calculation has
been performed.”
 
(McClure Decl., Ex. 4.)
 
In addition, in response to Defendant’s interrogatories asking
Plaintiff Culberson to disclose its total compensatory damages and how it calculated
these damages, Plaintiff responded:
 
“At this
time, Plaintiffs have no answer to this special interrogatory because
Plaintiffs have not yet calculated the sum of compensatory damages they seek to
recover from TMCC in this action. Such calculation must be made by one or more
expert witnesses who have not yet performed the evaluation necessary to
calculate Plaintiffs’ compensatory damages. Plaintiffs will amend this response
when the calculation has been performed.”
 
(McClure Decl., Ex. 4.)
 
The Court agrees that Plaintiffs’ discovery responses are
factually devoid. Plaintiffs’ theory of damages is that Defendant sold the
Collateral “at a grossly unfair and inadequate price.” (FAC ¶¶ 42, 49.) However,
Plaintiff’s discovery responses fail to provide a calculation of the collateral
or their damages. In Plaintiffs’ opposition they argue that Plaintiffs’ further
discovery responses were compliant, and Plaintiffs produced thousands of
responsive documents. (Oppos., p. 5.) However, the Court does not find
Plaintiffs’ argument persuasive. As stated above, Plaintiff specifically stated
in its responses that Plaintiffs have not calculated the market value of each
unit of collateral. The Court finds that the burden shifts to Plaintiffs. 
 
Plaintiffs argue that they have shown a triable issue of material
fact exists as to Plaintiffs’ damages claim. Plaintiffs contend that they have
submitted competent evidence that the value of the collateral sold by Defendant
in November 2018 greatly exceeded the proceeds that Defendant’s sale produced. In
support, Plaintiffs submit the declaration of Plaintiff Richard Stower. Stower
states “At the time of TMCC's sale of the collateral in November 2018,
Plaintiffs held fifty-two new vehicles in its inventory, including twenty-four
Toyota vehicles, eleven Chevrolet vehicles, eight Buick vehicles and nine GMC
vehicles. The combined value of the fifty-two new motor vehicles in Plaintiffs'
inventory at the time of TMCC's sale of the collateral was $1,734,647.35.”
(Stower Decl., ¶ 4.) Stower further states that the assets other than the new
vehicle inventory, which included tools, parts, machinery and other property,
at the time of TMCC's sale of the collateral was no less than $1,428,750.00.
(Stower Decl., ¶ 5.) 
 
However, Stower’s purported calculations contradict Plaintiffs’
discovery responses that stated they were unable to calculate the value of the
collateral without the assistance of an expert. (McClure Decl., Ex. 4.) A
“party cannot create an issue of fact by a declaration which contradicts his
prior discovery responses.”  (Shin v. Ahn (2007) 42 Cal.4th 482,
499, fn. 12, citing to D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11
Cal.3d 1, 22.)  “In determining whether any triable issue of material fact
exists, the trial court may, in its discretion, give great weight to admissions
made in deposition and disregard contradictory and self-serving affidavits of
the party.  (Preach v. Monter Rainbow (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1441,
1451.)”  (Benavidez v. San Jose Police Dept. (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th
853, 860.)  To the extent deposition testimony or discovery responses are
contradicted by a declaration in opposition to the summary judgment motion, the
court must defer to the prior testimony or responses.  (Id. at p.
859.) Here, Plaintiffs have not provided an explanation as to the
discrepancy and Plaintiffs have not provided evidence from an expert witness
regarding the calculation of damages. 
 
Moreover, the Court notes that even if Plaintiffs are able to show
a difference in the value of the collateral at the time of sale and the amount
that the collateral was sold for, this does not establish Plaintiffs’ damages
claim, specifically that Defendant sold the Collateral “at a grossly unfair and
inadequate price.” (FAC ¶¶ 42, 49.) A sale is not commercially unreasonable merely because “a greater
amount could have been obtained by a collection, enforcement, disposition, or
acceptance at a different time or in a different method from that selected by
the secured party.” (Cal. Comm. Code § 9627(a).) A commercially reasonable
disposition of collateral is presumed to be in good faith and at the greatest
possible market rate. (Canadian Commercial Bank v. Ascher Findley Co.
(1991) 229 Cal. App. 3d 1139, 1149.) Where a creditor fails to abide by this provision
of the Commercial Code, the creditor “is liable for damages in the amount of
any loss caused by a failure to comply with this division [Division 9, Secured
Transactions].” (Commercial Code § 9625(b).) Plaintiffs have not produced
evidence to support a finding that Defendant’s sale was not consistent with the
requirements of Cal. Comm. Code § 9627(b). Plaintiffs have not established they
possess evidence to support their damages claim, which is an essential element
to each of Plaintiffs’ causes of action. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiffs
have carried their burden. Plaintiffs have not shown a triable issue of
material fact exists as to Plaintiffs’ damages claim. Accordingly, the Court
GRANTS Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. 
 
B.     
Motions to be Relieved as Plaintiffs’ Counsel
 
a.      Legal
Standard
 
California
Rules¿of Court,¿rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel) requires (1)
notice of motion and motion to be directed to the client (made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil¿form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil¿form (MC-052)); (3) service
of the notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other parties who
have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel
(prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil¿form (MC-053)).¿ 
 
The¿court has discretion
to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted¿provided
that¿there is no prejudice to the client, and it does not disrupt the orderly
process of justice.¿¿(See¿Ramirez v.¿Sturdevant¿(1994) 21 Cal.App.4th
904, 915.)¿ 
 
b.     
Discussion
Here,
Plaintiffs’ counsel, MLG Attorneys at Law, APLC, seeks relief under Code of
Civil Procedure, Section 284(2). Counsel correctly completed and filed the
notice (Form MC-051) and declaration (MC-052). (Code Civ. Proc., § 284(2); Cal.
Rules Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a) & (c).) In the declaration, counsel
sufficiently explains that this motion is being brought under Section 284(2)
instead of 284(1) because the attorney-client relationship between Culberson-Stowers, Inc., and
MLG Attorneys at Law, APLC has been irreparably broken such that the
differences between Culberson-Stowers, Inc., and MLG Attorneys at Law, APLC are
irreconcilable as to how to proceed with this litigation.
Counsel
served the notice (MC-051), the declaration (MC-052), and the proposed order
(MC-053) for each motion on Plaintiffs. 
The
Court finds all the requirements for relief have been completed. Additionally, as
discussed above, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is granted. 
The Motions to be
Relieved as Counsel as to Plaintiffs Richard Stowers, Culberson-Stowers, Inc.,
and Culberson-Rental and Leasing Co., Inc. are GRANTED.
 
C.     
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Further Discovery
 
As
discussed above, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is granted. Thus, the
Court finds Defendant’s
motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, is
MOOT. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendant’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
The Motions to be
Relieved as Counsel as to Plaintiffs Richard Stowers, Culberson-Stowers, Inc.,
and Culberson-Rental and Leasing Co., Inc. are GRANTED.
 
Defendant’s motion to
compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, is MOOT. 