  Case Number:  21STCV42296    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Jane Doe filed this
action against Defendants, LBUSD, Cabrillo High School, John Doe, and Does 1-50
for damages arising out of childhood sexual abuse.  
 
2.     Prior
Hearing
The Court was originally scheduled
to hear Defendant’s motion to compel responses to SROGs, set three, on
5/14/24.  Plaintiff opposed the motion,
contending she was incarcerated and scheduled to be released soon, and asking
that the Court continue the hearing on the motion until she was released.  The Court continued the hearing on the
motion, and also scheduled the hearing on a motion to compel further responses
to SROGs, set two and a motion to compel deposition for the same time.  
 
The Court then heard the motions on
7/30/24.  It noted that the motions were
largely moot, and only two issues remained outstanding – Plaintiff’s deposition
and Plaintiff’s responses to SROGs 37, 38, and 41.  It ordered Plaintiff to serve supplemental
responses to the SROGs by 8/13/24 and continued the hearing on the motions to
9/12/24.  
 
3.     Current
Status of Discovery Dispute
Plaintiff sat for deposition, and
the only remaining issue is whether sanctions should be imposed in connection
with the deposition.  Additionally, SROG
38 remains in dispute.  
 
As an initial note, on 7/30/24, the
Court ordered the parties to file any supplemental briefs at least two weeks
prior to today’s hearing date.  Defendant
filed a supplemental brief on 8/29/24, which was timely.  Plaintiff filed a supplemental brief on
9/05/24, which was not timely.  The Court
has read and considered both briefs.  
 
The first issue is whether
sanctions should be imposed in connection with Plaintiff’s deposition.  The basic facts relating to the attempts to
depose Plaintiff are not in dispute.  The
parties scheduled Plaintiff’s deposition for 8/02/24 at Plaintiff’s outpatient
rehabilitation center.  Both parties
appeared for the deposition, but the center had no record of the scheduled
deposition and would not allow it to proceed. 
Defense Counsel therefore dismissed the court reporter and videographer
and left the facility.  Plaintiff’s
attorney remained at the facility, and was ultimately able to resolve the issue
after about fifteen minutes.  Plaintiff’s
attorney called Defense Counsel, who indicated the deposition could not go
forward because the videographer and court reporter had already been
dismissed.  The parties rescheduled the
deposition for 8/13/24, at which time it went forward as scheduled.
 
Clearly no party is “at fault” for
what happened.  Plaintiff’s attorney
declares arrangements had been made for the 8/02/24 deposition, and it is not
Plaintiff’s fault the facility did not have a record of the arrangements.  It is also not Defendant’s fault that it
dismissed the videographer and court reporter, and doing so was entirely
reasonable under the circumstances.  
 
CCP §2025.450(g)(1) requires the
Court to impose sanctions on the party who fails to appear for deposition
unless the Court finds the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make imposition of the sanction unjust.  The Court finds that is what occurred
here.  Plaintiff made a good faith effort
to schedule the deposition, and circumstances outside her control rendered her
unable to participate.  The Court
realizes this is a harsh penalty for Defendant. 
The Court finds, however, that Defendant is more able to bear the cost
of the deposition than Plaintiff, as an individual, can, and therefore
imposition of sanctions would not be appropriate.  
 
Also at issue is SROG 38, which
asks for identifying information about hospitals where Plaintiff received
treatment “due to plaintiff’s bipolar and 51/50 holds.”  Plaintiff named one facility.  Defendant argues the response is not
sufficient because Plaintiff admitted she has been placed on 5150 holds 13
times.  Plaintiff argues (a) this should
be a motion to compel further responses and made separately from this motion,
(b) it is entirely possible Plaintiff has only ever been treated by one
hospital, and (c) the SROG seeks identification of hospitals where she has been
treated for bipolar AND 5150, so therefore no information needs to be provided
if she was hospitalized for one or the other but not both.
 
Pursuant to Sinaiko Healthcare, the
Court has discretion, even when the original motion filed was to compel initial
responses, to treat the motion as one to compel further responses.  The Court would prefer to resolve all issues
without the need for a further hearing, as the Court has all necessary
information to rule on the motion.  The
Court finds the interrogatory would have been more elegant if it had said
“and/or” instead of “and,” and the interrogatory is reasonably susceptible to
either party’s interpretation.  Instead
of requiring Defendant to propound another round of interrogatories, the Court
orders Plaintiff to fully respond to the interrogatory as Defendant interprets
it: she must provide identifying information for all hospitals where she was
treated for bipolar disorder, for a 5150 hold, and/or for both.  
 
Because the interrogatory is
reasonably susceptible to both parties’ interpretations, no sanctions are
imposed in connection with the motion to compel re: interrogatories.
 
4.     Motion
for a Stay of Discovery
Plaintiff filed a motion for stay
of discovery in light of her incarcerated status.  Defendant filed a brief noting that Plaintiff
is no longer incarcerated and the motion is moot.  Plaintiff failed to file any response, but
failed to take the motion off calendar. 
The Court asks the parties to take motions off calendar promptly when
they become moot.  
 
LBUSD is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   