 Case Number:  23LBCV00612    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiff, Justen L. Jones, a minor
by and through his mother and guardian ad litem, Kiyesha Maria Johnson, filed
this action against Defendants, Carlos E. Orozco and Avanath Northpointe, L.P.
for damages arising out of a dog bite incident. 
Orozco was the owner of the dog, and Avanath was the apartment building
where the dog resided.  Plaintiff
suffered multiple lacerations, scarring, back pain, and emotional trauma as a
result of the incident, but has recovered completely from his injuries.
 
At this time, the parties have
agreed to settle the entire action.  If
the settlement is approved, Avanath will pay Plaintiff $150,000, of which $5063.71
will be used for medical expenses, $67,500 for attorneys’ fees, and $19,887.54
for costs of suit; the remaining $57,548.75 will be used to fund a
single-premium deferred annuity.
 
The Court has reviewed the
settlement and finds it is fair and reasonable. 
The Court’s concern, however, is with the amount of attorneys’
fees.  Counsel seeks to recover 45% of
the settlement as a fee.  The Court
typically limits fees in cases involving minors to 25%.  The Court has reviewed Counsel’s declaration
and finds that more work than is typical went into preparing the case.  Notably, there was a pending summary judgment
motion on calendar when the parties settled, and the trial date was
looming.  The Court wishes to hear from
Counsel and Plaintiff/GAL at the time of the hearing and will decide on an
appropriate fee after due consideration. 

 
Pursuant to CRC 7.952, unless their
appearance is excused, Plaintiff and Petitioner must appear at the hearing and
testify to the satisfaction of the Court before the petitions can be
granted.  Plaintiff is 12 years old, and
therefore the Court will not excuse his appearance.  If the Court is satisfied with all testimony
at the hearing, it will grant the petition and sign the proposed order at the
conclusion of the hearing.
 
The parties are reminded that there
is an OSC re: dismissal (settlement) on calendar concurrently with the hearing
on the petition.  The parties are also
reminded that remote appearances are requested. 
