 Case Number:  23LBCV01619    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Complaint
Plaintiff, Micaela Fidelia Urtasun
filed this action against Defendants, Ricky Perez and Lincoln Transportation
Services for damages arising out of an automobile accident.   
 
2.     Motion
to Quash
a.    
Supboenas
Defendant propounded deposition
subpoenas for production of medical records on Plaintiff’s various medical
providers.  The subpoenas were “any and
all” medical records style subpoenas. 
Plaintiff served objections to the subpoenas, and the parties met and
conferred in an attempt to resolve their issues.  They were unable to do so, and this motion to
quash followed.
 
b.    
Parties’ Positions
Plaintiff claims injuries to her neck,
back, right shoulder, wrists, and left knee as a result of the accident that
gives rise to this action.  Plaintiff argues
only records relating to those body parts should be produced.  Defendant has agreed to limit the records
sought to the past ten years, but argues the totality of the records must
otherwise be produced.  Any reply to the
opposition was due on or before 9/05/24. 
The Court has not received timely reply papers.  
 
c.    
Law re: Discovery of Medical Records in a
Personal Injury Case
For discovery purposes, information
is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.  Admissibility is not the test and
information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to
admissible evidence.  Davies v. Superior
Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.  These
rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery Colonial Life & Accident
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 785, 790).  
 
By filing a personal injury action,
plaintiffs place in issue their past and present physical and/or mental
conditions related to the injury sued upon. 
All medical and/or psychological records relating to the claimed
injuries are thus discoverable.  Evidence
Code §§ 996, 1016; Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 862–864.  Normally, information about medical
conditions entirely different from the injury sued upon is beyond the scope of
discovery.  However, medical records
pertaining to an unrelated condition are discoverable on a showing of “good
cause” if the condition is relevant to the issue of proximate causation.  Evidence Code §999; Slagle v. Superior Court
(1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 1309, 1314–1315.  
 
d.     Analysis

Trial courts routinely issue orders
requiring defendants to restrict their subpoenas to medical records directly
relating to the body part(s) at issue in the lawsuit.  The instant case is not one where the
defendant has shown that the plaintiff suffers from a chronic pain disorder,
where she had a prior injury that may have caused or contributed to her claimed
pain in her subject body parts, or where her injuries are so numerous that
limiting production by body part would be virtually impossible.  Defendant has, therefore, not shown “good
cause” for production of medical records unrelated to Plaintiff’s subject body
parts.
 
Defendant’s arguments in this
regard are that (a) a medical facility cannot be expected to comply with such a
complicated subpoena, and (b) medical records relating to one body part may
mention other body parts as well.  As for
the first argument, as noted above, trial courts routinely issue these orders,
and medical providers routinely comply. 
As for the second argument, if there is a medical record that discusses
a problem with a subject body part, it must be produced even if it also
mentions another body part that is not the focus of this lawsuit.  The Court would ask that the medical
provider, in good faith, redact anything from the record that is entirely
unrelated.  By way of example, if
Plaintiff went in for a routine physical and complained of back pain, but also
underwent blood tests and had a PAP smear conducted, the records relating to
blood screening and the PAP would need to be redacted.  If, however, when talking about back pain she
also discussed other orthopedic pain, there would be no need for a
redaction.  
 
e.    
Sanctions
Both parties seek sanctions in
connection with the motion.  The Court
finds the parties met and conferred in good faith and took their positions in
good faith, such that sanctions are not warranted.  No sanctions are imposed at this time.  
 
f.     
Conclusion
The motion to quash is
granted.  Defendant is ordered to
propound new subpoenas that seek medical records relating to the subject body
parts only.  The parties are ordered to
meet and confer concerning mutually agreeable language for the subpoenas before
they are propounded.  The parties must
also meet and confer concerning duration of the records to be produced.  The Court typically limits records to five
years prior to the subject accident through the date of production.
 
No sanctions are imposed.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.