 Case Number:  23LBCV00977    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Complaint
Plaintiff, Dora Maria Hurtado filed
this action against Defendants, FCA US LLC and Glenn E. Thomas Dodge Chrysler
Jeep for damages under the Song-Beverly Act. 

 
2.     Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Plaintiff seeks to recover
attorneys’ fees incurred in this litigation in the total amount of $32,559 plus
costs in the amount of $3295.49. 
Plaintiff contends she is entitled to an award of fees and costs per
Civil Code §1794(d).  
 
Defendant, in opposition to the
motion, argues Plaintiff’s claimed fees were unreasonable in amount.  Defendant contends the rates charged are
excessive and should be reduced.  It also
contends various entries are duplicative and/or excessive.  
 
Plaintiff, in reply, contends the rates
suggested by Defendant are too low and not supported.  Plaintiff contends all billing entries were
proper in amount, not excessive, and not duplicative.    
 
b.     Hourly
Rates
Plaintiff’s attorneys billed at a
blended rate of $455/hour.  Specifically,
law clerk Acosta bills at $350/hour, attorney Umer at $525/hour, and attorneys
Ostoia and Saeedian at $695/hour. 
Counsel supports the rates with the Laffey Matrix, which is a summary of
rates charged by contingency fee attorneys. 

 
Defendant argues the Court should
use the Real Rate Report and allow the attorneys to bill at the rate of
$400/hour and the law clerk to bill at the rate of $150/hour.  Plaintiff, in reply, argues the Real Rate
Report is (a) from 2021, (b) inapplicable to lemon law cases, and (c) not
reflective of the rates in the Los Angeles metro area.    
 
The Court finds the rates are
extremely high, especially because this was a garden variety lemon law
case.  The Court is reducing the rates to
a blended rate of $400/hour.
 
c.     Clerical Work 
Defendant argues certain work billed for was clerical in nature and
should not be compensated.  Defendant
cites no authority for this position. 
Absent any on-point California authority in this regard, the Court will
not reduce the fees expended on clerical work as requested.
d.    
“Canned”
Work 
The majority of Defendant’s argument is that Plaintiff is billing an
excessive number of hours for what is essentially “canned” work – work that is
repeated in connection with every lemon law case litigated.  The Court tends to agree.  The Court has many of these cases before it,
and is aware that the work done in the cases is redundant and should not be
billed anew in every case.  The Court is
inclined to reduce the billing by 1/3 in light of its finding that the billing
is padded and redundant with other cases. 

 
e.    
Conclusion
The total hours billed in this case
was 68.6.  At the blended rate of
$400/hour, that would be a fee of $27,440. 
When reduced by 1/3, the total fee awarded becomes $18,384.80.  
 
f.      Costs
The Court notes that the motion
also seeks recovery of costs.  Plaintiff
filed a memorandum of costs on 6/14/24. 
Any award of costs will be made in connection with the memorandum, not
this motion.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.