 Case Number:  23TRCV01628    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
SILVESTRE
  BURGUES,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01628




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
IN
  N OUT BURGER,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May 8, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Rachel King,
attorney for plaintiff Silvestre Burgues
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED. The court
orders that the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff
Silvestre Burgues, effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the
signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil”
(Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the client.
BACKGROUND
On May 23, 2023, Silvestre Burgues filed
a complaint against In N Out Burger for (1) negligence, (2) gross negligence,
(3) negligence per se, and (4) punitive damages.  Plaintiff alleges that on June 28, 2021,
plaintiff was dining at the In-N-Out restaurant located at 9149 S. Sepulveda
Blvd., Los Angeles.  He was sitting on a
bench on the patio when in an attempt to get up from the bench, his foot was
caught between the benches, causing him to fall onto his right arm.  He went to the hospital where an MRI was
taken.  He discovered he had severed two
tendons, requiring surgery.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff’s attorney, Rachel King,
seeks to be relieved as counsel.
            Counsel states in her declaration
that there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship such that
representation cannot continue and that a fundamental difference has arisen.
The court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied.  The court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reason why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted.
            The motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED. The court
orders that the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff
Silvestre Burgues, effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the
signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil”
(Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the client.
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.