  Case Number:  22TRCV00890    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  B Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesSouthwest DistrictTorrance Dept. B BARBARA CLARK by and through her GAL Kevin Clark,   Plaintiff, Case No.:  22TRCV00890 vs.  [TENTATIVE] RULING  PRIME HEALTHCARE CENTINELA, LLC, et al.,   Defendants.       Hearing Date:                         May 8, 2024 Moving Parties:                      Defendant Dignity Community CareResponding Party:                  None(1)  Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Respond Further to Form Interrogatories (Set No. One) and Special Interrogatories (Set No. One)(2)  Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Respond Further to Request for Production (Set No. One)             The court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.RULINGThe motions are GRANTED.Plaintiff is ordered to respond further to Form Interrogatories, Nos. 6.7 and 9.1, Special Interrogatories, Nos. 9-11, 13-32, 34-40, and 50-54, and Request for Production of Documents, Nos. 1-51, within twenty days.            The Court awards sanctions against plaintiff and plaintiff’s attorney of record Smith Clinesmith LLP in the amount of $1920 in favor of defendant, to be paid within thirty days.BACKGROUNDOn October 3, 2023, plaintiff Barbara Clark, by and through her guardian ad litem, Kevin Clark, filed a complaint against Prime Healthcare Centinela, LLC dba Centinela Hospital Medical Center, Dignity Community Care dba Northridge Hospital Medical Center, Parkwest Rehabilitation Center, LLC dba Parkwest Healthcare Center for (1) elder abuse and neglect, (2) violation of Resident Rights under Health & Safety Code §1430(b), and (3) negligence.On December 12, 2023, the court sustained with leave to amend defendant Parkwest Rehabilitation Center’s demurrer as to the first and second causes of action and overruled it as to the third cause of action.  The court granted the motion to strike with leave to amend as to the prayer under the first and second causes and denied it as to costs.On January 2, 2024, plaintiff filed a FAC.On March 12, 2024, the court sustained Dignity Community dba Northridge Hospital Medical Center’s demurrer with leave to amend as to the first cause of action.On April 2, 2024, plaintiff filed a SAC.LEGAL AUTHORITY45-Day Rule:  This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP §1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further response to the CCP §2031.010 demand.  CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). Meet-and-Confer Requirement:  The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”).  CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).Separate Statement:  Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  InterrogatoriesCCP §2030.300 states:  “(a) On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following apply:   (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. . . . (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. (b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the interrogatories. . . .”CCP §2030.220 states:  “(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.  (b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.  (c) If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.”Request for Production of DocumentsOn receipt of a response to an inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:  (1) a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  CCP §2031.310(a).  A statement of compliance shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.  CCP §2031.220. A motion to compel further response to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g., how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery (e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent surprise at trial).  The fact that there is no alternative source for the information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’ rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and belief, if necessary.  However, in such cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources of the information) must also be alleged.”  Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation omitted).  “Most declarations are made by the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id. at 8:1495.9.“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id. at 8:1496 (citation omitted).  DISCUSSION            Defendant Dignity Community Care dba Northridge Hospital Medical Center requests that the Court compel plaintiff to provide further responses and to produce responsive documents to defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Nos. 6.7 and 9.1, Special Interrogatories, Nos. 9-11, 13-32, 34-40, and 50-54, and Request for Production of Documents, Nos. 1-51.              The SAC alleges that plaintiff Barbara Clark was born on October 5, 1936.  SAC, ¶8.  In the fall of 2021, Clark was 85 years old and was living independently.  She had a history of atrial fibrillation and latent tuberculosis but was otherwise mobile and alert.  On October 17, 2021, she suffered a stroke and was admitted to Centinela Hospital.  The stroke resulted in right sided hemiplegia, and she required a g-tube and PEG placement for feedings.  Id., ¶38.  As a result of Clark’s physical condition, while she was in the care and custody of Centinela Hospital, she required skilled, medical, and custodial care in addition to assistance with all activities of daily living, including maintaining her personal hygiene, continence care, transferring, and repositioning in bed, transferring in and out of bed and chair, eating, drinking, and managing her medication.  Id., ¶39.  Centinela Hospital failed to effectively assess Clark’s care needs and because of the failure to assess, Centinela Hospital failed to develop, implement, and modify care plans designed to meet Clark’s individualized care needs as to wound care, food and fluid, infection, and hygiene. Id., ¶41. When Clark became a patient at Centinela Hospital, her skin was intact and she was clear of skin breakdown.  There is no documentation that Clark developed any skin breakdown during her admission to Centinela Hospital.  Her hospitalization was complicated as she also became septic, developed a urinary tract infection, and pneumonia.  She also had dysphagia status-post PEG placement.  Id., ¶42.            The SAC further alleges that on October 30, 2021, despite these complications, case managers at Centinela Hospital declared Clark was safe to be discharged to a skilled nursing facility for continued rehabilitation.  It was arranged for her to be transferred to Windsor Terrace Healthcare Center via ambulance.  When she arrived, she was not there for more than ten minutes as she had developed acute respiratory failure and was hypoxic.  She was immediately transferred to the nearest emergency room, Northridge Hospital.  Id., ¶43.  Centinela Hospital knew, or should have known, Clark required 24-hour hospitalization until she was stable from the stroke and related sequelae.  Instead of retaining her, they made the financial decision to discharge her to a lower level of care at a skilled nursing facility knowing she required a higher level of care.  As a result of the premature discharge, Clark suffered needlessly as she developed acute respiratory failure and became hypoxic enroute and had to be transferred immediately back to the hospital.  Id., ¶44.  On admission to Northridge Hospital, it is documented for the first time that Clark had a pressure injury on her right and left buttock, right elbow, and left ankle. Centinela Hospital concealed the existence, nature, and severity of these wounds from Clark and her family. Id., ¶45.            The SAC further alleges that Clark was hospitalized at Northridge Hospital from October 30, 2021 to November 5, 2021 and December 28, 2021 to January 1, 2022, where, in addition to treatment for her acute respiratory failure and hypoxia, she required would care treatment.  Id., ¶¶48-49.  Northridge Hospital failed to effectively assess Clark’s care needs and because of the failure to assess, Northridge Hospital failed to develop, implement, and modify care plans designed to meet Clark’s individualized care needs. Id., ¶50.  As a result, Clark’s wounds worsened.  Id., ¶51.  On November 5, 2021, case managers at Northridge Hospital decided Clark was safe to be discharged to a skilled nursing facility for continued rehabilitation.  It was arranged for her to be transferred to Lake Balboa Care Center via ambulance. She was at Lake Balboa Care for only a day before she had to be brought back to the nearest hospital.  This time she was transferred to Valley Presbyterian. Id., ¶52.  On November 6, 2021, Clark’s oxygen saturation was down to 85%, she had a fever of 102 degrees, and was documented as having “multiple pressure injuries” on admission.  The right and left buttock wound merged to form a sacral wound that was at a State III. Her left and right ankle were classified as unstageable. Id., ¶53.            The SAC further alleges that on December 1, 2021, Clark was transferred to Parkwest Healthcare who failed to effectively assess Clark’s care needs and because of the failure to assess, Parkwest Healthcare failed to develop, implement, and modify care plans designed to meet Clark’s individualized care needs as to wound care, food and fluid, infection, and hygiene. Id., ¶56.  On December 7, 2021, Clark was transferred to Northridge Hospital.  Her son advocated for her transfer out of concern that she had pneumonia.  At the hospital, she was diagnosed with a urinary tract infection and sepsis.  It was also discovered Clark’s wounds had worsened.  She now had a left buttock that was classified as a Stage IV and coccyx wound classified as a Stage IV.  Id., ¶59.  Over the next several months, Clark had a series of transfers between hospitals and skilled nursing facilities to attempt to heal her wounds. The complications of these mismanaged wounds further complicated her ability to recover from her respiratory conditions.  To date, Clark continues to receive treatment to heal these preventable wounds and she continues to needlessly suffer.  Id., ¶60.            Defendant explains that it served discovery requests on plaintiff on December 15, 2023.  On January 16, 2024, plaintiff’s counsel requested a one-week extension.  Defendant asserts that on January 23, 2024, plaintiff served incomplete and evasive responses.  On February 6, 2024, defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter to plaintiff’s counsel about the deficiencies.  On February 16, 2024, defense counsel sent another meet and confer letter.  Defendant contends that defense counsel did not receive a response to either meet and confer.            Form Interrogatories                        No. 6.7 requests “Has any Health Care Provider advised you that you may require future or additional treatment for any injuries that you attribute to the incident?  If so, for each injury states:  (a) the name and address of each Health Care Provider; (b) the complaints for which the treatment was advised; and (c) the nature, duration, and estimated cost of the treatment.”Plaintiff asserted objections and responded, “Yes, Barbara Clark still receives stem cell patches, nutraceutical amino acids and supplements related to the injuries she sustained at the Defendants’ facilities.”The Court finds that plaintiff’s response is deficient and non-responsive as it does not provide the information required under (a) through (c).                        No. 9.1 requests “Are there any other damages that you attribute to the incident?  If so, for each item of damages state:  (a) the nature; (b) the date it occurred; (c) the amount; and (d) the name, address, and telephone number of each person to whom an obligation was incurred.”            Plaintiff served objections and responded, “None other than those stated in Plaintiff’s Complaint and her responses to Defendant’s written discovery requests.”            The Court finds that plaintiff’s objections have no merit and that her response is inadequate as it is non-responsive as it neither provides the information sought to be discovered or to sufficiently specify the appropriate writings “as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party admits.”  See CCP §2030.220(a).            Special Interrogatories                        Nos. 9-11, Nos. 13-32, Nos. 34-40, Nos. 50-54:  Plaintiff asserted objections and responded, “Please see Barbara Clark’s operative Complaint, the medical records and other documents produced herewith.”            The Court finds that plaintiff’s objections have no merit and that her response is deficient and inadequate.             Requests for Production of Documents                        Nos. 1-55:  Plaintiff served objections and responded, “Please see Plaintiff’s bates stamped production of documents.”            Defendant asserts that plaintiff’s production is deficient because the actual production only contains medical records from defendant Dignity Community Care (dba Northridge Hospital), which is unresponsive to several of defendant’s requests, and appear to be responsive partly to some of the requests.            The Court finds that plaintiff’s objections lack merit.  Defendant has shown good cause for the production of responsive documents.  Plaintiff’s response is not responsive to several of the requests and only partly responsive to a few of the requests for the reasons stated by defendant.  See defendant’s Separate Statement.            The motions are GRANTED.             SanctionsUnder CCP § 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” Sanctions are mandatory in connection with motions to compel further responses against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP § §2030.300(d), 2031.310(h).Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states:  “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”             Defendant requests monetary sanctions against plaintiff and her attorney of record Smith Clinesmith LLP in the amount of $2760 for each motion.  The Court finds that $1920 ($300/hr. x 6 hrs., $120 filing fees) is a reasonable amount to be imposed against plaintiff and plaintiff’s attorney of record. ORDER            The motions are GRANTED.Plaintiff is ordered to respond further to Form Interrogatories, Nos. 6.7 and 9.1, Special Interrogatories, Nos. 9-11, 13-32, 34-40, and 50-54, and Request for Production of Documents, Nos. 1-51, within twenty days.            The Court awards sanctions against plaintiff and plaintiff’s attorney of record Smith Clinesmith LLP in the amount of $1920 in favor of defendant, to be paid within thirty days.            Defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.