  Case Number:  23CHCV01736    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  F51 DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV01736    Demurrer Filed: 9/26/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendant City of Los Angeles (“Moving Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs  Ovidio M. Gonzalez; Mayra E. Gonzalez; Eli A. Gonzalez; and Anthony S. Camacho (collectively,  “Plaintiffs”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving Defendant demurs Plaintiffs’ entire first amended complaint (“FAC”).   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled. Moving Defendant to file and serve  its answer to Plaintiffs’ FAC within 30 days.   REQUEST FOR  JUDICIAL NOTICE: Moving  Defendant’s request for judicial notice is denied.   Moving Defendant is reminded to review the 5/3/19 First  Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing  documents, parties must comply with the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set  forth at page 4, line 4 through page 5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First  Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly  bookmarking declarations and exhibits). (CRC 3.1110(f)(4).) Failure to comply  with these requirements in the future may result in papers being rejected,  matters being placed off calendar, matters being continued so documents can be  resubmitted in compliance with these requirements, documents not being  considered and/or the imposition of sanctions.   BACKGROUND    This is a personal  injury action in which Plaintiffs allege that on 11/14/21, nonmoving defendant  Hunter Kardinaal, a Los Angeles Police Department officer, caused an automobile  collision between his patrol car and Plaintiffs’ vehicle, thereby injuring  Plaintiffs. (FAC ¶¶ 3, 9, 12.) Plaintiffs allege that on 5/2/22, they mailed  Moving Defendant with claims for damages, which were subsequently deemed as  rejected by Moving Defendant. (Id. at ¶¶ 6–7.)   On 6/14/23,  Plaintiffs filed their original complaint, alleging against Moving Defendant  four counts of Motor Vehicle Negligence. On 8/31/23, Plaintiffs filed their FAC  against both Defendants, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Motor  Vehicle Negligence; and (2) General Negligence.   On 9/26/23,  Moving Defendant filed the instant demurrer and request for judicial notice. On  11/1/23, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. On 11/9/23, Moving Defendant filed its  reply.   ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer based on any single or combination of eight enumerated  grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) In a  demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading  or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)  116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153  Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here, Moving  Defendant demurs to Plaintiffs’ entire complaint, arguing that the “action  against the City is jurisdictionally barred by Plaintiffs’ failure to file a  government claim with the City prior to filing suit as required by Government  Code section 905.2, subdivisions (a)-(b), and section 911.2, subdivision (a).”  (Dem. 2:18–20.)   A.    Meet  and Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Moving Defendant’s counsel declares that on 7/6/23, she  sent Plaintiffs’ attorney a meet and confer letter regarding the pleading  deficiencies in Plaintiffs’ original complaint. (Decl. of Margaret Shikibu ¶  4.) On 8/21/23, counsel for the parties met and conferred telephonically, and “agreed  that Plaintiffs would be given time to file an amended complaint, and that the  City would demur to the amended complaint.” (Id. at ¶ 8.) Accordingly, the  Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer  requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).   B.     Government  Claims Act   Under the Government Claims Act,  claims against a public entity for personal injury and property damage must be  presented within six months after accrual; all other claims must be presented  within a year. (Gov. Code § 900 et seq.) “A claim … shall be presented to a  local public entity by any of the following means: (1) Delivering it to  the clerk, secretary, or auditor thereof; (2) Mailing it to the clerk,  secretary, auditor, or to the governing body at its principal office.” (Gov.  Code § 915, subd. (a).) If presented by mail, “the claim, amendment,  application, or notice shall be deposited in the United States post office, a  mailbox, sub-post office, substation, mail chute, or other similar facility  regularly maintained by the government of the United States, in a sealed envelope,  properly addressed, with postage paid. The claim, amendment, application, or  notice shall be deemed to have been presented and received at the time of the  deposit.” (Gov. Code § 915.2, subd. (a).)   “A cause of action that is subject  to the statutory claim procedure must allege either that the plaintiff complied  with the claims presentation requirement, or that a recognized exception or  excuse for noncompliance exists. A plaintiff may allege compliance with the  claims requirements by including a general allegation that he or she timely  complied with the claims statute.” (Gong v. City of Rosemead (2014) 226  Cal.App.4th 363, 374.)   Here,  Plaintiffs allege that “On or about May 2, 2022, all Plaintiffs served a City  of Los Angeles Damages Claim against the municipality, Defendants CITY OF LOS  ANGELES. Plaintiffs have exhausted all administrative responsibilities. … A  copy of the proof of mailing is attached to this First Amended Complaint as  Exhibit ‘A’.” (FAC ¶ 7.) In the cited attachment, Plaintiffs’ claims documents contain  a Certified Mail Receipt from the U.S. Postal Service, certifying that the papers  were mailed to the City Clerk at 200 N. Spring Street, Room 395, City Hall, Los  Angeles, CA 90012. (Ex. A to FAC.)   Moving  Defendant argues on demurrer, and requests that the Court take judicial notice,  that it “has no record of ever receiving a government claim from or on behalf  of any one of the four Plaintiffs.” (Dem. 4:12–13.) “If a plaintiff alleges  compliance with the claims presentation requirement, but public records do not  reflect compliance, the government entity can request the court to take  judicial notice under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c) that the entity’s  records do not show compliance.” (Gong, 226 Cal.App.4th at 376, citing Fowler  v. Howell (1986) 42 Cal.App.4th 746, 752.)   Here,  Moving Defendant argues that “the Court may properly take judicial notice of  the fact the City’s records do not reflect Plaintiff’s compliance with the  claims presentation requirements of the Government Claims Act—and the City’s  demurrer to the FAC should be sustained without leave to amend.” (Dem. 7:5–7.) “If  the claims had been sent on or about May 2, 2022 via U.S.P.S. Certified Mail as  Plaintiffs seem to suggest, USPS Tracking would at least show that the  certified mail had been deposited with the U.S. Postal Service.” (Id. at  7:27–8:2.)   Plaintiffs  argue in opposition that “while Defendant CITY alleges to have not received the  mailed claims, Plaintiffs deposited all claim forms with USPS and are thus  deemed received.” (Pls.’ Opp. 4:21–22, citing Gov. Code § 915.2, subd. (a).)  Moreover, Plaintiffs argue that it is sufficient that they have alleged in  their FAC “sufficient and specific facts establishing that Plaintiffs  substantially complied with the Government Tort Claim.” (Id. at 4:17–18,  citing Code Civ. Proc. § 459 “In pleading the performance of conditions  precedent under a statute … it is not necessary to state the facts showing such  performance, but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed all  the conditions on his part required thereby.”)   Plaintiffs  further assert that Moving Defendant’s reliance on Gong and Fowler is  misplaced because in those cases, the Court took judicial notice of the  undisputed facts that the claimant plaintiffs failed to comply with the  presentation requirements under the Government Claims Act. (Pls.’ Opp. 6:1–2.)  In Gong, the Court of Appeal took judicial notice that the plaintiff  failed to allege the same facts in her complaint as in her prior claims against  the defendant City and found that “though the prelitigation claims in the  present case were timely filed with the City, they do not ‘fairly reflect’  causes of actions subsequently brought by [plaintiffs] appellants based on [defendant]  Tran's alleged tortious conduct.” (226 Cal.App.4th at 375–376.) In Fowler,  both the trial court and Court of Appeal took judicial notice of previous  factual findings adopted by the California State Personnel Board finding that  because the defendant acted within the scope of her employment as a California  Highway Patrol officer, the plaintiff was required to file a claim pursuant to  the Government Claims Act, which he undisputedly failed to do prior to filing  suit. (42 Cal.App.4th at 1749–1750.)   The Court  agrees with Plaintiffs and finds that here, unlike in Gong or Fowler, Plaintiffs acknowledge that their claims are subject to the Government  Claims Act and have sufficiently alleged compliance with the claims  presentation requirements therein. (FAC ¶¶ 6–7; Gov. Code § 915.2, subd. (a); Gong  v. City of Rosemead (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 363, 374.) Additionally, unlike  in Gong or Fowler, here, the facts alleged in Plaintiffs’ claims  to Moving Defendant “fairly reflect” the facts alleged in the FAC, and there  are no prior public records nor factual determinations relating to Plaintiffs’  instant claims. (Ex. A to FAC; FAC ¶ 9.) The Court therefore exercises its discretion  to deny Moving Defendant’s request for judicial notice of its contentions that it  has no record of receiving Plaintiffs’ claims, as this is a factual  determination which the Court declines to make at the demurrer stage.   Based on  the foregoing, the demurrer is overruled. The Court takes note of the parties’  arguments regarding timeliness of Plaintiffs’ claims but finds them moot considering  the foregoing analysis.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is  overruled. Moving Defendant to file and serve its answer to Plaintiffs’ FAC  within 30 days.