  Case Number:  23CHCV02888    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept. F-51
Date: 10/2/24
Case
#23CHCV02888
 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F-51
 

OCTOBER 1,
2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL
DEPOSITION

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV02888

 
Motion filed: 8/28/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Eileen Pineda; and Jose
Pineda (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant American Honda Motor
Company, Inc. (“Defendant”)
NOTICE: ok¿¿ 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order compelling the Person(s)
Most Qualified (“PMQ”) and Custodian of Records for Defendant to appear in
person for a deposition and produce certain documents. Plaintiffs further
request monetary sanctions against Defendant and its counsel in the amount of $2,610.00.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The
motion is continued. The parties’ counsel are ordered to meet and further
confer either telephonically or in-person within 60 days, to resolve and/or
narrow all outstanding discovery issues, including a mutually agreeable date
for Defendant’s PMQ deposition. Plaintiffs’ counsel is to file a declaration
with the Court which confirms compliance with this order, or explains why no
meaningful meet and confer occurred. The issue of sanctions is
deferred.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs bring this action under
the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Civil Code § 1790 et seq.) for a
vehicle they purchased on or around 12/5/20, for which Defendant issued the
manufacturer’s express warranty. (Compl. ¶¶ 8–9.) Plaintiffs allege that
Defendant “was unable to repair the vehicle in accordance with the written
warranty or the consumer protection and warranty laws of the State of
California.” (Id. at ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant had
actual knowledge of a defect in computerized driver-assisting safety systems in
the same model of vehicle as that purchased by Plaintiffs, and continued to
knowingly market and sell/lease vehicles equipped with the defect while
concealing the existence of those defects from consumers such as Plaintiffs. (Id.
at ¶¶ 23–25.)
 
On 9/27/23, Plaintiffs filed their
complaint, alleging against Defendant the following causes of action: (1)
Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; and (2) Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment. On 5/30/24, Defendant filed its answer.
 
On 5/1/24,
Plaintiffs served a notice of deposition of Defendant’s PMQ. (Ex. A to Decl. of
Thach Tran.) On 6/21/24, Defendant served its objections to Plaintiffs’
deposition notice. (Ex. C to Tran Decl.) Defendant failed to produce its PMQ
for the deposition. (Tran Decl. ¶¶ 10–11.)
 
On 8/28/24, Plaintiffs filed the
instant motion to compel the deposition of the
Defendant’s PMQ and Custodian of Records. On 9/18/24, Defendant filed and
served its opposition. On 9/24/24, Plaintiffs filed their reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A party may, upon proper written
notice, obtain discovery by taking the oral deposition of any natural person,
organization, partnership, association, or governmental agency. (Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 2025.010, 2025.220.) A party deponent can be required to attend a
deposition by service of a deposition notice on the party's attorney. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2025.280, subd. (a).)
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, … without having served a valid objection …, fails to
appear for examination, … the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd.
(a).) 
            
1.      Meet and Confer
 
A motion to compel a deposition must
(1) “set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice;” and (2) “be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.” (Id. at subd. (b) [emphasis added].)
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel declares
that on 6/28/24 and 7/24/24, he emailed Defendant’s counsel inquiring about the
nonappearance and asking for alternative dates, but received no response. (Thomas
Decl. ¶¶ 8–9.) Defendant argues in opposition that “rather than working
through the availability with defense counsel, plaintiffs’ counsel continues to
serve unilateral deposition notices for PMQ depositions instead of
participating in a good faith effort to resolve the availability issues by
either grouping similar deposition testimony or offering some other amenable
resolution. Instead, the real aim is betrayed here by simply refusing to engage
in a meaningful, good faith meet and confer and filing a motion.” (Def.’s Opp.
3:26–4:3.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the motion is continued. The parties’ counsel are ordered to
meet and further confer either telephonically or in-person within 60 days, to
resolve and/or narrow all outstanding discovery issues, including a mutually
agreeable date for Defendant’s PMQ deposition. Plaintiffs’ counsel is to file a
declaration with the Court which confirms compliance with this order or
explains why no meaningful meet and confer occurred. The
issue of sanctions is deferred.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is continued. The parties’ counsel are
ordered to meet and further confer either telephonically or in-person within 60
days, to resolve and/or narrow all outstanding discovery issues, including a
mutually agreeable date for Defendant’s PMQ deposition. Plaintiffs’ counsel is
to file a declaration with the Court which confirms compliance with this order
or explains why no meaningful meet and confer occurred. The
issue of sanctions is deferred.Motion continued to February 25, 2025 at 08:30 a.m., in Department F51