 Case Number:  22STCV40394    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
ANDREW
  REYNA;
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DREAMWAY EXPRESS, INC.; SEA FUTURE LOGISTICS, INC.; YUXIAO
LIN; SUWEN PAN; and DOES 1-50,
 
                        Defendants.


 
 Case No.: 22STCV40394
 
 Hearing Date: April 24, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
MOTIONS TO BE RELIEVED AS DEFENSE COUNSEL
 
 



 
Background
On
December 27, 2022, plaintiff Andrew Reyna (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against defendants Dreamway Express, Inc. (“Dreamway”), Sea Future Logistics,
Inc. (“Sea Future”), Yuxiao Lin (“Lin”) and Suwen Pan (“Pan”) (collectively
“Defendants”) alleging ten causes of action for Labor Code violations, wrongful
termination, and violation of Business & Professions Code § 17200, et
seq.  
Plaintiff
worked for Defendants as a delivery driver from April to November 2022.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to
pay overtime wages and provide accurate wage statements and statutorily
required meal and rest periods.  (Compl.,
¶¶ 24-26.)  Within weeks of making a
formal OSHA complaint for unsafe work conditions, Plaintiff was terminated.  (Compl., ¶¶ 19-20.)
On
March 25, 2024, attorneys Elvis Tran and Bin Li (collectively “Counsel”) filed
motions to be relieved as counsel as to each of the four defendants (for a
total of eight motions – four per attorney). 
            On April 5, 2024, Pan filed an
opposition.
            On April 10, 2024, Bin Li replied.
Legal Standard
The
court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should
be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the client and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice.  (See
Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v.
Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.)
CRC,
Rule 3.1362 requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to the
client (made on form MC-051); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under CCP § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
CCP § 284(1) (made on form MC-052); (3) service of the notice of motion and
motion and declaration on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and
(4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on form MC-053).
Discussion
Counsel
indicate that each client was served by mail at an address that has been
confirmed current within the past 30 days through a Lexis Public Records
Smartlinx search.  ((Li Decl., ¶ 3; Tran
Decl., ¶ 3.)  However, no proof of
service is attached. 
Prof.
Conduct, Rule 1.16(b)(10) provides that a permissive request for withdrawal may
be properly granted where an attorney believes that the tribunal will find good
cause for withdrawal.  In the attorney
declarations (Form MC-052), Counsel indicate that “[t]he relationship of trust
and confidence essential to the attorney-client relationship[sic] has ceased to
exist.” (Li Decl., ¶ 2; Tran Decl., ¶ 2.)  This is a proper basis for withdrawal.  Counsel further declare that Defendants will
not be prejudiced because: (1) they were given “reasonable notice”, (2) they
were advised of all upcoming deadlines and court hearings, (3) there are no
unearned legal fees, and (4) Counsel provided Defendants with their client
file.  (Li Decl., ¶ 2; Tran Decl., ¶ 2.)  
Defendant
Pan opposes Counsel’s withdrawal. Pan contends that granting Counsel’s motions
would impose an insurmountable financial burden on Defendants.  Pan contends that Counsel seeks to be
relieved due to fee disputes.  (Opp’n, ¶
5 [“he was displeased that we didn’t accept his new estimate”]; however, it is unclear
which attorney Pan is referring to.)  In
reply, Bin Li requests an in-camera conference to present information to
support his motion to withdraw without compromising attorney-client privilege.
The
Court will not order an in-camera hearing at this time. Counsel have stated
that there is no trust or confidence between the parties as would be required
for an attorney-client relationship. Defendant Pan alludes to a few dispute
between the parties. Either ground, and certainly both, would be sufficient to
warrant the granting of these motions. Counsel cannot be forced to continue to
represent a client if there is a fee dispute, or where the attorney-client
relationship has been broken whatever the reason.
Attorneys
Bin Li and Elvis Tran are ordered to produce proof of service of the moving
papers before the hearing on these motions.
Conclusion and ORDER
            The Court GRANTS the motions to be
relieved as counsel for defendants, Bin Li and Elvis Tran. Counsel are ordered
to file proof of service of the moving papers. Counsel are not relieved as
counsel of records until they serve the Order granting their motions to be
relieved on all defendants and parties, and file proof of same with the court.
            As corporate defendants cannot appear
in this action without counsel, the Court sets an OSC re: legal representation
of the corporate defendants on May 22, 2024, 8:30 a.m. Counsel are ordered to
give notice of the OSC.          
 
DATED: April 24, 2024         
                                                                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Yolanda
Orozco
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court