 Case Number:  23STCV01711    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



AJA
  VASQUEZ-LOOPER
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
RENAISSANCE IMAGING MEDICAL ASSOCIATES,
  INC., et al.,
                                                                              
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV01711
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DISMISSAL
 
Date: February 8, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Renaissance Imaging Medical Associates, Inc. (“RIMA”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving and opposition
papers.  No reply papers were filed.  Any reply papers were required to have been
filed and served at least five court days before the hearing under California Code
of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision (b).
 
BACKGROUND
On
January 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging: (1) violations
of the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act.
 
On August 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request for
dismissal and the Complaint was dismissed. 
On October 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file an
amended pleading, which was taken off-calendar due to the Complaint’s
dismissal. 
 
On December 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to
vacate the dismissal pursuant to CCP section 473, subdivision (b) (the
“Motion”). 
 
DISCUSSION
The
court is empowered to relieve a party or their legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against them through
their mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect.  (CCP § 473, subd. (b).)  The court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any: (1) resulting default entered by the
clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment;
or
(2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client,
unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by
the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.  (Id.)  The law favors a trial on the merits and courts
therefore liberally construe section 473.  (Bonzer v. City of
Huntington Park (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1474, 1477.)  Doubts in
applying section 473 are resolved in favor of the party seeking relief
from default.  (Id. at 1478.)  
 
 
 
In
support of the Motion, Plaintiff’s counsel provides a declaration stating that
before the Complaint was dismissed, Plaintiff learned that RIMA was not the
entity responsible for the wrongdoing alleged in the Complaint.  (See Declaration of Youssef H. Hammoud
(“Hammoud Decl.”) ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff wishes
to reinstate the Complaint in order to be able to file a first amended
complaint (the “FAC”) that names the proper entity as a defendant.  (See Hammoud Decl. ¶ 6.)[1]
 
The
Hammoud Declaration does not clearly describe the mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect that led to the dismissal of the
Complaint.  Absent sufficient
clarification and evidence, the Court is unable to evaluate this Motion.  The Court therefore CONTINUES the hearing on
the Motion to February 27, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in this department.  Plaintiff is ordered to file a supplemental
declaration and points and authorities supporting the relief sought by the
Motion,  and to lodge a copy of the
proposed FAC, no later than February 15, 2024.
 
            Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.


 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
        Dated this 8th day of February 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon.
  Holly J. Fujie
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 



 
 


