 Case Number:  23STCV15056    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



KEITH FEDER, M.D., 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
UNITED AIRLINES, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV15056
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER 
 
Date: 
  February 8, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant United Airlines, Inc. (“Moving Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff 
 
The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises out of a dispute
over the payment for medical services.  Plaintiff’s
complaint (the “Complaint”) alleges: (1) negligent misrepresentation; (2)
promissory estoppel; and (3) recovery of benefits under 29 U.S.C. section 1132,
subdivision (a)(1)(B).[1]
 
 
In
relevant part, the Complaint alleges: on several dates in 2020 and 2021,
Plaintiff provided medical services for a patient (“Patient”) employed by
Moving Defendant.  (See Complaint ¶ 27.)  Before providing services, Plaintiff received
an assignment granting him the right to step into Patient’s shoes with respect
to the patient’s Employment Retirement Income Securities Act (“ERISA”) health
plan.  (Complaint ¶ 22.)  Before Plaintiff agreed to provide Patient services,
Plaintiff spoke with an agent of Moving Defendant and its insurer Aetna Life
Insurance Company (“Aetna”) regarding the manner of payment.  (Complaint ¶ 28.)  Plaintiff was informed of Patient’s
deductible, that Moving Defendant paid the customary rate (“UCR”) for services,
and that payment was not based on the Medicare Fee Schedule.  (Complaint ¶¶ 31-35.)  Despite these representations, Moving
Defendant’s insurer intended to compensate Plaintiff using a Medicare
rate.  (See Complaint ¶ 41.)  
 
Moving
Defendant filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”) on the grounds that the Complaint
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
DISCUSSION
Meet and
Confer
The meet and confer
requirement has been met.
 
Legal
Standard
A demurrer tests the sufficiency
of a complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  The court
accepts as true all material factual allegations and affords them a liberal
construction, but it does not consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions,
speculation, or allegations contrary to law or judicially noticed facts.  (Shea
Homes Limited Partnership v. County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246,
1254.)  With respect to a demurrer, the
complaint must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the
facts pleaded.  (Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 513, 517.)  A demurrer will be sustained without leave to
amend if there exists no reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  
 
ERISA Preemption
Section
514 of ERISA provides, in relevant part, that ERISA supersedes any and all
State laws insofar as they ... relate to any employee benefit plan.  (Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare
Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1221 n. 2.)  A law relates to an employee benefit plan, in
the normal sense of the phrase, if it has a connection with or reference to
such a plan.  (Morris B. Silver M.D.,
Inc. v. International Longshore & Warehouse etc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th
793, 800 (“Morris”).)  With
respect to preemption of state law claims, the Supreme Court has held common
law causes of action based on alleged improper processing of a claim for
benefits under an employee benefit plan, undoubtedly meet the criteria for
pre-emption under section 514(a).  (Id.
at 801.)  


ERISA
pre-empts two categories of state laws. 
(Gobeille v. Liberty Mut. Ins. Co. (2016) 577 U.S. 312,
319.)  First, ERISA pre-empts a state law
if it has a “reference to” ERISA plans. 
(Id.)  To be more precise,
where a State's law acts immediately and exclusively upon ERISA plans ... or
where the existence of ERISA plans is essential to the law's operation ...,
that reference will result in pre-emption. 
(Id. at 319-20.)  Second,
ERISA pre-empts a state law that has an impermissible “connection with” ERISA
plans, meaning a state law that “governs ... a central matter of plan
administration” or “interferes with nationally uniform plan
administration.”  (Id. at
320.)  A state law also might have an
impermissible connection with ERISA plans if “acute, albeit indirect, economic
effects” of the state law “force an ERISA plan to adopt a certain scheme of
substantive coverage or effectively restrict its choice of insurers.”  (Id.) 
 
            Moving Defendant argues that the
first two causes of action alleging state law claims are preempted by ERISA
because they arise out of and relate to the existence of an ERISA plan.  The Court agrees.  As alleged, Plaintiff is an assignee to the
rights under Patient’s ERISA plan. 
Plaintiff spoke to a representative of Patient’s plan before agreeing to
provide services, and despite the Complaint’s conclusory allegations otherwise,
as alleged, the conversation regarding payment was related to the terms of Patient’s
ERISA plan.  (See Complaint
¶¶ 31-35, 40.)  The facts of the
Complaint differ from those of Morris, where the plaintiff’s pleading
alleged an ERISA plan’s broken promise to pay a specified amount.  (See Morris, supra, 2 Cal.App.5th at
806.)  Here, Plaintiff was explicitly
assigned Patient’s rights under the ERISA plan, and the representative’s
alleged promise regarding payment for services is general recitation of policy,
rather than a specific amount related to specific services being provided by Plaintiff.  The Court therefore finds that the Complaint
does not allege circumstances that would extricate Plaintiff’s claims from
ERISA preemption.  The Court therefore
SUSTAINS the Demurrer to the first and second causes of action with 20 days
leave to amend. 
 
 
Third Cause
of Action
An
ERISA civil action may be brought by a participant or beneficiary to recover
benefits due under the terms of their plan. 
(20 U.S.C § 1132, subd. (a)(1)(B).)
 
The
Complaint sufficiently alleges that Plaintiff is a beneficiary of an ERISA plan
and that Moving Defendant has failed to pay Plaintiff in accordance with the
plan.  (See Complaint ¶
54-55.)  The Court therefore OVERRULES
the Demurrer to the third cause of action. 
 
Moving party
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar. 
 
 
  Dated
this 8th day of February 2024
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 



 
 


