  Case Number:  21STCV24488    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



KYLE MADISON,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MICHAEL THEODORE, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.





     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV24488
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL
  FURTHER RESPONSES
 
Date: 
  February 8, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56



 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Michael Theodore (“Moving Defendant”)
 
            RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
 
The
Court has considered the moving and opposition papers.  No reply papers were filed.  Any reply papers were required to have been
filed and served at least five court days before the hearing under California Code
of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision (b). 
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises out of a dispute over the
enforcement of a money judgment. The currently operative fourth amended
complaint (the “4AC”) alleges: (1) statutory voidable transfers; and (2) common
law voidable transfers.  
 
 
            On September 28, 2023, Moving Defendant filed a motion to
compel further responses to the Requests for Admission (“RFAs”), Requests for
Production (“RFPs”), Form Interrogatories (“FROGs”), and Special
Interrogatories (“SPROGs”) that were propounded on Plaintiff (the “Motion”).  
 
DISCUSSION
Under CCP
section 2031.310, a motion to compel further responses to a demand for
inspection or production of documents may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections.  (CCP § 2031.310, subd. (c).)  A motion to compel further production must
set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by
the inspection demand.  (See CCP §
2031.310 subd. (b)(1); Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 216, 234-35.)  To
establish good cause, a discovery proponent must identify a disputed fact that
is of consequence in the action and explain how the discovery sought will tend
in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will
tend to prove or disprove the fact.  (Digital Music News LLC v.
Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.)  
 
A
representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search
and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand.  (CCP § 2031.230.)  This statement shall also specify whether the
inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party.  (Id.)  The statement shall set forth the name and
address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party
to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.  (Id.) 

 
Under CCP section 2030.300, on receipt of a response
to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply: (1) an answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete;
(2) an exercise of the option to produce documents under CCP section 2030.230
is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate;
or (3) an objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.  
 
Responses to interrogatories must be as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits.  (CCP § 2030.220, subd.
(a).)  If an interrogatory cannot be
answered completely, then it must be answered to the extent possible.  (CCP § 2030.220, subd. (b).)  If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.  (CCP § 2030.220, subd. (c).)  If the
responding party cannot furnish details, they should set forth the efforts made
to secure the information.  (Deyo v.
Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 782.) 
The responding party cannot plead ignorance to information which can be
obtained from sources under their control. 
(Id.)
 
Under CCP section 2033.290, subdivision (a), on
receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the propounding party may
move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems
that either of the following apply: (1) an answer to a particular request is
evasive or incomplete; or (2) an objection to a particular request is without
merit or too general.  (CCP § 2033.230,
subd. (a).)  As to requests for admission: (1) if only a part of a request
for admission is objectionable, the remainder of the request shall be answered;
and (2) if an objection is made to request or to a part of a request, the
specific ground for the objection shall be set forth clearly in the response,
and if an objection is based on a claim of privilege then the particular
privilege invoked shall be clearly stated.  (CCP § 2033.230, subds.
(a)-(b).)   
 
Moving Defendant
served the discovery requests at issue in the Motion on July 13, 2023.  (Declaration of Joshua P. Friedman (“Friedman
Decl.”) ¶ 3, Exhibits A-D.)  Plaintiff
provided responses on August 14, 2023. 
(Friedman Decl. ¶ 4, Exhibits E-H.) 
Despite meet and confer efforts, Moving Defendant and Plaintiff have
been unable to resolve the dispute over the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s
responses.  
 
 Plaintiff argues that the Motion’s arguments
are meritless because the discovery requests (and the resulting responses)
directly request information that is within Defendant’s control which Moving
Defendant has repeatedly failed to provide Plaintiff in response to discovery
Plaintiff has propounded. 
 
 
 
Upon review
of Plaintiff’s responses, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s responses to the
RFAs, FROGs, and SPROGs are sufficient, and Plaintiff’s objections are
well-taken in the context of the ill-defined terms in the discovery that Moving
Defendant propounded.  With respect to
the RFPs, the Court finds that further responses are warranted to identify
documents (to the extent that Plaintiff possesses any) that form the basis for
Plaintiff’s claims.  The Court therefore
GRANTS the Motion in part and orders Plaintiff to provide further RFP responses
within 20 days of the date of this order. 
The Court declines to impose monetary sanctions on either Plaintiff or
Moving Defendant at this time. 
 
             Moving party is
ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
        Dated this 8th day of February 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



 