 Case Number:  24STCV1733    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  40 
24STCV1733 Joshua Lorne Rogers v. Carlson Industries, et
 al.
Friday,
 January 17, 2025
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION OF ORDERS GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ SPECIAL MOTIONS TO
STRIKE
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING IN PART
AND SUSTAINING IN PART DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT BY DEFENDANT CARLSON INDUSTRIES,
LLC
 
I.       BACKGROUND
      This
action arises from the Defendants’ alleged breach of lease agreements relating
to two parcels of property. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges the following
claims.
1.     Breach
of contract against Natasha Skidmore (“Skidmore”)
2.     Breach
of contract against Carlson Industries (“Carlson”)
3.     Inducing
breach of contract against Carlson and Nicholas Kanter (“Kanter”)
4.     Intentional
interference with contractual relations against Carlson and Kanter
5.     Breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing against Carlson
6.     Breach
of the covenant of quiet enjoyment against Carlson.
7.     Inducing
breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, interference with contractual relations, and breach of the covenant of
quiet enjoyment against Carlson and Kanter.
      The
Hon. Anne Richardson granted two special motions to strike the third and fourth
causes of action filed by Kanter and Carlson pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure 425.16 (“anti-SLAPP”). The court subsequently dismissed the action
against Kanter on October 21, 2024, as the remaining claims were not addressed
to Kanter.
II.     ARGUMENTS
      Plaintiff
moves for reconsideration of both rulings based on new facts or circumstances
that Plaintiff discovered since the rulings were issued. On October 29, 2024,
Carlson served Plaintiff with a three-day notice to pay rent or quit, claiming
rent of $34,650, during a time period when Carlson refused to accept
Plaintiff’s rental payments. The three-day notice superseded the prior  30-day notice to terminate. Carlson
subsequently dismissed the unlawful detainer action. Plaintiff intends to seek
leave to amend the complaint to include a claim for malicious prosecution, which
is an exception to the litigation privilege and falls outside the scope of the
anti-SLAPP statute. 
      Carlson
opposes on grounds there are no new or different facts, circumstances, or law
to support reconsideration. The anti-SLAPP motions were granted because the
settlement negotiations that occurred while litigation was ongoing were privileged
communications. A subsequent dismissal of the unlawful detainer from which the
protected communications arose does not affect Judge Richardson’s rulings.
Carlson objects to Plaintiff’s declaration.
      Kanter
opposes the motion on grounds a motion for reconsideration is improper after a
judgment of dismissal is filed, and the court does not have jurisdiction. The
court should impose sanctions against Plaintiff for contempt. Plaintiff did not
raise new or different facts, circumstances, or law. 
      In
reply, Plaintiff argues the motion is timely against Kanter because the court’s
October 7, order does not constitute a final judgment. The request for
sanctions should be denied. As to Carlson, Plaintiff argues that the motion
meets the requirements of Code Civ. Proc., § 1008. 
III.    DISCUSSION
      The
court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of the court records in three
unlawful detainer cases brought by Carlson against Plaintiff. (Evid. Code, §
452(d).)
      Insofar
as the motion seeks reconsideration of the ruling on Kanter’s anti-SLAPP motion
to strike, the motion for reconsideration is taken off calendar as the court
lacks jurisdiction to consider it. [Marshall
v. Webster (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 275, 281, [“It
is settled law that a motion for reconsideration is ineffectual if it is filed
after entry of judgment. This is a corollary to the rule that section 1008
applies only to applications for interim orders. … Thus, a motion for
reconsideration may only be considered before final judgment is entered and
while the case is still pending in the trial court” (citation omitted)]; see
also Branner v. Regents of University of California (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 1043, 1048, 96 Cal.Rptr.3d 690 [“A motion to reconsider is not
valid if it is filed after the final judgment is signed”]; APRI Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 176, 181, 90 Cal.Rptr.2d 171 (APRI)
[“Once the trial court has entered judgment, it is without power to grant
reconsideration”].)
      Plaintiff argues the motion is timely filed within the 10-day period
(increased by five days for mailing of the notice of entry of judgment). The
time for filing a motion for reconsideration is 10 days from the notice of
ruling on the anti-SLAPP motion. It is not, as Plaintiff claims, 10 days from
Judgment. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1008.) The notice of ruling [order] was served on
October 7, 2024. Plaintiff filed this motion on October 30, 2024. Accordingly,
as to Kanter, the motion is taken off calendar. 
      Kanter’s request for imposition of sanction is DENIED. Kanter
has not shown that Plaintiff filed this motion “primarily for an improper
purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase
in the cost of litigation." (Code of Civ. Code, §. Procedure § 1008(d), Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 128.7.)
      As to the ruling on Defendant Carlson’s anti-SLAPP motion, Plaintiff
has not shown new or different facts, circumstances, or law to warrant
reconsideration. Judge Richardson granted Carlson’s motion because the causes
of action at issue arose from Carlson’s filing of an unlawful detainer action
and settlement communications between the parties. (M.O. 10/7/24, p. 6.)
Plaintiff did not meet his burden of showing a probability of prevailing on the
merits. (Id. page 7.)
      Plaintiff
argues that since Carlson subsequently dismissed that unlawful detainer action,
Plaintiff intends to amend the complaint to include a claim for malicious
prosecution. That proposed claim does not fall within the scope of the
anti-SLAPP statute. The argument lacks merit because, in considering an
anti-SLAPP motion to strike, the court considers the pleadings and supporting
and opposing affidavits. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1008 subd. (b).)  Judge Richardson did not have the opportunity
to address a claim for malicious prosecution since the complaint does not
include it. 
      Regardless,  Plaintiff’s intent to include claims for
malicious prosecution claim and criminal extortion is not a new fact or
circumstance to warrant reconsideration, since Judge Richardson never
considered it in the first instance. Nor do the proposed new causes of action
affect Judge Richardson’s ruling that the filing and communications that formed
the basis for the third and fourth causes of action were protected conduct and
subject to the anti-SLAPP motion to strike.  
IV.   CONCLUSION


      Based
on the foregoing, the motion is taken off calendar as to Defendant Kantor. The
motion is DENIED as to  Defendant
Carlson. 

 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING
IN PART AND OVERRULING IN PART DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT BY DEFENDANT, CARLSON
INDUSTRIES, LLC
I.       BACKGROUND
      This
action arises from the Defendants’ alleged breach of lease agreements relating
to two parcels of property. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges the following
claims.
1.     Breach
of contract against Natasha Skidmore (“Skidmore”)
2.     Breach
of contract against Carlson Industries (“Carlson”)
3.     Inducing
breach of contract against Carlson and Nicholas Kanter (“Kanter”)
4.     Intentional
interference with contractual relations against Carlson and Kanter
5.     Breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing against Carlson
6.     Breach
of the covenant of quiet enjoyment against Carlson.
7.     Inducing
breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, interference with contractual relations, and breach of the covenant of
quiet enjoyment against Carlson and Kanter.
      Defendant
Carlson demurs to the second, fifth, and sixth causes of action. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
      A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)
      The court may not consider contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th
634, 638.) Plaintiff is required to allege facts sufficient to establish every
element of each cause of action. (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where the complaint
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should
sustain the demurrer. Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e); Zelig
v. County of Los Angeles
(2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112, 1126.)
      Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case stated "with reasonable precision and with particularity that
is sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and
extent of his cause of action.” (Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  Whether the
Plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant. (Stevens
v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)
III.    DISCUSSION
A.     Demurrer
to the first cause of action for breach of contract is OVERRULED.
      Defendant
argues that the leases signed by Plaintiff were valid and identifies the
agreement between the parties. Plaintiff breached the agreement requiring
consent to sublet. Plaintiff did not allege an excuse for his breach. Plaintiff
failed to allege compliance with the terms of the lease agreement. 
      Plaintiff
opposes the demurrer on grounds Defendant is arguing the merits which is not at
issue. 
      Defendant
argues the opposition is flawed as Plaintiff did not provide any law in support
of the opposition.
      To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must allege and
prove facts showing (1) the existence of the contract, (2) the plaintiff's
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant's breach, and (4)
resulting damages to the plaintiff. (Maxwell
v. Dolezal (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 93, 97–98.)
Plaintiff may also allege the legal effect of the contract rather than its
precise language. (Id.) Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co.
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 199. Alleging the legal effect means
alleging the making and the substance of the relevant terms. (Perry
v. Robertson (1988) 201 Cal.App.3d 333, 341.)
Plaintiff may also attach a copy of the written contract to the complaint. (Id.)

      All
of Defendant’s arguments go to the merits of the claim. In testing the complaint’s sufficiency, the court must assume the truth
of the properly pleaded factual allegations as well as facts that can be
reasonably inferred from those expressly pleaded facts. The court may also
consider matters properly subject to judicial notice. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) 
A demurrer
reaches defects that appear on the face of the complaint. The court does not go
beyond the four corners of the pleading. The court considers the allegations
and matters that are subject to judicial notice. All facts are accepted as
true. (Saunders v. Superior Court (1994) 27
Cal.App.4th 832, 838). A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the
allegations. It does not test their truth, the Plaintiff’s ability to prove
them, or the possible difficulty in making such proof. (Saunders
v. Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 832, 840).
      The
complaint includes the written lease agreement and the addenda thereto.
(Complaint, ¶ Ex. 1.) The term which is the subject of the breach and
Defendant’s breach are alleged. (Complaint, ¶ 23-25.) Plaintiff alleges that he
performed his obligations consistent with the agreement’s requirements to
sublet. (Complaint, ¶¶ 12, 44.) Plaintiff alleges damages caused by the breach.
(Complaint, ¶ 28.)
B.     Demurrer to the claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing is SUSTAINED.
      As
Defendant observes, the implied covenant is embedded within a contract,
requiring the parties to act in good faith in carrying out the terms of the
contract. (Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125
Cal.App.4th 578, 589 ["A
typical formulation of the burden imposed by the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing is ‘that neither party will do anything which will injure the
right of the other to receive the benefits of the agreement.’"].) Therefore,
the two elements necessary to state this claim are that benefits due under the contract
must have been withheld and the reason for withholding benefits must have been
unreasonable or without proper cause. (Love v. Fire Ins. Exchange (1990) 221
Cal.App.3d 1136, 1151.)
      The
complaint alleges that Defendant acted in bad faith when it  barred Plaintiff from holding public events  which are permitted under the Artist in
Residence statute. (Complaint, ¶ 47-50.) Plaintiff does not allege that
permitting the holding of public events was a benefit due under
the contract.
C.     Demurrer to the claim for breach of the covenant of
quiet enjoyment is OVERRULED.
      Implied
in every lease agreement is a covenant that “the tenant shall have quiet
enjoyment and possession of the premises." (Spinks v. Equity Residential Briarwood
Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1034.)  To state
a claim for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, a tenant must show that
Defendant substantially interfered with the tenant’s right to use and enjoy the
premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.
      Plaintiff
alleges that Carlson entered the premises at 2100 N. Main Street, B5 in Los
Angeles, which Plaintiff leased from Carlson. (Complaint, ¶ ¶ 5-6.) The
complaint alleges that Carlson entered the leased premises, barred entrance and
egress, and harassed Plaintiff and his two minor children. (Complaint, ¶
54.)  Plaintiff also alleges that
Defendant held organized public events called “Artwalks,” which attracts 10,000
visitors for the purpose of residents to make sales to the public. (Complaint,
¶ 55.) Plaintiff alleges that the events substantially disrupt the normal life at
the premises and violate the covenant of quiet enjoyment. (Id.) On January 22, 2024, Plaintiff sent a cease and
desist letter demanding that the event not be held, but the event was held.
(Complaint, ¶ 56.)
      Defendant
argues that it retained exclusive control of common areas, the tenancy was
created so that artists could live and work in the space, Plaintiff did not
complain to Defendant until Defendant instituted  unlawful detainer proceedings, the claim is
contrary to the fifth cause of action wherein Plaintiff alleges Defendant acted
in bad faith for not permitting Plaintiff to sell his artwork, the event was
lawfully held with the City of Los Angeles. Plaintiff did not have lawful
possession at the time. 
      These
are all defenses to the claim based on facts outside of the pleading. The court
does not determine merits at this stage. Additionally, inconsistency is allowed
at the pleading stage. (Rader
Co. v. Stone (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 10, 29 [“a plaintiff is permitted to plead inconsistent
or, ..., alternative counts.”].)  The
claim is adequately alleged. 
IV.  
CONCLUSION
      Based on
the foregoing, demurrer is sustained as to the fifth cause of action for breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing only. The demurrer is
OVERRULED as to the second and fifth causes of action. Plaintiff is granted 30
days leave to amend the claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing. (Colvig v. RKO General, Inc. (1965) 232 Cal.App.2d 56, 69–70 [noting the “well-established rule that, even
where the defect is one of substance, a demurrer should not be sustained
without leave to amend if there is a possibility that subsequent amendments
will supply omitted allegations and the plaintiff has not had a fair
opportunity to so amend."].)


 
 
 

 
 
      