 Case Number:  22STCV18029    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  57 Plaintiff Gregory Hoskins
sued defendant City of Los Angeles (“the City”) alleging a single cause of
action for retaliation in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act
(“FEHA”).  As alleged in his complaint, Plaintiff
has been a sworn officer in the Los Angeles Police Department (“LAPD” or “the
Department”) since at least 2003. (Compl., ¶ 11.)  He currently holds the rank of Sergeant. (Id,
¶ 11.) Around 2010, he sued the City and the Department for racial
discrimination in violation of FEHA. (Id., ¶ 12.)  In that lawsuit, Plaintiff alleged he had
been denied a position on the Department’s SWAT team because of his race. (Ibid.)
The case was tried to a jury in 2011. (Id., ¶ 13.) After the verdict,
members of the SWAT team -- Lieutenant Ruben Lopez, in particular -- “openly
stated on multiple occasions that Plaintiff ‘could never work [in SWAT] after
trying to sue ... ,’ or words to that effect.” (Id., ¶ 14.)  Ten years later, in 2021, Plaintiff applied
for a SWAT position again. (Id., ¶ 15.) Despite being the most qualified
candidate, he was passed over in favor of less-qualified applicants. (Id.,
¶ 16.)  Plaintiff then sued the City
again through the action that is pending before this Court.  Plaintiff alleges in his complaint in this
action that he was denied the opportunity to advance or promote within the
Department because of his prior assertion of his rights under FEHA.
 
Pending before the Court is
Plaintiff’s motion for an order requiring the City to disclose for in camera
review by the Court certain peace office personnel records under Pitchess v. Superior Court (1974) 11 Cal.3d 531 [“Pitchess”].  The Court is granting Plaintiff’s motion.
 
Under Pitchess, “a criminal defendant, upon a showing of good
cause, [can] compel discovery of information in a police officer’s personnel file
that [is] relevant to the defendant’s ability to defend against a criminal
charge.”  (Riske v. Superior Court
(City of Los Angeles) (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 647, 654.)  The principles and standards of Pitchess have
been codified in statutes applicable in both criminal and civil cases. (Long Beach Police Officers Assn. v. City of Long Beach (2014) 59 Cal.4th 59, 68.)   Among the types of civil cases in which Pitchess
and the statutes codifying it have been applied and enforced are cases in which
the plaintiff alleges retaliation in his or her employment with a law
enforcement agency, even when there is no allegation that the peace officers whose
records are sought committed or witnessed the alleged retaliation.  (Riske, supra, 6 Cal.App.5th at
pp. 652, 658.)
 
A motion under Pitchess
must describe the type of records or information sought and include an
affidavit showing good cause for the discovery, which explains the materiality
of the information to the subject of the pending litigation and states on
reasonable belief that the governmental agency has the records or
information.  (People v. Superior
Court) (Johnson) (2016) 61 Cal. App.4th 696, 710.)   The required “good cause” showing reflects a
“relatively low threshold for discovery.”  
(Garcia v. Superior Court (City of Santa Ana) (2007) 42
Cal.4th 63, 71.)  Specifically, the affidavit
need only present ‘a plausible factual foundation” for the asserted materiality
of the records sought to the subject matter of the litigation.  (Warrick v. Superior Court (City of
Los Angeles Police Department) (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 1011, 1025.)  In deciding whether the moving party has shown
good cause for the disclosure of the records sought based on a plausible factual
scenario, the trial court does not assess credibility of either the affiant or
the version of the events set forth in the affidavit.  (Id. at p. 1026.) “When a trial court
concludes [that the] Pitchess motion shows good cause for discovery a law
enforcement officer's personnel files, the custodian of the records of the
agency is obligated to bring to the trial court all ‘potentially relevant’
documents to permit the trial court to examine them for itself.” (People v.
Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1216, 1228–1229.) 
That review is conducted in camera.  (City of Santa Cruz v. Municipal Court (Kennedy)
(1989) 49 Cal.3d 74, 83.)
 
Here, the peace officer personnel records that Plaintiff
seeks in his Pitchess motion fall in the following three categories: 
 
 1.       All documents relating to the selection of
Sergeant Michael Knoke over Plaintiff for the LAPD SWAT Sergeant II + 3
position that Knoke was selected for in or around May of 2021, including but
not limited to: 
 
a.         The 15.88 Form, Training Evaluation and Management
System (“TEAMS”) Report, and the two performance evaluations submitted by
Sergeant Michael Knoke for the position; 
 
b.        The interview rating sheets completed by the oral
interview panel members pertaining to Sergeant Michael Knoke and Plaintiff for
the position; 
 
c.         Any ranking matrices pertaining to the position; 
 
d.        The Commanding Officer’s rationale for the selection
of Sgt. Knoke for the position; and 
 
e.         Any other documents relied upon to select Sgt. Knoke
and/or reject Plaintiff for the position. 
 
2.         The same of records, relating to the selection
of Sergeant Paul Hong over Plaintiff for the LAPD SWAT Sergeant II + 3 position
that Hong was selected for in or around July of 2021. 
 
3.        The Internal Affairs interviews (in any and all
formats in which they exist, including but not limited to, audio files and
transcripts) from any and all LAPD Internal Affairs investigations into the
allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint in this matter.”
 
 
In the Court’s view, Plaintiff
has shown good cause for disclosure of the records he is seeking through his Pitchess
motion. The affidavits supporting the motion establish a plausible factual foundation
for the materiality of the records to the Plaintiff’s retaliation claim.  In particular, Plaintiff’s requests in
categories 1 and 2 set forth above are limited to the records related to the two
officers whom Plaintiff alleges were selected over him for the position on the SWAT
team for which he applied, even though they were less qualified than the Plaintiff.  As to records in category 3,  Haggerty v. Superior Court (Guindazola)
(2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1087 establishes that an internal affairs
investigation directly related to the allegations in the litigation may be
disclosed through an order granting a Pitchess motion.
 
Finally, the Court observes
that Plaintiff is correct that the relevant statutes do not at present set a
temporal limit of five years on records sought through a Pitchess
motion.  Senate Bill 16 (2021-2022 Reg.
Sess.) 2021 Cal. Legis. Serv. ch. 402, § 1 deleted that limit and excluded form
disclosure in civil proceedings only “[f]acts ... that are so remote as to make
disclosure of little or no practical benefit.”
 
 
 
 