 Case Number:  23STCV10717    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
10-23-24
Case
#23STCV10717
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Johnson Electric, LLC, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs, Ernesto Flores, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint
·        
1st
Cause of Action: Negligence
·        
2nd
Cause of Action: Premises Liability
·        
3rd
Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
·        
4th
Cause of Action: Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
·        
5th
Cause of Action: Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation
·        
6th
Cause of Action: Fraud – Concealment
·        
7th
Cause of Action: Fraud – False Promise
·        
8th
Cause of Action: Constructive Fraud
·        
9th
Cause of Action: Negligent Misrepresentation
·        
10th
Cause of Action: Breach of Written Contract
·        
11th
Cause of Action: Breach of Oral Contract
·        
12th
Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Contract
·        
13th
Cause of Action: Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
·        
14th
Cause of Action: Promissory Estoppel
·        
15th
Cause of Action: Breach of Warranty of Habitability
·        
16th
Cause of Action: Breach of Duty to Maintain Habitable Conditions
·        
17th
Cause of Action: Breach of the Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
·        
18th
Cause of Action: Public Nuisance
·        
19th
Cause of Action: Private Nuisance
·        
20th
Cause of Action: Unfair Business Practices
·        
21st
Cause of Action: Loss of Consortium
 
Motion
to Strike Allegations in Support of, and Claim for, Punitive Damages
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiffs Ernesto Flores and Nayeli Quiroz were tenants of
2836 Frederick St., Los Angeles, a property owned and/or managed by Defendant
TGNPM, LLC. On April 26, 2021, TGNPM was notified of an electrical problem.
Defendant Kenneth Johnson visited the premises and allegedly  performed substandard electrical certain
work. Flores was subsequently electrocuted on May 14, 2021. 
 
On May 12, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a form complaint for
Premises Liability, and General Negligence. On February 21, 2024, the court
granted Plaintiff leave to file a first amended complaint. On February 22,
2024, Plaintiff filed a 21 cause of action first amended complaint for Negligence,
Premises Liability, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress, Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation, Fraud
– Concealment, Fraud – False Promise, Constructive Fraud, Negligent
Misrepresentation, Breach of Written Contract, Breach of Oral Contract, Breach
of Implied Contract, Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, Promissory Estoppel, Breach of Warranty of Habitability, Breach of
Duty to Maintain Habitable Conditions, Breach of the Implied Covenant of Quiet
Enjoyment, Public Nuisance, Private Nuisance, Unfair Business Practices, and Loss
of Consortium. 
 
The action was transferred from a personal injury court on April
19, 2024.
 
RULING
Demurrer:
Overruled in Part/Sustained in Part.
Defendant Johnson Electric, LLC and Kenneth Johnson
(Johnson) submits a demurrer to the entire first amended complaint: 21 causes
of action for Negligence, Premises Liability, Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress, Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, Fraud –
Intentional Misrepresentation, Fraud – Concealment, Fraud – False Promise, Constructive
Fraud, Negligent Misrepresentation, Breach of Written Contract, Breach of Oral
Contract, Breach of Implied Contract, Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing, Promissory Estoppel, Breach of Warranty of Habitability,
Breach of Duty to Maintain Habitable Conditions, Breach of the Implied Covenant
of Quiet Enjoyment, Public Nuisance, Private Nuisance, Unfair Business
Practices, and Loss of Consortium. Johnson challenges the action on grounds of
insufficient facts. The operative complaint itself alleges all claims against
all defendants without any acknowledgment of the various roles and
responsibilities among the parties. Plaintiffs in opposition maintain the
complaint sufficiently pleads all claims. Johnson in reply reiterates the
deficiently pled factual challenges. 
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules,
where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently
apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for
uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.] 
 
The parties group
the causes of action by certain commonalities. The demurrer itself offers
summary address of the elements in order to address all 21 causes of action
within the pagination limits.
 
1st
Cause of Action: Negligence
2nd
Cause of Action: Premises Liability
21st
Cause of Action: Loss of Consortium
Defendants
challenge the subject causes of action on grounds of lack of factual
sufficiency. Defendants identify the negligence cause of action as one for
“gross negligence” presumably based on the additional “grossly negligent”
allegation presented in support of the claim for punitive damages. [First
Amend. Comp., ¶ 29.]
 
The
court declines to render the three causes of action as one arising from or
exclusively based on “gross negligence.” While gross negligence in fact
requires a separate analysis, the identified claims still only arise in
negligence. The gross negligence allegation is not a separately pled cause of
action, and therefore should be addressed in a separately filed motion to
strike. (PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682-1683 [While a
demurrer is not the exclusive means to challenge a cause of action, a motion to
strike generally applies to parts of a cause of action, claim for damages, or
where the cause of action or primary right is barred as a matter of law.]; see Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006)
140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1281 [“Where a whole cause of action is the proper
subject of a pleading challenge, the court should sustain
a demurrer to the cause of action rather than grant
a motion to strike”].)
 
Defendants
otherwise offer no substantive challenge to the validity of the negligence
based claims. The demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
3rd
Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
Defendant
challenges the lack of facts supporting a finding of outrageous conduct.
Plaintiff counters that the actions of the security guard demonstrate the required
element.
 
The elements of [intentional infliction of
emotional distress] are ‘(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant
with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.’” (Ess v. Eskaton Properties, Inc. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 120, 129.) “The tort calls for
intentional, or at least reckless conduct—conduct intended to inflict injury or
engaged in with the realization that injury will result.” (Id. at p. 130.) “The modern rule is that there is liability for
conduct exceeding all bounds usually tolerated by a decent society, of a nature
which is especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental distress (citation).
‘Behavior may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation or
position which gives him power to damage the plaintiff's interest; (2) knows
the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts
intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to
result in illness through mental distress.’” (Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921.)
 
The electrical work performed without a permit and
subjecting to Flores to danger of electrocution constitutes sufficiently
outrageous conduct to support IIED. The demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
4th
Cause of Action: Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
“The
law of negligent infliction of emotional distress in California is typically
analyzed ... by reference to two ‘theories' of recovery: the ‘bystander’ theory
and the ‘direct victim’ theory.” (Burgess
v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1071.) Flores, as the victim,
apparently seeks recovery under direct victim theory. “[U]nless the defendant has assumed a duty to plaintiff in
which the emotional condition of the plaintiff is an object, recovery is
available only if the emotional distress arises out of the defendant's breach
of some other legal duty and the emotional distress is proximately caused by
that breach of duty. Even then, with rare exceptions, a breach of the duty must
threaten physical injury, not simply damage to property or financial interests.”
(Potter
v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993)
6 Cal.4th 965, 985.)
 
The operative complaint sufficiently establishes the basis for the
existence of a duty and resulting injury. Whether the emotional distress should
be subsumed within the negligence claim or separately pled is not considered
for purposes of the demurrer. The Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
5th
Cause of Action: Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation
6th
Cause of Action: Fraud – Concealment
7th
Cause of Action: Fraud – False Promise
8th
Cause of Action: Constructive Fraud
9th
Cause of Action: Negligent Misrepresentation
Defendants
challenge the subject causes of action on grounds of lack of factual
sufficiency. Plaintiffs maintain all are properly pled.
 
A
review of the operative complaint demonstrates a lack of any operative facts
meeting the heightened pleading standards for any and all fraud claims. A
series of conclusions with reliance on the negligence claim will not meet the
required standard of representation, omission, and reliance. The court will not
make the arguments for Plaintiff. The demurrer is SUSTAINED.
 
10th
Cause of Action: Breach of Written Contract
11th
Cause of Action: Breach of Oral Contract
12th
Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Contract
13th
Cause of Action: Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
Defendants
challenge the subject causes of action on grounds of lack of factual
sufficiency.
Defendants
challenge the subject causes of action on grounds of a lack of basis of
liability in that moving defendants are not alleged as owners or manager of the
subject property (e.g. no basis of contract between the parties). Plaintiffs
allege a contractual relationship based on beneficiary status.
 
While
an alleged beneficiary can bring a contract based action, the operative
complaint neither alleges any such relationship nor any actual contractual
terms. The court will not make the arguments for Plaintiff. The demurrer is
SUSTAINED.
 
14th
Cause of Action: Promissory Estoppel
The
complaint lacks any specific terms establishing a basis for estoppel. The court
will not make the arguments for Plaintiff. The demurrer is SUSTAINED.
 
15th
Cause of Action: Breach of Warranty of Habitability
16th
Cause of Action: Breach of Duty to Maintain Habitable Conditions
17th
Cause of Action: Breach of the Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
Defendants
challenge the subject causes of action on grounds of a lack of basis of
liability in that moving defendants are not alleged as owners or manager of the
subject property. Plaintiff relies on a claim that Defendants exercise of
control over the electrical repairs rendered them directors subject to
habitability liability. 
 
The
court finds a lack of support for liability based on performance of service
maintenance on a property. Nothing in the allegations establishes a basis of
liability for maintenance of habitability under the landlord tenant standard,
or otherwise establishes a basis of a “director” level position. (Green v.
Superior Court (1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 627l; Andrews v. Mobile Aire
Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 588; see Frances T. v. Village
Green Owners Assn. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 490, 503.) The court will not consider
Nevada law and ONLY relies on California law. The demurrer is SUSTAINED.
 
18th
Cause of Action: Public Nuisance
19th
Cause of Action: Private Nuisance
Defendants
challenge the claim as lacking sufficient facts establishing the electrical
work with a nuisance. A private nuisance arises from the interference with the
quiet use and enjoyment of land. (Oliver v. AT&T Wireless Services (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 521, 534.) “Anything which is injurious to health, including … an obstruction
to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment
of life or property…” constitutes a private nuisance. (Civ. Code, §§
3479, 3481.) “A nuisance may be both public and
private, but to proceed on a private nuisance theory the plaintiff must prove
an injury specifically referable to the use and enjoyment of his or her land.”
(Koll-Irvine
Center Property Owners Assn. v. County of Orange (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1041.) The court finds the
allegedly substandard work sufficiently alleges the basis of private nuisance,
but lacks any impacts beyond the premises and injuries to Plaintiff for
purposes of public nuisance. (Rincon Band of Luiseno Mission Indians
etc. v. Flynt (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 1059, 1100.) The demurrer is
OVERRULED as to private nuisance and SUSTAINED as to public nuisance.
 
20th
Cause of Action: Unfair Business Practices
Defendants
challenge the subject causes of action on grounds of lack of factual
sufficiency.
 
The UCL does not proscribe specific acts, but broadly
prohibits ‘any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and
unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising....’” [¶] “‘A private
plaintiff must make a twofold showing: he or she must demonstrate injury in
fact and a loss of money or property caused by unfair competition.’ (Citation.)” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1359.) Fact
specific pleading is not required in order to allege an unfair business
practice. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title
Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 46–47. 
 
An
“unlawful” practice “means any practices forbidden
by law, be it civil or criminal, federal, state, or municipal, statutory,
regulatory, or court-made.… ‘Unfair’ simply means any practice whose harm to
the victim outweighs its benefits. (Citation.) ‘Fraudulent,’ as used in the
statute, does not refer to the common law tort of fraud but only requires a
showing members of the public ‘“are likely to be deceived.”’” (Saunders v. Superior Court (1994)
27 Cal.App.4th 832, 838–839.) “[A]n unfair business practice also means”
the relied upon public policy provision is “tethered” to a specific regulatory
provisions. (Lueras v. BAC Home Loans
Servicing, LP (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 49, 81.) Fundamentally, recovery
requires a direct harm to the consumer, and actual reliance. (Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51
Cal.4th 310, 326–327.) 
 
The
operative complaint lacks any articulation of said business practices other
than improper electrical work at the behest of ownership and management. The
demurrer is SUSTAINED.
 
 
Motion to Strike: Moot/Granted.
Defendant moves to strike allegations in support of, and
claim for, punitive damages within first, second, third, fifth, sixth, seventh,
eighth, ninth, fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth, and twenty-first
causes of action. The motion is moot as to all causes of action sustained in
the demurrer. The court considers the remainder.
 
On the punitive damages claim, the court refers to the
statute. Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (c) authorizes punitive damages
upon a showing of malice, oppression, or fraud, which are defined as follows:
 
(1) “Malice” means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2) “Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.
(3) “Fraud” means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
Circle Graphics correctly argues that negligence based
claims in and of themselves generally will not support a punitive damages
claim. Plaintiff counters with general citation to the standard of recovery.
 
Punitive damages require more than the mere commission of a
tort. (See Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95.) Specific facts must be pled in support of
punitive damages. (Hillard v. A.H. Robins
Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-392.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient
to warrant an award of punitive damages. [Citation.] Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.
[Citation.]” (Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166, fn. Omitted [emphasis added].)
 
Any negligence based causes of action in and
of themselves will not support the claim for punitive damages. Plain
unintentional carelessness, characterized as negligence or recklessness, is not
sufficient to support punitive damages. (Nolin
v. National Convenience Stores, Inc. (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 285-286
[“Conduct classified only as unintentional carelessness, while it may
constitute negligence or even gross negligence, will not support an award of
punitive damages”]; G. D. Searle &
Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 32 (“When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant's conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge
malice”]; Dawes v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 87 [“Inasmuch as Civil Code section
3294 requires as a prerequisite to the recovery of punitive damages that the
defendant “has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice,” the cases have
uniformly recognized that proof of negligence, even gross negligence, or
recklessness is insufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages’]; Ebaugh v. Rabkin (1972) 22 Cal.App.3d
891; McDonell v. American Trust Co.
(1955) 130 CA2d 296, 300 [Awareness of a potential condition under a negligence
claim not sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages].)
 
The
first amended complaint reads as a series of statements regarding the allegedly
substandard work, without distinction between the conduct of the electrician
defendants and the landlord parties. It remains unclear as to ultimate
responsibility for purposes of finding punitive damages as to a contractor. (See White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 576–577; Cruz v. HomeBase (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 168.) The court therefore GRANTS
the motion to strike on the punitive damages claim.
 
The
demurrer is therefore overruled as to the Negligence, Premises Liability,
Intentional and Negligent Emotional Distress, Private nuisance and Loss of
Consortium causes of action. The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as
to the remainder. The motion to strike is moot in part and granted without
prejudice as to the remainder.
 
Plaintiffs
are given 30 days leave to amend. Plaintiff may ONLY amend the existing causes
of action and the punitive damages allegations in the identified causes of
action. Plaintiff may not add any new causes of action or damages claims. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) 
 
If Plaintiff declines or fails to
file a second amended complaint, moving defendants shall answer the operative complaint
within 10 days of the lapsed deadline. Any new causes of action or allegations
outside the scope of the order may be addressed via a motion to strike.
 
“In response to a demurrer and prior to the case being at
issue, a complaint or cross-complaint shall not be amended more than three
times, absent an offer to the trial court as to such additional facts to be
pleaded that there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to state
a cause of action. The three-amendment limit shall not include an amendment
made without leave of the court pursuant to Section 472, provided the amendment
is made before a demurrer to the original complaint or cross-complaint is
filed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (e)(1), see Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5,
subd. (e)(1).) This is the first review of the operative complaint.
 
Case Management Conference will be concurrently held.
 
Defendants to give notice. 
 
 