 Case Number:  24STCV04571    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
10-23-24 (specially set via 9-19-24 ex parte order)
Case
#24STCV04571
Trial
Date: Not Set/Not At Issue
 
SET ASIDE DEMURRER ORDER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiffs, Desai, et al. 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, Reliant Real Estate Management, Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Set Aside the Demurrer to the Complaint Sustained Without Leave to Amend
 
Joinder
of Reliant Real Estate Management, Inc. and Tribeca MDR Management, LLC
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On February 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a complaint for 1.
Violations of the Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act (“ICRAA”), Cal.
Civ. Code §§ 1786, et seq. 2. Invasion of Privacy, and 3. Declaratory Relief.
 
On May 13, 2024, a request for dismissal of Alondra Moreno
Lopez, Olivia Young, Dennis Young, Cesar Barraza, Ying Luan and Krista Parry,
was filed. On May 20, 2024, a dismissal of Eleanore Ryan. Madison Kim, Daniela
Kim. Tico Baloyan, Jessica Jayson, Jackson Lloyd, Scott Barlow, Christopher
Dziubak, Morgan Callahan, was filed. On May 21, 2024, a dismissal of Madison
Kim and Daniela Block was filed. On June 3, 2024, a dismissal of Tribeca MDR
Management, LLC was filed. 
 
On
August 27, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer of Reliant Real Estate
Management, Inc. with joinder of Tribeca MDR Management, LLC without leave to
amend. On September 3, 2024, the court entered the judgment.
 
RULING: Granted.
Plaintiffs
s Regina Walker, Angel Weber, Alondra Moreno Lopez, Sylvia Ramirez, Matthew
Ramirez, Mark Warburg, Prentice Morris, Kaeden Hoff, Olivia Young, Dennis
Young, Cesar Barraza, Eleanore Ryan, Madison Kim, Daniela Block, Tico Baloyan,
Jessica Jayson, Jackson Lloyd, Scott Barlow, Leonel Sanchez, Ying Luan, Sahil
Desai, Arnold Baek, Christopher Dziubak, Morgan Callahan, Ashley Carrell,
Angelica Herrador, Anthony Estrada, Rachel Bird, Felix Alonzo, Krista Parry,
Tiffany Coffman, Jaime Castaneda, and Adriel Sanders move to set aside the August
27, 2024, order sustaining the demurrer without leave to amend. Plaintiffs move
for leave on grounds that the mistake of handling attorney Glenn Murphy led to
the entry of the order dismissing the case. Plaintiffs also maintain Defendants
“took unfair advantage” of the absence of Plaintiffs’ counsel from the hearing.
Defendant Reliant Real Estate Management, Inc. in opposition maintains no
sufficient basis for relief is presented. Defendant requests a modification of
the order allowing the first and third causes of action to proceed in the
Orange County Superior Court action, and full dismissal of the second cause of
action for invasion of privacy. Defendant also requests attorney fees. Plaintiff
in reply contends the demurrer was brought with “unclean hands,” in that
Plaintiff reiterates the shift of responsibility for the order sustaining the
demurrer on the conduct of defense counsel. Plaintiffs maintain the remaining
parties should be allowed to proceed in the subject venue.
 
In
the order sustaining the demurrer, the court wrote, “Defendant, Reliant Real Estate Management, Inc. submits a demurrer to the
complaint on grounds of other pending actions, and failure to allege a claim
for invasion of privacy. Plaintiffs present NO SUBSTANTIVE OPPOSITION to the
demurrer regarding the other pending action(s) and only addresses the invasion
of privacy action. Defendant in reply notes the lack of opposition to the main
argument regarding previously filed other actions pending, and thereby contends
Plaintiffs waived any such challenge.” Counsel failed to appear for the
hearing, which led to the court sustaining the demurrer and the submission of a
judgment.
 
In sustaining the demurrer, the court cited to
abatement as the basis for sustaining the demurrer given the previously filed
actions involving at least some of the same parties over the same claims
transferred to the Orange County Superior Court—22STCV29738 and 23STCV26668, were
transferred to Orange County Superior Court on January 30, 2024, and February
15, 2024, respectively. (Code Civ. Proc., 430.10, subd. (c).) The court also
found Plaintiffs latest complaint constituted “forum shopping.” The court disfavors
such practices and therefore sustained the demurrer without leave to amend with
the instruction that “Plaintiffs may join ... either Orange County case,” as
necessary. 
 
Although
neither party addresses the actual standard for relief under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), leading authority requires a
determination of whether an effective default occurred based on the failure of
Plaintiffs’ counsel to appear for the hearing. “Similarly, under our view of
the statute, a dismissal may be entered where a plaintiff fails to appear in
opposition to a dismissal motion, and relief is afforded where that failure to
appear is the fault of counsel. The relief afforded to a dismissed plaintiff by
our reading of the statute is therefore comparable to the relief afforded a
defaulting defendant.” ’ [Citations.] This interpretation is consistent with
the statute's policy to put plaintiffs whose cases are dismissed for counsel's
failure to respond to the dismissal motion on the same footing as defendants
who have defaulted because of counsel's failure to respond. [Citation.] The
purpose of the statute is to relieve the hardship on those parties who have
lost their day in court solely because of counsel's inexcusable failure to
act.” (Pagnini v. Union Bank, N.A. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 298, 303.)
 
An argument can also be made for application of the
discretionary standard given an opposition was still filed. Thus, the order
sustaining the demurrer was the result of the incomplete opposition, rather
than an effective default. (Ayala v. Southwest Leasing & Rental, Inc. (1992)
7 Cal.App.4th 40, 44; Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th
1119, 1125; see The
Urban Wildlands Group, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 993, 1000; Prieto v. Loyola Marymount University (2005) 132
Cal.App.4th 290, 297; Henderson v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2010)
187 Cal.App.4th 215, 228–229; Las Vegas Land & Development Co., LLC v. Wilkie Way, LLC (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 1086, 1090-1091.) “A party seeking relief under section
473 on the grounds of excusable neglect bears the burden of demonstrating that
the neglect was excusable in order to secure relief. (Citation.) The
test of whether neglect was excusable is whether ‘“a reasonably prudent person
under the same or similar circumstances' might have made the same error.
[Citations.]”’” (Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th at p.
1128.) 
 
“While the motion
lies within the sound discretion of the trial court, ‘the trial court's
discretion is not unlimited and must be exercised in conformity with the spirit
of the law and in a manner to subserve and not to impede or defeat the ends of
substantial justice.’ (Citation.) The law strongly favors trial and disposition on the
merits. Therefore, any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor
of the party seeking relief. When the moving party promptly seeks relief and
there is no prejudice to the opposing party, very slight evidence is required
to justify relief. We will more carefully scrutinize an order denying relief
than one which permits a trial on the merits.” (Mink v. Superior Court , supra, 2 Cal.App.4th at p. 1343; Henderson v. Pacific Gas &
Electric Co., supra, 187
Cal.App.4th at pp. 229-230; Las Vegas Land & Development Co., LLC v. Wilkie Way, LLC,
supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at pp.
1092-1093.)
 
“In determining whether the attorney's mistake or
inadvertence was excusable, the court inquires whether a reasonably prudent
person might have made the same mistake under the same or similar
circumstances. (Citation.). Thus, discretionary
relief is available only from attorney error that is ‘fairly imputable to the
client, i.e., mistakes anyone could have made.’ [Citation.] ‘Conduct falling
below the professional standard of care, such as failure to timely object or to
properly advance an argument, is not therefore excusable. To hold otherwise
would be to eliminate the express statutory requirement of excusability and
effectively eviscerate the concept of attorney malpractice.’ 
…
“The terms mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and excusable
neglect warranting relief under section 473(b) are defined as follows: ‘Mistake
is not a ground for relief under section 473, subdivision (b), when ‘the court
finds that the “mistake” is simply the result of professional incompetence,
general ignorance of the law, or unjustifiable negligence in discovering the
law....’ (Citation.) Further, ‘[t]he term “surprise,” as used in section 473,
refers to some condition or situation in which a party ... is unexpectedly
placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of his own, which
ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.’ (Citation.) Finally, as
for inadvertence or neglect, ‘[t]o warrant relief under section 473 a
litigant's neglect must have been such as might have been the act of a
reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances. The inadvertence
contemplated by the statute does not mean mere inadvertence in the abstract. If
it is wholly inexcusable it does not justify relief.” (Citation.) (Henderson v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co., supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at pp. 229–230.) “Counsel's
failure to discharge routine professional duties is not excusable, nor is
counsel's failure to properly prepare for the hearing the conduct of a
reasonably prudent person.” (Generale Bank Nederland v. Eyes of the Beholder
Ltd. (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1402.)
 
A review of the circumstances indicates Plaintiffs’ counsel
clearly intended to appear at oral argument and oppose the motion on the
substantive merits of the motion. The limited written opposition and lack of
oral argument clearly impacted the decision on demurrer. If Plaintiffs’ counsel
were present, at a minimum, the court would have addressed argument regarding forum
shopping, and the issuance of an interlocutory judgment abating the proceedings.
The order instead resulted a potential unintended claim preclusion argument in
the Orange County actions should Plaintiffs seek to join any and all new,
indispensable parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 597; Plant Insulation Co. v.
Fibreboard Corp. (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 781, 787-788.) The public
policy standards for a trial on the merits support relief from the order
sustaining the demurrer and entry of judgment with prejudice given the
circumstances of an essentially unopposed motion. The court therefore GRANTS
the motion for relief regardless of the mandatory or discretionary relief
standard. 

Both parties appear amenable to amendment of the order rather than a rehearing.
The court declines to consider the argument from Plaintiff regarding proper
venue in that such discussion constitutes an improperly noticed motion for
reconsideration. The time for a motion for reconsideration lapsed. The court
only corrects the order sustaining the demurrer, and directs submission of an
interlocutory judgment in abatement in conformance with Code of Civil Procedure
section 597. All Plaintiffs and all causes of action shall be included in the
revised judgment. 
 
The court also imposes a penalty of $1,000 against
Plaintiffs’ counsel payable to Defense counsel for the additional attorney fees
incurred as a result of the admitted error. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(c)(1)(A).) Payable in 30 days.
 
Plaintiffs to give notice.
 