 Case Number:  23PSCV01092    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2023    Dept:  K Defendant Susan
Copenhaver, as Administrator of the Estate of Jeffrey L. Albrecht’s Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED. The court will hear from counsel for
Plaintiff as to whether leave to amend is requested, and as to which cause(s)
of action, and will require an offer of proof if so.
Background   
Plaintiff Sally Mack (“Plaintiff”)
sustained injuries after she was physically beaten by her then-boyfriend,
Jeffrey Lee Albrecht.
On April 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a complaint, asserting causes of action against the Estate of Jeffrey Lee
Albrecht and Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Battery
2.                 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
A Case Management
Conference is set for December 13, 2023.
Legal Standard
The rules
governing demurrers are generally applicable to a motion for judgment on the
pleadings. (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman
Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999; Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (d)
[“The grounds for motion. . . shall appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice. Where the motion is based on a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. . ., the matter shall be specified in the notice of motion, or
in the supporting points and authorities, except as the court may otherwise
permit”].)
A motion by a
plaintiff may only be made on the grounds “that the complaint states facts
sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action against the defendant and
the answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the
complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(A).) A motion by a defendant
may only be made on the grounds that (1) “[t]he court has no jurisdiction of
the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint” or (2) “[t]he
complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c).)
Although a
nonstatutory motion “may be made at any time either prior to the trial or at
the trial itself” (Stoops v. Abbassi
(2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650 [quotation marks and citation omitted]), a statutory
motion cannot be made after entry of a pretrial conference order or 30 days
before the initial trial date, whichever is later, unless the court otherwise
permits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (e).)
Discussion
Susan Copenhaver, as
Administrator of the Estate of Jeffery L. Albrecht (“Defendant”), moves the
court for judgment on the pleadings as to Plaintiff’s complaint. [1]
Request for
Judicial Notice
The court rules on
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) as follows: Granted as to
Exhibit A (i.e., register of actions in case styled Estate of Jeffrey L.
Albrecht, Case No. 23STPB00497 [“Probate Action”]); Granted as to Exhibit B
(i.e., Letters of Administration filed March 15, 2023 in the Probate Action);
Granted as to Exhibit C (i.e., Creditor’s Claim filed by Plaintiff on July 18,
2023 in the Probate Action) and Granted as to Exhibit D (i.e., Rejection of
Creditor’s Claim filed September 21, 2023 in the Probate Action).
Merits
Defendant first
asserts that the motion must be granted because Plaintiff has failed to allege
that she timely filed a claim and had it rejected prior to filing the
complaint. On April 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant complaint,
acknowledging therein that Jeffrey Albrecht had “recently passed away” and that
she intended to “bring[] this action against his estate.” (Complaint, ¶ 21).
Probate Code § 9351
provides that “[a]n action may not be commenced against a decedent's personal
representative on a cause of action against the decedent unless a claim[2]
is first filed as provided in this part and the claim is rejected in whole or
in part.” “Section 9351 precludes suit against an estate unless a claim has
first been filed with the estate and the claim has been rejected in whole or
part.” (Allen v. Stoddard (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 807, 813.) “An allegation of the filing of a claim [against the estate
of decedent] and the rejection thereof is necessary in an action against an
estate.” (Roach v. Hostetter (1941) 48 Cal.App.2d 375, 378.)
Plaintiff’s complaint is devoid of any allegations that a
claim was filed and rejected prior to filing the complaint. Defendant’s motion,
then, is granted on this basis.
Defendant next asserts that the motion must be granted
because Plaintiff failed to timely file a claim in the Probate Action or timely
petition the court for leave to file a late claim. Probate Code § 9100
provides, in relevant part, as follows:
            (a)        A creditor shall file a claim before expiration of the later
of the following
times:
(1)              
Four
months after the date letters are first issued to a general personal 
representative.
(2)              
Sixty
days after the date notice of administration is mailed or personally 
delivered
to the creditor. Nothing in this paragraph extends the time provided 
in Section
366.2 of the Code of Civil Procedure.”
Judicially
noticeable documents reflect that Letters of Administration were issued to the
personal representative (i.e., Defendant) on March 15, 2023 in the Probate
Action. (RJN, Exh. B.) On July 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed a creditor’s claim in
the Probate Action. (Id., Exh. C). Plaintiff was required to file her
claim by July 15, 2023 to comply with Probate Code § 9100. Plaintiff’s
creditor’s claim was rejected on September 21, 2023. (RJN, Exh. D).
Probate
Code § 9100, subdivision (a)(2) is not applicable here, inasmuch as Exhibit D
reflects that no Notice of Administration was ever served on Plaintiff;
however, “a potential creditor with actual notice of the pendency of estate
proceedings cannot excuse the untimely filing of a creditor’s claim on the
ground that the administrator failed to send a formal notice of administration
of the estate, as required by Probate Code section 9050.” (Venturi v. Taylor
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 16, 18).
In Venturi,
plaintiff creditor sued defendant estate administrators for breach of contract
after they rejected his creditor’s claim. Defendant filed a motion for summary
judgment, which the trial court granted on the ground that plaintiff failed to
file a timely claim against the estate, or to file a timely petition for leave
to file a late claim, even though plaintiff had actual knowledge that the
estate proceeding was pending. The trial court ruled that defendants’ failure
to give plaintiff and/or his counsel statutory notice of the administration of
the estate did not extend plaintiff’s time to file his creditor’s claim beyond
the time periods set forth in Probate Code § 9100, subdivision (a) or § 9103,
subdivision (a).[3]
The court of appeal affirmed:
We construe together section 9051
concerning the time the personal 
representative must give notice to
the creditor and section 9100 concerning 
when a creditor must file a claim.
If a personal representative has given 
notice of administration of the
estate within four months after the date 
letters are first issued or less
than thirty days before expiration of said 
four-month period, the creditor must
file the claim before expiration of the 
later of the following times: 1)
four months after the date letters are first 
issued to the personal
representative or 2) thirty days after the date notice of administration is
given to the creditor. (§§ 9051, subds. (a), (b); 9100, subd. (a)(1) & (2).)
If, however, a personal
representative first has knowledge of a creditor after 
expiration of the four-month period
provided in subdivision (a) of section 
9051, the personal representative
must still give notice to the creditor within 
thirty days after receipt of said
knowledge. (§ 9051, subd. (c).) If, as here, the 
personal representative fails to
give the required notice, the remedy is not to 
judicially engraft upon the
statutory scheme an open-ended period in which to 
file a claim against the estate. The
creditor's remedy, when its claim is denied 
as untimely, is to petition the
court to file a late claim under section 9103. . . 
 
(Id. at 25).  
Here, Plaintiff had actual notice of the Probate Action no
later than July 18, 2023, the date she filed her creditor’s claim. Plaintiff’s
remedy, when the claim was denied, was to petition the court to file a later
claim under Probate Code § 9103, which she has not done. (RJN, Exh. A).
The motion is granted on this basis.
As an aside, the court addresses Plaintiff’s contention that
she is permitted to apply the later of the creditor’s claim filing deadline of
Probate Code § 9100 et seq. or the one-year statute of limitations in Code of
Civil Procedure § 366.2. This contention is incorrect:
Timely filing of a creditor’s claim
is the prerequisite to maintaining an 
action on a rejected claim. [Prob.
C. § 9351; see Van Ort v. Estate of 
Stanewich (9th Cir. 1996) 92
F.3d 831, 841—filing suit against estate is not 
equivalent to filing claim in
probate]
But
the Probate Code claim-filing period should not be confused with the
general
statutes of limitations governing the time for commencement of a 
civil
suit.
 
Applicable
statutes of limitations on filing suit are separate and distinct from 
the
Probate Code claim-filing period. Indeed, a creditor's claim barred by a 
generally
applicable statute of limitations may not be allowed by the personal
representative or approved by the court. [Prob. C. §§ 9253, 9103(f)]. 
 
Ross
and Cohen, CAL. PRAC. GUIDE: PROBATE (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 8:25.
 
Further,
Plaintiff’s citation to Embree v. Embree (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 487 actually
supports Defendant’s position. In Embree, a decedent’s ex-wife sought to
enforce the terms of a marital settlement agreement that obligated decedent to
pay $1,800.00 in monthly spousal support until ex-wife remarried or ex-wife or
decedent died and further provided that, in the event decedent predeceased
ex-wife, a trust or annuity would be established to provide ex-wife $1,800.00/month
for as long as ex-wife lived. After decedent died, all of his known property
was distributed pursuant to the terms of his revocable living trust without the
creation of a trust or annuity for ex-wife; thus, there was no probate
proceeding. Ex-wife thereafter sought to recover against decedent’s trust
beneficiaries, filing a lawsuit against them more than a year after decedent’s
death. The trial court dismissed the action as time barred, and the court of
appeal affirmed, finding that the action as time-barred by Code of Civil
Procedure § 366.3. The court of appeal further determined that: 
 
[e]ven
if we were to agree with [ex-wife] that she is seeking to enforce a spousal 
support judgment, for all practical purposes the result is
the same: The property distributed to the beneficiaries of Alvin's revocable
living trust is not available to 
satisfy her support judgment because she failed to file her
claim within one year of Alvin's death. . .
 
Except with respect to liens that have already been executed,
any judgment creditor seeking to satisfy its money judgment with property of
the decedent must file a 
timely claim in the probate proceeding (Prob. Code, § 9100)
or in connection with 
a trust claims procedure (Prob. Code, § 19103), if one has
been initiated. . . If both 
the estate and trust are insufficient to satisfy the
judgment, a judgment creditor that 
has preserved its claim by filing a timely claim may pursue
trust property distributed 
to the beneficiaries of the decedent's revocable living trust
to the same extent the 
property would have been available to satisfy the judgment
during the decedent 
settlor's lifetime. . . Failure to file a timely claim in the
probate or trust claims 
proceeding forever bars the creditor from recovering against
the property of the 
decedent, whether or not distributed. (Prob. Code, §§ 9002
[probate] 19004 
[trust]. . .)
 
If no probate or trust claims procedure has been initiated,
however, as in the case 
at bar, the short limitations periods applicable to claims
filed in probate or trust 
claims proceedings do not apply; and the availability of
trust property to any 
creditor of the deceased settlor ‘shall be as otherwise
provided by law.’ (Prob. Code, 19008). Probate Code section 19400, in turn,
permits a creditor to proceed against property distributed to the beneficiaries
of the judgment debtor’s revocable living 
trust, subject to the one-year limitation period of section
366.2. . .
 
While acknowledging that, upon Alvin's death, her right to
reach property in Alvin's revocable living trust to enforce the spousal support
judgment would have been contingent on filing a timely claim in a probate or
trust claims proceeding if either 
had been initiated, Joanne contends that, in the absence of
those proceedings, she 
can satisfy her judgment against property left by Alvin to
his heirs at any time. . . 
[ex-wife’s] argument reads far too much into Family Code
section 4502. . . nothing 
in Family Code section 4502. . . supercedes Probate Code
section 19400’s 
procedural requirements intended to protect beneficiaries who
have received 
property pursuant to the terms of a living revocable trust in
instances when there 
was no probate or trust claims proceeding. . . 
 
(Id. at 493-495).
 
Embree, then, reflects that the filing of a
creditor’s claim in a probate action is mandatory and that, in the absence of a
probate proceeding, claims are still subject to the one-year statute of
limitations set forth in Probate Code § 366.2.
Plaintiff’s reliance on Levine v. Levine (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 1256, moreover, is misplaced. In Levine, a decedent had
established UTMA accounts for his grandchildren, but subsequently withdrew the
money from those funds approximately four years before his death. The
grandchildren sued decedent’s widow in her capacity as beneficiary of the
irrevocable trust which held title to the bulk of decedent’s estate. There had
been no proceeding to administer decedent’s estate and no notice to creditors. The
trial court sustained widow’s demurrer without leave to amend on statute of
limitations grounds. The grandchildren then attempted to recoup the funds from
the trust and filed an amended complaint naming it and widow in her capacity as
trustee, but the court granted a motion to quash and ordered the case dismissed
on the basis that “a demurrer was sustained without leave to amend on May 18,
2001 as to the same parties.” The court of appeal affirmed. Levine
confirmed that the timely filing of a claim in the probate case tolls Probate
Code § 366.2. (Id. at 1261).
Finally, Defendant asserts that the motion must be granted
because Plaintiff has failed to name the proper party. Indeed, “[t]he ‘estate’ of
a decedent is not an entity known to the law. It is neither a natural nor an
artificial person. It is merely a name to indicate the sum total of the assets
and liabilities of a decedent, or of an incompetent, or of a bankrupt. In order
for a civil action to be prosecuted, there must be some existing entity aimed
at by the processes of the law, and against whom the court's judgment will
operate.” (Tanner v. Best’s Estate (1940) 40 Cal.App.2d 442, 445.)
The motion is granted on this basis as well.


