  Case Number:  22PSCV00498    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2023    Dept:  K Counsel for Defendant Junqin Liu’s (i.e.,
Ecoff Campaign Tilles & Kay, LLP) Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED, effective upon the
filing of the proof
of service showing service of the signed order upon the Client at the Client’s
last known address.
Background   
Plaintiff Lee & Lee, LLC (“Plaintiff”) alleges as
follows:
Plaintiff owns the property located at
929-937 Radecki Court, City of Industry, California, 91748 (“subject
property”). On or about July 3, 2018, Plaintiff, as landlord, rented the
subject property to IFC, as tenant, via a written lease agreement (“Lease”).
Jungin Liu signed the Lease on IFC’s behalf and also executed a guaranty. IFC
was subsequently evicted in an unlawful detainer action.
On May 23,
2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting a cause of action against Jungin
Liu and
Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Breach of Written Guaranty
On June 24, 2022, Plaintiff filed an “Amendment to
Complaint,” wherein the name of “Jungin Liu” was corrected to “Junqin Liu.”
The Final Status Conference is set for March 5, 2024. Trial
is set for March 19, 2024.
Discussion
Ecoff Campaign
Tilles & Kay, LLP (“Firm”) seeks to be relieved as counsel of record
for Junqin Liu (“Client”).
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See
Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.)
California
Rule of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice of motion and motion
directed to the client (made on the Notice
of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under section
284(1) (made on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). The court may delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the client has been filed with the court.
Attorney Lawrence Ecoff (“Ecoff”) represents as follows: “There
has been a complete breakdown of the attorney-client relationship. Counsel is
unable to communicate with client, who has become unresponsive to counsel and
has not responded to any communications from counsel's office. The client has
breached the terms of the attorney-fee agreement by failing to honor the
payment obligation under the fee agreement. Counsel has made repeated requests
that the client honor the terms of the fee agreement, but the client has failed
to comply. . .”
Ecoff states that he has served the Client by mail at the Client’s last
known address with copies of the motion papers served with his declaration and
that he has confirmed, within the past 30 days, that the address is current, as
follows: “Counsel conducted a search on Lexis Nexis Public Records, and
obtained a SmartLinx Person Report for the client. The SmartLinx Person Report
confirmed a current address of 19351 Legacy Place, Rowland Heights, CA 91748
for the client. Counsel was able to confirm that the ‘Junqin Liu’ identified in
the SmartLinx Person Report is the client because the SmartLinx Person Report
lists Business Connections, which counsel knows are associated with the
client.” Ecoff has attached a copy of relevant portions of the SmartLinx Person
Report as Exhibit “A.”
The court
determines that the requirements of Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 enumerated above have been
sufficiently met.
Accordingly,
the motion is granted, effective upon the filing of the
proof of service
showing service of the signed
order upon the Client at the Client’s last known address. 