 Case Number:  23PSCV01085    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2023    Dept:  K Defendant Ha Le’s Demurrer
to Verified Complaint is SUSTAINED in part (i.e., as to the first and third causes
of action) and OVERRULED in part (i.e., as to the second and fourth through eighth
causes of action). The court will hear from counsel for Plaintiff as to whether
leave to amend is requested, and as to which cause(s) of action, and will
require an offer of proof if so.
Background   
Plaintiff Nam Tuan Ngo (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Plaintiff told Ha Le (“Le”) in December
2013 that she wanted to purchase a manufactured home commonly known as 901 S.
Sixth Avenue, Space 284, Hacienda Heights, CA 91745 (“Manufactured Home.”) Le
told Plaintiff that she would be unable to hold title to same because she was
in the United States on a student visa. Plaintiff asked Le to assist her with
the purchase of the Manufactured Home by holding title on her behalf. Le
agreed. Plaintiff thereafter purchased the Manufactured Home from David Davila
(“Seller”) and Seller transferred title to Le. Plaintiff has lived in the
Manufactured Home since April 2014 and has paid the lot rent and property
taxes. From 2018-2020, Plaintiff gave money to Le to invest in the stock market
on her behalf. Le subsequently told Plaintiff that her monies had been lost due
to the investments’ poor performance. Le has refused to transfer title to the
Manufactured Home and all assets obtained with Plaintiff’s entrusted funds to
Plaintiff. On March 2, 2023, Plaintiff found papers taped to the door of the
Manufactured Home which stated that Li Wang (“Wang”) was the new owner of the
Manufactured Home, that Wang was Plaintiff’s landlord, that Wang would be
inspecting the Manufactured Home on March 4, 2023 and that Plaintiff’s alleged
tenancy was terminated.
On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action
against Le, Wang, all persons unknown, claiming any legal or equitable
right, title, estate, lien, or interest in the property described in the
complaint adverse to Plaintiff’s title, or any cloud upon Plaintiff’s title
thereto and Does 1-20 for:
1.                 
Action to
Establish Resulting Trust
2.                 
Action to
Quiet Title
3.                 
Breach of
Contract
4.                 
Promissory
Estoppel
5.                 
Breach of
Fiduciary Duty
6.                 
Conversion
7.                 
Trespass
to Chattels
8.                 
Action
for Accounting 
On August 8, 2023, Wang’s default was entered.
A Case Management Conference is set for November 7, 2023.
Legal Standard
A demurrer may be made on the grounds that
the pleading, inter alia, does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)
When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the
pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to
apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App.
3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the construction placed
on an instrument pleaded therein, or facts impossible in law, or allegations
contrary to facts of which a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226
Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].)

Discussion
Le demurs, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 430.10, subdivision (e), to the first through eighth causes of
action on the basis that they each fail to state facts sufficient to constitute
causes of action.
At the outset, the court notes that Le’s
demurrer references numerous alleged facts which are extrinsic to the face of
Plaintiff’s complaint and thus improper for consideration on demurrer. Counsel
for Le is admonished in this regard.
Merits
Statute of Limitations
Le asserts that all of Plaintiff’s causes of action
are time-barred. “A general demurrer based on the statute of limitations is only
permissible where the dates alleged in the complaint show that the action is
barred by the statute of limitations.” (Roman v. County of Los Angeles
(2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 315, 324.)
“The
running of the statute must appear ‘clearly and affirmatively’ from the dates
alleged. It is not sufficient that the complaint might be barred. If the dates establishing the
running of the statute of limitations do not clearly appear in the complaint,
there is no ground for general demurrer.” (Id. at 324-325 [citation
omitted].)
Plaintiff has
alleged, in relevant part, that in December 2013, Plaintiff communicated to Le
that he intended to purchase the subject property (Complaint, ¶ 6); that Le
told Plaintiff that Plaintiff would be unable to hold title to the subject
property because Plaintiff was in the United States on a student visa (Id.,
¶ 7); that Plaintiff, relaying on Le’s statement, asked Le to assist with
Plaintiff’s purchase of the subject property by holding title to same on
Plaintiff’s behalf, which Le agreed to do (Id., ¶ 8); that Plaintiff
paid the full purchase price of the subject property to seller in February 2014
(Id., ¶ 11); that seller thereafter transferred title to the subject
property to Le in or about April 2014 (Id., ¶ 12); that Plaintiff has
resided in the subject property from April 2014 to the present and has paid the
lot rent and local property taxes during said time (Id., ¶¶ 14, 16 and
17); that beginning in 2018 and continuing through 2020, Plaintiff and Le
agreed that Le would invest Plaintiff’s money in the stock market on
Plaintiff’s behalf (Id., ¶¶ 18 and 19); that upon Plaintiff’s subsequent
inquiry to Le regarding how his investments were performing, Le stated that
Plaintiff’s entrusted funds had been lost due to the investments’ poor
performance (Id., ¶ 21); that following the alleged loss of Plaintiff’s
entrusted funds to Le, Plaintiff demanded that Le transfer title to the subject
property and remaining stocks identified in Paragraph 23 to Plaintiff, but Le
failed to do so (Id., ¶ 24); and that on March 2, 2023, Plaintiff found
papers taped to his door which indicated that Wang was the new owner of the
subject property and Plaintiff’s landlord, that Wang would be inspecting the
subject property on March 4, 2023 and that Plaintiff’s alleged tenancy was
terminated. (Id., ¶ 26).
Le argues that
“Plaintiff has failed to plead dates” in the complaint so as “to avoid time
bars.” (Demurrer, 6:20-21 [see also 7:13-16 [“specific dates were not provided
in the complaint . .
.[n]o specific dates were provided in order to determine the applicable
statute”]; 10:10-11 [“Plaintiff fails to plead dates as to when such breach
occurred”]; 11:2-3 [“Plaintiff failed to state when such funds specifically
were entrusted and when such were lost”). Le, however, does not point to any
dates alleged in the complaint which “clearly and affirmatively” reflect that
any statutes of limitations have run.
Further, Le’s
argument that Plaintiff’s quiet title action is time-barred because it
commenced running from April 4, 2014 (i.e., the date as of which the
determination is sought) (see Complaint, ¶ 48) is nonsensical because, as
Plaintiff states, the statute of limitations could not have commenced running before
the time Plaintiff’s property rights were allegedly violated (Opp., 8:23-26). “An
outstanding adverse claim, which amounts only to a cloud upon the title, is a
continuing cause of action, and is not barred by lapse of time, until the
hostile claim is asserted in some manner to jeopardize the superior title. So
long as the adverse claim lies dormant and inactive the owner of the superior
title may not be incommoded by it and has the privilege of allowing it to stand
indefinitely. Each day's assertion of such adverse claim gives a renewed cause
of action to quiet title until such action is brought.” (Kumar v. Ramsey
(2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 1110, 1122 [internal quotations and citation
omitted].)  Plaintiff has alleged that
the hostile claim was asserted on March 2, 2023 when Plaintiff received notice
of Wang’s claim to the subject property. (Complaint, ¶ 26).
The court, then, overrules
Le’s demurrer on statute of limitations grounds.
The court
addresses Le’s other arguments as follows:
First Cause of Action (i.e., Action to
Establish Resulting Trust)
Le next argues that a resulting trust
is not a cause of action. Le is correct; a resulting trust is not a cause of
action, but a remedy. (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59,
76.) Le’s demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained on this basis.
Second Cause of Action (i.e., Action to
Quiet Title)
Le argues that
Plaintiff has failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
for quiet title.
A cause of action
for quiet title requires (1) a legal description and street address of the
subject property; (2) the title of the plaintiff as to which a determination is
sought and the basis of the title; (3) the adverse claims to the title of the
plaintiff against which a determination is sought; (4) the date as of which the
determination is sought and (5) a prayer for the determination of the title of
the plaintiff against the adverse claims. (Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020.) The
complaint must also be verified. (Id.)
At a minimum, Plaintiff
has set forth the above elements in Paragraphs 43-48 and Paragraph 3 of the
prayer. Plaintiff’s complaint is verified. Le’s demurrer to the second cause of
action is overruled.
Third Cause of Action (i.e., Breach of
Contract)
Le argues that Plaintiff’s third cause
of action fails to identify whether the agreement was written or oral and that
it also violates the Statute of Frauds. Plaintiff’s first argument is
essentially a Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10, subdivision (g) argument. The
court agrees that Plaintiff has failed to allege whether or not Plaintiff and
Le’s agreement regarding Le’s investment of Plaintiff’s monies in the stock
market was oral or written. Le’s demurrer to the third cause of action is
sustained on this basis. The court disagrees, however, with Le’s Statute of
Frauds argument, in that the allegations do not necessarily reflect that the
agreement was “such that its terms may not be completed within a year.”
Fourth Cause of Action (i.e., Promissory
Estoppel)
“The elements of
a promissory estoppel claim are (1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its
terms; (2) reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) [the]
reliance must be both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting
the estoppel must be injured by his reliance.” (US Ecology, Inc. v.
State of California (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 887, 901 [citation and internal
quotations omitted].)
Le has addressed
only the first element of this cause of action, i.e., that there was no “clear
and unambiguous” promise by Le. This allegation, however, is set forth in
Paragraph 57. Le’s demurrer, then, is overruled.
Fifth Cause of Action (i.e., Breach of
Fiduciary Duty)
“The elements of a cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its
breach, and damage proximately caused by that breach.” (City of Atascadero
v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
445, 483.)
Le argues that Plaintiff has failed to
plead when or how a fiduciary duty was established. Not so. Plaintiff has
alleged that Plaintiff and Le agreed “[o]n or about December 2013” that Le
“would act as Plaintiff’s agent. . .” (Complaint, ¶ 65). Le’s demurrer to the
fifth cause of action is overruled.
Sixth Cause of Action (i.e.,
Conversion)
The elements of conversion are “(1) the
plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2) the
defendant's disposition of the property in a manner that is inconsistent with
the plaintiff's property rights; and (3) resulting damages.” (Regent
Alliance Ltd. v. Rabizadeh (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1181 [citation and
internal quotations omitted].)
Le argues that Plaintiff has not pled
any wrongful acts by Le which are inconsistent with Plaintiff’s property
rights. Plaintiff, however, has alleged that Le continues to possess certain
stock belonging to Plaintiff (identified as “Remaining Assets”) and refuses
Plaintiff’s demand to transfer them to him. (Complaint, ¶¶ 23, 24 and 76-79).
Le’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action is overruled.
Seventh Cause of Action (i.e., Trespass
to Chattels)
Trespass to chattel “lies where an
intentional interference with the possession of personal property has
proximately caused injury.” (Thrifty-Tel, Inc. v. Bezenek (1996) 46
Cal.App.4th 1559, 1566.)
Le argues that Plaintiff has not pled
interference. This is incorrect, at least as it relates to the Remaining
Assets. (Complaint, ¶¶ 85-88). Le’s demurrer to the seventh cause of action is
overruled.
Eighth Cause of Action (i.e., Action
for Accounting)
Le argues, without more (i.e., in addition to
the statute of limitations addressed above), that Plaintiff’s eighth cause of
action is subject to demurrer on the basis that it fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute causes of action and that a “[l]ack of writing
violates Statute of Frauds.” (Demurrer, 4:11-16). Le’s position is unsupported
by any further analysis of legal argument. Le’s
demurrer to the eighth cause of action is overruled.