 Case Number:  KC070042    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Bharat
Patel, et al. v. Dr. Prakash Patel 
Defendants
Dr. Prakash Patel and Hardika Patels’ Motion for Refund of Moneys Paid by Defendants
to Plaintiffs 
TENTATIVE
RULING
The Court DENIES the motion for refund of moneys paid by Defendants to Plaintiffs.
              Plaintiffs Bharat Patel and Dinesh
Patel are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar
days of the Court’s order. 
BACKGROUND
This is a real property dispute. On February 14, 2018, Plaintiffs Bharat
Patel (Bharat) and Dinesh Patel (Dinesh) (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this
action (KC070042) against Dr. Prakash Patel and Does 1 through 10, alleging
causes of action for breach of settlement agreement and fraud. On March 16,
2020, Prakash Patel (Prakash) and Hardika Patel (Hardika) (collectively,
Defendants) filed a separate action (20STCV10801) against Bharat Patel, Dinesh
Patel, and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for voiding and
rescission of first settlement agreement, voiding and rescission of second
settlement agreement, voiding and rescission of third settlement agreement,
fraud (misrepresentation), fraud (false promise), fraud (concealment),
negligent misrepresentation, voiding and rescission of first settlement
agreement (fraud), voiding and rescission of second settlement agreement
(fraud), and voiding and rescission of third settlement agreement (fraud). The
actions were later consolidated on June 23, 2020, with KC070042 being
designated as the lead case. 
On July 27, 2020, Bharat and Dinesh filed a cross-complaint
against Prakash and Hardika. The current operative pleading is the Second
Amended Cross-Complaint, filed on March 13, 2023, which alleges causes of
action for breach of settlement agreement, fraud (misrepresentation), fraud
(concealment), conspiracy to commit fraud, and declaratory relief. 
On October 10, 2022, the Court entered summary judgment in favor
of Bharat and Dinesh on Prakash and Hardika’s complaint. 
On January 19, 2024, after a four-day non-jury trial, concurrent
with a jury trial, the Court issued a statement of decision in favor of Plaintiffs.
On January 30, 2024, Defendants filed a motion for refund of moneys paid by
Defendants to Plaintiffs. On February 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.
On February 27, 2024, Defendants filed a reply. 
DISCUSSION 
Summary of Arguments 
Defendants seek an order from the Court for a refund
from the Plaintiffs in the amount of $75,836.88 for moneys they paid Plaintiffs
in connection with the subject property. Defendants contend they are entitled
to this money since the Court awarded judgment of specific performance in favor
of Plaintiffs, which should put the parties back into the same positions as if
the contract had been performed. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend they are entitled
to an accounting comprised of incidental damages to make them whole and placed
back in the position they would have been in February 2020. Plaintiffs contend
they have been damaged in terms of interest they have paid on various loans
over the past few years, along with taxes, maintenance, and property insurance,
among other expenses incurred. 
In reply, Defendants reiterate their argument that
specific performance puts the parties back to the prior positions as if the
contract had been performed. They contend Plaintiffs cannot obtain both
specific performance and damages for breach of contract. They also contend
Plaintiffs are not entitled to an accounting, as the time for that was at
trial, which has since concluded. Defendants then argue the Court has equitable
power to vacate the Court’s order regarding expenses to be paid by Hardika in
accordance with the specific performance decree. 
Analysis 
The Court notes that Defendants’ motion does not cite any
statutes or other procedural law as the basis for this motion, and thus it is
unclear under what legal authority Defendants may bring it. The Court further
notes that judgment was entered in this case on February 20, 2024. (Judgment
(2/20/24).) Given the entry of judgment, and the parties’ continued dispute
over who bears responsibility for which payments and reimbursements, the Court
construes Defendants’ motion as a motion to amend the judgment. 
“While a court has power to correct mistakes in its
records and proceedings, and to set aside judgments and orders inadvertently
made, which are not actually the result of the exercise of judgment, it has no
power, having once made its decision after regular submission, to set aside or
amend for judicial error. [Citations.]” (Stevens v. Superior Ct. in
& for San Joaquin Cnty. (1936) 7 Cal.2d 110, 112.) 
As noted above, the Court entered judgment in this matter
on February 20, 2024. (Judgment (2/20/24).) The parties here do not seek for
the Court to correct minor issues in the judgment. Rather, they seek  for the Court to make further awards with
respect to compensation between each other. As Defendants correctly argue in
their reply, it is too late to raise these issues, especially now that the
judgment has been entered. (See Stevens, supra, 7 Cal.2d at p. 112.) This
applies equally to Defendants. 
Moreover, Defendants present no evidence that the
judgment was inadvertently made or that it was not the result of the exercise
of judgment. (See Stevens, supra, 7 Cal.2d at p. 112.) In fact, the
decision upon which the judgment was entered was made after a four-day non-jury
trial. (Statement of Decision (1/19/24).) Defendants present no evidence of
errors at trial or in the proceedings of the trial either. The judgment has
been entered and it cannot be changed for the reasons Defendants seek. 
Further, Defendants ask the Court to exercise its
equitable power and authority to put the parties back in the position as if the
escrow had been completed and to reverse the prior Court’s order directing Defendant
Hardika to pay one half of the expenses related to the subject Bentley Way
property. Even if the Court could do so – which it cannot, the Court would not
award Defendants a refund of the monies Hardika was ordered to pay. Such order
resulted from Defendants’ refusal to complete the sale of the subject property
after they had agreed to do so and after they received a portion of the
benefits of such agreement. The Court does not find it equitable to reward
Defendants for breaching such agreement. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion.  
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion for refund of moneys paid by
Defendants to Plaintiffs. 
             Plaintiffs Bharat Patel and Dinesh
Patel are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar
days of the Court’s order.