  Case Number:  21PSCV01054    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Claire
He Yi v. Daniel W. Kennedy, et al. 
Plaintiff
Claire He Yi’s Motion to Continue Trial Date and All Related Dates 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff Claire He Yi’s motion to
continue trial date and all related dates. The trial date of April 23, 2024 and
the Final Status Conference for April 9, 2024 are hereby advanced and vacated.
The Court will set new trial and Final Status Conference dates at the hearing
on this motion. 
            Plaintiff Claire He Yi is ordered to
give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This action revolves around an investment dispute. On December 16,
2021, plaintiff Claire He Yi (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Daniel
W. Kennedy, IV, Juliet Ru-Yi Chung, Diana Yi Wei Cheng, Rosemary F. Kennedy,
Vanessa Yao Guo (Guo), Hongmei Jin, Kennedy Capital Partners International,
Inc. (Kennedy Capital), Gosdom Inc., Gosdom Entertainment Inc. (Gosdom Inc.), Gosdom
Entertainment LLC (Gosdom LLC), Gosdom Entertainments, LLC, Base FX, Inc.,
Production Capital LLC, Production Capital Corp., Production Capital
Entertainment, Inc., Kevin W Robl, Will Yun Lee (collectively, Defendants), and
Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for fraud – intentional
misrepresentation, fraud- negligent misrepresentation, fraud – concealment, fraud
– false promise, common law conspiracy, breach of written contract (note), breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, promissory estoppel,
breach of fiduciary duty, fraud – constructive, conversion, account stated,
money had and money received, unfair business practices Business &
Professions Code § 17200 et seq., and unjust enrichment. 
On February 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to continue trial
and all related dates. On February 22, 2024, Defendants Guo, Gosdom Inc., and
Gosdom LLC (collectively, Gosdom Defendants) filed an opposition. On the same
date, Defendants Daniel W. Kennedy, Juliet Ru-Yi Chung, Diana Yi Wei Cheng,
Rosemary F. Kennedy, Kennedy Capital Partners International, Inc., and Hongmei
Jin (collectively, Kennedy Defendants) filed a limited opposition. Plaintiff
did not file a reply. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
(1) The unavailability of an essential lay or expert
witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(2) The unavailability of a party because of death,
illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but only where
there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the
interests of justice; 
(5) The addition of a new party if: 
(A) The new party has not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or 
(B) The other parties have not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new
party's involvement in the case; 
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in the status
of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subd. (c).) 
In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
(1) The proximity of the trial date; 
(2) Whether there was any previous continuance,
extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; 
(3) The length of the continuance requested; 
(4) The availability of alternative means to address
the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance; 
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential trial
setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a continuance
outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of granting a
continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another
trial; 
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; 
(10) Whether the interests of justice are best served
by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the
continuance; and 
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subd. (d).) 
“Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing of good
cause requiring a continuance.” (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.) A trial court has broad discretion in
considering a request for a trial continuance. (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.) 
DISCUSSION             
Summary of Arguments 
Plaintiff seeks a trial continuance of approximately one year to
permit the parties to conduct further discovery, namely depositions, and
thereby prepare for trial, as well as possibly mediate this matter. Plaintiff
contends she will be prejudiced if forced to take depositions shortly before
trial in light of the prior discovery disputes in this action that lasted
approximately seven months. Plaintiff argues that depositions have not been
conducted due to scheduling conflicts and that the parties did not have a
chance to mediate the dispute. Plaintiff also indicates that she is still
waiting for subpoenaed documents from third-party banking institutions. 
Plaintiff otherwise notes the proximity of the current trial date
of April 23, 2024, that there were no prior trial continuances in this matter, and
that a continuance to February or March 2025 would allow sufficient time for
the parties to finish discovery, conduct a meaningful mediation, and engage in
a meaningful settlement negotiation. Plaintiff also contends there are no
alternative means available to address the problem and that the interests of
justice warrant the requested continuance. 
In opposition, the Gosdom Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s motion
is untimely per Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b). They
further argue that Plaintiff’s motion provides no explanation for the delay in
conducting depositions, and they express concern about Plaintiff requesting a
one-year continuance when Plaintiff has not clarified how she intends to
address the outstanding depositions and discovery, for which she is
responsible. They also argue that a one-year continuance would impose a
significant burden, as it would require them to allocate additional resources
toward defending this lawsuit. 
The Kennedy Defendants’ limited opposition only seeks to shorten
the continuance to a six-month timeframe instead of one year as Plaintiff
requests, so that the parties may complete discovery and be ready for trial. The
Kennedy Defendants believe six months is sufficient for these purposes. 
Analysis 
While the
Gosdom Defendants correctly argue that Plaintiff’s motion is untimely, (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b)), the Court notes that they and the Kennedy
Defendants were able to timely file their oppositions and do not appear to have
been prejudiced by the late filing and serving. Accordingly, the Court
exercises its discretion and declines to deny the motion for being late. (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez v. Wash Depot Holdings,
Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.) 
The Court otherwise finds there is sufficiently good cause to
continue the trial, as there have been no prior requests for continuance. Also,
the trial date is approximately six weeks away as of the date of the hearing on
this motion, which is short, but it is not a last minute request either.
Moreover, the case has only been pending for a little over two years, and Answers
to the Cross-Complaints were filed in May 2023. Furthermore,  it is understandable that the prior discovery
disputes between the parties, even as recent as December 2023 and January 2024,
may have impacted other discovery efforts during that period. However, the
Court finds that the length of the continuance requested is excessive, and
agrees with the Kennedy Defendants that a shorter continuance would be
appropriate and sufficient for the parties’ discovery needs here. 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the motion in part. The trial date
of April 23, 2024 and the Final Status Conference for April 9, 2024 are hereby
advanced and vacated. The Court will set new trial and Final Status Conference
dates at the hearing on this motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff Claire He Yi’s motion to
continue trial date and all related dates. The trial date of April 23, 2024 and
the Final Status Conference for April 9, 2024 are hereby advanced and vacated.
The Court will set new trial and Final Status Conference dates at the hearing
on this motion. 
            Plaintiff Claire He Yi is ordered to
give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.