  Case Number:  22VECV01184    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




GOLDEN
  STATE MEDICAL SERVICES, LLC, 
 
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
 
TERRY
  MCELROY,
        
  
          Defendant.


   Case
  Number             Department
   22VECV01184       107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  RULING RE: 
Motion for Summary Judgment 
 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE
CASE]:        
 
Cross-defendants Golden
State Medical Services, LLC, Vikram Singh, Nova Surgical Institute, and California
Back and Pain Specialists move for summary judgment on defendant and
cross-complainant Terry McElroy’s cross-complaint. This court grants the
cross-defendants’ motion in part and denies the motion in part.
 
I. BACKGROUND
On February 4, 2022, plaintiff Golden State Medical
Services, LLC (“Plaintiff”) and defendant Terry McElroy (“Defendant”) entered
into an agreement through which Defendant assigned his rights in certain liens
on patients to Plaintiff. (Complaint p. 2.) On March 7, 2022, Defendant told
Plaintiff that the agreement was not valid. (Ibid.) 
 
On August 17, 2022, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit
by filing a complaint alleging a cause of action for breach of contract. 
 
On October 28, 2022, Defendant filed a cross-complaint
(the “Cross-Complaint”) against Plaintiff, Vikram Singh (“Singh”), Nova
Surgical Institute (“Nova”), and California Back and Pain Specialists
(“Specialists” and, together with Plaintiff, Singh, and Nova, “Moving Parties”)
alleging causes of action for (1) financial elder abuse, (2) fraudulent deceit
under Civil Code Sec. 1709, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, and (4) identity
theft. 
 
On March 4, 2024, Moving Parties filed a motion for
summary judgment (the “Motion”).
 
II. DISCUSSION
 
“A party may move for summary judgment
in¿an¿action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or
that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§¿437c, subd. (a)(1).) The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party can
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if not, to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure §¿437c,
subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿“A triable issue of material fact exists where ‘the evidence
would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of
the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of
proof.’” (California Medical Assn. v. Aetna Health of California Inc.
(2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 660, 665, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.,
supra at 850.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the moving party must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to negate an essential element or to establish a defense.
(Code Civ. Proc, § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) A cause of action “cannot be established”
if the undisputed facts presented by defendant prove the contrary of
plaintiff's allegations¿as a matter of law. (Brantley v. Pisaro (1996)
42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1597.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once the moving party has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. (Code
Civ. Proc, § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿¿ 
 
When a party
“attempt[s] to show that plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the
cause of action by showing that plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, the needed evidence,” “[s]uch a showing may be made by
presenting evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, needed evidence because she has been provided with extensive discovery
and has discovered nothing.” (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 156, 176.)
 
A.   
The First Cause of Action for Financial Elder Abuse
 
“[F]inancial abuse
of an elder occurs when any person or entity takes, secretes, appropriates, or
retains real or personal property of an elder adult to a wrongful use or with
an intent to defraud, or both. A wrongful use is defined as taking, secreting,
appropriating, or retaining property in bad faith. Bad faith occurs where the
person or entity knew or should have known that the elder had the right to have
the property transferred or made readily available to the elder or to his or
her representative.” (Teselle v. McLoughlin, supra, 173
Cal.App.4th 156 at 174.)
 
In Teselle v.
McLoughlin, supra, at 176, the defendants failed to meet their
burden of showing evidence that the plaintiff did not possess, and could
reasonably obtain, needed evidence to establish its claim of financial elder
abuse because “one of plaintiff's discovery responses state[d] that defendants
ha[d] the partnership books and records, and that plaintiff ha[d] requested,
but not been given access to them” and the defendants had not “affirmatively
shown that they ha[d] provided plaintiff with the partnership books and records.”

 
Moving Parties do
not bring evidence to conclusively negate an element of Defendant’s cause of
action but instead argue that Defendant does not possess, and cannot reasonably
attain, needed evidence to establish the cause of action. However, similarly to
the case in Teselle v. McLoughlin, supra, at 176, Defendant
responded to discovery that evidence of damages for this claim is “in the
custody and control of [Moving Parties] and third parties” and Moving Parties
have not affirmatively shown that they have provided Defendant with the
necessary documents and records for him to possess evidence of his cause of
action.
 
Accordingly, this
court DENIES the Motion as to the first cause of action for financial elder
abuse.
 
B.    
The Second Cause of Action for Fraudulent Deceit
 
“The
well-established common law elements of fraud which give rise to the
tort action for deceit are: (1) misrepresentation of a material fact
(consisting of false representation, concealment or nondisclosure); (2)
knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent to deceive and induce reliance; (4)
justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation; and (5) resulting damage.” (People
v. Lucero (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 370, 424.) 
 
Defendant bases
his claim for fraudulent deceit on Moving Parties’ “failure to disclose and
concealment” of certain alleged facts. (Cross-Complaint pp. 6–7.)
 
“There are four
circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute
actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with
the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts
not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when
the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material
facts.” (Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178,
1186.) “Other than the first instance, in which there must be a fiduciary
relationship between the parties, the other three circumstances in which
nondisclosure may be actionable presuppose the existence of some other
relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in which
a duty to disclose can arise. Where material facts are
known to one party and not to the other, failure to disclose them is
not actionable fraud unless there is some relationship between
the parties which gives rise to a duty to disclose such known
facts. A relationship between the parties is present if there is some sort
of transaction between the parties. Thus,
a duty to disclose may arise from the relationship between
seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or
parties entering into any kind of contractual agreement.” (Id. at 1187,
emphasis original, internal citations omitted.)
 
Moving Parties
contend that Defendant cannot show the existence of a relationship between
himself and them, as is necessary to support Defendant’s fraudulent deceit
cause of action predicated on concealment. (Motion pp. 11–12.) Moving Parties
bring evidence that they did not have a direct relationship with Defendant but
rather that Defendant’s corporation was an independent contractor of theirs.
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 10; Singh Decl. ¶ 11, Exhs. A–G; Ivanova Decl.
¶ 5.) Thus, Moving Parties bring evidence that negates an essential
element of Defendant’s claim, and the burden shifts to Defendant to show a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to
this cause of action. Because Defendant does not oppose the Motion and submits
no evidence, he fails to meet this burden.
 
Accordingly,
this court GRANTS the Motion as to the second cause of action for fraudulent
deceit.
 
C.   
The Third Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
“The elements of a
claim for breach of fiduciary duty are (1) the existence of a fiduciary
relationship, (2) its breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by that
breach.” (O'Neal v. Stanislaus County Employees' Retirement Assn. (2017)
8 Cal.App.5th 1184, 1215.)
 
Moving Parties
contend that Defendant cannot show the existence of a fiduciary duty between
him and themselves. (Motion p. 14.) Moving Parties bring evidence that they did
not have a direct relationship with Defendant but rather that Defendant’s
corporation was an independent contractor of theirs. (Cross-Complaint
¶ 10; Singh Decl. ¶ 11, Exhs. A–G; Ivanova Decl. ¶ 5.) Thus,
Moving Parties bring evidence that negates an essential element of Defendant’s
claim, and the burden shifts to Defendant to show a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to this cause of action.
Because Defendant does not oppose the Motion and submits no evidence, he fails
to meet this burden.
 
Accordingly,
this court GRANTS the Motion as to the third cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty.
 
D.   
The Fourth Cause of Action for Identity Theft
 
To bring a cause
of action for identity theft, a party must show that they have been a victim of
identity theft as defined in Civil Code section 1798.93. (CTC Real Estate
Services v. Lepe (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 856, 860.) “‘Victim of identity
theft’ means a person who had their personal identifying information
used without authorization by another to obtain credit, goods, services, money,
or property, and did not use or possess the credit, goods, services, money, or
property obtained by the identity theft, and has submitted a Federal Trade
Commission identity theft report. In the alternative, the person may
have filed a police report in this regard pursuant to Section 530.5
of the Penal Code.” (Civil Code. § 1798.93, subd. (d).)
 
Defendant alleges
in the Cross-Complaint that Moving Parties obtained a post office box in his
name without his knowledge or authorization, directed various law firms to mail
settlement checks to this post office box, “signed [Defendant’s] name to checks
received to this fraudulent post office box and negotiated those checks,
retaining those funds,” “failed to advise [Defendant] at any time as to the
existence of this [p]ost office box, the receipt of any checks or of the fact
that they were retaining the funds from those checks for themselves,” and
“intentionally misrepresented to third parties that they were [Defendant] in an
attempt to obtain funds that rightfully belonged to [Defendant].”
(Cross-Complaint p. 9.)
 
Moving Parties
argue that Defendant does not have standing to bring this cause of action and
bring evidence that Defendant’s corporation authorized the collection of liens
by Moving Parties on its behalf. However, this evidence only partially
contradicts the allegations made by Defendant in the Cross-Complaint and
therefore fails to negate an essential element of the cause of action. Moving
Parties do not argue and raise no evidence to contradict Defendant’s allegation
that they opened a post office box in his name, signed his name on checks, or
misrepresented to third parties that they were Defendant. For example, they
raise no evidence that the post office box was opened in the name of
Defendant’s corporation, not in Defendant’s name as an individual, and do not
submit affidavits by each of Moving Parties averring that each never signed any
checks in Defendant’s name.
 
Accordingly, this
court DENIES the Motion as to the fourth cause of action for identity theft.
 
 
 
Dated:             June
27, 2024                                                  _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon.
Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court