 Case Number:  24VECV01544    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




WALTER
  MORALES, 
 
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION,         
          Defendant.


   Case
  Number             Department
   24VECV01544       107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  RULING RE: 
Demurrer
  - with Motion to Strike (CCP 430.10)
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE
CASE]:                                                                                  
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
On June 27, 2022,
plaintiff Walter Morales (“Plaintiff”) purchased a certain new 2022 Honda
Accord (the “Vehicle”), which was subject to a warranty by defendant American
Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”). (Complaint ¶ 8.) 
 
On April 5, 2024,
Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging
causes of action for (1) violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act—breach
of express warranty and (2) fraudulent inducement—concealment.
 
On May 28, 2024,
Defendant filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”) and a motion to strike (the
“Motion”). On June 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions (the “Oppositions”) to
the Demurrer and the Motion, and on June 20, 2024, Defendant filed replies (the
“Replies”) to the Oppositions. 
 
II. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

Timeliness of Filings

 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿430.40, subdivision (a), a demurrer to a complaint should be filed within 30
days after service of the complaint. Similarly, per California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿435, subdivision (b)(1), a motion to strike should be filed “within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading,” which is 30 days. (See Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. §¿412.20, subd. (a)(3).)¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days
before they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least
nine court days before the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should
be filed at least five court days before the set hearing. Judges have
discretion as to whether to consider or strike an untimely demurrer or
pleading. (McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253,
281; Tuck v. Thuesen (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 193, 196, disapproved on other
grounds by Neel v. Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971) 6
Cal.3d 176.)¿¿ 
 
Plaintiff filed a proof of service indicating that Defendant was
personally served on April 11, 2024. Defendant attaches to the Demurrer proof
that parties agreed in writing to extend the deadline to respond to the
Complaint to May 28, 2024. We are satisfied that all filings made in connection
with the Demurrer and the Motion are timely.
 

The Meet and Confer Requirement

 
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.41, subdivision (a)
and §¿435.5, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in good
faith before the filing of a demurrer or a motion to strike, respectively, to
attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in the demurrer or the
motion to strike. Each section requires that such meet and confer be done “in
person or by telephone.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§¿430.1, subd. (a), 435.5,
subd. (a).)¿¿ 
 
Defendant submits with the Demurrer and the Motion a declaration by its
counsel, which confirms that parties spoke about the issues raised in the
Demurrer and the Motion but were unable to resolve their dispute before their
filings. We are therefore satisfied that this requirement has been met.
 
III. LEGAL STANDARD
 

The Demurrer

 
Defendant demurs
to the second cause of action for failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute the cause of action, for being vague and uncertain, and for
“includ[ing] allegations that clearly disclose some defense or bar to recovery.”
(Demurrer p. 6.)
 
1.     
Federal Preemption by the
NHTSA
 
“Preemption occurs three ways: (1) where federal law states expressly
that state law is preempted; (2) where federal law is so comprehensive that it
leaves no room in the covered field for supplementary state regulation; and (3)
where there is an actual conflict between state and federal law. The issue is
one of Congressional intent.” (Capital Research & Management Co. v.
Brown (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 58, 65.) There is a strong presumption that
federal statutes do not preempt state law, especially as to matters
traditionally governed by states such as health and safety. (Frastaci v.
Vapor Corp.  (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th
1389, 1395.) “Thus, pre-emption will not lie unless it is ‘the clear and
manifest purpose of Congress.’” (CSX Transp., Inc. v. Easterwood (1993) 507
U.S. 658, 664.) “Courts are reluctant to infer preemption, and it is the burden
of the party claiming Congress intended to preempt state law to prove it.” (McKenney
v. Purepac Pharmaceutical Co. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 72, 80.)
 
Defendant contends that “Plaintiff’s concealment claim is preempted by
federal law” because while California law does not “regulate the disclosure of
the information sought by Plaintiff,” the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration (“NHTSA”) specifies “when and how a manufacturer provides notice
to owners of noncompliant motor vehicles.” (Demurrer pp. 7–10.) Defendant does
not contend that the NHTSA expressly states that its regulations preempt state
law and Defendant’s argument about the absence of a California law mandating
the disclosure of the information at issue points to no direct conflict between
California and federal law. So, Defendant seems to argue that the NHTSA’s
regulation of motor vehicle manufacturer disclosures to motor vehicle owners
“is so comprehensive that it leaves no room in the covered field for
supplementary state regulation.” 
 
Defendant, as the party who is claiming that Congress intended for the
NHTSA’s regulations to preempt state law, bears the burden of proving that
preemption is Congress’ “clear and manifest purpose.” Defendant must overcome a
strong presumption that federal law does not preempt state law that exists in
this case because disclosure of motor vehicle sensor defects relates to health
and safety. We find that Defendant fails to meet this burden. Defendant argues
that “NHTSA may not impose undue burdens upon manufacturers” and that “NHTSA
also may not disclose information that it is prohibited by law to release to
the public such as personal identifying information or confidential business
information.” (Demurrer p. 10.) Defendant explains the “[f]actors considered by
NHTSA in its development of this rule” (ibid.), which implies a goal of the
NHTSA to prevent unfair use of the data by competitors or consumers, but which
does not speak to NHTSA’s or Congress’ intentions regarding how these
regulations should affect state law.
 
Plaintiff argues that it is inappropriate to consider Defendant’s
argument about federal preemption in a demurrer because “Defendant is
requesting in their demurrer is to ask the Court to consider extrinsic evidence
such as the duties and responsibilities of the [NHTSA] and the intent of
Congress,” which is premature before a motion for summary adjudication.
(Opposition p. 2.) We disagree in this case. Where “issues are tendered on
undisputed facts and are purely legal in nature,” the “issue of preemption is
properly handled by demurrer.” (Washington Mutual Bank v. Superior Court
(2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 606, 612; accord
Credit Managers Ass'n of California v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc.
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 590, 593.)
 
Because we find that Defendant fails to meet its burden of showing
Congress’ intent that NHTSA’s regulations should preempt state law, we
consequently decline to find that state law and Plaintiff’s cause of action for
fraudulent concealment are preempted by federal law.
 
2.     
Cause of Action for
Fraudulent Concealment
 
“Concealment is a species of fraud, and fraud must be pleaded with
specificity.” (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 858, 878.) “[T]he requirement that ‘fraud must be pleaded with specificity’
applies equally to a cause of action for fraud and deceit based
on concealment.” (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
1462, 1472.) This requirement that
fraud be pled with specificity “necessitates pleading facts which show how,
when, where, to whom and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Gutierrez
v. Carmax Auto Superstores California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234, 1260.) 
 
Defendant contends that “[a] plaintiff's burden in asserting a fraud
claim against a corporate employer is even greater.” (Demurrer p. 12.) While
this is true, it is not applicable to the instant action. Plaintiff does not
allege that he was ever employed by Defendant. Thus, the pleading standard that
Plaintiff must meet through the allegations of the Complaint is not heightened
by this rule of law in the instant case.
 
“The required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or
suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by
intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware
of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a
result of the concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick v.
Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.) 
 
“Although, typically, a duty to disclose arises when a defendant owes a
fiduciary duty to a plaintiff, a duty to disclose may also arise when a
defendant possesses or exerts control over material facts not readily available
to the plaintiff.” (Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th
1187, 1199.) “There
are four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may
constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary
relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge
of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when
the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material
facts.” (Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178,
1186.) “Other than the first instance, in which there must be a fiduciary
relationship between the parties, the other three circumstances in which
nondisclosure may be actionable presuppose the existence of some other
relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in which
a duty to disclose can arise. Where material facts are
known to one party and not to the other, failure to disclose them is
not actionable fraud unless there is some relationship between
the parties which gives rise to a duty to disclose such
known facts. A relationship between the parties is present if there is some
sort of transaction between the parties. Thus,
a duty to disclose may arise from the relationship between
seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or
parties entering into any kind of contractual agreement.” (Id. at 1187,
emphasis original, internal citations omitted.) “Suppression of a material fact is actionable when there is a duty of
disclosure, which may arise from a relationship between the parties, such as a
buyer-seller relationship.” (Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022)
84 Cal.App.5th 828, 843 (hereafter, Dhital).) However, “[s]uch a
transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff
and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at
large.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 312
[finding that while “a manufacturer has a duty to warn consumers of a product's
hazards and faults” applied to strict products liability claims, the same duty
does not apply to fraud causes of action].) 
 
In Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th 828 at 833, the plaintiffs
brought a cause of action for fraudulent inducement by concealment against the
manufacturer of a vehicle they had purchased. The court in Dhital,
supra, at 844 found that plaintiffs adequately pled the existence of a
relationship between themselves and the vehicle’s manufacturer because they
alleged that (1) they bought the vehicle from the manufacturer’s dealership,
(2) the manufacturer “backed the car with an express warranty,” (3) the
manufacturer’s “authorized dealerships [were] its agents for purposes
of the sale of [the manufacturer’s] vehicles to consumers.”
 
Defendant contends
that the Complaint does not allege each of the elements of a cause of action
for fraudulent concealment and specifically that Defendant owed any duty to
disclose the Vehicle’s alleged issues to Defendant before the sale of the
Vehicle. (Demurrer pp. 13–15.) We disagree. 
 
The Complaint
alleges that (1) Defendant “manufactured and/or distributed vehicles throughout
the United States, including the [Vehicle], equipped with defective
computerized driver-assistance safety systems”; (2) “[t]hese defective
computerized driver-assisting safety systems were installed in the [Vehicle]”;
(3) “[t]he [Vehicle] was purchased by Plaintiff(s) on June 27, 2022 from an
authorized [Defendant] dealership in Los Angeles”; (4) “[t]he [Vehicle] was
equipped with a defective computerized driver-assistance safety system and a
defective collision mitigation braking system”; (5) Defendant backed the sale
of the Vehicle with an express written warranty; (6) Defendant was aware of the
defect in the Vehicle and similar vehicles but “[Defendant] and its agents
actively concealed the existence and nature of the [defect] from Plaintiff(s)
at the time of purchase, repair, and thereafter”; (7) Plaintiff dealt with
“authorized agents” of Defendant in the purchase of the Vehicle; (8)
“[Defendant] and its agents intentionally concealed and failed to disclose
facts relating to the [defect]”; (9) “[Defendant] was the only party with
knowledge of the [defect]. Information regarding the defect was never made
publicly available, nor did Defendant publicly or privately disclose any of the
information to Plaintiff. [Defendant] had exclusive knowledge of the defect”;
(10) “[Defendant’s] authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the
sale of [Defendant’s] vehicles to consumers such as Plaintiff(s)”; (11)
“[Defendant] produces and distributes marketing materials, including brochures
and manuals, to its authorized dealerships for the purpose of providing them to
consumers such as Plaintiff(s). These marketing materials are meant to provide
certain information regarding [Defendant’s] vehicles to the consumer”; (12)
“[w]ith these marketing materials and its dealership personnel, [Defendant] is
able to communicate indirectly to consumers such as Plaintiff(s) regarding its
vehicles”; (13) “[Defendant] actively concealed information from the public,
preventing Plaintiff(s) from discovering any of the concealed facts as
described in detail above”; (14) “[Defendant] fraudulently induced Plaintiff(s)
to acquire the [Vehicle] [he] would not have purchased but for [Defendant’s]
concealment of the [defect]”; (15) “[p]rior to the date of sale and on the date
of sale Defendant had an opportunity to disclose the [defect] to Plaintiff(s),
but instead concealed from and failed to disclose to Plaintiff(s), any of the
known irreparable issues with the [Vehicle]”; (16) “Plaintiff(s) has been
exposed numerous times to potential personal injury, physical harm, and related
liability from motor vehicle accidents caused by the [defect] and problems
presented by the [Vehicle] as a result of [Defendant’s] fraudulent concealment
in failing to disclose the [defect] to Plaintiff(s) at the time they purchased
the [Vehicle] and each time they presented the [Vehicle] for repair”; (17) “Plaintiff(s)
was harmed by purchasing the [Vehicle] that Plaintiff(s) would not have
purchased had [Defendant] and/or its agents disclosed the true facts about the [defect]
at or prior to the acquisition. Plaintiff(s) also suffered diminution in the
value of [the Vehicle], out-of-pocket expenses, damages in the amount of the
difference between the value of the [V]ehicle equipped with a defective
computerized driver-assistance safety system and the value of the [V]ehicle if
it had been equipped as warranted, and reliance damages. Plaintiff(s) also
incurred expenses relating to registration, insurance, and maintenance of the [Vehicle]”;
(18) “Plaintiff(s) was harmed by Defendant’s concealment of the [defect]
because Plaintiff(s) was induced to acquire a vehicle that Plaintiff(s) would
not have otherwise purchased”; (19) “Defendant’s concealment of the defect was
a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm”; and (20) “[Defendant]
intended to deceive Plaintiff(s) by concealing the known issues with the [defect],
in an effort to sell the [Vehicle].” (Complaint pp. 19–23, 25–26.)
 
The Complaint thus
alleges that Defendant and its agents “actively concealed” the existence of the
defect from Plaintiff and the public before and after the sale of the Vehicle despite
being aware of the defect and possessing exclusive knowledge of the defect,
which adequately pleads the first element of a cause of action for fraudulent
concealment. The Complaint also alleges that Defendant had a duty to disclose
the defect. Similar to the pleading in Dhital, supra, 84
Cal.App.5th 828 at 844, the Complaint alleges that (1) Plaintiff bought the
vehicle from an authorized dealership and “authorized agents” of Defendant, (2)
Defendant backed the car with an express warranty, (3) and that the dealership
and its agents were authorized agents of Defendant. Therefore, like in Dhital,
supra, at 844, this adequately pleads the second element of a cause of
action for fraudulent concealment by alleging a buyer-seller relationship or
transaction between Plaintiff and Defendant that arose from direct dealings
between them. The Complaint also alleges that “[Defendant] intended to
deceive Plaintiff(s) by concealing the known issues with the [defect], in an
effort to sell the [Vehicle],” which adequately pleads the third element of a
cause of action for fraudulent concealment. The Complaint alleges that
Plaintiff had no knowledge of the defect and would not have purchased the
Vehicle had he known of the defect, which adequately pleads the fourth element
of a cause of action for fraudulent concealment. Finally, the Complaint alleges
that the Vehicle contained a defect and that Plaintiff was damages by its
purchase, which adequately pleads the fifth element of a cause of action for
fraudulent concealment. The Complaint thus alleges each of the elements for a
cause of action for fraudulent concealment. We find that these allegations are
not so vague or uncertain as to prevent Defendant from understanding the nature
of the claims being made against it. We further find that these allegations are
pled with the requisite specificity for fraud allegations.
 
Accordingly, this
court OVERRULES the Demurrer.
 

The Motion to
     Strike

 
Defendant moves to
strike the Complaint’s prayer for punitive damages. (Motion pp. 1–2.) 
 
A motion to strike is appropriate to
attack a claim for punitive damages. (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984)
157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) “In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation
of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief
must be pled by a plaintiff.¿In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a
motion to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to
strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clausen
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (internal citations
omitted).) “Further, even though certain language pleads ultimate facts or
conclusions of law, such language when read in context with the facts alleged
as to defendants' conduct may adequately plead the evil motive requisite to
recovery of¿punitive¿damages.” (Monge v. Superior Court (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 503, 510.)¿ 
¿ 
“In order to state a prima facie claim
for¿punitive¿damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the
general¿punitive¿damage¿statute,¿Civil Code section 3294.” (Turman v.
Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive damages
“[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation
not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice….”¿
(Civ. Code § 3294(a).) “In order to justify an award of punitive¿damages, the
defendant must be guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. He must act with the
intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the
plaintiff's rights.” (Silberg v. California Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11
Cal.3d 452, 462 (internal citations omitted).) “A claim for exemplary damage
may be supported by pleading that the wrong was committed willfully or with a
design to injure.” (Spinks v. Equity
Residential Briarwood Apartments
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1055.) “[M]alice in fact is required rather
than implied malice.¿However, malice does not require actual intent to
harm.¿Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the
defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct
and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences.” (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228 (internal citations
omitted).) “In order to justify an award of punitive damages on this basis, the
plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his¿conduct, and that he wilfully and deliberately failed to
avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 895–96.)¿¿ 
¿ 
“Punitive¿damages¿may not
be¿pleaded¿generally.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) “The mere
allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an
award of¿punitive¿damages.” (Grieves v. Superior Court, supra,
157 Cal.App.3d 159 at 166.) And, “conclusory characterization of defendant's
conduct as intentional, wilful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient
statement of “oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied,” within the
meaning of¿section 3294.” (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d
864, 872.) “Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or
malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves,
supra, at 166; Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, supra, at 1193 [“In addition to the
requirement that the operative complaint set forth the elements as stated
in¿section 3294, it must include¿specific¿factual allegations showing that
defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim
for¿punitive¿damages.”].)¿ 
 
California Civil Code
section 3294 provides that an employer shall be liable for punitive damages
only if it “had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice,” and further, “[w]ith
respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Cal.
Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b).) “In order to demonstrate that an employee is a
true managing agent under¿section 3294, subdivision (b), a plaintiff seeking
punitive damages would have to show that the employee exercised substantial
discretionary authority over significant aspects of a corporation's business.”
(White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 577.) “The scope of a
corporate employee's discretion and authority under our managing¿agent test is
therefore a¿question of fact¿for decision on a case-by-case basis.” (Davis
v. Kiewit Pacific Co. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 358, 366, emphasis original.)
Moreover, “liability under¿Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b)¿requires
actual knowledge by an¿employer.” (Weeks v. Baker & McKenzie (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1158.) 
 
Defendant contends
that Plaintiff fails to plead that it acted with “oppression, fraud, or
malice.” (Motion p. 7.) However, the Complaint alleges that Defendant
intentionally marketed and sold to Plaintiff a vehicle with a sensor safety
defect of which Defendant possessed exclusive knowledge and which Defendant
intentionally concealed from Plaintiff despite its knowledge that the defect
posed a safety risk to the drivers of vehicles with such defect. A reasonable
person could find that these alleged actions constitute oppression, fraud, or
malice, or with design to injure, or at least with reckless disregard for
Plaintiff’s safety. 
 
Defendant further
argues that the Complaint’s punitive damages claim must fail because “as set
forth in [Defendant’s] concurrently filed Demurrer, which [Defendant]
incorporates by reference herein, Plaintiffs' fraud claim is preempted by
federal and is insufficiently plead.” (Motion p. 7.) However, as explained
above, we disagree with this conclusion and therefore decline to strike the
punitive damages claim on these grounds. Defendant also argues that the
punitive damages claim is not pled with sufficient specificity (ibid.), but as
explained above, we disagree and therefore also decline to strike the punitive
damages claim on these grounds.
 
Defendant finally
argues that the punitive damages claim “must plead and prove that the
oppression, fraud, or malice was on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation” because it, as a corporate entity, only acts
through its agents and employees. (Motion pp. 7–8.) However, the Complaint
alleges that “[a]ll acts of corporate employees as alleged were authorized or
ratified by an officer, director or managing agent of the corporate employer.”
(Complaint p. 2.) 
 
Accordingly, this
court DENIES the Motion.
 
 
Dated:             June
27, 2024                                                  _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court