


[1] The seven putative parties are represented by
attorneys at two of the intervenors, CFBD and NRDC. These organizations are
involved in environmental advocacy nationwide. 


[2] On December 14, 2023, Bridgeland filed Objections to
the Supplemental Declaration, asserting that it was improperly raising new
matters in a reply to which Bridgeland could not respond.  


[3] In assessing these requirements, California courts
routinely refer to federal law for guidance. (Edwards v. Heartland Payment
Sys.(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 725, 732) 


[4] The County also disputes that Intervenors have a
significantly protectible interest in the ordinance. 


[5] Those claims are however not solely for just
compensation but also for the ordinance to be applied in a way that preserves
Petitioners’ vested rights. 


[6] In any event, a general political interest in
upholding a statute, including an organization’s active support of the
enactment of that statute, is an insufficient basis for intervention. (Rominger,
supra, 147 Cal.App.3d at 662) 


[7] A court has discretion to limit intervention to
“discrete phases of the litigation.” (Carlsbad, supra, 49 Cal.App.5th
at 152)


[8] Intervenors in any event disclaim any interest in how
the Ordinance is applied and are seeking only to defend its facial validity. (See
Supp. Brief, pp. 14-15 and Motion, p. 7, n. 2)


[9] Petitioners rely on a string of cases on pp. 7-8 of
their brief for the proposition that a person needs to have an ownership
interest in a property to be a party in an inverse condemnation case may be
true for purposes of seeking just compensation; however, that is not why
Intervenors are seeking to intervene; namely, to defend the Ordinance. By
contrast, Accurso v. In-N-Out Burgers (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th
1128, 144, n. 13, cited by Intervenors, indicates intervention does not require
a “legally enforceable” interest. See also Exxon Mobil v. Santa
Barbara Co. Bd. Of Supervisors (2022) WL 1788601 and GHP Mgmt v. City of
Los Angeles, 339 F.R.D. 621, 624 (C.D. Cal. 2021) where U.S. District Courts
allowed intervention by public interest groups in takings cases. 


[10] This is already material: Bridgeland and the County
had submitted a stipulation to a proposed order that the well at the VA (the
Sawtelle Field) was not subject to the Ordinance because of a discretionary
lease issue. The Court deferred entering that order pending the outcome of this
motion. Intervenors indicate they will not disturb that stipulation. However, the
Court now sees there may be an issue as to whether a discretionary lease
would be a reason a well would not be governed by the Ordinance. See
Reply, p.5. If so, this might impact more than just the VA facility and
significantly reduce the numbers of wells governed by the Ordinance. The Court
wishes to ensure that any orders it makes are consistent as to wells governed
by the same considerations – as indicated by the Ordinance. As noted in Ex. A
to the RJN, the Ordinance is apparently just one in a series of planned actions
by the County, including pursuing modifications to discretionary permits.
          Similarly, Intervenors point out that
an idle well may be subject to the Ordinance, even if deserted. The Court does
not reach the merits of either issue on this motion but appreciates the input
on these subtleties. 


[11] Relevant to delay, it is also worthy to note that an
order denying leave to intervene would be an appealable order. 


[12] Moreover, at least petitioner oil industry
associations – which filed their own action – and likely do not have the same
direct pecuniary interests as the petitioner oil companies, may not be heard to
complain that Intervenor organizations (which likewise have impacted members) should
not be able to be heard herein. In many ways, they have similar roles here representing
affected persons on each side of the debate. 


[13] While there are numerous lawyers involved already,
the Court notes that one law firm (Manatt) represents the petitioners in two of
these cases. Further, counsel have worked well together to date in stipulating
to a case management order setting forth a schedule pursuant to which issues
can be decided. The overall issues in all cases appear to be largely identical
at this point. 


[14] The Court may place reasonable conditions in
permitting discretionary intervention. (Carlsbad, supra, 49 Cal.App.5th
at 150-155)

