  Case Number:  18STPB11082    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING
ON MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 8 OF MING-CHAO HUANG AND MEI JUNG LIN 
IN RE: WILL
CONTEST TRIAL
 
Ming-Chao Huang, et
al. v. Michael Velcherean, Case No. 18STPB11082 (related to Case No.
19STCV01901)
Hearing Date: February
20, 2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
          By this
motion in limine, Ming-Chao Huang and Mei Jung Lin (“Contestants”), who are
contesting petitions of Michael Velcherean (“Respondent”) to admit various
wills, seek to exclude documents they first saw when revealed for purposes of
filing a joint exhibit list in December 2023. Trial is scheduled to start May
28, 2024. As discussed below, the Court does not find Contestants have shown
either Respondent violated any discovery order, intentionally withheld
documents or that they would be materially prejudiced to warrant an order
excluding these documents.  
 
STATEMENT OF FACTS 
          On December
13, 2023, the Court denied Contestants’ Motion in limine no. 6 concerning
excluding certain matters not previously produced in response to discovery. The
Court, however, permitted Contestants to file a motion concerning documents
identified by Respondent on the parties’ joint exhibit list, filed December 6,
2023, that they did not know about when filing that motion. 
          By this MIL
No. 8, filed January 5, 2024, Contestants seek to exclude Exs. 1168, 1180 and
11181 and 1198 through 1210; certain communications, an agreement and
photographs. In summary, they contend that these documents should have been
produced in compliance with an order of July 26, 2019 granting a motion to
compel production of documents. They contend this late production was improper
where Respondent and his expert previously indicated they had no further
responsive documents to produce and or contending that these documents were not
relevant when requested previously. Contestants contend they have been
prejudiced by the late production of these documents after the completion of
Respondent’s deposition. 
          On February 5,
2024, Respondent filed opposition to the motion. In summary, he makes the
following arguments: That he did not have in his possession the documents he
produced until he received them recently (as they came from Amy’s i-phone that
the Administrator had in his possession) , certain of these documents were not
ordered produced in any event and other documents he had produced previously. Further,
he indicates that the documents his expert produced (that comprise certain of
these exhibits) on October 31, 2023 was before the last session of Respondent’s
deposition on November 17, 2023 and therefore Contestants could have inquired
of Respondent about those documents at that time if they needed to do so. Finally,
he argues that even if he objected to a request for production that went back
many years that this does not prohibit him from using any documents that fall
within that time. 
          On February
9, 2024, Contestants filed a reply in further support of the motion. In
summary, they argue that Respondent could have received the documents from the
i-cloud (to which he had access), which was synchronized with the same
information as on the i-phone, and that therefore these documents were in his
possession. From this premise, Contestants make other arguments based on
potential spoliation.[1]  
 
DISCUSSION 
           Contestants
have not shown Respondent violated the discovery order, intentionally withheld
documents or that they would be materially prejudiced to warrant an order
excluding these documents.  Contestants
will have known for more than six months before trial what documents Respondent
intends to use. They still have another three months from the hearing on this
motion to address the implications of the use of these exhibits. There will be
no undue surprise at trial. The trial on the will contest will also be a bench
trial where there is also less concern about undue prejudice than there would
be if this were a jury trial.  
          The Court
recognizes that discovery in this case and the related case has not been easy
and that Respondent has engaged in discovery abuse that has been the subject of
prior motions. However, as concerns the above-referenced exhibits, the Court
does not believe there has been the sort of conduct, in which other counsel was
involved for Respondent, that there was previously. Moreover, it is not as if
Respondent did not disclose these documents at all – which would be the more
typical basis for exclusion. The Court finds Contestants have exaggerated and
made more difficult than necessary issues related to this motion, including as
to the claimed inability to question Respondent about these documents. By
contrast, Respondent provides the necessary detail to justify his
arguments.   
           The Court remains concerned about the
level of activity by counsel in these cases and the resulting expense to the
clients and the estate. Issues concerning attorneys’ fees incurred in discovery
will likely be the subject of post-trial motions, whatever the outcome. If Contestants
have had to incur fees that they should not have the Court can address that
issue if they prevail. 
   CONCLUSION
          For these
reasons, the Court denies the motion. 
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 


