  Case Number:  24PSCV00506    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEFENDANT
JULIA ANNE BODOH’S MOTION TO EXPUNGE NOTICE OF PENDENCY OF ACTION AND FOR
ATTORNEYS’ FEES AND COSTS is GRANTED; attorney fees are not granted. 
 
Background
 
This is a
real property case. Plaintiff RENOVATE PROPERTIES, LLC alleges the following
against Defendants JULIA ANNE BODOH, as trustee of THE BRAD CHARLES BODOH AND
JULIA ANNE BODOH LIVING TRUST, DATED MARCH 21, 2014 (“Defendant”); THE HEIRS,
DEVISEES, AND SUCCESSORS, KNOWN AND UNKNOWN, TESTATE AND INTESTATE, OF BRAD
CHARLES BODOH: On December 13, 2023, Plaintiff, as buyer, and Defendants, as
seller, entered into a written contract for the purchase and sale of the
Property, for the purchase price of $910,000 (“agreement”). The purchase and
sale of the property was to close on February 17, 2024. However, despite
opening escrow and paying Defendants a $20,000 advance toward the purchase
price, Defendants anticipatorily repudiated the agreement by refusing to sell
the property. Plaintiff seeks specific performance of the agreement as well as
a preliminary injunction preventing Defendants from selling the property to
anyone else during the pendency of this action. (Complaint ¶17.) 
 
On February
16, 2024, Plaintiff filed suit for: 1.    
Breach of
Contract 2.    
Declaratory
ReliefOn April 8,
2024, Defendant Bodoh filed an answer.
 
On July 24,
2024, Bodoh/Defendant filed the instant motion.
 
On August 22,
2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition. 
 
On August 28,
2024, Defendant filed a reply along with a response to Plaintiff’s evidentiary
objections.[1]
 
Legal
Standard
A¿lis¿pendens¿is a¿recorded
instrument¿(“Notice of Pending Action”), recorded in the office of the county
recorder where land is located, that gives¿constructive notice¿of a pending
lawsuit affecting title to described real property. (Gale v. Superior Court¿(2004)
122 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1395.)
“A party to an action who
asserts a¿real property claim¿may record a notice of pendency of action in
which that real property claim is alleged.” (Code of Civ. Proc., § 405.20.)
Anyone having an interest in the property affected by a lis pendens, whether or
not a party to the pending lawsuit, may move to expunge the lis pendens any
time after it is recorded. (CCP § 405.30.) A lis pendens may be expunged on any
of the following grounds:
(1) defects in the statutory service
and filing requirements;
(2) the complaint does not contain a
real property claim;[2]
(3)
the claimant cannot prove the probable validity of the real property claim by a
preponderance of the evidence; or
(4) “adequate relief” can be “secured
to the claimant by the giving of an undertaking.” (CCP §§ 405.23, 405.31,
405.32, 405.33; McKnight v. Sup.Ct. (Faber)¿(1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 291, 303
[recognizing defective servicing and filing requirements as grounds for
expungement].)
“‘Probable validity,’ with respect to a real property claim, means that
it is more likely than not that the claimant will obtain a judgment against the
defendant on the claim.” (CCP § 405.32.) The
burden to make
such a showing is on the lis pendens claimant. (See e.g., J&A
Mash & Barrel, LLC v. Superior Court (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 1, 32-33.) If
conflicting evidence is presented, the trial court must weigh the evidence in
deciding whether the plaintiff has sustained its burden. (Rutter Group, Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens, Cal.
Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. (9:436.2).) 
If a showing is made that
there is no probable validity of a real property claim, expungement of the lis
pendens is mandatory, not discretionary. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 405.32
[“[T]he court shall order that the notice be
expunged if the court finds that the claimant has not established by a
preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the real property
claim.”].) In such a case, no undertaking is required. (Ibid.) 
As for attorney fees, Code of
Civil Procedure section 405.38 provides that: “The court shall direct that the
party prevailing on any motion under this chapter be awarded the reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs of making or opposing the motion unless the court
finds that the other party acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of attorney’s fees and costs unjust.”
Discussion[3]
Defendant moves to expunge
the lis pendens on the grounds that the Plaintiff cannot establish the probable
validity of the real property claim (i.e., Plaintiff cannot seek specific
performance). (Motion p. 2.)[4]

For reasons to be discussed
below, though Plaintiff offered adequate consideration for the property,
Plaintiff has failed to meet its burden that it monetary compensation is an
inadequate remedy. 
A.    
Whether $900,000 is Fair and
Reasonable Considering the Circumstances That Defendant Needed Money and Was
Unable to Pay the Mortgage? 
The applicable legal
principles, which neither party disputes, is summarized by the court in Lundgren
v. Lundgren (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 582 (which both parties cite to):
In
determining whether consideration was fair and adequate, all circumstances
surrounding the transfer of the property as they existed at that time, must be
considered. [internal citation omitted.] The fairness or adequacy of the
consideration cannot be judged or estimated in relation to events which
transpired subsequent to the time of the conveyance; if the consideration was
adequate at the time, it is immaterial that subsequent events such as a change
in the property value make it inadequate later. [internal citation
omitted.]  Further, the consideration to be adequate need not amount
to the full value of the property. [internal citation omitted.]  ‘An
adequate consideration does not necessarily mean a price measuring fully up to the
value of the property. Such comparison is but a factor to be considered with
all of the other facts and circumstances. [internal citations
omitted.]  The finding of the trial court should not be set aside
unless it is clear that it has no sufficient support in the evidence. (Id. at pp. 589-590, emphasis
added.)
Defendant argues that the
price was “not just, reasonable or supported by adequate consideration.”
(Motion p. 4:5-10, citing Civil Code Section 3391 [specific performance cannot
be enforced absent adequate consideration].) In support of its position,
Defendant relies upon the appraised value of the property at the time of the
sale which was $1.2 million[5]
whereas the purchase price was for $910,000; a purchase price $300,000 below
market value is insufficient purchase price. However, in opposition, Plaintiff
maintains that adequate consideration does not require “that the seller receive
fair market value for the property, but rather the consideration be fair and
reasonable under the circumstances.” (Opp. p. 12:8-10.)
What
are the relevant circumstances are as follows: 
-       
Defendant/homeowner
is a 69-year-old widow 
-       
Defendant
cannot afford her monthly mortgage (Bodoh Decl)
-       
Defendan’ts
husband handled the finances
-       
Plaintiff
told Defendant that she would “save money” by not having to pay the commission
from the sale proceeds (Bodoh Decl)
-       
Plaintiff’s
representative, Russell Nelson, went to Defendant’s residence “on several
occasions in an attempt to have [Defendant] sign a sales contract.” (Bodoh
Decl. p. 2)
-       
“At
the appointment on October 9, 2023 at Defendant’s Property, Defendant explained
that she needed to sell the Property due to recent life changes” (Opp. p.
5:27-28)
-       
“At
the appointment, Plaintiff also extended an offer to purchase the Property for
$900,000 and for a cash advance of the purchase price to assist with immediate
financial need” (Opp. p. 6:2-4)
-       
Plaintiff
spent three hours at Defendant’s home to obtain a signature (Reply p. 2)
-       
On
November 20, 2023, more than one month after the October 9, 2023 appointment, Defendant
called Mr. Nelson and advised that she would like to proceed with the
sale of the Property to Renovate Properties after the holidays. (Troy Lines
Decl., ¶5.) 
-       
At
the appointment at Defendant’s Property on December 13, 2023, Defendant
advised of the other home sale options she had been evaluating over the past
weeks, including another offer that she received for the Property from
OpenDoor, but that she was pleased with Plaintiff’s offer. (Lines Decl.,
¶ 6.) 
Here, the foregoing evidences adequate
consideration. Defendant
wanted to sell her home; Defendant needed to sell her home; Defendant
entertained other offers; and Defendant took over one month thinking about the
offer. Neither party addresses the facts of Lundgren, but the case is more
instructive than Grief. In Lundgren, the trial court determined
that the son was a bona fide purchaser for value without notice of his mother’s
prior quitclaim deed to his sister. (Id. at p. 585.) The appellate court
agreed with the trial court that “[t]he evidence more than establishes [the
son’s] status as a bone fide purchaser for fair and adequate consideration by
focusing on the following evidence: the mother was in serious financial
distress and had no place to live; she had no funds; she was deeply in
debt; her car was about to be repossessed; the property could not be rented in
its dilapidated condition and expensive repairs were needed; she could not
the make the payments on her home or pay the taxes; no one else wanted the
property/she would lose the property anyway; and the son took out a loan
and refinanced the property and repaired the property. (Id. at p. 590,
emphasis added.) Similarly, here, Defendant is in financial distress and states
she cannot afford the mortgage. 
To
the extent that Defendant heavily focuses on the FMV, as laid out in the rules
above, the issue is not whether Plaintiff offered the FMV but whether the offer
was fair and reasonable in light of the circumstances. And even if she received
below FMV, the other benefits such as a cash advance to assist with immediate
financial needs and the ability to quickly sell the property support adequate
consideration. (See Opp. p. 13 citing Meyer v. Benko (1976) 55
Cal.App.3d 937, 945 [where the seller testified he signed the contract at the
identified sale price to sell the property more quickly, and thus the seller’s
desire to quickly consummate a sale explains the difference between the sale
price agreed to and the alleged value of the property, the appellate court
determined that the trial court’s finding of inadequate consideration to be
erroneous.].) 
Therefore,
the contract is not lacking in adequate consideration. 
B.    
Whether There is a Probable
Validity of Seeking Specific Performance? 
To obtain specific
performance after a breach of contract, a plaintiff must generally show: ‘(1)
the inadequacy of his legal remedy; (2) an underlying contract that is both
reasonable and supported by adequate consideration; (3) the existence of a
mutuality of remedies; (4) contractual terms which are sufficiently definite to
enable the court to know what it is to enforce; and (5) a substantial
similarity of the requested performance to that promised in the contract.
[Citations.].’” (Real Estate Analytics, LLC v. Vallas (2008) 160
Cal.App.4th 463, 472, quoting Tamarind Lithography Workshop, Inc. v. Sanders
(1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 571, 575.)
Defendant
argues that monetary compensation is an adequate legal remedy. According to
Civil Code section 3387, “[i]t is to be presumed
that the breach of an agreement to transfer real property cannot be adequately
relieved by pecuniary compensation. In the case of a single-family dwelling
which the party seeking performance intends to occupy, this presumption is conclusive.
In all other cases, this presumption is a presumption affecting the burden of
proof.” The Real Estate Analytics, LLC court explained the statute:
By
imposing a conclusive presumption for certain residential transactions, the
Legislature decided that monetary damages can never be satisfactory
compensation for a buyer who intends to live at a single-family home,
regardless of the circumstances. But by establishing a rebuttable presumption
with respect to other property, the Legislature left open the possibility that damages
can be an adequate remedy for a breach of a real estate contract. The
rebuttable presumption shifts the burden of proof to the breaching party to
prove the adequacy of the damages. By so doing, the Legislature intended that a
damages remedy for a nonbreaching party to a commercial real estate contract is
the exception rather than the rule. (Id. at p. 474, emphasis added.) 
Here, the court determines that Defendant has met its burden
of proof to prove the adequacy of damages. As explained by Defendant, Plaintiff
“is a professional
homebuyer and buys property at or below market prices for profit” such that it
is buying the property for profit or economic gain. (Motion pp. 5, 7.) But, as
noted by Plaintiff, the fact that Plaintiff is motivated solely to make a
profit does not overcome the strong statutory presumption that all land is
unique and therefore damages are inadequate to make a potential buyer whole for
the breach. (Id. at p. 476.) Notwithstanding, the appellate court in Real
Estate Analytics, LLC determined that damages would be inadequate. There, the
property was “unique in terms of its size [14.13 acres], location [Carlsbad
near Pacific Coast Highway], and existing use—near the Pacific Ocean and
contains an established mobile home community…has ocean views and is close to
several desirable local beaches, two major vacation resorts, the Del Mark
racetrack, expensive neighborhoods, and major transportation routes…and unique
in terms of the potential profits….” (Id. at pp. 474-475.) Here,
however, this property is
like most other single-family homes in the City of Glendora. “[A] seller [must] show not only abstract replaceability but concrete
availability of reasonably interchangeable property at terms within the buyer's
means.” (Id. at p. 475.) And here, Defendant’s submissions
indicate that there is nothing special about this property. 
Therefore,
Defendant has made an evidentiary showing that there is not a probable validity
of winning on the merits as specific performance because a damages remedy would
provide Plaintiff with adequate relief. 
Conclusion
Based
on the foregoing, the motion is GRANTED; attorney fees are not granted. 
 


