  Case Number:  23TRCV00503    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling  HEARING DATE:                 April 25, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00503  CASE NAME:                        Salvador Chavez v. American Honda Motors  Co., Inc., et al.   MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, American Honda Motor Co., Inc.     RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Salvador Chavez   TRIAL DATE:                        Not  Set.    MOTION:                              (1) Demurrer                                                  (2)  Motion to Strike                                                  Tentative Rulings:                  (1) America Honda  Motors Co., Inc’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.                                                 (2)  America Honda Motors Co., Inc’s Motion to Strike is MOOTED.                                                        I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual   On February  22, 2023, Plaintiff, Salvador Chavez (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against  Defendants, American Honda Motor Co., Inc., and DOES 1 through 10. On October  27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). On February 9,  2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of  action (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; and (2) Fraudulent  Inducement – Concealment.   Defendant,  American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“AHM”) now files a demurrer and motion to  strike portions of Plaintiff’s SAC.     B. Procedural  On September 29, 2023, this Court previously Granted  AHM’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the same cause of action for  Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. On January 12, 2024, this Court previously  sustained AHM’s demurrer to the FAC’s Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment cause  of action. Subsequently Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint containing  the same cause of action, to which AHM has demurred and moved to strike.   On March 11, 2024, AHM filed a Demurrer and Motion  to Strike. On April 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed opposition briefs to both  motions. On April 18, 2024, AHM filed reply briefs to both.     II. GROUNDS FOR MOTIONS                Defendant AHM  demurs to Plaintiff’s SAC on the grounds that it argues Plaintiff’s SAC fails  to state sufficient facts to state a cause of action based on the fact that  Plaintiff does not establish: (1) Duty to Disclose; (2) Exclusive Knowledge;  and (3) that the claim still lacks requisite factual specificity. AHM also  asserts that Plaintiff’s SAC fails to state sufficient facts to support  punitive damages.                Further, AHM  seeks to strike the following from Plaintiff’s SAC:    1.      Plaintiff’s prayer for  punitive damages;  2.      Plaintiff’s cause of action  for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment; and  3.      Any mention of Plaintiff’s  allegations of AHM acting with oppression, fraud, or malice.    III. ANALYSIS      A.     Demurrer                          The Court has previously  detailed the legal standards for judging demurrers and the same standard for  judging motion for judgment on the pleadings, so the Court will not repeat them  here.                           Defendant  AHM again asserts that Plaintiff’s cause of action for Fraudulent Inducement –  Concealment failed to state sufficient facts. AHM again argues that Plaintiff does not adequately  allege that Defendant had a duty to disclose. In  the interest of brevity, and because the same arguments have been presented for  this first factor, this Court still views the transactional relationship  argument, through the lens of Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc.  (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, as a close question, and that the Court is mindful  of a series of unpublished federal district court decisions cited  to the Court in this and other demurrers to fraud and concealment allegations  in lemon law cases.  But on balance, the  Court finds that absent changes in the law by the Legislature or by the  California Supreme Court in ruling a year or more from now on Dhital, the  trial courts must decide these cases on the law as it now exists.  This Court finds Plaintiff here cannot  validly bring a fraudulent concealment case because of the absence of a duty by  the manufacturer to disclose (to every retail customer of it authorized  dealerships) the existence of customer complaints about a component, system, or  feature of its vehicles.  There is no  allegation before this Court that AHM -- in its “pre-sale durability testing” (SAC ¶ 39) or in its  reports of “internal investigations into the Honda Sensing defect” based on the  numerous consumer complaints it had received (SAC ¶ 65) -- had other knowledge  or facts that it concealed from the NHTSA, the general public, or from Plaintiff  here.  Plaintiff specifically alleges  numerous times the numerous publicly available technical information about the  Honda sensing system that were disclosed to the federal government and thereby  to the public.      Unlike some  other manufacturers such as Tesla, Honda does not sell or lease its vehicles  directly to the consuming public.  The  direct transactional relationship test in several of the published decisions  bears on the ability of a Lemon Law plaintiff to survive a pleading challenge  to a fraud or fraudulent concealment cause of action.  See Civil Code §1572 (fraud committed “by a  party to the contract”); LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326,  337.  “Such a transaction must  necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant;  it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large.”  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7  Cal.App.5th 276, 312.)  In Bigler-Engler,  the Fourth District distinguished the duty of a manufacturer to disclose in the  personal injury / product liability context where plaintiff’s injury is bodily  injury or death, rather than the fraud context where the plaintiff’s injury is  one of economic loss.  That distinction makes  a difference to this Court.  Plaintiff  here does not allege he was fraudulently induced to enter into a warranty  contract with AHM; instead, he alleged he was fraudulently induced to purchase a  Honda Pilot from an AHM-authorized dealer.   The Court is mindful that the Second District in the Dhital case concluded  that Nissan’s authorized dealerships are agents for purposes of sale of Nissan  vehicles, thus rejecting the defense argument that the lack of a transactional  relationship directly between Nissan and the Lemon Law plaintiff there barred a  duty to disclose.  But the California  Supreme Court chose to grant review of Dhital rather than denying the  Petition, suggestive that it will not be unequivocally affirming the Second  District’s decision.  Further, Dhital  did not involve detailed allegations of published TSBs concerning the same  vehicular operating system, whereas here those allegations abound which  demonstrate disclosure to the general public of customer complaints and repair  procedures about the Honda Pilot’s system at issue.     Next, the  Court turns to the exclusive knowledge issue. Previously, in the arguments  already ruled on MJOP, this Court informed the parties that references to the  publicly disclosed NHTSA TSBs do not tend to show that Honda had exclusive  knowledge; in fact, they establish the opposite. This Court also held that  Plaintiff would need to make specific allegations of his unsuccessful efforts  to learn about such pre-existing reported repair issues, e.g., specific  questions at the point of sale and/or Defendant’s active blunting or  interference with a buyer’s independent efforts to discover the content of the  NHTSA website, in his pleading.  The SAC  does not allege that Plaintiff engaged the selling dealer in a dialogue as to  known defects or unresolved repair issues with the Honda Pilot nor any active  interference by Honda with Plaintiff’s efforts to educate himself on the  existence of hazards or defects.  Instead,  the SAC has added four new paragraphs to discuss the basis for AHM’s alleged  “exclusive knowledge” that was not contained in footnoted references to  NHTSA-published and posted TSBS.  Plaintiff’s  new allegations indicate he made no effort to research the NHTSA website,  noting he was unaware of the existence of the website at all prior to  purchasing the Subject Vehicle. (SAC, ¶ 95.)     Plaintiff also  newly alleges that “[u]pon information and belief, Defendant conducted its own  internal investigations into the Honda Sensing defect based on the numerous  consumer complaints it had received regarding the Honda Sensing system. As part  of its investigations, Defendant created reports which conclude the severity of  the defectiveness of the Honda Sensing system.” (SAC, ¶ 65.) Further, Plaintiff  now alleges that “[t]he reports establish the types of investigation conducted  including the total amounts of complaints received from Defendant’s authorized  dealerships, the low rate of success in correcting or repairing the defect by  its technicians, Defendant’s attempts and failure to recreate the symptoms  expressed by is consumers and dealerships in controlled settings, and questionnaires  sent to its dealerships and consumers regarding the Honda Sensing system  defect.” (SAC, ¶ 66.) Further, the SAC alleges that “[t]he reports concluded  that Defendant was unable to find any temporary or permanent fix or repair to  address the concerns about the Honda Sensing system it had received from its  consumers and authorized repair dealerships.” (SAC, ¶ 67.) Lastly, the new  allegations in the pleading allege that “[t]hese reports about the severity of  the defectiveness of the Honda Sensing system and the inability to temporarily  or permanently repair the problems known about the Honda Sensing system, were  not disclosed to Plaintiff nor the general public. As a consequence, Plaintiff  purchased the Subject Vehicle, experienced issues with the Honda Sensing  system, presented the Subject Vehicle to Defendant’s authorized dealerships,  and Defendant’s authorized repair dealerships were unable to provide any  temporary or permanent fix to address Plaintiff’s concern.” (SAC, ¶ 68.)   In its reply,  AHM asserts that there allegations are insufficient because they do not pertain  to the Subject Vehicle, but instead, involve sensing defects generally. While AHM’s  argument on this point is unpersuasive (because Plaintiff alleges that the same  sensing system for other Honda vehicles is used in the Subject Vehicle), the  SAC fails to allege with any detail what alleged additional material facts were  in the exclusive knowledge of AHM and were not reported in NHTSA-posted TSBs.  Was this plaintiff’s specific repair  complaint or complaints about the sensing system in his model year 2021  Honda Pilot (1) something that AHM knew from its pre-market testing or customer  complaints about other Honda vehicles, and (2) something that AHM failed to  disclose to NHTSA and the general public in the litany of TSBs cited by  Plaintiff, and (3) something that AHM or its authorized dealers were unable to  fix or remedy, and (4) something that had Plaintiff knew before making his  purchase decision would have steered him away from a Honda Pilot as a vehicle  to purchase?  The lack of specificity of  these allegations after multiple opportunities to amend is troubling to the  Court.  Because of the vagueness of the  new allegations as to exactly what it is that AHM purportedly learned but did  not disclose to the NHTSA or the public or to him, the Court finds the SAC  falls short of the pleading standards even if there is arguably a transactional  relationship through the selling dealership.   The Court  finds the SAC’s allegations insufficient to state a fraudulent concealment or  punitive damages cause of action.  Further,  having given Plaintiff multiple opportunities to amend this same cause of  action, the Court determines that Plaintiff’s able counsel has done all they  can do to overcome the pleading deficiencies in this case, so the Court  tentatively denies further leave to amend.   As such, the demurrer is SUSTAINED to the fraudulent concealment cause  of action without leave to amend.    B.     Motion to  Strike                 Plaintiff’s allegations  referencing punitive damages, allegations that are at issue of Defendant’s  Motion to Strike, are based on the above sustained demurrer as to the cause of  action for fraudulent concealment. Because the Court sustained demurrer as to  this cause of action, the motion to strike, which is based on the same  arguments as the demurrer, is mooted.    Moving party is ordered to give notice of ruling.