

Hearing
Date:             October 4, 2023
Case
Name:                Lord M. Rojas v. Chistopher
Rivera  
Case
No.:                    22STCV34028
Motion:                       Motion to Vacate
Dismissal
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff Lord Rojas
Jr.
Responding
Party:      Unopposed

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Vacate
Dismissal is denied. 

 
            This appears to be a business
dispute. Plaintiff Lord M. Rojas (Plaintiff) alleges he entered into a business
partnership with Defendant Christopher Rivera to operate a recording studio; Plaintiff
and Defendant also allegedly shared a romantic relationship. Plaintiff alleges Defendant
never performed on his business obligations and withheld funds from Plaintiffs.
On October 21, 2022, the Complaint was filed, alleging causes of action for (1.)
breach of contract, (2.) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, (3.) constructive trust, (4.) negligent misrepresentation, (5.) intentional
misrepresentation, (6.) fraud, and (7.) intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 
 On October 24, 2022,
this Court set an Order to Show Cause for failure to file a proof of service
(OSC) for March 1, 2023. On December 13, 2022 and December 15, 2022, Plaintiff
filed proofs of service pertaining to Defendant. On March 1, 2023, there were
no appearances at that hearing and the Court determined that the proofs of
service were defective. Subsequently, the Court set an Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal for Plaintiff's Failure to
Appear for July 13, 2023. On July 13, 2023, there were, again, no appearances at
this OSC and the Court dismissed this matter that same day.
 
On September 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to vacate the
dismissal. No opposition was filed. There is no proof of service showing
service of this motion on Defendant.  
 
            The motion to set aside or vacate
the dismissal is denied for procedural and substantive reasons. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) provides for either discretionary or mandatory relief from
certain prior actions or proceedings in the trial court. (Luri¿v. Greenwald¿(2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124.)  
 
            “ ‘Under the discretionary relief
provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect,”¿the court has discretion to allow relief from a “judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against”¿a party or his or her
attorney.¿¿Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a
showing by attorney declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect,”¿the court shall vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered.” ’ [Citation.] Applications seeking relief under the mandatory
provision of section 473 must be ‘accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting
to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.’ The mandatory
provision¿further adds that ‘whenever relief¿is granted based on an attorney’s
affidavit of fault [the court shall] direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs¿to opposing counsel or parties.’¿”  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b).)¿¿
 
            The party seeking such relief must
do so “within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980.)
 
Discussion
 
            Plaintiff states that he is entitled
to discretionary relief based on mistake, inadvertence, and/or surprise.[1]
Specifically, he submits evidence that he was “dealing with the death of [his]
father [and] . . .  was not ready or able
to present [his] case in chief.” (Rojas Decl., ¶ 4.) He further contends that
he had “a mountain of paperwork to prep and so many bills to pay due to Fathers
[sic] death.” (Rojas Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
            While the Court is sympathetic to
Plaintiff’s circumstances, Plaintiff has not shown how any of those issues
interfered with his ability to prosecute and participate in this case.
Plaintiff provides no specific details, such as the date of his father’s death,
or when Plaintiff was too ill to appear in order to put these events in the
context of the missed court proceedings and determine the reasonableness of
Plaintiff’s conduct. 
 
Moreover, while Plaintiff states that “once [he] saw [he]
missed [his] court date [he] immediately prepared this declaration and order”
(Rojas Decl., ¶ 4), the Court notes that this declaration was prepared on
August 8, 2023, but no motion was filed until September 1, 2023 – undermining Plaintiff’s
claim that he proceeded diligently upon the discovery of his mistake. The absence
of any details surrounding the failure to appear for the multiple OSC’s is
fatal to Plaintiff carrying his burden of showing mistake, inadvertence or surprise.
         Thus, for this substantive reason
the motion is denied. 
 
Additionally, Plaintiff failed to demonstrate service of
this motion on Defendant. Thus, this motion is also denied for procedural
reasons.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, the motion to vacate
dismissal is denied. 
 
 


