

Hearing
Date:             October 4, 2023
Case
Name:                Hollywood Tower,
LLC v. Narian  
Case
No.:                    22STCV31584
Motion:                       Motion to Set Aside
Default Judgment
Moving
Party:             Defendant Nicole Narian
Responding
Party:      Unopposed

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Set Aside
Default Judgment is denied.  

 
            This case is an unlawful detainer
action. Plaintiff Hollywood Tower, LLC (Plaintiff), as the landlord, rented a
unit to Defendant Nicole Narian (Defendant); Defendant breached the terms of
the lease by failing to pay the rent due.
 
 Default was entered
on November 3, 2022. On November 4, 2022, the Court entered default judgment as
to Defendant on the issue of possession only. 
 
On May 18, 2023, Defendant Narian moved to set aside the entry
of default and default judgment. No opposition was filed. 
 
            The motion to set aside the entry of
default and default judgment is denied. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) provides for either discretionary or mandatory relief from
certain prior actions or proceedings in the trial court. (Luri¿v. Greenwald¿(2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124.)  
 
            “ ‘Under the discretionary relief
provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect,”¿the court has discretion to allow relief from a “judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against”¿a party or his or her
attorney.¿¿Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a
showing by attorney declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect,”¿the court shall vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered.” ’ [Citation.] Applications seeking relief under the mandatory
provision of section 473 must be ‘accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting
to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.’ The mandatory
provision¿further adds that ‘whenever relief¿is granted based on an attorney’s
affidavit of fault [the court shall] direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs¿to opposing counsel or parties.’¿”  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b).)¿¿
 
            The party seeking such relief must
do so “within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980.)
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant Narian moves to set aside the
entry of default judgment pursuant to the discretionary relief provision.
Specifically, Narian seeks relief based on her mistake; she states that she retained
a law firm to handle her eviction case but the law firm “did not do any work
for [her].” (Narian Decl., ¶ 6.) 
 
            This evidence is insufficient to demonstrate
a mistake warranting relief. Defendant fails to provide any detail to support her
failure to timely respond to the Complaint. She does not state when she retained
this law firm, identify the law firm, or provide any corroborating documentary
evidence to support the claim (such as a retainer agreement or evidence of
payment). Based on the near absence of evidence, Defendant’s declaration is insufficient
to justify relief. 
 
            Additionally, Defendant’s motion for
relief from default is untimely. The default judgement was entered on November
4, 2022, and Defendant did not seek relief until May 18, 2023 – six months and
14 days later. Thus, Defendant cannot obtain relief pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8
Cal.4th 975, 980.)  Furthermore, the
proof of service of her motion is defective. 
It states that service was made by mail on February 23, 2023 – nearly three
months before the motion was filed.
 
            Finally, Defendant states that she
was never served with the Complaint. In contrast to the proof of service which
purports to have personally served her, Narian represents that she was out of
the country at the time of service. (Narian Decl., ¶ 5.) Again, however, the declaration
is suspiciously vague. Defendant does not state where she travelled, the dates
of her travel or provide any documentary evidence to support the claim (such a
plane ticket or a hotel reservation). The declaration is not credible.  
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to set
aside the default judgment is denied. 