  Case Number:  23STCV19133    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR PREFENCEOn August 10, 2023,
Plaintiffs Mehran Mottahedeh and Martha Saucedo filed their action for personal
injury caused by asbestos exposure.  On
November 16, 2023, Plaintiffs moved for trial preference under Code of Civil
Procedure section 36, subdivision (d).  
The court has
discretion to grant a motion for trial preference accompanied by clear and
convincing medical documentation concluding that one of the parties suffers
from an illness or condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of
that party beyond six months and satisfying the court that the interests of
justice will be served by granting the preference.  (Id., § 36, subd. (d).)  Moreover, the court in its discretion may
grant a motion for preference supported by a showing that satisfies the court
that the interests of justice will be served by granting the preference.  (Id., § 36, subd. (e).)  “Upon the granting of such a motion for
preference, the court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days
from that date and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the granting
of the motion for preference except for physical disability of a party or a
party’s attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record.”  (Id., § 36, subd. (f).)  “Any continuance shall be for no more than 15
days and no more than one continuance for physical disability may be granted to
any party.”  (Ibid.) 
Plaintiffs submitted
evidence that Mottahedeh has malignant pleural mesothelioma. (Motion at p.2;
Kamrava Decl., ¶ 11.)  Dr. Kamrava states
he has reviewed Mottahedeh’s record, has treated him personally, and continues
to be involved in his care.  (Kamrava
Decl., ¶¶ 4-5, 16.)  Mottahedeh has
declined traditional treatment, has refused chemotherapy, surgery, and
immunotherapy, and is likely seeking an alternative unconventional treatment plan
in Mexico.  (Id. at ¶¶ 13-14.)  A full body PET scan on December 4, 2023
showed his left sided pleural effusion had increased and additional oncologic
findings of nodules in his left lung, precardiac space, and intercostal spaces
were identified.  (Brown Decl., ¶ 3, Ex.
A.)  Mottahedeh suffers from fatigue,
loss of appetite, and significant weight loss – over twenty pounds since his
diagnosis.  (Kamrava Decl., ¶ 17.)  He is light-headed, has difficulty focusing,
and gets tired easily.  (Mottahedeh
Decl., ¶¶ 11, 12.)  His health will
decline and there is substantial medical doubt as to his survival beyond the
next six months.  (Kamrava Decl., ¶
18-19.)
Defendants argue no
medical documentation supports Kamrava’s declaration of Mottahedeh’s prognosis.
 (J-M Manufacturing Co.’s Opposition at pp.
4-5.)  That declaration provides
sufficient details about Mottahedeh’s medical records, condition and prognosis.
 (See, e.g., Kamrava Decl., ¶ 11, 13-18.)
The court finds that
there is sufficient evidence to meet the clear and convincing standard for
granting this motion, especially because he is not receiving conventional
treatment and recent records show the cancer is spreading. 
Plaintiffs’ motion for
trial setting preference is GRANTED.  The
parties are to meet and confer on a trial setting order.  The trial is scheduled for April 8, 2024 at 9
a.m.  The final status conference is
scheduled for March 25, 2024 at 9 a.m.  A
status conference regarding the trial setting order is set for December 27,
2024 at 9:00 a.m. 
The moving party is to
order to give notice.