 Case Number:  22STCV10752    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  29 Balfe v. 24 Hour
Fitness USA
22STCV10752
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant to Appear for Deposition
Tentative
The motion is DENIED without prejudice..
Background
Plaintiff Emilia Balfe (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on July 13,
2021, she suffered an injury due to a dangerous condition on the premises of 24
Hour Fitness in West Hills.
On March 29, 2022, Plaintiff filed the Complaint in this
action, asserting causes of action for premises liability and general
negligence against 24 Hour Fitness USA, LLC, Chris E. Dowe, and Does 1 through
100.  
On May 16, 2022, Defendant 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc.
(“Defendant”) filed its Answer to the Complaint.  On the same date, Defendant filed a
Cross-Complaint against Artem Fradkin and Does 1 through 10.
On December 6, 2022, Plaintiff amended the Complaint to name
Artem Fradkin as Doe 1.
On July 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed this
motion to compel the deposition of Defendant. 
Plaintiff also seeks sanctions.  Defendant
filed an opposition on August 21. No reply has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
“Any
party may obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any
person, including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210 through 2025.280 provide the
requirements for (among other things) what must be included in a deposition
notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and how and when the notice
must be served.  
“The
service of a deposition notice … is effective to require any deponent who is a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and
copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280, subd.
(a).)
Section
2025.230 provides: “If the deponent named is not a natural person, the
deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on
which examination is requested.  In that
event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its
officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most
qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any
information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”  
Section
2025.410, subdivision (a), requires any party to serve a written objection at
least three days before the deposition if the party contends that a deposition
notice does not comply with the provisions of sections 2025.210 through
2025.280.
Section
2025.450, subdivision (a), provides:
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization
that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  
Any
such motion to compel must show good cause for the production of documents and,
when a deponent has failed to appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.”  (Id.,
subd. (b).)  
When
a motion to compel is granted, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
In Chapter 7 of
the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses
of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to
an authorized method of discovery.” 
Where a party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery
process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030,
subd. (a).)
Discussion
After several
prior attempts to take the deposition of Defendant, Plaintiff noticed Defendant’s
deposition for July 15, 2024.  (Allton
Decl., ¶¶ 8-9 & Exh. D.)  Defendant
served a timely objection, stating (among things) that the deposition was
untimely.  (Koenig Decl., Exh. 5.)  
 
The
timeliness objection was meritorious.  At
the time, trial was scheduled for August 12, and the deposition was noticed for
a date after the discovery cutoff.
 
After this
motion was filed, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application and
continued trial to November 19, with all discovery deadlines reset based on the
new trial date.
 
After
this motion was filed, the parties agreed that Defendant would produce for
deposition one or more persons most qualified (PMQs) on September 11, 2024.  (Koenig Decl., ¶ 9.)
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion to compel is denied without prejudice.  The motion is, to some extent, both moot and unripe:
to the extent that the motion seeks to enforce the notice of deposition
scheduled for July 15, it is moot, and to the extent that it seeks to enforce a
subsequent notice of deposition that is now set to proceed on September 11, it
is not yet ripe. 
 
The Court
understands that there may be disagreements between the parties regarding the topics
of examination and the requests for production set forth in the subsequent
deposition notice.  If Defendant fails to
produce a PMQ to testify on any topic in the notice, or fails to produce any
documents requested in the notice, Plaintiff may bring any appropriate motion after
the deposition (and after complying with all procedural requirements, including
meeting and conferring).
 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES without prejudice Plaintiff’s motion to
compel Defendant to appear for deposition. 
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.