 Case Number:  21STCV37983    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  29 Torres v. Oden
21STCV37983
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On October 14,
2021, Joel Maldonado Torres and Nicole Maldonado
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Miriam Violeta Oden, Miriam
Estrada Garcia, and Does 1 through 50 for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence arising out of an automobile accident occurring on October 19, 2019
at the intersection of Telegraph Road and Stokes Avenue in Downey.
 
On January 29,
2024, Plaintiffs failed to appear at an Order to Show Cause re Dismissal.  Plaintiffs’ complaint was dismissed without
prejudice.
 
On July 11, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed this motion to set aside the dismissal. No opposition has been
filed. 
 
The hearing was
initially set for August 14.  The hearing
was continued so that Plaintiffs could file a corrected declaration from
counsel, which was filed on August 28.
 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provides
for both discretionary and mandatory relief from dismissal. 
As to discretionary relief, the statute states: “The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.”  (Code of Civil Procedure § 473,
subd. (b).) Where such an application for discretionary relief is made, the
motion must be accompanied by a copy of the answer or pleading proposed to be
filed; “otherwise the application shall not be granted.”  (Ibid.)  The application for relief must be made within
a reasonable time, and in no case exceeding six months after the judgment. (Ibid.)
The statute also provides for mandatory relief from dismissal,
default, or default judgment:
“whenever an application for relief is made no more than six
months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an
attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect … unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was
not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Discussion
Plaintiffs request the Court set aside the dismissal of its
complaint on January 29, 2024. 
 
Plaintiffs’ motion is
timely.  Plaintiffs have shown that the
dismissal was the result of an inadvertent error by their counsel.  (Shagramanov
Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 7-9.)
 
Accordingly, the motion is granted.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to set aside dismissal.
 
The Court SETS ASIDE and VACATES the Order of Dismissal
entered on January 29, 2024.
 
The Court SETS an Order to Show Cause Why This Matter
Should Not Be Dismissed in its Entirety Without Prejudice for Failure to Timely
Serve Defendants With the Summons and Complaint, or in the alternative a Trial Setting
Conference, in approximately 60 days.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice to any parties who
have appeared.