 Case Number:  21STCV44719    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  29 Lange v.
Bel-Air Country Club
21STCV44719
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Nonparty Witness Ona Dixon to Comply with
Deposition Subpoena.
 
Tentative
 
The motion
is denied without prejudice.
 
Background 
 
On December 7, 2021, Kelly Lange and James Everling (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Bel-Air Country Club (“Defendant”) and
Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for premises liability and
general negligence arising out of incident in which, Plaintiffs allege, both
Plaintiffs fell on a dance floor on December 7, 2019. 
 
On May 10, 2022, Defendant filed its answer. 
 
On July 24, 2023, Defendant filed a cross-complaint against The
Thalians (“Thalians”); Jimmy Carnelli Music & Entertainment, Inc. dba Jimmy
Carnelli Entertainment (“Carnelli”); and Roes 1 through 25. 
 
On August 14, 2023, Plaintiffs amended their complaint to name
Thalians as Doe 1 and Carnelli as Doe 2.
 
On September 25, 2023, Thalians filed an answer to Plaintiffs’
complaint and Carnelli filed an answer to Defendant’s cross-complaint.
 
On
August 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion to compel nonparty witness Ona
Dixon to comply with a deposition subpoena. 
Plaintiffs also seek sanctions.
No
opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
“Any party may
obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any person,
including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
The process by which a party may obtain discovery from a
person who is not a party to the action is through a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd.
(b).)  
“A deposition subpoena may command any of the following: (a) Only
the attendance and testimony of the deponent …. (b) Only the production of
business records for copying …. (c) The attendance and the testimony of
the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.020.)
A
nonparty must be personally served with a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd.
(b).)  Service must be completed “a
reasonable time” in advance of the deposition and, when documents are
requested, “a sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the
deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce” the documents.  (Id., subd. (a).)
“If a deponent on whom a deposition subpoena has been served fails
to attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as a witness, the court may
impose on the deponent the sanctions described in Section 2020.240 [contempt
and an action for civil damages under section 1992].” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.440, subd. (b).)
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (a).)  “This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after
the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., subd. (b).)
“If the
court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery,
it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the
resumption of the deposition.  (Id., subd. (i).)
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (Id., subd. (j).)  
In Chapter 7 of the Civil
Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the
discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.”  Where a
party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may
impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Except as specifically modified by the
Civil Discovery Act, the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure sections 1985
through 1997 apply to deposition subpoenas. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.030.)¿ 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides: “If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a), states, in relevant part, that in connection with an order
directing compliance with a subpoena, quashing it, or modifying it, “the court
may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification.”¿ 
A motion to compel a nonparty to answer questions or produce documents
“must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty
deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)
 
Discussion
Plaintiffs
issued a deposition subpoena for nonparty witness Ona Dixon to appear for
deposition and produce documents on May 14, 2024.  (Vulic Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. A.)  The deposition was scheduled for June 13,
2024.  (Id., Exh. A)
 
According
to the proof of service filed with the Court, the deposition subpoena was
personally served on Ms. Dixon.  (Ibid.)  Service was not effected until June 10, 2024,
just three days before the deposition.  (Ibid.)  According to the process server, he did not
hand the documents to Ms. Dixon.  (Ibid.)  Rather he knocked and rang the doorbell, but
no one responded; he could hear voices inside (one of which the server
identified as Ms. Dixon’s, although it is unclear how the server could identify
the witness by her voice), he “left the subpoena on her doorstep and yelled out
she was served.”  (Ibid.)  
 
In any
event, it is questionable at best whether service of a deposition subpoena on
June 10 is sufficiently in advance of a deposition on June 13 to give the
witness a reasonable opportunity to gather and produce the requested documents.
Ms.
Dixon, however, must have in fact received the subpoena, as she communicated
with Plaintiffs’ counsel.  Ms. Dixon apparently
misunderstands that a subpoena has the legal effect of a court order, as she
communicated with Plaintiffs’ counsel that she is “fully occupied with various
commitments and obligations,” that she is “opting out of participation,” and
she “extend[s] her best wishes to all parties involved.”  (Id., Exh. B.)
 
Ms.
Dixon did not appear for deposition on June 13. 
(Id., ¶ 6 & Exh. C.)
 
Plaintiffs
filed this motion on August 1.  According
to the proof of service filed with the Court on August 20, however, Ms. Dixon
was not served until August 16.  That is not
timely service, as it was only 12 court days prior to the hearing.
 
Accordingly,
the Court must deny the motion without prejudice for untimely service.  The Court need not reach, and does not reach,
the issue of whether the service of the deposition subpoena was properly
effected on June 10 or whether service of a depositions subpoena only three
days in advance of the deposition is sufficient and proper. 
 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES without prejudice Plaintiff’s motion to compel
nonparty witness Ona Dixon to comply with a depositions subpoena.
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.