  Case Number:  20STCV42086    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  29 Arrowood v.
Schroeter
20STCV42086
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiffs to Appear for Deposition
Motion to Continue Trial
Tentative
The motion to compel is GRANTED.  The request for sanctions is GRANTED in part.
The motion to continue trial is DENIED.
Background
On November 3, 2020, Bradley Arrowwood and
Lovie Jones (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Carl
Schroeter (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through for negligence arising out of an
automobile accident occurring on February 19, 2020.
On April 23, 2021, Defendant filed an answer.

On August 2, 2024, Defendant filed
the motion to compel Plaintiffs’ deposition. An amended motion was filed on
August 5. Defendant also seeks sanctions. 
No opposition has been filed.
 
On August 6, Defendant filed the
motion to continue trial. No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
Motion to Compel Deposition
“Any
party may obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any
person, including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210 through 2025.280 provide the
requirements for (among other things) what must be included in a deposition
notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and how and when the notice
must be served.  
“The
service of a deposition notice … is effective to require any deponent who is a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and
copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280, subd.
(a).)
Section
2025.410, subdivision (a), requires any party to serve a written objection at
least three days before the deposition if the party contends that a deposition
notice does not comply with the provisions of sections 2025.210 through
2025.280.
Section
2025.450, subdivision (a), provides:
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization
that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  
Any
such motion to compel must show good cause for the production of documents and,
when a deponent has failed to appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.”  (Id.,
subd. (b).) 
When
a motion to compel is granted, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010,
subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include
“[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  Where a party or attorney
has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary
sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450(a) provides: 
Motion to Continue
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Motion
to Compel
 
In May
2024, Defendant served notices setting the deposition of Plaintiff Arrowood for
June 14 and Plaintiff Jones for June 19. 
(Klein Decl., ¶ 4 & A.) After communication with Plaintiffs’
counsel, Defendant agreed to continue the depositions.  (Id., ¶ 5.)  
 
On July
5, 2024, Defendant served notices setting the deposition of Plaintiff Arrowood
for July 18 and Plaintiff Jones on July 19. 
(Id., ¶ 8 & Exh. E.) Plaintiffs failed to appear. (Id.,
¶ 9 & Exh. F.) On July 30, 2024, Defense counsel reached out to Plaintiffs
about their non-appearance. (Id., ¶ 10.)
 
Defendant
has shown the these depositions were properly noticed, no objection was served,
and Plaintiffs failed to appear.  All
substantive and procedural requirements for the motion are satisfied.  The motion is granted.
 
Defendant’s
request for sanctions is granted in part. 
Defendant’s motion to compel is granted, Plaintiffs and their counsel
have not acted with substantial justification, and the imposition of sanctions
would not be unjust.  In light of the
straightforward nature of this motion, the Court sets sanctions in the total
amount of $872.50, based on 2.5 hours of attorney time, multiplied by counsel’s
reasonable billing rate of $325 per hour, plus a $60 filing fee.  (See Klein Decl., ¶ 12.)  Sanctions are imposed on each of the two
Plaintiffs in half of that amount; the sanctions are also imposed, jointly and
severally, on Plaintiffs’ counsel.
 
Motion
to Continue Trial
 
Defendant
seeks a trial continuance based on his inability to take Plaintiffs’
depositions. (Klein Decl., ¶ 12.) Defendant answered Plaintiffs’ complaint over
three years ago, the trial date has already been continued numerous times, but
Defendant did not notice Plaintiffs’ depositions until May 2024.  (Id., ¶ 5.)
 
Defendant
does not explain the lack of diligence in pursuing the depositions of Plaintiffs.  
 
Defendant
now seeks to depose Plaintiffs.  The
Court, in this order, is setting the deposition of each Plaintiff on September
9, the date requested by Defendant.
 
Defendant
also asserts that depending on what Plaintiffs say in their depositions, Defendant
may also seek further discovery, including medical examinations.  But Defendant has had years to seek the
medical examinations of Plaintiffs, and the mere possibilities that Defendant
might seek further discovery based on what Plaintiffs might say in their
depositions is not a basis for a continuance. 
 
The
Court has considered all of the relevant facts and circumstances and finds that
Defendant has not shown good cause to continue the trial.  The motion is denied.
 
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiffs’
Depositions. 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff Bradley Arrowood to appear for
deposition and give testimony under oath at 9 a.m. on September 9, 2024 at 515
South Flower Street, 18th Floor, Los Angeles, CA 90071.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff Lovie Jones to appear for
deposition and give testimony under oath at 1:30 p.m. on September 9, 2024 at
515 South Flower Street, 18th Floor, Los Angeles, CA 90071.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff Bradley Arrowood and counsel of
record, Law Offices of D. Hess Panah & Associates, jointly and severely, to
pay $436.25 in sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act to Defendant within 30
days of notice.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff Lovie Jones and counsel of record, Law
Offices of D. Hess Panah & Associates, jointly and severely, to pay $436.25
in sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act to Defendant within 30 days of notice.
The Court notes that Defendant filed a single motion for what
should have been two separate motions as to the motions to compel form
interrogatories and special interrogatories. Combining discovery motions allows
the moving party to avoid paying the requisite filing fees. Filing fees are
jurisdictional and it is mandatory for court clerks to demand and receive them.
(See Duran v. St. Luke’s Hospital (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 457, 460.) 
Accordingly, the Court ORDERS Defendant to pay an additional
filing fee of $60 to the Clerk of the Court and to file proof of payment within 14 days of the hearing.
The
Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to continue trial. 
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice by email of this ruling
by no later than 5:00 pm on September 4.