 Case Number:  24PSCV00086    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Cynthia Shepard’s Motion for Consolidation
Respondent: Defendant Ellen
Shepard O’Connor
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Cynthia Shepard’s Motion for Consolidation
is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
This is an action to quiet
title. In 1979, Plaintiff Cynthia Shepard and Stephen L. Shepard, as husband
and wife, and Stephen Shepard’s sister, Defendant Ellen Shepard O’Connor, allegedly
purchased a property in Claremont as joint tenants, although the original deed
apparently omitted Cynthia Shepard’s name. In 2017, Stephen Shepard died and
left behind a will that allegedly confirmed Cynthia Shepard’s interest in the
Claremont property. Shepard O’Connor also allegedly assured Cynthia Shepard
that Shepard O’Connor would not seek an ouster or partition. In September 2023,
Shepard O’Connor recorded an Affidavit of Death of Joint Tenant and in November
2023, Shepard O’Connor initiated an unlawful detainer action against Cynthia
Shepard, alleging Cynthia Shepard occupied the Claremont property through a
tenancy-at-will and not as a joint tenant.
On January 9, 2024, Cynthia
Shepard filed a complaint against Shepard O’Connor, all persons unknown, and
Does 1-10, alleging a single cause of action to quiet title.
On January 25, 2024, Cynthia
Shepard filed the present motion. A hearing on the motion is set for February
15, with a case management conference and OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of
Service on June 5.
ANALYSIS
Cynthia
Shepard moves to consolidate the present action with an unlawful detainer
action brought by Shepard O’Connor (LASC Case No. 23WCUD02441). For the
following reasons, the court GRANTS Cynthia Shepard’s motion.
Legal Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1048 grants trial courts discretion to consolidate
actions involving common questions of law or fact. The purpose of consolidation
is to eliminate unnecessary costs or delays by avoiding duplication of
procedure, especially when there are issues common to both actions. (Estate
of Baker (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d 471, 485.)
Discussion
In
this case, Cynthia Shepard argues both cases involve common questions of law
and fact. In the unlawful detainer action, Shepard O’Connor’s Complaint alleges
Cynthia Shepard occupies the Claremont property pursuant to a tenancy-at-will. In
the present action, the Complaint alleges Cynthia Shepard occupies the
Claremont property as a joint tenant. Based on these allegations, it is
apparent both cases arise from the same issue regarding Cynthia Shepard’s
ownership of the Claremont property.
In Martin-Bragg
v. Moore (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 367 (Martin-Bragg), the court held it
was an abuse of discretion for the court to deny a motion to consolidate an
action to quiet title with an unlawful detainer action when complex title
issues were involved. (Id., at p. 391.) While the court acknowledged there
were legitimate concerns about the loss of the unlawful detainer action’s
summary procedures, the court also noted that the trial court could not
disregard the need for reasonable discovery when complex issues involving
conflicting ownership claims are being tried. (Id., at p. 389.)
Like
Martin-Bragg, the present actions also involve a complex title dispute
with competing claims of ownership between Cynthia Shepard and Shepard
O’Connor. Thus, the court finds it is necessary to consolidate the present
actions. And while Shepard O’Connor has filed an opposition to Cynthia
Shepard’s motion, the opposition fails to address or distinguish Martin-Bragg.
Accordingly,
Cynthia Shepard’s motion is GRANTED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Cynthia Shepard’s motion to consolidate is GRANTED. Case 23WCUD02441 is consolidated with Case 24PSCV00086.  The lead case shall be 24PSCV00086.