  Case Number:  23PSCV01673    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Teamsters Local
396 TCWH’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiff Jay
Phillips
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Teamsters Local
396 TCWH’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED IN PART with twenty (20) days
leave to amend as to the First Cause of Action and without leave to amend as to
the Third Cause of Action. Furthermore, the Demurrer is OVERRULED IN PART as to
the Second Cause of Action.
BACKGROUND
This
is a wrongful termination action. In 1976, Plaintiff Jay Phillips joined
Defendant Teamsters Local 396 TCWH (Teamsters) and was first elected as
president in 2006. In August 2022, the Teamsters’ current secretary-treasurer decided
to resign, and the Teamsters’ leadership had initially agreed to appoint
Phillips as the new secretary-treasurer. But while Phillips had initially
received assurances of support from a majority of the Teamsters’ executive
board, the board refused to appoint Phillips to the position after some of the
board members raised concerns over Phillips’ age. Instead, the board selected
another individual, Victor Mineros, as the new secretary-treasurer.
Following
Mineros’s appointment, Phillips alleges another Teamsters member responsible
for documenting campaign contributions came to Phillips and reported that Mineros
had been accepting cash from outside vendors in violation of union election
rules and making campaign contributions in excess of the allowed amounts. Upon
learning this, Phillips advised the member to make a report with the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT) or the U.S. Department of Labor’s
Office of Labor-Management Standards (OLMS). When Mineros learned what Phillips
advised, Phillips alleges Mineros began retaliating against Phillips by
reducing Phillips’s responsibilities and access to the Teamsters’ Covina
office. On December 28, 2022, Mineros terminated Phillips’ employment with the
Teamsters.
On
June 5, 2023, Phillips filed a complaint against the Teamsters and Does 1-25,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) whistleblower retaliation, (2) discrimination
on the basis of age, (3) discrimination on the basis of medical condition, (4)
breach of implied-in-fact contract, and (5) intentional infliction of emotional
distress (IIED).
On
October 11, 2023, Phillips filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the
same defendants alleging the same causes of action minus the fourth and fifth
causes of action.
On November
13, 2023, the Teamsters filed the present demurrer. Prior to filing, the
Teamsters’ counsel met and conferred telephonically with Phillips’s counsel and
was unable to reach a resolution. (Moorhead Decl., ¶ 2.)
A hearing
on the demurrer and case management conference are set for February 15, 2024.
ANALYSIS
The
Teamsters demur to Phillips’ entire FAC. For the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS the Teamsters’ demurrer to Phillips’s
first cause of action with leave to amend and third cause of action without
leave to amend. Furthermore, the court OVERRULES the demurrer to Phillips’s
second cause of action.
Legal Standard
A
party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering
demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
Whistleblower Retaliation (First Cause of Action)
The
Teamsters argue Phillips’ first cause of action for whistleblower retaliation
in violation of Labor Code section 1102.5 fails to plead sufficient facts to
state a claim because it is preempted by the Labor Management Reporting and
Disclosure Act (LMRDA). The court agrees.
Legal Standard
“A
state action is preempted wherever it ‘stands as an obstacle to the
accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress.’”
(Screen Extras Guild, Inc. v. Superior Court (1990) 51 Cal.3d 1017, 1022
(Screen Extras Guild), quoting Brown v. Hotel Employees (1984)
468 U.S. 491, 501.) Substantive preemption applies when a “state law regulates
conduct that is actually protected by federal law” and “[i]n such cases, state
action is preempted, without balancing state and federal interests, by direct
operation of the supremacy clause of the United States Constitution.” (Id.,
at p. 1023.)
Discussion
In
this case, the Teamsters argue Phillips’ first cause of action is preempted by
the LMRDA as recognized in Screen Extras Guild. There, our supreme court
held a former union business agent’s action for wrongful termination against the
agent’s union-employer was preempted by the LMRDA. (Id., at p. 1032.) In
finding substantive preemption applied, the court noted the LMRDA was enacted
by Congress “to ensure that unions are democratically governed and responsive
to the will of their memberships.” (Id., at p. 1024.) Because the LMRDA
allows elected union officials to fire management or policymaking employees, allowing
wrongful termination claims “to proceed in the California courts would ‘restrict
the exercise of the right to terminate which Finnegan [v. Leu (1982)
456 U.S. 431, 441] found [to be] an integral part of ensuring a union
administration’s responsiveness to the mandate of the union election.’” (Id.,
at p. 1028, quoting Tyra v. Kearney (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 921, 927.)
In
opposition, Phillips attempts to distinguish Screen Extras Guild on the
grounds that it dealt with a wrongful discharge case while the present case
involves whistleblower allegations. In arguing this distinction is controlling,
Phillips cites Bloom v. General Truck Drivers, Office & Food Warehouse
Union, Local 952 (9th Cir. 1986) 783 F.2d 1356 (Bloom). There, the
Ninth Circuit held a wrongful discharge action against a union was not
preempted by the LMRDA where the employee alleged the termination occurred
after the employee refused to illegally alter the minutes of a union meeting. (Id.,
at p. 1362.) The Ninth Circuit determined the state’s interests in preventing wrongful
discharge for refusing to commit a crime was greater than the federal interest
and that “[p]rotecting such a discharge by preempting a state cause of action
based on it does nothing to serve union democracy or the rights of union
members.” (Ibid.)
In
response, the Teamsters argue Screen Extras Guild explicitly rejected
the preemption standard used in Bloom. But while Screen Extras Guild did
note Bloom failed to conduct the proper preemption analysis as weighing
the state interests versus federal interests is not proper in determining the
applicability of substantive preemption, the court refused to “speculate as to
whether the Bloom court reached the right conclusion regarding LMRDA
preemption.” (Screen Extras Guild, supra, 51 Cal.3d at p. 1025,
fn. 5.) In arguing the opposite, Phillips claims Screen Extras Guild supported
the Bloom decision by stating “The Bloom court properly analyzed
the state claim in terms of its relation to the purposes of the LMRDA. Not only
would the state action not inhibit ‘union democracy,’ it concluded, but
preemption would deprive the plaintiff of any viable remedy, and thus frustrate
the very purposes of the Act.” (Id., at p. 1049 (dis. opn. of Arabian,
J.).) But Phillips misconstrues the legal effect of this language as it comes
from a dissenting opinion and thus is not binding on this court.
Nevertheless,
the court finds Bloom inapplicable here. While the plaintiff in Bloom was
fired for refusing to engage in illegal activity, Phillips does not allege
Phillips was fired for refusing to engage in illegal activity. In applying Bloom,
other state courts have limited its application to cases where the union
employee had refused to participate in criminal conduct or reported such
conduct. In Montoya v. Local Union III of the Intern. Broth. Of Elec.
Workers (Colo. Ct. App. 1988) 755 P.2d 1221, the Colorado Court of Appeals
adopted “the Bloom exception to federal preemption to the
extent a claim is based on an employee's unwillingness to aid his superior in
the violation or concealment of a violation of a criminal statute.” (Id.,
at p. 1224.) In applying it, the court held the LMRDA did not bar plaintiff’s
action for wrongful discharge where plaintiff refused to participate in
embezzlement of union funds. (Ibid.) In Henry v. Laborers’ Local 1191
(Mich. 2014) 848 N.W.2d 130, the Michigan Supreme Court applied Bloom to
a case where the union employees alleged they were fired for reporting crimes
committed by union officials. (Id., at p. 296.) While the court
acknowledged this went beyond Bloom, the court held it was a “distinction
is without a difference because . . . the union employer is retaliating against
employees and, in doing so, trying to shield alleged criminal misconduct from
union rank-and-file membership and the public.” (Ibid.)
In Dzwonar
v. McDevitt (N.J. Super. Ct. App. Div. 2002) 791 A.2d 1020 (Dzwonar),
the plaintiff alleges the plaintiff was fired by a union after objecting to
alleged violations of the LMRDA that the union was committing. (Id., at
p. 167-168.) But there, the court applied Bloom and held plaintiff’s
retaliation action was preempted by the LMRDA as “[t]here is no suggestion in
this record that defendants’ activity was criminal in nature. Rather, this case
involves, at most, the federal regulatory scheme and the union’s own internal
operating policies.” (Id., at p. 173.) Here, the court finds the facts
of the present case most resemble Dzwonar. Like the plaintiff there,
Phillips has failed to allege how Mineros engaged in criminal conduct and
instead alleges Mineros violated the Teamsters’ own election rules. (FAC, ¶ 25.)
Because Phillips has failed to allege how Mineros’s actions were criminal, Bloom
is inapplicable here and the court is bound to follow Screen Extras
Guild.
Accordingly,
because Phillips’s retaliation claim as presently alleged is preempted by the
LMRDA, the court SUSTAINS the Teamsters’ demurrer with leave to amend.
Age Discrimination (Second Cause of Action)
The
Teamsters contend Phillips’s second cause of action for age discrimination
fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim because Phillips failed to
allege an adverse employment action. The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
Government
Code section 12940, subdivision (a) prohibits employment discrimination on the
grounds of “race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry, physical
disability, mental disability, reproductive health decision-making, medical
condition, genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity,
gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or veteran or military status of
any person.” To establish a prima facie claim of discrimination, plaintiff must
allege “that (1) he was a member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for
the position he sought or was performing competently in the position he held,
(3) he suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or
denial of an available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests
discriminatory motive.” (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317,
355.)
Discussion
In
this case, Phillips alleges the Teamsters subjected Phillips to adverse
employment action by failing to elect Phillips to the position of
secretary-treasurer. (FAC, ¶ 44.) The Teamsters contend their board’s election
of a different candidate does not qualify as an adverse employment action
because courts do not consider such elected leadership roles to be employment
positions for purposes of discrimination claims. In support of this claim, the
Teamsters rely on nonbinding federal cases that interpret Title VII. But the
Teamsters fail to point to any binding California authority on this issue or establish
why federal court interpretations of employment pursuant to Title VII are
relevant here. (Chavez v. City of Los Angeles (2010) 47 Cal.4th 970, 984
[“[F]ederal court interpretations of Title VII are helpful in construing the
FEHA only when the relevant language of the two laws is similar.”].)
Accordingly,
because the Teamsters fail to develop this argument, their demurrer to this
cause of action is OVERRULED.
Medical Condition Discrimination (Third Cause of
Action)
The
Teamsters maintain Phillips’s third cause of action for discrimination on the
basis of medical condition fails to allege sufficient facts to state a claim. Phillips
states Phillips has no opposition to the Teamsters’ demurrer on this ground and
does not request leave to amend. Accordingly, the Teamsters’ demurrer to this
cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
Teamsters’ demurrer to Phillips’s FAC is SUSTAINED IN PART with twenty (20)
days leave to amend as to the first cause of action and without leave to amend
as to the third cause of action. The demurrer also is OVERRULED IN PART as
to the second cause of action.