 Case Number:  23LBCV01725    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIAFOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICTANGELICA ARREGUIN-AGUILAR, ET AL., Plaintiff(s), vs. JOAN M. ATTWEL, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) CASE NO: 23LBCV01725 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DISCOVERY MOTIONS Dept. S27 8:30 a.m. October 3, 2024Moving Party: Plaintiffs, Angelica Arreguin-Aguilar and Jose A. Arechiga-PerezOpposing Party: Defendant, Joan M. AttwellNotice: OK1. Background FactsPlaintiffs, Angelica Arreguin-Aguilar and Jose A. Arechiga-Perez filed this action against Defendant, Joan M. Attwell for damages arising out of an automobile accident.2. Motion to Compel DepositionPlaintiffs propounded a notice of deposition on Defendant on 6/19/24, setting the deposition for 8/07/24. On 8/02/24, Defendant served an objection, indicating she was not available that day. She did not provide alternative dates for deposition. On the same day, Plaintiffs sent correspondence to Defendant indicating they would move to compel the deposition. They filed their motion to compel on 8/06/24.On 8/06/24, the same day Plaintiffs filed the motion, Defendant provided dates for deposition. Plaintiffs have not meaningfully responded to the offer to produce Defendant for deposition.The motion to compel is denied. As Defendant correctly notes in opposition to the motion, CCP §2025.450(a) permits a motion to compel if the deponent fails to appear for the properly noticed deposition. Plaintiffs took the deposition off calendar and filed the motion on 8/06/24, a day before the deposition was scheduled to go forward. There was, therefore, no failure to appear. Additionally, §2025.450(b)(2) requires a good faith meet and confer, which Plaintiffs failed to engage in; simply sending a letter saying you’re going to file a motion and then immediately doing so is not a good faith attempt to meet and confer.The Court understands Plaintiffs’ frustration with Defendant’s decision to wait 44 days after the notice was propounded to indicate she was not available. CCP §2025.270(a) permits a party to schedule a deposition with ten days’ notice. Plaintiffs chose to give approximately fifty days’ notice. The Court will not attempt to determine Defendant’s motivation for waiting to indicate her unavailability. The Court finds only that Plaintiffs failed to meet their burden to show Defendant failed to appear at a scheduled deposition and also failed to meet and confer properly prior to filing the motion.The motion is denied. Counsel must meet and confer forthwith to schedule all depositions without the need for further law and motion practice.The Court notes that the motion also seeks an order precluding Defendant from taking Plaintiffs’ depositions until after Plaintiffs take Defendant’s deposition, as well as an order continuing the trial date. Neither request for relief is briefed in the moving papers, and therefore both requests are denied. Notably, it appears Defense Counsel has been attempting to provide dates to permit his client’sdeposition to go forward before Plaintiffs’ depositions go forward, but Plaintiffs’ attorney has not been engaging in those efforts.3. FROGs, Set Onea. FROG 7.1FROG 7.1 seeks information about damage to Defendant’s automobile in the subject accident. Defendant indicates her car suffered damage to the right quarter post, but in response to subdivision (c) of the FROG, which asks, “state the amount of damage you are claiming for each item of property and how the amount was calculated,” she responds, “Responding Party is not making a claim for damages in the present action.”Plaintiffs argue Defendant has to value the damage to her vehicle in response to the FROG even if she isn’t seeking to recover the value of the damage. Plaintiffs’ interpretation is contrary to the language of the FROG itself, which seeks the amount of damage being CLAIMED, meaning pursued, in the action. Defendant has not filed a cross-complaint and is not making any claim for damages. The motion to compel a further response is denied.b. FROG 20.4FROG 20.4 asks Defendant to describe the route she took to the location of the incident, including each stop she took leading up to the incident. Plaintiffs seek to compel a further response because Defendant does not include information about a stop she made to investigate a scraping sound that she associated with striking Plaintiffs’ vehicle. Defendant’s position is nonsensical. The scraping sound associated with striking Plaintiffs’ vehicle had to have occurred at the location of the incident, and therefore was not a stop “leading up to the incident.” Notably, it does not appear facts relating to stoppingat the scene of the incident are in dispute, so it is unclear why a further response to this FROG would be helpful to the parties. The motion to compel is denied.c. FROG 20.8FROG 20.8 seeks to have the defendant state how the incident occurred, giving the speed, direction, and location of each vehicle just before the incident, at the time of the incident, and after the incident.Defendant responded by giving the speed, direction, and location of each vehicle just before, during, and after the incident. Plaintiffs argue the FROG requires Defendant to provide additional information, as speed, direction, and location are not the exclusive information called for by the FROG.The FROG, on its face, requires only the speed, direction, and location of each vehicle. Plaintiffs are free to pose SROGs that seek additional information, but Defendant’s response to FROG 20.8 is full and complete. The motion to compel a further response is denied.4. RPDsPlaintiffs propounded RPD 7 on Defendant, seeking production of insurance policies that provide coverage for the subject accident. Defendant served objections and produced a redacted copy of the declaration of coverage. Plaintiffs argue the redactions are not permitted and seek a further response, without objections, such that Defendant would have to produce the entire declarations page.Per CCP §2031.310(b)(1), Plaintiffs have the burden to show “good cause” for production of the document sought in order to compel a further response to RPD 7.Defendant redacted the identity of other drivers and other vehicles on the policy. Plaintiffs argue there is good cause to require Defendant to provide that information because the information “likely would lead…to admissible evidence from other drivers as to her habit of moving her vehicles that led to the subject accident occurring and to statements she made about the subject accident she made (sic) to other drivers, including whether Plaintiffs were in the truck she struck. Moreover, the full document is required to be produced under the completeness doctrine, Evid Code Section 356.”The Court finds Plaintiffs failed to show good cause for production of the document sought. Plaintiffs’ explanation for why they need the unredacted document is entirely speculative, and the information sought could be obtained through deposition or other easily available means. Plaintiffs fail to meaningfully address what Evidence Code §356 has to do with redacting an insurance declarations page. The Court reviewed §356 and finds it has no application to the issue.The motion to compel is denied.5. SanctionsPlaintiffs seek imposition of sanctions with their moving papers. Because the motions are denied, the requests for sanctions are denied. Defendant does not seek imposition of sanctions with the opposition papers, and therefore none are imposed.Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice.Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. If the department does not receivean email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar. If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.DATED: October 3, 2024 _____________________________________MARK C. KIM Judge of the Superior Court