  Case Number:  22LBCV00483    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICT
 



SOLEDAD
  GUTIERREZ,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES HARBOR,
  ET AL.,
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 22LBCV00483
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION
  FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION
 
Dept. S27
8:30 a.m.
October 3, 2024



 
Moving Party:               Defendant, County of Los Angeles
Non-Opposition:           Plaintiff, Soledad Gutierrez
Notice:                         OK
 
1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Soledad Gutierrez filed
this action against Defendants, County of Los Angeles (erroneously sued as
County of Los Angeles Harbor) and UCLA Medical Center for various FEHA
violations, the details of which will be discussed below.    
 
Plaintiff’s complaint includes
causes of action for:
·        
Race and National Origin Discrimination in
Violation of FEHA;
·        
Retaliation in Violation of FEHA;
·        
Failure to Take Reasonable Steps to Prevent
Discrimination in Violation of FEHA;
·        
Declaratory and Injunctive Relief;
·        
Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code §1197.5.
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication

Evidentiary Objections

Defendant filed evidentiary
objections with its reply papers. 
Objections 1, 2, 7, and 8 are sustained. 
The remaining objections are overruled.
 

Issues Presented

Defendant moves for summary
judgment on the complaint on three grounds. 
First, it contends Plaintiff failed to exhaust administrative remedies
prior to filing her complaint.  Second,
it contends Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the statute of limitations.  Finally, it contends it had a legitimate,
non-discriminatory reason for Plaintiff’s termination, such that it is not
liable for wrongful termination or related claims.  
 

Timeline of Allegations

Plaintiff commenced employment with
Defendant in 2002.  Plaintiff was hired
as a laboratory assistant, which remains her position to this day.  In November of 2018, she complaint to the
Director of Compliance about illegal training or registered nurses and doctors
of non-Hispanic descent.  In April of
2022, she requested documents regarding her complaint, but was denied
assistance and documents.  
 
In January of 2019, Plaintiff was
asked to take a competency assessment while she was on approved bereavement
leave; she ultimately was able to take all of her leave, but believes the
request was insensitive and indicative of her hostile work environment.  
 
In June of 2021, she complained to
the Director of Employee Relations regarding high-ranking management positions
and promotions provided to non-Hispanic individuals who knowingly and willingly
lied during official investigations, while qualified Hispanic individuals were
overlooked and held to a higher standard. 
In August of 2021, Plaintiff was removed from her work assignment area
pending what Plaintiff believes was a fabricated safety related violation and
she has not been able to return to work by her supervisor.  
 
At unspecified times, Plaintiff
received written reprimands and a counseling memo re: attendance; the
reprimands were rescinded when she filed her grievance, but she believes they
were intended to be retaliatory measures. 

 
In February of 2022, Plaintiff
filed a complaint with the DFEH and EEOC. 
She contends this complaint has led to ongoing discrimination in the
form of an ongoing refusal to permit her to return to work and failing to
prevent discrimination.  
 

Exhaustion of
     Administrative Remedies

The County’s first argument is that
Plaintiff failed to exhaust her administrative remedies prior to filing this
action.  The County concedes Plaintiff
filed an DFEH complaint, but contends it was not sufficient to put the County
on notice of the claims against it.  Specifically,
the County contends the DFEH complaint alleges whistleblower retaliation, but
does not include any facts showing racial or ethnic discrimination, which is
the basis for her civil complaint.    
 
Plaintiff’s DFEH complaint,
attached as Exhibit B-3 to Defendant’s appendix of evidence, indicates that
Plaintiff complained to Defendant about illegal training of doctors and nurses.  She requested documents, but was denied
assistance and documents.  She later
complained about violation of civil service rules regarding pre-selection for
high-ranking management positions and promotions of persons who lied during
official investigations.  Thereafter, she
suffered various adverse work consequences. 

Defendant argues the foregoing is
sufficient to warn it that Plaintiff is pursuing a whistleblower claim of some
sort, but not a race- or ethnicity-based FEHA claim, which is what she
ultimately asserted in this lawsuit. 
Plaintiff argues the allegations in her DFEH claim need only be
reasonably related to the allegations in her civil complaint, and because the
same factual allegations underpin both the administrative claim and the civil
complaint, she concludes her administrative claim was sufficient.
 
Plaintiff relies on Soldinger v.
Northwest Airlines, Inc. (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 345, 381, wherein the
Court held:
The issue before us revolves around
the fact that Soldinger's charges submitted to DFEH do not duplicate the
allegations in her amended civil complaint. Some authorities state the more
specific the original charge filed with the administrative agency, the less
likely a civil lawsuit may be expanded into other areas. (Okoli v. Lockheed
Technical Operations Co., supra, 36 Cal.App.4th at p. 1617.) However, even if
this is an accurate statement of the law, all recognize that a DFEH charge “is
not intended as a limiting device.” (Watson v. Department of Rehabilitation
(1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1271, 1288 [ 261 Cal.Rptr. 204].) Incidents not described
in a DFEH charge can be included in the subsequently filed lawsuit if they
would necessarily have been discovered by investigation of the charged
incidents, i.e., if the allegations in the civil complaint were “like or
related” to those specified in the DFEH charge. (Okoli v. Lockheed Technical
Operations Co., supra, at p. 1615;  Sanchez
v. Standard Brands, Inc., supra, 431 F.2d at p. 466.) “Essentially, if an
investigation of what was charged in the [administrative agency filing] would
necessarily uncover other incidents that were not charged, the latter incidents
could be included in a subsequent [civil] action.” (Okoli v. Lockheed Technical
Operations Co., supra, 36 Cal.App.4th at p. 1615; original italics.)
 
Defendant fails to cite anything on
point or to the contrary.  The Court
finds Plaintiff’s allegations, while not mentioning race, were sufficient to
meet the test set forth above.  The motion
for summary judgment on the ground that Plaintiff’s DFEH complaint did not
adequately reflect her claims asserted in the civil suit is therefore denied.  
 

Burden Shifting
     Analysis in FEHA Claims

Special rules govern allocation of
the burden of proof on motions for summary judgment in wrongful termination and
employment discrimination cases, under both federal and state law. State courts
follow the approach taken by federal courts in these cases.  Moore v. Regents of Univ. of Calif. (2016)
248 Cal.App.4th 216, 233.  These special
rules are intended to sharpen the inquiry into the elusive factual question of
intentional discrimination. The summary judgment procedure “provides a
particularly suitable means to test the sufficiency of … the defendant's
nondiscriminatory motives for the employment decision.”  Caldwell v. Paramount Unified School Dist.
(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 189, 203.
 
But “many employment cases present
issues of intent, and motive, and hostile working environment, issues not
determinable on paper”; such cases are “rarely appropriate for disposition on
summary judgment.”  Nazir v. United
Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 286. 

 
Because direct evidence of
discrimination is seldom available, courts use a system of shifting burdens as
an aid to the presentation and resolution of such cases both at trial and on a
motion for summary judgment.   Guz v.
Bechtel Nat'l, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354-355.  At trial, the initial burden is on the
employee to establish a prima facie case of discrimination. (Not much is
required, however; circumstantial evidence creating an inference of
discrimination is sufficient.)  Id. at
354-355.  
 
When the employer seeks summary
judgment, however, the initial burden rests with the employer to show that no
unlawful discrimination occurred.  CCP
§437c(p)(2); see Id. at 354-355; see also Cornell v. Berkeley Tennis Club
(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 908, 926.  To
satisfy its initial burden, the moving party employer must either undermine an
element of the plaintiff's prima facie case by affirmatively negating it or
showing the plaintiff cannot prove it, or must provide a legitimate
nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse employment action; McGrory v. Applied
Signal Tech., Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1523.  
 
First, the employer (moving party)
must carry the burden of showing the employee's action has no merit (§
437c(p)(2)). It may do so by evidence either:
•       negating
an essential element of the employee's claim (difficult to do, because prima
facie case of discrimination is so easy to establish); or
•       showing
some legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the action taken against the
employee.   Caldwell, supra, at
202-203.  
 
If the employer meets this initial
burden, to avoid summary judgment the employee must produce “substantial
responsive evidence that the employer's showing was untrue or pretextual,”
thereby raising at least an inference of discrimination.  Hersant v. California Dept. of Social
Services (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 997, 1004-1005. 
A plaintiff's “suspicions of improper motives … primarily based on
conjecture and speculation” are clearly not sufficient to raise a triable issue
of fact to withstand summary judgment. 
Kerr v. Rose (1990) 216 Cal.App.3d 1551, 1564.   Evidence showing facts inconsistent with the
employer's claimed reasons tends to prove the employer's discriminatory intent.  Martin v. Lockheed Missiles & Space Co.
(1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1718, 1735.  
“Pretext” does not require proof that discrimination was the only reason
for the employer's action. When there are mixed motives for the employer's
action, it is enough that discriminatory intent was a substantial motivating
factor in the employer's decision to take the adverse action.  Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56
Cal.4th 203, 232.  
An employee may also avoid summary
judgment by attacking the credibility of the employer's declarations; i.e., by
demonstrating “such weaknesses, implausibilities, inconsistencies,
incoherencies, or contradictions in the employer's proffered legitimate reasons
for its action that a reasonable factfinder could rationally find them unworthy
of credence” and hence infer discriminatory intent.”   Hersant, supra, at 1005.  However, though “disbelief of an Employer's
stated reason for a termination gives rise to a compelling inference that the
Employer had a different, unstated motivation, … it does not, without more,
reasonably give rise to an inference that the motivation was a prohibited
one.”  McGrory v. Applied Signal Technology,
Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1531-1532. 

 
The defendant employer may proceed
directly to provide evidence that its action was taken for a legitimate,
nondiscriminatory purpose. The burden is then on the plaintiff employee to
rebut with evidence raising an inference that intentional discrimination
occurred. Summary judgment for the employer should be granted where, “given the
strength of the employer's showing of innocent reasons, any countervailing
circumstantial evidence of discriminatory motive, even if it may technically
constitute a prima facie case, is too weak to raise a rational inference that
discrimination occurred.”   Guz, supra at
362.  
 

Prima Facie Case of
     Discrimination Under FEHA

Defendant contends Plaintiff cannot
make a prima facie case establishing discrimination under FEHA.  To establish a prima facie case of
discrimination, she must show that (1) she was a member of a protected class,
(2) she was performing competently in the position she held, (3) the County
subjected her to an adverse employment action, and (4) some other circumstance
suggests discriminatory motive.  See Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc., 24
Cal.4th 317, 355 (2000).
 
Defendant contends Plaintiff cannot
establish she suffered any adverse employment action, which is an element of a
prima facie case.  The parties discuss
three alleged adverse employment actions:
·        
Paid administrative leave;
·        
An assessment during bereavement leave;
·        
Retracted reprimands and a counseling memo.
 
Defendant cites McRae v. Dep’t of
Corrs. And Rehab. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 377, 386 to support its
contention that paid administrative leave does not constitute an adverse
employment action.  McRae did not
consider paid administrative leave, but generally discussed whether and when
adverse employment action occurs.  The
Court held (citations omitted):
In California, an employee seeking
recovery on a theory of unlawful discrimination or retaliation must demonstrate
that he or she has been subjected to an adverse employment action that
materially affects the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, rather
than simply that the employee has been subjected to an adverse action or
treatment that reasonably would deter an employee from engaging in the
protected activity (citation).  A change
that is merely contrary to the employee's interests or not to the employee's
liking is insufficient.” (citation) “ ‘[W]orkplaces are rarely idyllic
retreats, and the mere fact that an employee is displeased by an employer's act
or omission does not elevate that act or omission to the level of a materially
adverse employment action.’ [Citation.] If every minor change in working
conditions or trivial action were a materially adverse action then any ‘action
that an irritable, chip-on-the-shoulder employee did not like would form the
basis of a discrimination suit.’ [Citation.]” (citation) The plaintiff
must show the employer's retaliatory actions had a detrimental and substantial
effect on the plaintiff's employment. (citations).
 
“Requiring an employee to prove a
substantial adverse job effect ‘guards against both “judicial micromanagement
of business practices” [citation] and frivolous suits over insignificant
slights.’ [Citation.] Absent this threshold showing, courts will be thrust into
the role of personnel officers, becoming entangled in every conceivable form of
employee job dissatisfaction. While the Legislature was understandably
concerned with the chilling effect of employer retaliatory actions and mandated
that FEHA provisions be interpreted broadly to prevent unlawful discrimination,
it could not have intended to provide employees a remedy for any possible
slight resulting from the filing of a discrimination complaint.” (citation). In
addition, while the employee and the public have a significant interest in
preventing discrimination or retaliation for engaging in protected activity,
those are not the only interests at stake. The employer and the public have a
legitimate interest in efficient, cost-effective, and high-quality work.
Employers need to be able to manage employees without fear that routine
employment decisions, or attempts at improving employee performance, will lead
to litigation. Employees themselves have an interest in learning if their work
habits are substandard, particularly if they wish to advance in their
professions. “On the one hand, we worry that employers will be paralyzed into
inaction once an employee has lodged a complaint ..., making such a complaint
tantamount to a ‘get out of jail free’ card for employees engaged in job
misconduct. On the other hand, we are concerned about the chilling effect on
employee complaints resulting from an employer's retaliatory actions.” (citation).  
 
Plaintiff argues paid
administrative leave can constitute adverse employment action.  She relies on Whitehall v. County of San
Bernardino (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 352, 356 and Fonseca v. LAUSD, 2023
Cal. Super. LEXIS 95337 to support her position.  In Whitehall, the plaintiff, a social worker
with DCFS, sought legal advice concerning her supervisors’ instructions that
she falsify information in juvenile court. 
Her attorney prepared a filing for the juvenile court apprising it of
the falsified information, and the County placed the plaintiff on
administrative leave for violating confidentiality rules.  During her two-month leave, the County
decided to terminate her employment; she ultimately resigned to avoid being
terminated.  The Court of Appeals held
that, under the circumstances and in light of the ultimate termination of
employment (which termination decision was made during the leave), the
administrative leave was an adverse employment action.  The Court did not hold that administrative
leave is ALWAYS an adverse employment action; indeed, the Court noted that it
“may” constitute an adverse employment action depending on the specific
circumstances of the case.  
 
Fonseca is, as Defendant correctly
notes in reply, an unpublished case. 
Additionally, it is Federal District Court case that was not decided at
the appellate level.  The Court has not
considered the citation.  
 
In this case, the facts do not
support a conclusion that Plaintiff’s leave constituted an adverse employment
action.  Plaintiff does not dispute fact
44, which establishes that Plaintiff’s doctor restricted her from working the
night shift, indicating that, if this could not be accommodated, a leave of
absence would be necessary; in light of the note, Plaintiff was on leave from
August 27, 2019 to February 2, 2020.  Plaintiff’s
second leave is more troublesome, but ultimately cannot be said to have been an
adverse employment action under the circumstances.  Facts 50 and 51 establish that other
employees lodged multiple complaints against Plaintiff, which complaints caused
Defendant to place Plaintiff on a paid leave of absence to investigate; the
leave commenced on 8/03/21 and was to conclude on 1/16/23, but was extended
until 2/17/23 in light of Plaintiff’s doctor’s note indicating she needed
additional time off.  She remains employed
by Defendant in her position to this day. 

 
The Court finds the paid
administrative leave does not, under the circumstances, meet the test set forth
in McRae, and therefore was not an adverse employment action.  
 
With respect to Plaintiff’s other
claims, the parties discuss the holding of Kelley v. The Conco Companies (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 191, 192.  The
Kelley Court held (citations omitted): Mere ostracism in the workplace is
insufficient to establish an adverse employment decision (citations).  However, “‘[W]orkplace harassment, if
sufficiently severe or pervasive, may in and of itself constitute an adverse
employment action sufficient to satisfy the second prong of the prima facie
case for ... retaliation cases.’ 
 
In this case, Plaintiff has not
even stated a claim for harassment.  The
complaint is entirely devoid of any cause of action for harassment under
FEHA.  The bereavement leave incident was
certainly not severe or pervasive; Plaintiff alleges her supervisor
accidentally contacted her while she was on leave but ultimately did not
interfere with her leave and did not require her to engage in any work-related
activity while on leave.  The work
criticisms complained of cannot constitute an adverse employment action as a
matter of law.  See Light v. Dept of
Parks & Rec. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 92, cited by Defendant in
the moving papers and not addressed by Plaintiff in opposition, holding that
verbal and written criticism from supervisors does not, as a matter of law,
constitute an adverse employment action. 

 

Conclusion

Plaintiff failed to make a prima
facie showing of adverse employment action, which is a prerequisite to each of
her claims.  Defendant is therefore
entitled to judgment as a matter of law on the complaint, and the motion for
summary judgment is granted.  The Court
declines to rule on the parties’ additional arguments, as doing so is not
necessary to dispose of the entire action. 

 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 
DATED:  October 3, 2024                       _____________________________________
                                                            MARK
C. KIM                                                                                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 