 Case Number:  24LBCV00056    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIAFOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICTKURRY MOULTRY, Plaintiff(s), vs. MARVIN SPEED, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) CASE NO: 24LBCV00056 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT; MOTION TO QUASH Dept. S27 8:30 a.m. October 3, 2024DEMURRERMoving Party: Defendant, California Department of Corrections, et al.Opposing Party: Plaintiff, Kurry MoultryNotice: OKMOTION TO QUASHMoving Party: Non-Parties, Jeff Macomber and Amarik K. SinghOpposing Party: Plaintiff, Kurry MoultryNotice: OK1. Background FactsPlaintiff, Kurry Moultry filed this action against Defendants, Marvin Speed and the California Department of Corrections for damages arising out of illegal surveillance.Plaintiff filed his complaint on 1/12/24. Plaintiff filed his operative First Amended Complaint on 2/16/24. The FAC adds additional defendants – Dexter L. Barnes, Carol Fowler, John Winston, DavidMitchell, Russell Aster, and Joe Martinez, and appears to omit the original two defendants. The FAC includes only one page, but appears to continue to state a claim for illegal surveillance.2. Demurrera. Legal Standard on DemurrerA demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading. It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however improbable they may be.A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39 Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no “speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], § 430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of action within]. Specifically, a demurrer may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. Per CCP §430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably respond. CCP § 430.10(f).However, in construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in theincorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v. Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)Finally, CCP section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)b. Meet and ConferDefense Counsel declares he left a voicemail for Plaintiff detailing the grounds for her anticipated demurrer, but Plaintiff did not return the phone call. Defense Counsel adequately established sufficient attempts to meet and confer.c. AnalysisDefendants demur to the FAC on the ground that Plaintiff failed to allege compliance with the Government Tort Claims Act. Government Code §911.2 requires a plaintiff to present a government tort claim to the public entity he intends to sue prior to commencing suit. Pursuant to City of San Jose v.Superior Court (1974) 12 Cal.3d 447, 454, failure to allege compliance with the tort claims requirement is fatal to a complaint.The Court was previously scheduled to hear this demurrer on 9/12/24. Plaintiff failed to oppose the demurrer prior to the hearing. Plaintiff appeared at the hearing and sought a continuance, which the Court granted. On 9/11/24, Plaintiff filed opposition to the demurrer, wherein he attaches a Government Tort Claim that he contends he served on Defendant.Any reply to the opposition was due on or before 9/25/24. Defendant did not file timely reply papers, and the Court will not consider late-filed reply papers.Pursuant to City of San Jose, supra, compliance with the Act must be pled in the complaint. Plaintiff failed to do so, and therefore the demurrer is sustained. Leave to amend is granted. Plaintiff must file a Second Amended Complaint, pleading compliance with the Act and attaching a copy of his Claim, within twenty days. The Court is not, at this time, passing judgment on the sufficiency of the Claim attached to the opposition papers. Defendant must file a responsive pleading within the statutory time after receipt of the SAC.3. Motion to QuashPlaintiff propounded a subpoena on Jeff Macomber, Secretary of the California Department of Rehabilitation and Corrections, as well as Amarik K. Singh, Inspector General of California, purporting to require their personal appearance at the hearing on the above demurrer and the CMC. They move to quash the purported subpoena.There is no authority permitting a party to subpoena a witness for hearing on a demurrer or motion or for appearance at a routinely scheduled Case Management Conference. These matters are decided purely based on the parties’ papers and oral argument. Notably, ruling on a demurrer does not require the Court to make any evidentiary rulings, and instead requires the Court to determine whether the pleadings, on their face, are sufficient. No witnesses are necessary to do so. The motion to quash is granted.4. Case Management ConferenceThere is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer and motion to quash today. The Court asks the parties to make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the demurrer, motion to quash, and CMC.DATED: October 3, 2024 _____________________________________MARK C. KIM