 Case Number:  24LBCV00302    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIAFOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICTELISA CARRILLO, Plaintiff(s), vs. GARDAWORLD SECURITY SERVICES OF CALIFORNIA, INC., ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) CASE NO: 24LBCV00302 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION; CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE Dept. S27 8:30 a.m. October 3, 2024Moving Party: Defendants, Gardaworld Security Services of California, Inc and EcamsecureOpposing Party: Plaintiff, Elisa CarrilloNotice: OK1. Background FactsPlaintiff, Elisa Carrillo filed this action against Defendants, Gardaworld Security Services of California, Inc and Ecamsecure for violations of FEHA and violation of wage and hour laws.2. Motion to Compel Arbitrationa. Parties’ PositionsDefendants move to compel Plaintiff to submit this dispute to binding arbitration. Defendants contend Plaintiff agreed, upon accepting employment with Defendants, to submit all claims to binding arbitration. They contend the FAA governs the parties’ agreement, and all requirements to submit theclaims to arbitration are satisfied. They seek an order staying this action pending the outcome of binding arbitration.Plaintiff opposes the motion. The opposition contends the motion should be denied because (a) Defendants failed to show any agreement to arbitrate exists, and (b) the agreement is unconscionable.Defendants, in reply, contend the evidence is sufficient to establish the existence of an arbitration agreement, procedural unconscionability has not been shown, and even if procedural unconscionability were shown, substantive unconscionability is also required.b. General Law Governing Motions to Compel ArbitrationPursuant to CCP §1281, “A written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” Pursuant to §1281.2, ”[O]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:(a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.(c) A party to the arbitration is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party . . .. This subdivision shall not be applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.”c. Is There Sufficient Evidence that Plaintiff Signed the Agreement?There is a three-step process used to determine whether a defendant has adequately established the plaintiff’s electronic signature on an employment agreement. Fabian v. Renovate America, Inc. (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 1062; Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047; Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836STEP 1 – Defendant meets its initial burden to show an agreement to arbitrate by attaching a copy of the contract to its petition, which purportedly bears the plaintiff's electronic initials and signature. Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1057-1058 ["as a preliminary matter the [trial] court is only required to make a finding of the agreement's existence, not an evidentiary determination of its validity.”]). To meet its burden, the moving party need only attach a copy of the agreement to the petition and incorporate it by reference. (Id. at 1058; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [“The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference."]).STEP 2 – Plaintiff shifts the burden by declaring that she/he did not sign the contractSTEP 3 – Defendant then has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the electronic signature was authentic. Defendant’s burden of authenticating an electronic signature is not great. (Ruiz at 844) The party seeking authentication may carry its burden in any manner, including by presenting evidence of the contents of the contract in question and the circumstances surrounding the contract's execution. (ibid).Defendant can attribute the signature to Plaintiff by showing the "efficacy of any security procedure applied to determine the person to which the electronic record or electronic signature was attributable.” (Civ. Code, § 1633.9, (a)). The effect of an electronic signature attributed to a person "isdetermined from the context and surrounding circumstances at the time of its creation, execution, or adoption, including the parties' agreement, if any, and otherwise as provided by law." (Civ. Code, § 1633.9, (b)).A party can establish that the electronic signature was the act of Plaintiff “by presenting evidence that a unique login and password known only to that person was required to affix the electronic signature, along with evidence detailing the procedures the person had to follow to electronically sign the document and the accompanying security precautions.” (Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 545).In Espejo v. Southern Cal. Permanente Med. Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1053-54, the employer’s systems consultant submitted a declaration detailing how the username and password were generated, how the system worked, and how the employer was able to conclude that the employee had signed the subject arbitration agreement. The Court of Appeals found the evidence sufficient to establish the employee had signed the agreement.In this case, Defendant provided evidence with its moving papers sufficient to meet the requirements of the reply papers discussed above in the three-part test. Specifically, Defendant supported its motion with the Declaration of Evelyn Bendik, who works in Defendant’s HR department and who details, at ¶¶4-7, how electronic signatures are obtained and why they were reliable.Plaintiff, in opposition to the motion, contends only that she “doesn’t remember” signing the agreement, and that Bendik’s declaration is deficient. To support her position that the declaration is deficient, she relies on Adams v. Superior Court, 2010 WL 602515. The case is not published and cannot be relied upon. Additionally, it was decided prior to the authorities discussed above, and this is a rapidlyevolving area of the law. Thus, even if Adams were to support her position (which the Court declines to consider), Adams is neither published nor controlling.Defendant met its burden to show Plaintiff signed the agreement, and Plaintiff’s declaration that she does not recall signing the agreement is insufficient to defeat Defendant’s showing that she did so during the hiring process.d. Is the Agreement Unconscionable?I. General Law Governing UnconscionabilityA contract will be found to be unconscionable where: (1) it is adhesive, in that all or part of the contract falls outside the reasonable expectations of the weaker party; and (2) equitably, the terms unreasonably favor the other party. (Stirlen v. Supercuts (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1524.) Unconscionability has both a “procedural” and a “substantive” element.The procedural element focuses on two factors: oppression and surprise. “Oppression” arises from an inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice. “Surprise” involves the extent to which the supposedly agreed upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms. A contractual term is substantively suspect if it reallocates the risks of the bargain in an objectively unreasonable or unexpected manner. Procedural unconscionability has to do with matters relating to freedom of assent.Substantive unconscionability involves the imposition of harsh or oppressive terms on one who has assented freely to them. The prevailing view is that these two elements must both be present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability. (Id., at 1532-1533.) In Stirlen, the court found that an arbitration provision wasunconscionable in that included a forced waiver of punitive damages by the plaintiff employee, in violation of Civil Code §1668, and accorded the defendant employer greater rights in pursuing a court action for injunctive or equitable relief.II. Procedural UnconscionabilityPlaintiff argues the parties’ agreement is procedurally unconscionable. She fails, however, to raise any argument regarding substantive unconscionability. As noted above, both must be present in order to defeat the agreement. This argument therefore also fails.e. ConclusionDefendants met their moving burden to show there is a binding arbitration agreement, signed by Plaintiff, that requires Plaintiff to submit his claims to arbitration. Plaintiff failed to show that the agreement was not actually signed, and failed to show any defense to enforcement of the agreement.Per CCP §1281.2, the motion to compel arbitration is granted.The litigation against Defendants is stayed pending the outcome of arbitration. CCP §1281.4.3. Case Management ConferenceThe parties are reminded that there is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the motion to compel arbitration. The Court will discuss a post-arbitration status conference date with the parties at the CMC.The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the motion.DATED: October 3, 2024 _____________________________________MARK C. KIM