 Case Number:  24LBCV00754    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIAFOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICTINOLA VALENZUELA, Plaintiff(s), vs. METECH RECYCLING, INC., ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) CASE NO: 24LBCV00754 [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE Dept. S27 8:30 a.m. October 3, 2024Moving Party: Defendant, MeTech Recycling, Inc.Opposing Party: Plaintiff, Inola ValenzuelaNotice: OK (continued by Department S26)1. Background FactsPlaintiff filed suit against MeTech, Sedgwick, and York Risk Services (York) (collectively “Defendants”), on April 15, 2024, alleging Breach of Contract.Plaintiff alleges that on or about April 20, 2022, she and Defendants entered into an oral agreement, whereby the parties agreed to resolve “personal injuries for an amount not to exceed soft tissue damages.” (Complaint, section BC-1.) Plaintiff alleges Defendants breached the oral agreement on May 1, 2022, by not paying the personal injury damages. (Id., BC-2.)2. Special Motion to Strikea. Parties’ PositionsMeTech moves to strike the complaint under the anti-SLAPP statute, arguing that the alleged breach of the oral contract constitutes protected activity, and that the breach of contract cause of action is barred by the litigation privilege, such that Plaintiff cannot prevail on the merits of the action.Specifially, MeTech contends Plaintiff previously sued MeTech in Sacramento County for personal injuries suffered from a motor vehicle accident in 2019. MeTech claims that action was dismissed after the Court sustained MeTech’s demurrer without leave to amend based upon the statute of limitations. MeTech claims that to circumvent the statute of limitations issue, Plaintiff argued that MeTech breached an oral agreement to settle the matter, but the Sacramento County Court disagreed and entered judgment in MeTech’s favor.Plaintiff then sued MeTech’s firm, Matheny and Sears, in this court, for breach of contract, alleging Matheny and Sears breached an agreement to settle the underlying personal injury matter. (RJN, Ex. 9.) Matheny and Sears then filed an anti-slapp motion, similar to the instant motion here. Plaintiff dismissed the action while the motion was pending. (Id. Ex. 11.)Plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing only that the matter does not involve protected activity. Plaintiff’s opposition does not address her probability of prevailing on the merits at all.b. Request for Judicial NoticeMeTech asks the Court to take judicial notice of the following Court documents:1. Plaintiff’s complaint filed in the instant matter2. Plaintiff’s complaint filed against MeTech in Sacramento Case no. 34-2022-003226263. Court’s TR sustaining MeTech’s demurrer with leave in the Sacramento Case4. Plaintiff’s FAC filed in the Sacramento Case5. The Court’s TR sustaining MeTech’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC in the Sacramento case6. Plaintiff’s SAC filed in the Sacramento Case7. Notice of Entry of Order sustaining Demurrer to SAC in Sacramento Case8. Notice of Entry of Order granting motion to strike portions of the SAC in Sacramento Case9. Notice of Entry of Amended Judgment of Dismissal in Sacramento Case10. Defendant Matheny, Sears, Linkert & Jaime LLP’s anti-slapp motion filed in case no. 24LBCV0038411. Plaintiff’s Request for Dismissal in case no. 24LBCV00384The RJN is unopposed and granted.c. TimelinessThe motion is timely filed and is being timely heard. An anti-SLAPP motion may be filed within 60 days of the service of the complaint or, in the court's discretion, at any later time upon terms it deems proper. The motion shall be scheduled by the clerk of the court for a hearing not more than 30 days after the service of the motion unless the docket conditions of the court require a later hearing. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (f).)Plaintiff served MeTech on June 10, 2024, and the instant motion was filed July 10, 2024. While the motion was originally scheduled to be heard 32 days after service of the motion in Department S26, the scheduling of the hearing more than 30 days after filing is not fatal. The anti-slapp statute does not require the moving party to ensure that the hearing is so scheduled and does not justify the denial of a special motion to strike solely because the motion was not scheduled for a hearing within 30 days after the motion was served. (Karnazes v. Ares (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 344). Moreover, S26 was dark the week the motion was filed, suggesting that docket conditions warranted a later hearing. The motion was then continued for hearing in S27, and Defendant was unable to control the date scheduled for the hearing on the motion.d. Law Governing Anti-SLAPP motionsAnti-SLAPP motions involve a two-prong test:· The moving party must show the cause of action against the that party arises from the their acts in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution. (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. section 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)o An act in furtherance of the defendant’s right of petition or free speech includes: (1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest. (Id. at subd. (e).)· Upon such a showing, the burden shifts to the opposing party to demonstrate a probability that they will prevail on the claim. (Id. at subd. (b)(1).)e. Moving BurdenGenerally, while the court must consider the pleadings, the court must look past how Plaintiff characterizes MeTech’s conduct and determine, based upon the evidence presented in the form of supporting and opposing affidavits from both parties, whether Plaintiff’s claims are based upon protected speech or conduct and whether Plaintiff can establish a probability of prevailing on the merits. (Id., subd. (b)(2); Stewart v. Rolling Stone LLC, (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 664, 679.) Looking beyond the pleadings is of utmost importance here because of the scant factual allegations in the complaint.MeTech’s alleged conduct is clearly protected activity. MeTech is alleged to have, on May 1, 2022, breached an oral agreement, entered into on April 20, 2022, to pay for personal injury damages. Pursuant to MeTech’s RJN, Plaintiff filed a Negligence action against MeTech in Sacramento County on or about June 28, 2022. (RJN, Ex. 2.) This establishes that the alleged oral agreement was made during settlement negotiations preceding Plaintiff filing the Sacramento action.Settlement negotiations that precede actual litigation filed constitute protected activity. “Just as communications preparatory to or in anticipation of the bringing of an action or other official proceeding are within the protection of the litigation privilege of Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b) [citation], ... such statements are equally entitled to the benefits of section 425.16.”. (Briggs v. Eden Council for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1115.) Prelitigation communications may qualify for anti-SLAPP protection so long as they concern the subject of the dispute and are made in anticipation of litigation contemplated in good faith and under serious consideration. (Flickinger v. Finwall (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 822.)Here, clearly MeTech’s settlement negotiations were contemplated in good faith and related to litigation under serious discussion. As of April 2022, no action was filed, and the parties clearly were engaging in settlement negotiations. Any attorney knows that if a settlement is not reached, litigation likely follows. The alleged conduct is protected activity pursuant to CCP 425.16(e)(2).)In opposition, Plaintiff argues that MeTech failed to prove that any official proceeding took place, and finding as so would be inconsistent with the pleadings. This assertion is incorrect on numerous levels.Firstly, Plaintiff clearly disregards the procedural history established by the requests for judicial notice. Plaintiff filed the Sacramento Case two months after the alleged breach. Moreover, per the authority discussed above, Plaintiff is incorrect that the Court’s inquiry here is limited to the complaint’s allegations. The Court is to consider information beyond the four corners of the complaint.f. Shifted BurdenBecause MeTech met its moving burden to show the complaint implicates protected conduct, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show a probability of success on the merits. Plaintiff’s opposition does not address this prong. This is an implied concession that she cannot prevail on the merits.g. ConclusionMeTech met its moving burden to show the complaint is based on protected conduct. Plaintiff failed to meet her shifted burden to show a probability of success on the merits. The anti-SLAPP motion is therefore granted.MeTech is ordered to give notice.Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. If the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar. If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.DATED: October 3, 2024 _____________________________________MARK C. KIM