  Case Number:  22STCV28598    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 1/17/2025 – 8:30am
Case No. 22STCV28598
Trial Date: 02/18/2025
Case Name: ADELINA ARUTUNIAN and HRATCH MANOUKIAN,
individuals v. RESOURCE MANAGEMENT COMPANY, an entity; TERRACE VIEW HOMEOWNERS
ASSOCIATION, an entity; CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT, an entity; M.L. PLUMBING, an
entity; MICHAEL LEVENDOSKY; an individual; and DOES 1-50, inclusive
 
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MSJ
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED¿ 
Defendants, Resource Management Company and Terrace View Homeowners
Association, move for summary judgment on Plaintiffs’ Complaint pursuant to CCP
§ 437c.
 
In the alternative, Defendants, Resource
Management Company and Terrace View Homeowners Association, will move and
hereby do move, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 437(c)(f)(l), that the
court enter an order adjudicating the following issues in Plaintiffs' Complaint
as being without substantial controversy:
 
Issue No. 1: Plaintiffs cannot prevail on
their Cause of Action for General Negligence because there are no facts to
support the allegation Moving Parties were negligent. 
 
Issue No. 2: Plaintiffs cannot prevail on
their Cause of Action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision, or Retention of
Employee because there are no facts to support the allegation Moving Parties
were negligent in hiring, supervision or retention any employee. 
 
Issue No. 3: Plaintiffs cannot prevail on
their Cause of Action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress because
there are no facts to support the allegation Moving Parties were negligent nor
that there was any emotional distress.
 
Preliminary
Moving Party: Defendants, Resource Management Company and
Terrace View Homeowners Association
 
Responding
Party: Plaintiffs, Adelina Arutunian and Hratch Manoukian
 
Moving
Papers: Motion; Separate Statement; 
 
Opposing
Papers: Opposition; Separate Statement; Evidentiary Objections; Proposed Order
 
Reply
Papers: Reply; Evidentiary Objections; 
 
PROCEDURAL
ANALYSIS
 
Section 437c(a)(2)
“ Notice of the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all
other parties to the action at least 81 days before the time appointed for
hearing. If the notice is served by mail, the required 81-day period of notice
shall be increased by 5 days if the place of address is within the State of
California, 10 days if the place of address is outside the State of California
but within the United States, and 20 days if the place of address is outside
the United States. If the notice is served by facsimile transmission, express
mail, or another method of delivery providing for overnight delivery, the
required 81-day period of notice shall be increased by two court days.”
 
Here, Defendants’ motion is not timely under
the 81-day requirement. However, the Court notes that this motion was filed and
served on 10/31/2024, when the prior version of § 437c(a)(2) would have been in
effect. The prior version had a notice requirement of 75 days, plus two court
days for delivery providing for overnight delivery. Based on the version of § 437c(a)(2)
in effect in 2024, when Defendants’ motion was filed, this motion would be
timely. However, based on the version of § 437c(a)(2) that went into effect on
January 1, 2025, Defendants’ motion would be untimely. 
 
The Court will hear argument. Neither
parties address the issue of the timeliness of the motion.

Section 437c(a)(3)
“The motion shall be heard no
later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause
orders otherwise. The filing of the motion shall not extend the time within
which a party must otherwise file a responsive pleading.” (CCP § 437c(a)(3).)
Here, trial is set for 2/18/2025, and the hearing on the MSJ
is set for 1/17/2025. Neither party addresses whether or not this motion is
timely under 437c(a)(3). 
LEGAL STANDARD MOTION SUMMARY JUDGMENT
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the
defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof
by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) The plaintiff or
cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
“Once the defendant
or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or
cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The plaintiff or
cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP §437c(p)(2).)
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the
party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence
sufficient to establish a triable issue of material fact on the merits of the
defendant’s showing. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.)
ANALYSIS
Confusion with Causes of Action
As
a preliminary matter, the Complaint’s caption labels the three causes of action
in the caption as: (1) General Negligence, (2) “Negligence” Hiring,
Supervision, or Retention of Employee, and (3) “Negligence” Infliction of
Emotional Distress.
However, the body of the Complaint labels the second
cause of action “Negligence” Infliction of Emotional distress, despite the fact
that the caption labeled this as the third cause of action.
Likewise, the body of the Complaint makes the third
cause of action “Negligence” Hiring, Supervision, or Retention of Employee or
Contractor despite the fact that the caption labeled this as the second cause
of action.
The moving papers also make a similar error. The
moving papers label the issues/causes of action in their notice page according
to the caption labels.
However, the separate statement moving papers label
the issues/causes of action as labeled in the body of the Complaint and not as
labeled in the caption of the Complaint. 
TENTATIVE RULING
As
a preliminary matter, the Court notes that on 1/13/2025, Defendant, Marb
Construction Management, an entity, was dismissed without prejudice.
The instant complaint is not a model of clarity. 
Moving, opposing, reply papers, and separate
statements in this matter are somewhat confusing. 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the
defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof
by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)
Here, it is often unclear what arguments the
Defendants are making. Likewise, it is unclear how the evidence cited in the
separate statement for each undisputed material fact supports the undisputed
material fact that Defendants are arguing the evidence supports. 
Additionally, it is unclear what element of each cause
of action each undisputed material fact is attacking for each cause of action. 
Since moving Defendants have the initial burden to
present facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense, and since
the Court cannot clearly comprehend Defendants’ arguments, Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment and motion for summary adjudication is DENIED.
“In granting or denying a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections to
evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion. Objections to
evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the motion shall be preserved
for appellate review.” (CCP §437c(q).) 
Here, the Court is not ruling on objections since
Defendants did not meet their initial burden.
 
 