 Case Number:  22STCV34906    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Substitute Patricia Wondries, Wife of Paul Wondries, Upon the Death of Paul
Wondries as a Defendant Pursuant to Section 13550 of the California Probate
Code
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Bar V Bar, LLC
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
The Motion is DENIED
without prejudice. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On November 2,
2022, Plaintiff Bar V Bar, LLC filed its Complaint against Defendants Paul C.
Wondries, Bob Wondries Ford, Bob Wondries Motors, and Wondries Dodge on causes
of action arising from a contract dispute. 
 
On November
21, 2022, Plaintiff amended its Complaint to substitute Doe 1 with Bravo
Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram of Alhambra. 
 
On February
15, 2023, Plaintiff filed its First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
 
On June 23,
2023, Defendants Paul C. Wondries, Bob Wondries Ford, and Bob Wondries Motors
filed their Answer to the FAC. 
 
On September
18, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Motion to Substitute Patricia Wondries, Wife of
Paul Wondries, Upon the Death of Paul Wondries as a Defendant Pursuant to
Section 13550 of the California Probate Code (“Motion”). In support of its Motion,
Plaintiff concurrently filed: (1) Memorandum of Points and Authorities; and (2)
Declaration of Lawrence Silver. 
 
On October 6,
2023, Plaintiff filed its Notice of Non-Opposition. 
 
No opposition
or other response has been filed to the Motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“Except as
provided in Sections 11446, 13552, 13553, and 13554, upon the death of a
married person, the surviving spouse is personally liable for the debts of the
deceased spouse chargeable against the property described in Section 13551 to
the extent provided in Section 13551.” (Prob. Code, § 13550.)
 
“The liability imposed by Section 13550
shall not exceed the fair market value at the date of the decedent’s death,
less the amount of any liens and encumbrances, of the total of the following:
 
“(a) The portion of the one-half of the community and
quasi-community property belonging to the surviving spouse under Sections 100
and 101 that is not exempt from enforcement of a money judgment and is not
administered in the estate of the deceased spouse.
 
“(b) The portion of the one-half of the community and
quasi-community property belonging to the decedent under Sections 100 and 101
that passes to the surviving spouse without administration under this part.
 
“(c) The separate property of the decedent that passes
to the surviving spouse without administration under this part.”
 
(Prob. Code, §
13551.)
 
“If proceedings are commenced in this
state for the administration of the estate of the deceased spouse and the time
for filing claims has commenced, any action upon the liability of the surviving
spouse pursuant to Section 13550 is barred to the same extent as provided for
claims under Part 4 (commencing with Section 9000) of Division 7, except as to
the following:
 
“(a) Creditors who commence judicial proceedings for
the enforcement of the debt and serve the surviving spouse with the complaint
therein prior to the expiration of the time for filing claims.
 
“(b) Creditors who have or who secure the surviving
spouse’s acknowledgment in writing of the liability of the surviving spouse for
the debts.
 
“(c) Creditors who file a timely claim in the
proceedings for the administration of the estate of the deceased spouse.”
 
(Prob. Code, §
13552.)
 
“The surviving
spouse is not liable under this chapter if all the property described in
paragraphs (1) [the community property and quasi-community property of the
decedent] and (2) [the community property and quasi-community property of the
surviving spouse] of subdivision (a) of Section 13502 is administered under
this code.” (Prob. Code, § 13553.)
 
“Except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, any debt described in Section 13550 may be enforced against the
surviving spouse in the same manner as it could have been enforced against the
deceased spouse if the deceased spouse had not died.” (Prob. Code, § 13554,
subd. (a).)
 
“In any action or proceeding based upon
the debt, the surviving spouse may assert any defense, cross-complaint, or
setoff which would have been available to the deceased spouse if the deceased
spouse had not died.” (Prob. Code, § 13554, subd. (b).)
 
“Section 366.2 of the Code of Civil
Procedure [statute of limitations when cause of action survived before death occurred]
applies in an action under this section.” (Prob. Code, § 13554, subd. (c).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves the Court to substitute Patricia Wondries in place of
Paul Wondries in the FAC. (Motion, p. 4:4–6.) Plaintiff argues that this would
be appropriate because Paul Wondries has died and, pursuant to Probate Code
sections 13550, et seq., Patricia Wondries may be substituted into the pleading
in place of decedent. (Id. at pp. 1:22–27, 2:1–3.)  Patricia Wondries is the wife of decedent, and
has presumably received some, if not all, of decedent’s community property.
 
        Defendants have not objected to the
Motion. 
 
        Patricia Wondries has not objected to
the Motion. However, the Court does not have any evidence that indicates
Patricia Wondries has been served with the Motion. The proofs of service
attached to the Motion and its supporting documentation only show service on
Defense Counsel. But there is no evidence before the Court that would indicate
Defense Counsel represents Patricia Wondries. 
 
“A person may not
be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process of law or denied
equal protection of the laws . . . .” (Cal. Const., art. I, § 7, subd. (a).)
 
        “No person shall
be . . . deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law . .
. .” (U.S. Const., 5th Amend.)
 
        “No State shall
make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of
citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life,
liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.” (U.S. Const., 14th Amend.)
 
        It would be a violation of Patricia
Wondries’ rights to due process under both the California Constitution and the
United States Constitution to reach the merits of the Motion without service on
Patricia Wondries.
 
        The Court DENIES without prejudice the
Motion. 
 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The Motion is DENIED
without prejudice. 
 