  Case Number:  19STCV36480    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Uphold Designation of Portion of Deposition Transcript as “Highly Confidential”
 
Moving Party: Defendants
Big Bus Tours Los Angeles, Inc. and Open Top Sightseeing USA
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Starline Tours of Hollywood, Inc. 
                                    
        
The Motion is GRANTED. 
 
 
PRELIMINARY
COMMENTS:
 
        As indicated
below, the Court is granting this motion. 
However, as the parties are aware, trials in California are open to the public.  Therefore, documents admitted as exhibits and
testimony given at trial are not subject to sealing orders or confidentiality
protections.
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On October 11, 2019,
Plaintiff Starline Tours of Hollywood, Inc. filed its Complaint against
Defendants Big Bus Tours Los Angeles, Inc., Open Top Sightseeing USA, and Chris
Schlesinger on causes of action arising from allegedly unfair competition. 
 
On February 5, 2020,
the Court struck references in the Complaint that Defendant Big Bus Tours Los
Angeles, Inc. operates as a Passenger Stage Corporation. 
 
On February 27, 2020,
Defendants Big Bus Tours Los Angeles, Inc. and Open Top Sightseeing USA filed
their Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On June 25, 2021, the
Court entered the Stipulation and Protective Order — Confidential and Highly
Confidential Designations (“the Protective Order”), which was signed by
Plaintiff and Defendants Big Bus Tours Los Angeles, Inc. and Open Top
Sightseeing USA.
 
On June 8, 2022, the
Court found related cases 19STCV36480 and 22STCV14150, and the Court designated
19STCV36480 as the lead case. 
 
On August 31, 2022,
the Court granted summary adjudication in favor of Defendants and against
Plaintiff regarding the third cause of action (intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage) and fourth cause of action (negligent
interference with prospective economic advantage) in the Complaint. 
 
On August 31, 2023,
Defendants Big Bus Tours Los Angeles, Inc. and Open Top Sightseeing USA
(“Defendants”) filed their Motion to Uphold Designation of Portion of
Deposition Transcript as “Highly Confidential” (“Motion”). In support of their
Motion, Defendants concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Brian A. Katz; and
(2) Declaration of Julia Conway (filed under seal). 
 
On September 13,
2023, Plaintiff filed its Opposition to the Motion. 
 
On September 18,
2023, Defendants filed their Reply regarding the Motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
Courts have considerable discretion in
granting and crafting protective orders. (Raymond Handling Concepts Corp. v.
Super. Ct. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588.)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendants move the Court to uphold
Defendants’ designation of a portion of a deposition as “highly confidential”
pursuant to the Protective Order. (Motion, pp. 4:9, 5:1, 6:1–2, 6:23–25.)
 
Plaintiff opposes the Motion,
arguing: (1) that the testimony at issue does not constitute highly sensitive
financial information of the sort that would cause competitive injury; and (2)
that even if the testimony at issue was highly confidential, Defendants’
designation is overly broad as it covers other topics that are not highly
confidential and are directly relevant to the case. (Opposition, pp. 3:19–21,
5:11–15.)
 
In their Reply, Defendants argue:
(1) that the Opposition should be disregarded because it was filed after the
statutory deadline; (2) that Plaintiff cannot rebut Defendants’ showing that
the testimony was highly confidential; and (3) that the highly confidential
designation should cover the entire deposition transcript portion. (Reply, pp.
3:20–21, 4:3–4, 6:5–6.)
 
B. 
    Lateness
of the Opposition
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s Opposition
was due on September 12, 2023, which was nine court days in advance of the
original hearing date of September 26, 2023. While Defendants are correct, the
Court chooses to consider the Opposition. 
 
C. 
    The
Protective Order
 
The following
are the relevant terms of the Protective Order. 
 
“‘Highly Confidential’ means any
information which belongs to a Designating Party who believes in good faith
that the Disclosure of such information to another Party or non-Patty would
create a substantial risk of serious financial or other injury that cannot be
avoided by less restrictive means. This action is likely to involve discovery
concerning sensitive commercial and financial information concerning the
Parties and non-parties’ business practices, the private financial information
of Parties and non-parties’ customers, private personnel information of Parties
and non-parties' employees, and private financial and personal information of
non-parties, for which special protection from public disclosure and from use
for any purpose other than prosecuting this litigation may be warranted. Such
information consists of, among other things, confidential business or financial
information, information regarding business practices, or other research,
development, or commercial information (including information implicating
privacy rights of third parties), or which may be privileged or otherwise
protected from disclosure under state or federal statutes, court rules, case
decisions, or common law.” (The Protective Order, ¶ 1.e.)
 
“‘Highly Confidential Materials’
means any Documents, Testimony, or Information, as defined below, designated as
‘Highly Confidential’ pursuant to the provisions of this Stipulation and
Protective Order.” (The Protective Order, ¶ 1.f.)
 
“The Designating Party shall have
the right to designate as ‘Highly Confidential’ only the non-public Documents,
Testimony, or Information that the Designating Party in good faith believes
would create a substantial risk of serious financial or other injury, if
Disclosed to another Party or non-party, and that such risk cannot be avoided
by less restrictive means.” (The Protective Order, ¶ 2.)
 
“Any Documents, Testimony, or
Information to be designated as ‘Confidential’ or ‘Highly Confidential’ must be
clearly so designated before the Document, Testimony, or Information is
Disclosed or produced. The parties may agree that a case name and number are to
be part of the "Highly Confidential" designation. The ‘Confidential’
or ‘Highly Confidential’ designation should not obscure or interfere with the
legibility of the designated Information.” (The Protective Order, ¶ 4.)
 
“For Testimony given in depositions
the Designating Patty may either: 
 
i.           
“identify
on the record, before the close of the deposition, all ‘Confidential’ or
‘Highly Confidential’ Testimony, by specifying all portions of the Testimony
that qualify as ‘Confidential’ or ‘Highly Confidential;’ or 


ii.         
“designate
the entirety of the Testimony at the deposition as ‘Confidential’ or ‘Highly
Confidential’ (before the deposition is concluded) with the right to identify
more specific portions of the Testimony as to which protection is sought within
30 days following receipt of the deposition transcript. In circumstances where
portions of the deposition Testimony are designated for protection, the
transcript pages containing ‘Confidential’ or ‘Highly Confidential’ Information
may be separately bound by the court reporter, who must affix to the top of
each page the legend ‘Confidential’ or ‘Highly Confidential,’ as instructed by
the Designating Party.” 
 
(The Protective Order, ¶ 4.b.)
 
“In the event that counsel for a
Party receiving Documents, Testimony or Information in discovery designated as
‘Confidential’ or ‘Highly Confidential’ objects to such designation with
respect to any or all of such items, said counsel shall advise counsel for the
Designating Party, in writing, of such objections, the specific Documents,
Testimony or Information to which each objection pertains, and the specific
reasons and support for such objections (the ‘Designation Objections’). Counsel
for the Designating Party shall have thirty (30) days from receipt of the
written Designation Objections to either (a) agree in writing to de-designate
Documents, Testimony, or Information pursuant to any or all of the Designation
Objections and/or (b) file a motion with the Court seeking to uphold any or all
designations on Documents, Testimony, or Information addressed by the
Designation Objections (the ‘Designation Motion’). Pending a resolution of the
Designation Motion by the Court, any and all existing designations on the Documents,
Testimony, or Information at issue in such Motion shall remain in place. The
Designating Party shall have the burden on any Designation Motion of
establishing the applicability of its ‘Confidential’ or ‘Highly Confidential’
designation. In the event that the Designation Objections are neither timely
agreed to nor timely addressed in the Designation Motion, then such Documents,
Testimony, or Information shall be de-designated in accordance with the
Designation Objection applicable to such material.” (The Protective Order, ¶
6.)
 
“Any Party to the Proceeding (or
other person subject to the terms of this Stipulation and Protective Order) may
ask the Court, after appropriate notice to the other Parties to the Proceeding,
to modify or grant relief from any provision of this Stipulation and Protective
Order.” (The Protective Order, ¶ 10.)
 
D.     Discussion
 
Defendants designated the material at
issue as highly confidential at the time of the deposition. Thus, the material
was designated in accordance with the timing allowed by the Protective Order. 
 
In addition, release of the
material designated as highly confidential would appear to create a substantial
risk of serious financial injury to Defendants if that material was disclosed
to a non-party, and this risk cannot be avoided by less restrictive means than
maintaining the highly confidential designation. This is the case for entirety
of the section designated as highly confidential. 
 
        The Court
GRANTS the Motion. 
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Motion is GRANTED. 
 
 