 Case Number:  23TRCV03351    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 2, 2024 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV03351
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Ryan Richard Hamilton v. Glen Franklin Beringer Jr., et
al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Ryan Richard Hamilton 
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendants
Glen Franklin Beringer Jr., and Jeffrey A. Beringer
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None Set.¿
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Quash Defendants’
Subpoenas for Production of Business Records; Request for $2,500.00 in
Sanctions Against Defendants Glen Franklin Beringer Jr. and Jeffrey A. Beringer
¿
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Plaintiff’s
Motion to Quash Subpoenas for the Production of Business Records is GRANTED. The
Request for Sanctions is DENIED. 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
This action arises out of an auto
versus auto versus auto collision that occurred on October 5, 2021, when
Plaintiff Ryan Hamilton (“Plaintiff” or “Hamilton”) alleges he was injured as a
result of the negligence of Defendants Glen Franklin Beringer Jr. (“Glen”) and
Jeffrey A. Beringer (“Jeffrey”) (collectively “Defendants”). On October 11,
2023, Plaintiff filed this action, alleging a general negligence cause of
action and praying for compensatory damages in an amount according to proof at
trial. On May 31, 2024, Defendants filed their Answer to the Complaint.
 
On June 10, 2024, Defense Counsel
issued eleven deposition subpoenas, calling for the production of Plaintiff’s
medical history, but without limitation in scope to Plaintiff’s personal injury
claims arising from the underlying action. (Benji Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 1.) The
subpoenas seek production from the following eleven medical entities:
·      
The Wellness Bank
·      
Exer Urgent Care ATTN: Medical Records
·      
RENAISSANCE IMAGING MEDICAL ASSOCIATES
c/o CMS-BILLING 
·      
INTEGRATED PAIN MANAGEMENT
·      
WAVE IMAGING C/O RADNET-MEDICAL RECORDS
·      
WAVE IMAGING C/O RADNET-BILLING
·      
WAVE IMAGING C/O RADNET-RADIOLOGY
·      
BEVERLY RADIOLOGY MEDICAL GROUP C/O
RADNET-MEDICAL RECORDS 
·      
BEVERLY RADIOLOGY MEDICAL GROUP C/O
RADNET-BILLING
·      
BEVERLY RADIOLOGY MEDICAL GROUP C/O
RADNET-RADIOLOGY
·      
BEACH CITIES ORTHOPEDICS & SPORTS
MEDICINE
On September 16, 2024[1], Plaintiff filed the instant
Motion to Quash Subpoenas for the Production of Business Records (“Mot.”),
along with the Declaration of Plaintiff’s attorney, Daniel Benji (“Benji
Decl.”); a Separate Statement; and a Proposed Order. Plaintiff also requested
sanctions in the amount of $2,500.00. 
 
On September 13, 2024, Defendants
filed their Opposition (“Opp.”) which includes an attached Declaration of
Kathryn Saldana (“Saldana Decl.,”). Defendants also filed Defendants’ Response
to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement.  On
September 25, 2024, Plaintiff Hamilton filed his Reply.
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On June 10, 2024, Defense Counsel Saldana issued the
relevant eleven deposition subpoenas calling for production of the entirety of
Plaintiff’s medical record history, absent any limitation in scope to
Plaintiff’s personal injury claims. (Benji Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A.)
On June 14, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel,
Daniel Benji, sent a Meet and Confer letter along with an objection in an
attempt to resolve the subpoena disputes. (Id. at ¶ 6, Exs.
2-3.) In said meet and confer letter, Plaintiff’s Counsel
explained that because Plaintiff suffered injuries to his head,
upper back, mid back, lower back, shoulders, and neck—Defendant’s
subpoenas should be limited according to those body parts that have been put at
issue in the subject action. (Id. at ¶ 7, Exs. 2-3.) Counsel Benji further
set forth a June 21, 2024, deadline to either amend or withdraw the subpoenas.
(Id. at ¶ 8.)
On June 19, 2024, Plaintiff’s Counsel
received a meet and confer letter from Defense counsel, agreeing to limit the
subpoenas to records dated ten (10) years before the incident to the present,
but disagreeing with Plaintiff’s other proposed limitations regarding
Plaintiff’s specific body parts. (Benji. Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 4.) Plaintiff contends
Defendants did not amend or withdraw their subpoenas. (Id.)
On June 21, 2024, Plaintiff’s Counsel
sent another meet and confer letter to Defendant’s Counsel, requesting that
they amend or withdraw their subpoenas by June 24, 2024, or Plaintiff would be
forced to file a Motion to Quash. (Id. at ¶ 10, Ex. 5.) 
When Plaintiff received no response back to
discuss the subpoenas in question, Plaintiff filed the instant motion. (Id.
at ¶¶ 11-12.)[2]
¿II. MEET AND CONFER ¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
As
a preliminary matter, despite Plaintiff’s contention that Defendants “refused
to respond back whatsoever to discuss the subpoenas in question,” Defendants did
amend and serve the revised subpoenas on Plaintiff. (Benji Decl., ¶ 11; Opp.,
pg. 3.) Defendants provide that subpoenas
were originally issued in this case on June 10, 2024, with a production date of
July 10, 2024. (Saldana Decl., ¶ 2.) 
Defense Counsel then responded to the initial meet and confer letter
received from Plaintiff’s counsel and agreed to limit the subpoenas to 10 years
pre-accident but explained that the subpoenas could not be limited by body
parts for various reasons. (Saldana Decl., Ex. A.) Thus, all eleven (11) subpoenas
were amended on June 27, 2024, to limit the timeframe of requested records to
ten (10) years pre-accident to current (i.e., 10/28/2011 – Present). (Saldana
Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. C.) Plaintiff’s Counsel was then served with the amended
subpoenas on June 27, 2024, by both email and mail service. (Id.) Plaintiff’s Counsel also
attached the amended subpoenas to the motion. (Opp., pgs. 3-4.)
Defense Counsel further provides that
Defendants sent another meet and confer letter to Plaintiff’s Counsel on July
10, 2024, explaining the reasons that the subpoenas could not be limited by
body parts. (Saldana Decl., Ex. D.) 
Defense Counsel noted that Plaintiff had produced records pre-litigation
involving other body parts and that these records suggested alternative
explanations for the pain complained of by Plaintiff with respect to the
accident. (Id. at Ex. D.)
Thus, the Court finds both Plaintiff and
Defendants’ meet and confer efforts satisfactory.  
 
¿III. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Multiple
Motions
 
Multiple motions
cannot be combined into a single filing.  (See Govt.
Code § 70617(a)(4) (setting forth the required filing fee for each motion,
application, or any other paper or request requiring a hearing); see also Weil
& Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter
Group 2011) (“Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery
requests ordinarily should be filed separately.”)
 
Here, Plaintiff
has improperly combined eleven motions to quash subpoenas into one single
motion per Government Code Section 70617(a)(4). 
Nonetheless, Defendants oppose the motion on the merits. As such, the
Court will exercise its discretion and rule on the merits below.  
 
B.   
Motion to
Quash a Subpoena 
 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure Section 1987.1(a), “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance
of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1987.1(a).)¿¿However, “[n]othing in this section shall require any
person to move to quash, modify, or condition any subpoena duces tecum of
personal records of any consumer served under paragraph (1) of subdivision (b)
of Section 1985.3 or employment records of any employee served under paragraph
(1) of subdivision (b) of Section 1985.6.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(c).)
 
For discovery
purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in
evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.¿(Gonzalez
v. Superior Court¿(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)¿¿Generally, all
unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of the action
is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if it
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.¿(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2017.010;¿Schnabel v. Superior Court¿(1993) 5 Cal.4th 704,
711.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
The right of
privacy of individuals is protected by the California Constitution. (Cal.
Const., Art. I, § 1.) The framework for evaluating invasions of privacy in
discovery have been clarified in Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531.¿There, the California Supreme Court held that, generally, “[t]he
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.¿The party
seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection
may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective
measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.¿ A court must then balance
these competing considerations.”¿(Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at
p. 533, citing Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 1, 35.)¿ The Williams court rejected the cases which held that
the party seeking protected information must always show a compelling need or
interest.¿ (Id. at p. 557.)¿ Instead, the court held, “[o]nly obvious
invasions of interest fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a
compelling interest.”¿ (Id.)¿ 
 
Here, although the Court
finds Defendants did respond to Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts and
subsequently amended the relevant timeframe of the eleven subpoenas, Defendants
did not limit the scope of the subpoenas to the four distinct body parts set
forth by Plaintiff—head, neck, shoulders, and back. An excerpt from the
subpoena reads as follows:
 
DEFENDANTS’ SUBPOENA TO EXER URGENT
CARE(MEDICAL RECORDS) 
 
Party Name: Ryan Richard Hamilton Party
DOB: *********
Dates: 10/28/2011 – Present 
 
Any and all records, reports, charts,
histories, including but not limited to sign-in sheets, doctor's notes, nurses'
notes, SOAP notes, emergency room records, correspondence, memorandum,
insurance records, worker's compensation records, pharmacy/prescription
records, photographs, physical therapy records, radiology reports, laboratory
reports, statements, patient information sheets, and all other records pertaining
to Ryan Richard Hamilton for all dates. (Def’s Resp. Sep. State., pg. 3.)
Plaintiff argues that it is Defendants’
burden—not Plaintiff’s—to establish that they are entitled to records sought in
discovery. (Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.
App. 4th 1009, 1017; see also Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal. App.4th 216, 223 (noting that “ burden
rests upon the party seeking the discovery to provide evidence from which the
court may determine these conditions are met”). Defendant has the
burden to demonstrate that: 
1.     The
information/records sought are directly relevant to
the issues in this case; 
2.     There
is “a compelling need for discovery, and
that compelling need [is] so strong as to outweigh the privacy
right when these two competing interests are
carefully balanced,”; 
3.     The
scope is narrowly circumscribed and by the least intrusive manner;
and 
4.     The
information is not available from other sources or by less
intrusive means. 
Lantz v. Superior Court (1994)
28 Cal. App.4th 1839, 1853-1854; Board of Trustees
v. Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 525; Allen
v. Superior Court (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 447, 453. 
Defendants maintain that
the production of Plaintiff’s medical records should not be limited to specific
body parts because discovery is a broad standard. (Opp., pg. 5.)  Defendants argue that other body parts are
relevant to assess alternative sources of causation and alternative
explanations for a plaintiff’s complaints. (Id.)  Moreover, Defendants argue that evidence of
prior incidents and injuries is admissible to show that a plaintiff’s alleged
injuries were actually caused by some origin other than the incident being
litigated. (Id.) Further, Defense Counsel specifically notes that
Plaintiff produced records pre-litigation involving other body parts and that
these records suggested alternative explanations for the pain complained by
Plaintiff with respect to the accident. (Opp., pg. 4, Ex. D.)
 
In this case, the Court
finds that the language of the subpoenas overbroad and the ten-year time period
to be unreasonable.  While it is true
that injuries to other parts of Plaintiff’s body may tend in reason to demonstrate
that subjective complaints such as pain or restriction in range of motion, the Court
is troubled by the absence of any effort by the defense to narrow the scope of the
subpoenas in any substantive way, i.e., for records showing complaints or treatment
for pain, range of motion, or similar issues of which Plaintiff complains here.  Balancing defendant’s right to reasonable discovery
against Plaintiff’s right of medical privacy, including the absence of any
effort int eh meet-and-confer process to impose any restriction on the breadth
of the requested discovery, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash (the
eleven) Subpoenas, without prejudice to more narrowly tailored SDTs. 
 
C.    Sanctions

Code of Civil Procedure, § 2023.030 also
states in pertinent part that: “The court may impose a monetary sanction
ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” 
Furthermore, Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010
identifies “misuse of the discovery process” as: (a)Persisting, over objection
and without substantial justification, in an attempt to obtain information or
materials that are outside the scope of permissible discovery (b)Using a
discovery method in a manner that does not comply with its specified
procedures. (c)Employing a discovery method in a manner or to an extent that
causes unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense. . . [and](i) Failing to confer in person, by telephone, or by letter
with an opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and good faith attempt to
resolve informally any dispute concerning discovery, if the section governing a
particular discovery motion requires the filing of a declaration stating facts
showing that an attempt at informal resolution has been made. (CCP § 2023.010.)
Code of Civil Procedure, § 2023.030(a) states “if a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall
impose that sanction . . .” ( CCP § 2023.030(a).) 
Motions to Quash medical records
subpoenas are an uncertain and inexact science. 
The Court is tasked with balancing competing rights and interests of the
parties, and here the defense did agree to narrow the time period but not the scope
of the SDTs.  Each side acted with
substantial justification, meaning that the Court in its discretion finds that
an award of monetary sanctions is not required on the facts presented here.  
 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s
Motions to Quash Subpoenas for the Production of Business Records is GRANTED without prejudice to the defense
re-drafting the ambit of the subpoenas to fit the discoverable need versus the privacy
interest of the Plaintiff.  
¿¿¿¿ 


