 Case Number:  24TRCV01345    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 2, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV01345
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        HENRY
YEE  v. GOLDBOURN PHILLIP TRAPP,
JR., et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTIES:              Specially
Appearing Defendant Loya Casualty Insurance Company (erroneously sued as Fred
Loya Insurance Agency, Inc. (Doe 1))
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff
Henry Yee
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              Demurrer
¿ 
Tentative Ruling:                    Sustain
with leave to amend, and continue CMC from its current 10/3/24 date
approximately 75 days
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Factual¿¿ 
In this personal injury lawsuit arising from an automobile
collision, Plaintiff Henry Yee (“Plaintiff”) sues Defendants Goldbourn Phillip
Trapp, Jr. (“Trapp”), United States Postal Service (“UPS”), and Precious Evans
(“Evans”), alleging the following. On April 28, 2022, Plaintiff was driving his
vehicle when he was rear-ended by a vehicle driven by Evans, who claimed that
she was struck by a vehicle driven by Trapp (a UPS employee), who was negligently
driving a UPS vehicle. As a result of the impact, Plaintiff allegedly sustained
property damage to his vehicle as well as personal injuries to his head, neck,
back, arms, and legs. He is claiming general and special damages above
$100,000. 
B.   
Procedural 
             
¿           On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff
filed this lawsuit against Trapp, UPS, Evans, and Does 1 to 10, asserting
causes of action for (1) motor vehicle negligence and (2) general negligence. 
 
            On July
23, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Amended to Complaint substituting “Fred Loya
Insurance Agency, Inc.” for the defendant sued fictitiously as Doe 1.  On August 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Proof of
Service of Summons on “Fred Loya Insurance Agency, Inc.”
 
On August 29, 2024, Loya Casualty Insurance Company (“Loya Casualty”), claiming
that it was erroneously sued as “Fred Loya Insurance Agency, Inc.,” filed the
instant demurrer. 
 
On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed
his opposition.   No reply has been filed
as of the date of this tentative ruling. 

 
 ¿¿ 
¿III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A. Legal Standard
 
A demurrer can be used only
to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or
from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
 
“To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012)
53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) 
 
For the purpose of testing
the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all
material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co.
(1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
“If a complaint does not state a cause of
action, but there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment, leave to amend must be granted.” (Milligan v. Golden Gate Bridge
Highway & Transportation Dist. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1, 6.)
 
B. Meet and Confer
 
Before filing
a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd.
(a).)
 
Here, Loya Casualty
has satisfied the meet and confer requirement. (Demurrer, Declaration of
Christine E. Urbano, ¶ 4.)
 
B. Discussion
 
The Complaint asserts the first cause of action for motor
vehicle negligence and second cause of action for general negligence against
Loya Casualty.  Loya Casualty has filed a
demurrer to those negligence claims, arguing that Plaintiff failed to join the
proper parties. (Notice of Demurrer, p. 2:13-23; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (d) [stating that a party may object to a complaint by filing a demurrer
on the ground that “[t]here is a defect or misjoinder of parties”].)
 
However, the demurrer does not specify which party
Plaintiff failed to join, or even explain the basis for its joinder argument. (See Van
Zant v. Apple Inc. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 965, 973 (“Van Zant”) [“Code
of Civil Procedure section 389 (section 389) governs joinder of parties”]; Pinto
Lake MHP LLC v. County of Santa Cruz (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 1006 [explaining
that Section 389, subdivision (a) (“Section 389(a)”) “defines persons who
should be joined in a lawsuit if possible and are thus deemed necessary to the
action”]; Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 69
Cal.App.4th 785, 793 [pointing out that under Section 389(a)(1), parties
“should be joined as defendants if, in their absence, ‘complete relief cannot
be accorded among those already parties.’ [Citation]”]; Van Zant, supra,
229 Cal.App.4th at p. 974–975 [explaining that for a party to be deemed
necessary under Section 389(a)(2), the absent party must claim an interest
relating to the subject of the action].)
 
Therefore, the Court finds the joinder argument unpersuasive. 
 
However, Loya
Casualty also demurs to the negligence claims, arguing that Plaintiff failed to
state sufficient facts against Loya for the following reasons. First, Plaintiff
did not plead any facts to support his first cause of action for motor vehicle
negligence. (Demurrer, p. 6:12-13.) Second, with regard “to the second cause of
action for general negligent driving, … Defendant Loya as a corporation cannot
drive a vehicle ….” (Demurrer, p. 6:13-16 [italics removed].) Lastly, Plaintiff
cannot not sue Loya Casualty, an insurance company, for direct liability based on
the contract that the defendant had with its insured. (Demurrer, pp. 6:23-7:4.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that he has a valid claim
against Loya Casualty because (1) Loya Casualty was Defendant Evans’ insurance
company at the time of the motor vehicle collision and (2) Loya Casualty denied
Plaintiff’s insurance claim without investigation. (Opposition, p. 3:7-13.)  He asserts that Loya Casualty owed Evans the duty
to provide insurance coverage and provide Evans with legal representation. (Opposition,
p. 4:8-11.)  He also asserts that Loya
Casualty breached its duty to Evans “by not providing representation in the
investigation and/or evaluation of the automobile claim. Furthermore, they
breach[ed] their duty to Plaintiff by not providing legal representation to
Defendant Evans.” (Opposition, p. 4:14-18.) “As a result of the breach of that
duty, [Plaintiff] incurred damages: medical expenses, property damage, loss of
income and general pain and suffering.” (Opposition, p. 4:18-21.) “Plaintiff
justifiably relied upon the statements of [Loya Casualty], when in fact they
had no intention of investigating and providing counsel to their insured:
[Evans].” (Opposition, p. 5:15-18.) 
 
However,
nowhere in the Complaint does Plaintiff allege he is suing Loya Casualty
because the defendant was Evans’ insurance company at the time of the
collision. 
 
As the
Demurrer points out, “‘“[g]enerally an insurer may not be joined as a
party-defendant in the underlying action against the insured by the injured
third party. The fact that an insurer has agreed to indemnify the insured for
any judgment rendered in the action does not make the insurer a proper party. Liability
insurance is not a contract for the benefit of the injured party so as to allow
it to sue the insurer directly.” [Citation.]’ [Citations.]” (Royal
Indemnity Co. v. United Enterprises, Inc. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 194, 205 [emphasis
added] (“Royal Indemnity”).) Therefore, “a third party who is not
in privity of contract with the liability insurer (nor named as an express
beneficiary of the policy), … would normally lack standing to sue the
insurer to resolve coverage questions about a tortfeasor, such as where
there has been a failure to settle a claim under the policy.” (Ibid.
[emphasis added].) 
 
There are
exceptions to the above rule that a third party generally does not have
standing to sue an insurer. (See Royal Indemnity, supra, 162
Cal.App.4th at pp. 205-207 [explaining that those exceptions include (1) “where
the injured third party is a judgment creditor, who has standing as such to
seek payment under the insurance policy,” (2) “where the claimant is an
assignee of the insured’s claims,” (3) if “‘the liability insurance also
provides medical payments coverage for anyone injured by the insured, the
injured party may have a direct claim against the insurer for his or her
medical expenses. I.e., the injured party is treated as an additional insured
as to the medical payments coverage,’” (4) “where the insurer itself is seeking
to obtain declaratory relief against a third party claimant ….,” (5) if a
liability insurer joins the injured third party as codefendant in a declaratory
relief action to determine coverage, the third party may raise coverage issues
in that action, rather than waiting until after a judgment is obtained and
suing as judgment creditor, (6) when the insurer is allowed to take over in
litigation if its insured is not defending an action, to avoid harm to the
insurer].)
 
Here,
however, the Complaint has not alleged which exception, if any, applies in this
case such that Plaintiff has standing to sue Loya Casualty for the company’s
alleged refusal to investigate Plaintiff’s claims or provide Evans with legal
representation.
 
Therefore, the Court agrees that the Complaint has failed
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Loya
Casualty. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained, with leave to
amend. 
 
IV.
CONCLUSION
 
            The
Demurrer is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.  If Plaintiff elects to amend to address the concerns
raised by this Demurrer, he shall file and serve his first amended complaint
within 30 days of this ruling.     Loya Casualty Insurance Company to give notice of the Court’s ruling.
