 Case Number:  24TRCP00270    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 2, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCP00270
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        DUBRAVKO
SKARE  v. PETER BALOV aka PETAR
BALOV, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff
Dubravko Skare
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant
Peter Balov (no opposition filed)
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       None
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              Application for Writ of
Attachment
¿ 
Tentative Ruling:                    Deny.  Plaintiff to argue why a non-specific attachment
order should be issued without notice to Defendant   
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
 
A. Factual
Plaintiff Dubravko Skare (“Plaintiff”) sues Defendant Peter
Balov aka Petar Balov (“Balov”) to enforce a money judgment that Plaintiff
obtained in the Republic of Croatia. 
The Complaint alleges that the judgment was based on a
contract whereby Plaintiff agreed to transfer his shares in a company to Balov
in exchange of Balov agreeing to release and indemnify Plaintiff from all the
company’s liabilities and obligations. (Compl., ¶ 8.) Balov allegedly breached the agreement, causing
Plaintiff to pay the company’s debts. (Compl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff then sued Balov in Croatia for reimbursement
and/or indemnification. (Compl., ¶ 8.) On
September 29, 2016, the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb, Croatia, issued a judgment
in favor of Plaintiff and against Balov for HRK 2,598,091.25 (approximately $373,086).
(Compl., ¶¶ 9-10.) Plaintiff filed this lawsuit
seeking to collect that judgment in California pursuant to the Uniform
Foreign-Country Money Judgments Recognition Act (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1713-1724).
(Compl., ¶ 11.)
B. Procedural
             
¿           On July 9, 2024, Plaintiff
filed this lawsuit against Balov and Does 1 through 50, inclusive, asserting one
cause of action for recognition and enforcement of the foreign-country money
judgments. 
 
            On August
7, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant writ of attachment application. No
opposition to the writ application has been filed.  
             
 ¿¿ 
¿III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A. Legal Standard
 
“‘“Attachment is an ancillary or provisional remedy
to aid in the collection of a money demand by seizure of property in advance of
trial and judgment.”’ [Citation.]” (Kemp Bros. Construction, Inc. v. Titan
Electric Corp. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1474, 1476 (“Kemp”) [emphasis
removed].)
 
“California’s Attachment Law (Code Civ. Proc., §
482.010 et seq.) is purely statutory and is strictly construed.” (Kemp, supra,
146 Cal.App.4th at p. 1476 [foot note omitted].) 
 
“Except as otherwise provided by statute, an
attachment may be issued only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each
of which is based upon a contract, express or implied, where the total amount
of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than
five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney’s fees.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010, subd. (a).)
 
“Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time
thereafter, the plaintiff may apply … for a right to attach order and a writ of
attachment by filing an application for the order and writ with the court in
which the action is brought.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.010.) 
 
“The application shall be executed under oath and
shall include all of the following:
 
(a)   A statement showing that the
attachment is sought to secure the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment
may be issued.
(b)   A statement of the amount to
be secured by the attachment.
(c)   A statement that the
attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is based.
(d)   A statement that the
applicant has no information or belief that the claim is discharged in a
proceeding under Title 11 of the United States Code (Bankruptcy) or that the
prosecution of the action is stayed in a proceeding under Title 11 of the
United States Code (Bankruptcy).
(e)   A description of the
property to be attached under the writ of attachment and a statement that the
plaintiff is informed and believes that such property is subject to attachment.
…. Where the defendant is a natural person, the description of the property
shall be reasonably adequate to permit the defendant to identify the specific
property sought to be attached.”
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 484.020.)
 
“No order or writ shall be issued under this article
except after a hearing. At the times prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section
1005, the defendant shall be served with all of the following: ¶ (a) A copy of the summons
and complaint. ¶ (b) A
notice of application and hearing. ¶ (c) A copy of the application and of any affidavit in
support of the application.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.040.)
 
The notice of application and hearing shall inform
the defendant, among other things, that: “If the defendant claims that the
personal property described in the application, or a portion thereof, is exempt
from attachment, the defendant shall include that claim in the notice of
opposition filed and served pursuant to Section 484.060 or file and serve a
separate claim of exemption with respect to the property as provided in Section
484.070.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.040, subd. (f).) In addition, that the “defendant
may obtain a determination at the hearing whether real or personal property not
described in the application or real property described in the application is
exempt from attachment by including the claim in the notice of opposition filed
and served pursuant to Section 484.060 or by filing and serving a separate
claim of exemption with respect to the property as provided in Section 484.070
….”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.040, subd.
(g).)
 
“At the hearing, the court shall consider the
showing made by the parties appearing and shall issue a right to attach order,
which shall state the amount to be secured by the attachment determined by the
court in accordance with Section 483.015 or 483.020, if it finds all of the
following:
 
(1)   The claim upon which the
attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued.
(2)   The plaintiff has
established the probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is
based.
(3)   The attachment is not sought
for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is
based.
(4)   The amount to be secured by
the attachment is greater than zero.”
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 484.090, subd. (a).) 
 
“If, in addition to the findings required by
subdivision (a) [above], the court finds that the defendant has failed to prove
that all the property sought to be attached is exempt from attachment, it shall
order a writ of attachment to be issued upon the filing of an undertaking as
provided by Sections 489.210 and 489.220.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.090, subd.
(b).) 
 
“If the court determines that property of the
defendant is exempt from attachment, in whole or in part, the right to attach
order shall describe the exempt property and prohibit attachment of the
property.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.090, subd. (c).)
 
“The court’s determinations shall be made upon the
basis of the pleadings and other papers in the record; but, upon good cause
shown, the court may receive and consider at the hearing additional evidence,
oral or documentary, and additional points and authorities, or it may continue
the hearing for the production of the additional evidence or points and
authorities.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.090, subd. (d).)
 
B. Discussion
Plaintiff seeks a right to attach order and
writ of attachment in the amount of $373,086. 
 
The Court finds that the claim upon which Plaintiff’s
attachment request “is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued,”
the money judgment over $500. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 484.090, subd. (a)(1);
483.010, subd. (a).) 
 
The Court also finds that Plaintiff has
satisfied most requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section 484.020 (“Section 484.020”)
by providing the following information under oath. A statement that the
attachment is sought to secure the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment
may be issued. (Application for Right to Attach Order (Form AT-105), filed August
7, 2024 (the “Application”), Item 3.) A statement of the amount to be secured
by the attachment: $373,086. (Id. at Item 8.) A statement that the
attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is based. (Id. at Item 4.) A statement that
Plaintiff has no information or belief that the claim is discharged or the
prosecution of the action is stayed in a proceeding under Title 11 of the
United States Code (Bankruptcy). (Id. at Item 5.) 
 
However, the Court finds the
following issues with the application. 
 
First, the application does
not describe the property that Plaintiff seeks to attach in a manner that would
allow Balov to know which property will be attached. As stated above,
attachment statutes are strictly construed. Section 484.020(e) states that “[w]here
the defendant is a natural person, the description of the property shall be
reasonably adequate to permit the defendant to identify the specific property
sought to be attached.” Here, Plaintiff only wrote the following. “Interests in
real property; accounts receivable, chattel paper, and general intangibles
arising out of the conduct by the defendant of a trade, business, or
profession; equipment; farm products; inventory; final money judgments arising
out of the conduct by the defendant of a trade, business, or profession; Money
on the premises where a trade, business, or profession is conducted by the
defendant and, except for the first one thousand dollars ($1,000), money
located elsewhere than on such premises and deposit accounts.” (Application, Item
9c.) That description is not specific enough to give notice of the property
Plaintiff is seeking to attach. 
 
Second, as stated above,
Plaintiff was required to serve “the defendant … with all of the following: ¶ (a) A copy of the summons
and complaint. ¶ (b) A
notice of application and hearing. ¶ (c) A copy of the application and of any affidavit in
support of the application.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.040.)
 
            Here, there is no proof of service
of summons, complaint, or application filed. The Court notes that on August 7,
2024, Plaintiff filed a
completed Notice of Application and Hearing of Right to Attach Order and Order
for Issuance of Writ of Attachment (Judicial Council of California Form
AT-115).
However, there is no proof of service filed for that notice either.  
 
            The declaration in support of the
Application, signed in Croatia, states that Mr. Skare is “informed and believes”
that there is a risk that the property sought to be attached will be concealed
or its value impaired unless an attachment is ordered without notice.  The Court will hear oral argument as to why
Plaintiff contends that no notice of the suit or of this application should be
given to the defendant, and any authority for the proposition that an attachment
can be ordered on such a thin showing ex parte.
 
            For those reasons, the application
is tentatively denied. 
 
IV.
CONCLUSION
 
            The
Application for Writ
of Attachment is DENIED, without prejudice. 