 Case Number:  23TRCV00346    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 2, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV00346
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Cecilia
Tapia De Ulloa, et al. v. Michael K. Newman, M.D., et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants, Michael K. Newman, M.D. and Association
of South Bay Plastic Surgeons Medical Group (incorrectly named and served as
South Bay Plastic Surgeons, Inc. 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff, Cecilia Tapia De Ulloa
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        April 28, 2025
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary
Adjudication 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  DENIED. 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Factual¿¿ 
 
On February 7, 2023, Plaintiffs, Cecilia Tapia De
Ulloa and Edwin J. Ulloa, as individuals and as successors in interest to
Natalia C. Ulloa filed a Complaint against Defendants, Michael K. Newman, M.D.,
South Bay Plastic Surgeons, Inc., Jason K. Ho, M.D., Michael Mercado, M.D.,
Providence Medical Institute Manhattan Beach Urgent Care, and DOES 1 through
100. The Complaint alleges a cause of action for Medical Malpractice/Wrongful
Death and Survival Action. 
 
Defendants, Michael K.
Newman, M.D. and Association of South Bay Plastic Surgeons Medical Group
(incorrectly named and served as South Bay Plastic Surgeons, Inc. (“Moving
Defendants”) now files a Motion for Summary Judgment. 
 
B.   
Procedural¿¿ 
On April 11, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a
Motion for Summary Judgment. On July 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition
brief. On July 25, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply brief. 
 
On August 1, 2024, the Court continued the hearing
for Plaintiffs to file an amended declaration of Dr. Mark Schusterman. On
August 30, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the supplemental declaration of Dr. Mark
Schusterman, and certified deposition excerpts from the deposition of Dr.
Daniel Del Vecchio. On September 16, 2024, Moving Defendants filed supplemental
objections, and an unauthorized supplemental reply.
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
 
Plaintiff’s evidentiary
objections to Moving Defendant’s Evidence: 
Overrule: all
 
Sustain: none.
 
Moving Defendant’s
evidentiary objections to Plaintiffs’ Evidence: 
Overrule: all
 
Sustain: none.
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party
cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order
of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
 
Once the defendant has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿ 
 
To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
 
B.   
Discussion
 
i.                
Medical
Malpractice/Wrongful Death and Survival Action
Moving Defendants make this motion for
summary judgment on the grounds they argue that the undisputed evidence that
establishes that moving defendants complied with the applicable standard of
care, and did not, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, cause or
contribute to the death of plaintiffs’ decedent, as established by the
Declaration of Daniel A. Del Vecchio, M.D., plastic surgery expert. “The
elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use
such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss
or damage.” (Chakalis v. Elevator
Solutions, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1557, 1571.)
In
support of their moving papers, Moving Defendants rely almost exclusively on
the declaration of Daniel A. Del Vecchio, M.D., their plastic surgery expert in
this case, who opines that there are no triable issues of material fact as the
Moving Defendants met the standard of care. More specifically, Moving
Defendants argue that Daniel A. Del Vecchio asserted that based on his
background, training, and experience, coupled with his review of the evidence
in this matter, it was his opinion that, to a reasonable degree of medical
probability, Moving Defendants rendered care and treatment to Natalia C. Ulloa
that complied with the standard of care in the community. (Declaration of
Daniel A. Del Vecchio, M.D. (“Del Vecchio Decl.”), ¶¶ 25-32.) Moving Defendants
note that Dr. Del Vecchio’s opinion is that Dr. Newman did a proper
preoperative evaluation and complied with the standard of care prior to the BBL
procedure of November 18, 2021, including having the patient cleared by her
primary physician (Del Vecchio Decl., ¶ 26.) In addition, the declaration
opines that Dr. Newman delivered an informed consent to Natalie Ulloa that
complied with the standard of care, and thoroughly documented the same. (Del
Vecchio Decl., ¶ 27.) Moreover, Dr. Del Vecchio contends that the manner in
which Dr. Newman performed the liposuction and the fat transfer complied with
the standard of care and that no evidence suggests Dr. Newman injected fat into
the muscle of the buttocks, but instead injected the fat into the subcutaneous
tissues. (Del Vecchio Decl., ¶¶ 28-29.)
The Court
notes that a defendant moving for summary judgment in a medical malpractice
action must “present evidence that would preclude a reasonable trier of fact
from finding it was more likely than not that their treatment fell below the
standard of care.”  (Johnson v. Superior Court (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 297, 305.)  “When a defendant moves for summary judgment and
supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the
community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the
plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.”  (Munro v.
Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal.3d 977, 984-985.) 
Here, Plaintiffs also include a
declaration of their expert, Mark A. Schusterman, M.D., FACS (“Schusterman
Decl.”), which comes to an opposite conclusion of Moving Defendants’ expert.
For example, Dr. Schusterman opined that Dr. Newman breached the standard of
care when he injected fat into the muscle unknowingly due to his use of blind
palpitation technique when the standard of care for a BBL is to stay out of the
gluteal musculature since doing so has been shown to be the cause of both macro
and micro fat embolisms. (Schusterman Decl., ¶ 11.) He further opines that Dr.
Newman did not give adequate informed consent by describing the possible
serious complication of FES as very rare, when it is well known that it is not
rare for this procedure, especially when using a blind technique and injecting
into the muscle knowingly or unknowingly. (Schusterman Decl., ¶ 13.)
Here, both parties have introduced
competing expert declarations which creates triable issues. While Moving
Defendants had argued that the Schusterman expert declaration lacks foundation,
the Court continued the previous hearing and allowed Plaintiffs to submit an
amended declaration correcting the deficiencies, which Plaintiffs have done.
(See Schusterman Supp. Decl.) 
 
IV. CONCLUSION

 
            For the foregoing reasons, this
Court DENIES Moving Defendants’ motion for summary judgment.
 
            Plaintiffs are ordered to provide
notice. 
 