 On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff Joshua Saeta filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants West Hills Hospital and Medical Center and HCA Healthcare, Inc. for (1) dependent adult neglect, (2) dependent adult neglect (enhanced remedies), (3) violation of the Health Care Decisions Law, (4) medical battery, (5) fraudulent concealment, and (6) negligence.  Defendant West Hills Hospital and Medical Center now seeks to strike references in the FAC to (a) the nursing union and its actions, (b) reporting duties with respect to family and the Department of Public Health, (c) events at other HCA hospitals, (d) instances of understaffing after Plaintiff was injured, (e) the sentiments of nurses at other HCA hospitals, (f) fraudulent coding, (g) Plaintiff becoming a symbol of problematic staffing that inspired nurses, (h) a “patient dump”, (i) Defendant playing “russian roulette” with Plaintiff’s life, and (j) other lawsuits against Defendants for the same problems.  Motions to strike are used to challenge defects in the pleadings not subject to demurrer.  Any party may move to strike the whole or any part of a pleading within the time allotted to respond to the pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).)  The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the Court is required to take judicial notice.  (Id. § 437(a).)  The Court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id. § 436.)  An “irrelevant” matter includes any “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Id. § 431.10(b)(3), (c); see also Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1036-1042.)The Motion to Strike is denied as an improper line-item veto.  (See PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1683.)  The Court cannot say that the subject references are irrelevant or improper.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 