 Case Number:  21STCV13141    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  82 MOTION FOR ORDER
TO DISBURSE ESCROW AGREEMENT FUNDS
  
Date:       9/26/23 (9:30 AM)
Case:       Sound Equity High Income Debt Fund v.
Top Flight Investments (21STCV13141)


RECOMMENDED RULING:        
 
Receiver Pacific Crest Realty Advisors, LLC’s Motion for Order
to Disburse Escrow Agreement Funds with respect to the failed sale of 3500 W
Manchester Blvd, Unit 421, Inglewood, CA 90305 is GRANTED. 
 
On April 27, 2023, the Court (Hon. Mary H. Strobel) granted the
sale of the Manchester Blvd. property at issue (4/27/23 Sale Order; see also
Constantinescu Decl. ¶ 18.) In connection with a settlement of an unlawful
detainer action with respect to the real property (“Settlement”), Victoria
Green entered into a Residential Purchase Agreement with Receiver. (Constantinescu
Decl. ¶¶ 12, 14 & Ex. B.) The Residential Purchase Agreement provided: “If
Buyer [i.e., Green] fails to complete this purchase because of Buyer’s default,
Seller [i.e., the Receiver] shall retain, as liquidated damages, the deposit
actually paid.” (Id. ¶ 14 & Ex. B at ¶ 29.) 
 
Green subsequently assigned her rights under the Residential
Purchase Agreement to non-party Anonymity Assets, LLC (“Anonymity”), a Wyoming
entity. (Id. ¶ 32 & Ex. H.) Receiver was a party to the assignment.
(Ibid.) Under the assignment, Anonymity had until August 7, 2023 to transfer
the full purchase price for the Manchester Blvd. property to escrow. (Ibid.)
Under a separate Holding Escrow Agreement, Anonymity paid $100,000 as a non-refundable
deposit. (Id. ¶ 31 & Ex. G.) The Holding Escrow Agreement provided
that, if the sale did not close before August 7, 2023 at 2:30 p.m., the funds
would be released to Receiver. (Ibid.) The funds necessary to close the
sale were not transferred by the deadline set forth in the Holding Escrow
Agreement. (Id. ¶ 39 & Ex. J.)
 
According to the Court’s order approving the sale of the property,
“the failure of Green to consummate and close the sale on the terms of the
applicable purchase and sale agreement shall result in the Receiver retaining
any deposit tendered by the buyer for the benefit, use, and enjoyment of the
Receivership Estate.” (4/27/23 Sale Order at ¶ 3.) Anonymity, Green’s assignee,
has not paid the purchase price under the Residential Purchase Agreement to the
Receiver. (Id. ¶ 39 & Ex. J.) Accordingly, Green has not closed the
sale by August 7, 2023, the date agreed to by Anonymity and Receiver. 
 
Anonymity opposes the motion on the following grounds: (1) Receiver
failed to serve the motion on Anonymity; (2) Receiver fails to establish the
Court’s jurisdiction over Fidelity Title; (3) Receiver fails to establish the
Court’s jurisdiction over Anonymity and the funds at issue; and (4) Receiver
caused the sale not to close because it would not provide documents that were
necessary for the transaction to close.
 
With respect to the first ground, even though Anonymity was
not served with the motion, it was able to serve a substantial opposition.
Accordingly, a ruling on the merits of the motion would not prejudice
Anonymity. (Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 690, 697 [“‘It is well settled that the appearance of a
party at the hearing of a motion and his or her opposition to the motion on its
merits is a waiver of any defects or irregularities in the notice of motion….
This rule applies even when no notice was given at all….’ [Citations]”].)

 
With respect to the second ground, Anonymity does not have
standing to assert a jurisdictional defense on behalf of Fidelity Title. (See
CCP § 418.10(a)(1) [defendant may serve and file motion to quash summons
based on lack of jurisdiction].) In any event, specific jurisdiction depends on
whether the party purposefully availed itself of forum benefits, whether the
controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the
forum, and whether the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with
fair play and substantial justice. (Swenberg v. Dmarcian, Inc. (2021) 68
Cal.App.5th 280, 294.) Although Fidelity Title has an address in Washington, Fidelity
Title is the escrow agent for a California receiver with respect to the sale of
a California property. (Constantinescu Decl. ¶ 31 & Ex. G.) Moreover, both
Anonymity and Fidelity Title agreed that the Holding Escrow Agreement, the
contract under which Anonymity deposited $100,000, would be governed under
California law. (Id. Ex. G at ¶ 12.) Accordingly, Fidelity Title has
purposedly directed its activities with respect to the potential sale of the Manchester
Blvd. Property, from which this motion arises, at California residents. Under
these circumstances, Anonymity fails to show that the Court’s jurisdiction over
Fidelity Title would not be fair. 
 
With respect to the third ground, based on the
jurisdictional test set forth above, Anonymity is subject to the jurisdiction
of the Court. Anonymity obtained an assignment of rights from a California
resident, Victoria Green. (Id. ¶ 32 & Ex. H.) Anonymity sought to
purchase a California property from a California receiver. (Id. ¶¶ 31,
32 & Exs. G, H.) The $100,000 which Anonymity deposited is directly
connected to its attempt to purchase the Manchester Blvd. property. Under these
circumstances, Anonymity fails to show that the Court’s jurisdiction over it
would not be fair.  
 
With respect to the fourth ground, Anonymity contends that
the sale would have closed had Receiver provided “key documents necessary for
the completion of the transaction.” (Clark Decl. ¶ 4.) Anonymity fails to
specify what documents were needed that Receiver did not provide. In any event,
Anonymity fails to show that it attempted to tender the full purchase price by
August 7, 2023, as required under Green’s assignment of rights to Anonymity, to
which Receiver was a party. (Constantinescu Decl. ¶ 32 & Ex. H.)
 
The Court finds that the Receiver is entitled to the $100,000
deposit made by Anonymity. 
 
Pursuant to paragraph 3 of the 4/27/23 Sale Order and paragraph
29 of the Residential Purchase Agreement, the motion is GRANTED. No later than
two (2) court days hereof, Receiver is ordered to serve and lodge a proposed
order for the Court’s signature. 
 