  Case Number:  23SMCV04908    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July
  1, 2024, continued to September 12, 2024, continued again to October 22, 2204




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04908




MOTION


Application
  for Writ of Attachment




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiffs
  Gar Lee, Trustee of the Gar Yin Lee Charitable Remainder Unitrust;
  Acquisition Science; Zach Goldberg, Trustee of the Zach Goldberg Charitable
  Remainder Unitrust; and Advance the World




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants
  Kristine Taylor and Ronald Appel



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from a dispute concerning an alleged fraudulent Ponzi
scheme.  On October 17, 2023, Plaintiffs
Gar Lee, Trustee of the Gar Yin Lee Charitable Remainder Unitrust; Acquisition
Science; Zach Goldberg, Trustee of the Zach Goldberg Charitable Remainder
Unitrust; and Advance the World (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) brought suit
against Defendants Bruce Francis Majeski; Kristine Taylor (originally named as
Kristine Taylor Appel); Ron Appel; Kristine Taylor Philanthropies; TLC Escrow
Services, Inc.; Helpuloan, LLC aka Helpuloans aka Help U Loan aka Help U Loans;
Sovereign Wealth Preservation, Inc.; Philanthropy House; My Philanthropies; B
& B Economic Development, LLC; KAB Holdings, Inc.; Seagate Holdings, Inc.;
CFO Advisor; and Orion House (collectively, “Defendants”).
 
Plaintiffs now seek a writ of attachment against Defendants My
Philanthropies (“MP”) and Bruce Majeski (“Majeski”).
 
The writ was originally unopposed, but the Court’s tentative ruling was
to deny the motion for insufficient evidence substantiating Plaintiffs’ request.  Plaintiffs’ counsel appeared at the original July
1 hearing, but there was no appearance on behalf of Defendants.  At Plaintiffs’ request, in lieu of denying
the motion, the Court continued the hearing and ordered Plaintiffs to provide
additional evidence in support of their motion by July 8.  (See Minute Order, July 1, 2024.)  Subsequently, Plaintiffs timely submitted the
affidavits of Gar Lee and Zachary Goldberg. 
The following day, on July 9, Defendants Kristine Taylor and Ronald
Appel (Opposing Defendants) filed an Opposition to the motion.  On July 15, Plaintiff replied.
 
At the September 12 hearing, the Court’s tentative ruling was again to
deny the motion on the grounds that Plaintiffs had not provided sufficient
evidence to establish the probable validity of the breach of contract cause of
action upon which the writ was based, as that cause of action was likely barred
by the statute of frauds.  Plaintiffs
requested to provide additional briefing on that issue, and the Court again
continued the hearing. 
 
Plaintiffs subsequently filed a supplemental memorandum of points and
authorities, which the Court now considers. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“Attachment is a prejudgment remedy that allows a creditor to have a
lien on the debtor's assets until final adjudication of the claim sued
upon[.]”  (Weil & Brown Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2024) ¶¶ 9:853 et seq.,
p. 9II-118 et seq.)  “The creditor must
follow statutory guidelines in applying for the attachment and establish a
prima facie claim; and the court is required to make a preliminary
determination of the merits of the dispute.” 
(Ibid.)
 
“Except as otherwise provided by statute, an attachment may be issued
only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which is based upon a
contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is
a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars
($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney’s fees.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010, subd. (a).)
 
The requirements for obtaining a writ of attachment are: (1) the claim
upon which the attachment is based must be one upon which an attachment may
issue; (2) plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon
which the attachment is based; (3) the attachment is not sought for a purpose
other than recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based; and (4)
the amount to be secured by attachment is greater than zero.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.090, subd. (a).)  
 
            “The application shall be supported
by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be
entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the attachment is based.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.030.)  The facts stated in any such affidavit or
verified complaint must be stated with particularity.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 482.040.) 
 
            “A claim has ‘probable validity’
where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment
against the defendant on that claim.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 481.190.) 
 
ANALYSIS

 
1.     Service
 
As a threshold matter, a notice of application and hearing for writ of
attachment must be filed and served at least 16 court days prior to the
hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005.)  
 
Here, the Court finds that the proofs of service indicate that the moving
papers were served on Ronald I. Appel, Esq., counsel for Defendants Ron Appel,
Kristine Taylor, Kristine Taylor Philanthropies, and Seagate Holdings, Inc.
(“Opposing Defendants”), but no other defendants.  However, the remaining defendants have
defaulted, and therefore no notice on them is required.[1]
 
2.     Untimely
Opposition
 
Plaintiffs argue in Reply that because Opposing Defendants did not
originally timely file an opposition, and the Court did not expressly grant
Opposing Defendants the right to file an opposition in the July 1, 2024 Minute
Order continuing the hearing, Opposing Defendants should be precluded from
filing an opposition now, and the Court should disregard the opposition as
untimely.
 
            Although Plaintiffs are correct that
the July 1 Minute order does not expressly grant Opposing Defendants the right
to file an opposition, that omission is a result of Opposing Defendants’
failure to appear at the hearing and make such a request, as opposed to an
intentional signal that Opposing Defendants are barred from opposing.  Ultimately, due process requires that Opposing
Defendants have a fair opportunity to respond to Plaintiffs’ newly submitted
evidence.
 
            Therefore, the Court considers both
the Opposition and the Reply, both of which are timely filed in advance of the
continued hearing, notwithstanding that Defendants did not previously file an
Opposition or appear at the original July 1st hearing.
 
3.     Standing
 
Plaintiffs also argue in Reply that Opposing Defendants lack standing
to challenge the requested writ of attachment of the property of Bruce Majeski (“Majeski”)
and My Philanthropies (“MP”).
 
A party lacks standing to oppose a motion, application, or petition, where
the party has no substantial interest that would be affected by the court’s
order on the motion, application, or petition. 
(See Conservatorship of McElroy (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 536, 555.)
[2]  Here, Plaintiffs seek a writ of attachment
against Defendants MP’s and Majeski’s interest in certain property.  Moving Defendants have no apparent interest
in the outcome of the Application at all, much less a substantial
interest.  
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Moving Defendants lack standing to
oppose the application.  The Court now turns
to the elements of a writ of attachment.
 
4.     Claim
Upon Which Attachment is Based
 
The first element is that the claim upon which the attachment is based
be one upon which an attachment may be issued. 
“[A]n attachment may be issued only in an action on a claim or claims
for money, each of which is based upon a contract, express or implied, where
the total amount of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable
amount not less than five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest,
and attorney’s fees.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 483.010, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Plaintiffs claim money based on an express contract.  (Complaint at ¶¶ 211-226.)  Plaintiffs contend they have sustained
damages in the amount of $1,840,000, which is the amount they invested under
the contract.  (Manzo Affidavit at ¶ 3.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs have established the first element.
 
5.     Probable
Validity of the Claim
 
The second element is whether Plaintiff have established the probable
validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based.  Plaintiffs seek to attach the property of two
defendants in default, Majeski and MP, based on the breach of contract claim. 
 
Although Majeski and MP are both in default, Plaintiffs must still
demonstrate the probable validity of their claim.  As to defaulted defendants, entry of a
default judgment still requires proof.
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
However, Plaintiffs have not provided the Court sufficient evidence at
this juncture to establish the probable validity of this claim.  Plaintiffs have supplementally provided the
affidavits of Gar Lee and Zachary Goldberg demonstrating that Majeski made
various offers for Plaintiffs to purchase fractional trust deeds, in return for
interest payments in the amount of 8-12% per year from investors of various
real properties, which Plaintiffs accepted by sending Majeski various amounts
of money.  
 
The declarations further state that Majeski did not actually record
the trust deeds on Plaintiffs’ behalf for most of the properties, instead
recording competing trust deeds for himself and others.  Majeski subsequently stopped making the
interest payments as agreed, at which point Plaintiffs discovered the promised
trust deeds were not recorded, were fraudulent, or otherwise did not
exist.  (Lee Decl. ¶¶ 3-15; Goldberg
Decl. ¶¶ 3-10.)  
 
The only other evidence Plaintiffs cite to is paragraph 7 of the Manzo
Affidavit, which provides:
 
7. I am informed and believed that BRUCE MAJESKI failed to record the
vast majority of fractionalized Trust Deeds on behalf of Plaintiffs which
Plaintiffs believed in good faith they were purchasing. I have attached as
Exhibit “4” hereto three true and correct copies of property profile reports
for 251 Camellia Ln, Costa Mesa, CA 92627, 4445 Cartwright Avenue, Unit 207,
North Hollywood, CA 91602, and 33582 Palo Alto St., Dana Point, CA 92629 – all
of which Plaintiffs believed they had invested in. As the reports demonstrate –
none of Plaintiffs were recorded on the deeds mentioned, but defendants and
their companies appear numerous times.
 
(Manzo Affidavit at ¶ 7.)
 
However, Plaintiffs have not provided records of any payment
transactions, either by Plaintiffs to Defendants or of the interest payments
made by Defendants to Plaintiffs, to substantiate their claims.  Nor have Plaintiffs provided any copies of
the purportedly fraudulent trust deeds Defendant provided to Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs also did not indicate the
existence of or attach a copy of any written agreement for the purchase of
these fractional trust deeds.  In short,
while Plaintiffs have provided some declaratory statements in support of their
claim, they have not provided any documentary evidence to corroborate or
substantiate those statements to demonstrate the probable validity of their
claim.  
 
Moreover, the statute of frauds requires that all agreements for the
sale of real property or an interest therein be made in writing, and that oral
contracts for the sale of real property are unenforceable.  (Reeder v. Specialized Loan Servicing LLC (2020)
52 Cal.App.5th 795, 801.)  And although Plaintiffs
may still be able to prevail on their other theories of liability, including
fraud, an oral contract for the purchase of an interest in real property is
unenforceable by the statute of frauds. 
(Id. at p. 802.)  Accordingly,
Plaintiffs have not established the probable validity of their breach of
contract cause of action for the requested writ to attach.  
 
In supplemental briefing, Plaintiffs argue that the statute of frauds
does not bar their claim because (1) the doctrine of equitable estoppel excepts
this case from the statute of frauds; and (2) the statute of frauds is
satisfied by the writings referenced in Plaintiffs’ declarations.  Plaintiffs also argue that they are entitled
to a writ of attachment based on fraud.
 
Even if the statute of frauds does not bar Plaintiffs’ breach of
contract claim, as discussed above, Plaintiffs have still not provided
sufficient evidence to corroborate their declaratory statements and demonstrate
the probable validity of their claim. 
Further, as discussed below, the Court is unpersuaded by Plaintiffs’
arguments.
 
1.     Equitable
Estoppel
 
In arguing that Defendants will be estopped from asserting the statute
of frauds in defense of the breach of contract cause of action, Plaintiffs primarily
rely on Phillippe v. Shappel Indus. (1987) 43 Ca.3d 1247 (hereafter Phillippe)
as standing for the proposition that a party may be estopped from asserting the
statute of frauds in circumstances where his fraudulent misrepresentations
induced a detrimental change in the other party’s position.  As Phillippe explains:
 
The doctrine of equitable estoppel developed out of the recognition
that equity must occasionally estop the assertion of the statute of frauds
precisely in order to prevent the perpetration of a fraud.  In Monarco v. Lo Greco (1950) 35
Cal.2d 621, 623-624 [220 P.2d 737], this court established and explained the
modern doctrine as follows: “The doctrine of estoppel to assert the statute of
frauds has been consistently applied by the courts of this state to prevent
fraud that would result from refusal to enforce oral contracts in certain
circumstances. Such fraud may inhere in the unconscionable injury that would
result from denying enforcement of the contract after one party has been
induced by the other seriously to change his position in reliance on the contract,
or in the unjust enrichment that would result if a party who has received the
benefits of the other's performance were allowed to rely upon the statute. In
many cases both elements are present. Thus not only may one party have so
seriously changed his position in reliance upon, or in performance of, the
contract that he would suffer an unconscionable injury if it were not enforced,
but the other may have reaped the benefits of the contract so that he would be
unjustly enriched if he could escape its obligations.
 
(Phillippe,
supra, 43 Cal.3d at pp. 1271–1272 [cleaned up].)
 
However, in Phillippe, the party was not
equitably estopped from asserting the statute of frauds defense to a real
estate broker’s commission agreement, because the court found it was
unreasonable for the broker to change position and perform real estate services
in reliance upon an unenforceable oral promise, and that unreasonable behavior
could not form the basis of an unconscionable injury to warrant estoppel.  (Id. at pp. 1262-1271.)  In so holding, the Phillippe court explained:
 
The statute of frauds also
serves a cautionary purpose. By requiring a writing, the statute serves to
emphasize to contracting parties the significance of their agreement. The
importance of real estate transactions makes this aspect of the statute especially
salutary.
(Id. at p. 1266.)
 
Plaintiffs also cite to Irving Tier Co. v. Griffin (1966) 244
Cal.App.2d 852, 858 (hereafter Irving). 
But Irving is inapposite. 
The primary issue in Irving was whether estoppel applied to the
specific facts of the case regarding a contract for the sale of goods (not a
contract for an interest in real property). 
As Irving explains, “Although there are numerous cases in
California which have discussed the applicability of the doctrine of estoppel
to assert the statute of frauds, we have found only a handful which did so in
the context of a contract involving the sale of goods.”  (Ibid.)  
 
As Irving further explains, “whether a contracting party should
be estopped to assert the statute of frauds is usually a question of fact the
determination of which, if supported by substantial evidence, will not be
disturbed on appeal unless the contrary conclusion is the only one to be
reasonably drawn from the facts.”  (Irving,
supra, 244 Cal.App.2d at p. 861.)  
 
Thus, and upon analyzing the specific facts at issue and applying the
handful of cases that had applied estoppel to contracts involving the sale of
goods to those specific facts, the appellate court determined that substantial
evidence supported the trial court’s determination that the defendants were
estopped from denying the two oral contracts at issue involving the sale of
goods.  As such, Irving’s analysis
and holding was limited to contracts for the sale of goods and the specific
facts of that case.
 
In short, Plaintiffs have also not provided any applicable case law demonstrating
that equitable estoppel could bar a statute of frauds defense here, much less
the probability that it would.
 
2.     Plaintiffs
Satisfied the Statute of Frauds
 
Plaintiffs next argue that they satisfied the statute of frauds under
the doctrine of part performance by paying Majeski “in excess of $1.6
million”  (Supplemental MP&A at p.
5.)  But as discussed above, Plaintiffs
have not provided any documentary evidence that they actually made any of these
payments to Majeski.
 
3.     Writ
of Attachment Based on Fraud
 
Finally, Plaintiffs argue that a writ of attachment may issue based on
the likely success of their fraud claim alone because the statute permitting
attachment encompasses actions based in quasi-contract, and their fraud cause
of action alleges that Defendants have been unjustly enriched by their
payments.  Plaintiffs quote Yosemite
Growers Co-op Assn. v. Case-Swayne Co. (1946) 73 Cal.App.2d 806, 811 as
establishing that “incidental allegations of fraud with relation to the
transaction … will not necessarily defeat the right of attachment.”  
 
Thus, a plaintiff is not barred from obtaining a writ of attachment
merely because the contract may turn out to be invalid because of incidental
allegations of fraud.  But Plaintiffs do
not cite to any authority standing for the proposition that their fraud cause
of action may support a writ of attachment.
 
            Thus, Plaintiffs have
not established the probable validity of their breach of contract claim.[3]
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court denies Plaintiffs’ Application without
prejudice.  Plaintiffs shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.   
 
 
DATED:
 October 22, 2024                           __________________________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                               Judge of the Superior Court


