  Case Number:  20LBCV00117    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  S27 Cross-Defendant, Fortia
Enterprises, Inc.’s attorney of record, Emahn Counts, seeks to be relieved as
counsel, contending Fortia is a suspended corporation and can no longer
participate in this litigation.    
 
The motion is denied for several
reasons.  
 
As an initial note, the Notice of
Continuance, filed on 2/29/24, references “Fortia Enterprises, LLC,” but all
other papers refer to Fortia as Fortia Enterprises, Inc.  The Court is not rejecting the motion on this
ground, but notes the inconsistency.  
 
More importantly, there is no proof
of service of the original motion, declaration, and/or proposed order on Fortia
or any other party who has appeared in the action.  The Court will not grant a motion without
proof of service.  The notice of
continuance indicates a “courtesy copy” was served on the client, but the
client is absolutely entitled to notice of the motion and service of all moving
papers. 
 
Additionally, the declaration in
support of the motion is unclear and conflicts with the proposed order.  The declaration, at ¶3(b), must state how
Counsel confirmed the client’s address is confirmed.  Counsel checked the box for “by
conversation,” but then also wrote in “via secretary of state,” but did not
check the box for “by other means.” 
Notably, an address cannot be confirmed by the secretary of state, as
records on file with the secretary of state are often not current.  On the proposed order, ¶6, Counsel checked
the box for “last known address” instead of “current address.”  The order form makes clear that, if the
address is “last known” instead of “current,” then service must be made per CCP
§1011(b) and CRC 3.252.  §1011(b)(3)
makes clear that, if a party’s address is not known, service must be made on
the clerk of the court.  CRC 3.252 also
provides for service of papers on the clerk of the court if a party’s address
is not known.  
 
If Counsel re-files the motion,
Counsel must file proof of service of the moving papers on Client and all
parties who have appeared in the action, and must make clear whether Client’s
address is confirmed or not, and if so, by what means.  
 
Counsel is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not
submit on the tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely
at the hearing on this matter.   