 Case Number:  23LBCV01654    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Beach Front Properties,
LLC filed this action against Defendants, Waterford Property Company, LLC, Sean
Rawson, and John Crachman for breach of oral contract and related claims.  The crux of Plaintiff’s complaint is that
Plaintiff entered into an oral agreement with the entity defendant, by and
through the individual defendants, pursuant to which they would jointly invest
in a California Community Housing Agency initiative to provide affordable
housing to middle income residents.  
 
The parties cooperated between June
of 2000 and October of 2001 regarding the venture, communicating regularly,
identifying properties to include in the program, working through municipal
requirements, identifying bond financing, and setting up a $5 million line of
credit.  Defendants continued to make
representations to Plaintiff concerning the ongoing efforts to secure
properties into October of 2001, including assuring Plaintiff that the joint
venture was very close to securing the first property on behalf of the joint
venture.  However, Plaintiff later
learned that, at the time these representations were being made, Defendants had
actually acquired several properties that were supposed to be part of the joint
venture for themselves solely and exclusively, cutting Plaintiff out of the
project completely.
 
Specifically, Plaintiff alleges
that, in October of 2021, Plaintiff learned, through an acquaintance, of a news
article making clear that Defendant had acquired a property in Long Beach that
was supposed to be a joint venture property. 
Plaintiff immediately confronted Rawson, who acknowledged the
acquisition and indicated the parties could work it out.  The parties had a meeting on 10/18/21, at
which time Defendants admitted to having lied to Plaintiff.  
 
Plaintiff filed the complaint on
8/21/23.  The complaint includes causes
of action for breach of oral joint venture agreement, breach of oral
partnership agreement, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing, promissory estoppel or detrimental reliance,
fraudulent concealment in business dealings, constructive fraud, accounting,
unjust enrichment and constructive trust, and declaratory relief.  
 
2.     Demurrer
Defendants demur to the entire
complaint, contending it is barred by the statute of limitations.  Specifically, Defendants contend the
fraud-based claims fail because judicially noticeable facts show media outlets
published at least 22 articles between February and August of 2021 about the
investment activities that violated the parties’ agreement, and the remaining
claims fail because they are barred by the statute of limitations.  
 
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §
430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendants seek judicial notice of
22 newspaper articles, published between 2/12/21 and 8/23/21, in publications
including the Multi-Housing News, Bisnow, Northmarq, the Registry So Cal, the
Long Beach Post News, the Long Beach Press-Telegram, the Commercial, the Real
Deal, Real Estate News & Media, the Commercial Observer, RE Business LA,
Traded LA, Orange County Business Journal, Los Angeles Business Journal, KCRW,
and ultimately, on 8/23/21, the LA Times.
 
The Court takes judicial notice of
the fact that these newspaper articles were published, are what they purport to
be, and say what they purport to say. 
The Court does not take judicial notice of the truth of anything
asserted in the articles.  
 
c.     Meet
and Confer
The Waggoner declaration, submitted
with the moving papers, is sufficient to meet this requirement.    
 
d.     Statute
of Limitations
Defendants contend all of the
non-fraud-based claims are barred by the statute of limitations.  They contend this is so because the
judicially noticeable documents, detailed above, put Plaintiff on notice as of
February of 2021 that they were in breach of the alleged oral agreement, and
Plaintiff did not file suit until more than two years later.
 
Defendants rely on several cases to
support their position that newspaper articles place potential plaintiffs on
inquiry notice such that the statute of limitations on their claims commences
running.  These cases include Shively v.
Boanich (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1230, 1248, McKelvey v. Boeing North
America, Inc. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 151, 160-161, and 32 Am.Jur.
Proof of Facts 3d 129 (1995).  
 
In Shively, the Court noted:
When the basis for a claim has been
published in the public record or has been the subject of publicity, several
cases have declined to apply the discovery rule, commenting that the plaintiff
may be expected to be sufficiently diligent to discover the basis for his or
her claim within the statutory period. (See 
Utility Cost Management v. Indian Wells Valley Water Dist. (2001) 26
Cal.4th 1185, 1197, 114 Cal.Rptr.2d 459, 36 P.3d 2 [rejecting application of
the discovery rule to a claim for refund of an assertedly excessive charge,
when the basis for the plaintiff's claim could have been discovered by means of
the public reporting requirements that were imposed by statute on the
defendant];  Norgart v. Upjohn Co.,
supra, 21 Cal.4th at pp. 408–409, fn. 7, 87 Cal.Rptr.2d 453, 981 P.2d 79
[relying upon press coverage in rejecting the plaintiffs' claim that, because
they had no actual or constructive suspicion concerning a defendant's
culpability, they could not have ***589 amended their complaint to name the
defendant within the period of limitations]; 
McKelvey v. Boeing North American, Inc. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 151,
160–161 & fn. 11, 86 Cal.Rptr.2d 645 [referring to publicity as a basis for
rejecting tolling under a statutory discovery rule]; 3 Witkin, Cal. Procedure
(4th ed. 1996) Actions, § 602, p. 773; but see 
Prudential Home Mortgage Co. v. Superior Court, supra, 66 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 1247–1248, 78 Cal.Rptr.2d 566 [observing that public records may impart
“presumptive notice” of the basis for a claim, but declining to hold that they
always do so as a matter of law].)
 
In Utility Cost, the Court noted
that utility companies are required to make information concerning capital
facilities fees publicly available. 
Those were the very fees that formed the basis of the lawsuit.  Because the fees were publicly available, the
Court held that delayed discovery did not apply.  In Norgart, the plaintiffs were suing for the
wrongful death of their child who died by suicide.  The parents admitted that they suspected
someone had done something wrong and caused the death; that suspicion, coupled
with the fact that the defendant drug manufacturer’s own package inserts
indicated depression and suicidal ideation could be caused by the drug.  Once the parents suspected something caused
the suicide, they were on inquiry notice and needed to look for information,
including the package inserts, that would support their suspicions and explain
who it was who had done the wrong.  In
Boeing, the plaintiffs pled that there were numerous articles published about
Boeing’s wrongdoing, and that they were aware of the articles; they contended,
however, that they were not aware of the actual and potential harm caused by
the wrongdoing.  The Court held this was
insufficient.  
 
Finally, in Prudential, the Court
held that public records impart presumptive notice under some circumstances,
but their mere existence is not conclusive as a matter of law.  
 
The Court finds none of the cited
cases supports a conclusion that Plaintiff knew or should have known about the
articles that are the subject of the RJN. 
The Court notes that the vast majority of the articles were in
publications that are virtually unknown. 
While Defendants may, at trial, introduce evidence that, in certain
circles, these publications are widely read and Plaintiff was expected to have
known about and read them, these would be evidentiary issues.  
 
The demurrer to these causes of
action is overruled.
 
e.     Fraud
Defendants contend the fraud-based
causes of action fail because Plaintiff cannot plead concealment with an intent
to defraud.  They contend the fact that
Defendants were being quoted in newspaper articles specifically stating that
they were acting in a way that contravenes Plaintiff’s interests and is in
contravention of the parties’ alleged oral agreement conclusively negates this
element of the claim.
 
The fraud, however, alleged
commenced in or around June of 2020, when Defendants indicated an agreement to
work with Plaintiff as a joint venture. 
Articles that commenced publication in February of 2021 cannot be used
to show lack of intent to defraud at the time the statements were made.  The issue becomes more muddied with respect
to representations made after the first article was published, but the Court
cannot sustain a demurrer to a part of a conversation.  Additionally, it seems that the issue of whether
ongoing misrepresentations constitute fraud while the defendant is making
contradictory statements in the public media would be a question for the trier
of fact, who would need to weigh what the defendant suspected the plaintiff was
reading in the media, etc., while making those representations.  
 
The demurrer is overruled.  
f.      Conclusion
The demurrer is overruled in its
entirety.  Defendants are ordered to file
an answer to the complaint within ten days. 

 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the demurrer.