  Case Number:  23SMCV05324    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  O Name:  Noguera v. Jason J. Emer, et al. 



Case No.:


23SMCV05324


Complaint Filed:


11-9-23            




Hearing Date:


4-25-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


11


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
MOVING
PARTY:  Defendant Jason J. Emer, MD
and Jason J. Emer, MD, P.C.
RESP.
PARTY:        Plaintiff Brandon
Noguera
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendant Jason
J. Emer, MD and Jason J. Emer, MD, P.C.s’ Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay
the Proceeding is GRANTED in part as to the 4th–8th
causes of action (labor code violations) and DENIED in part as to the 1st–3rd
causes of action (sexual harassment claims).  This case is stayed pending the arbitration of
Plaintiff’s Labor code claims. 
Defendant is to submit the proposed order.
REASONING
Defendants
have met their burden to prove the existence of a valid arbitration agreement,
and that the scope of that agreement applies to the adjudication of all Plaintiff’s
claims.  The formation of the agreement, and
the meaning of its terms are undisputed. 
Plaintiff concedes as much and offers no evidence to show otherwise.
The sole issue
Plaintiff raises in opposition to the motion is a legal question. Does the Federal
“Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021”
(EFAA) render the arbitration agreement unenforceable, at Plaintiff’s election,
at least as to Plaintiff’s claims for sexual harassment?  The EFAA provides:
“Notwithstanding
any other provision of this title, at the election of the person alleging
conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute, or
the named representative of a class or in a collective action alleging such
conduct, no predispute arbitration agreement or predispute joint-action waiver
shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under
Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual assault dispute or the
sexual harassment dispute.”
9 USC §401-402, 2021, 136
Stat 26 PL 117-90 (March 3, 2022).  “The
term “sexual harassment dispute” means a dispute relating to conduct that is
alleged to constitute sexual harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or
State law.” 9 USC 401(4).
Defendant’s
do not contest that Plaintiff’s claims for “De Facto Sexual Harassment” and “quid
Pro Quo Sexual Harassment meet the definition of sexual harassment under the
EFAA.  Defendants, however, question whether
Plaintiff’s claim for “hostile work environment” meets that definition. Defendants
offer no evidence or authority to support such doubt.  More important, under California’s FEHA, a
claim for “hostile work environment” is recognized as a form of “sexual harassment.  Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1043 “California's FEHA “recognize[s] two theories of liability for sexual
harassment claims ... ‘... quid pro quo harassment, .... [and] hostile work
environment….”  The Court finds Plaintiff’s
causes of action for “de facto sexual harassment, quid pro quo sexual
harassment, and hostile work environment (1st, 2nd and 3rd
causes of action) all are claims for sexual harassment withing the meaning of
the EFAA.
            Finally, Defendants argue this issue must be decided by
the arbitrator, and not the Court, because the arbitration agreement delegates the
resolution of that issue to the arbitrator. Plaintiff does not dispute the
agreement has such a delegation clause or argue that the language of the clause
is not “clear and unmistakable.” It is. Instead, Plaintiff responds by arguing “[T]he
arbitration agreement is unenforceable and invalid as to Plaintiff’s sexual
harassment claims.... Defendants challenge is specifically to the
enforceability of the arbitration agreement as to Plaintiff sexual harassment
claims, not the agreement as a whole (citation). Therefore, it is proper for
this court to determine that this matter must be maintained in court, not
arbitration.” (Defendants opposition, p. 10.) 

Both
parties analyze the delegation issue under the FAA where the focus is on
interpreting the parties agreement, and specifically, the parties intent to
delegate issues to be resolved by the arbitrator rather than a court.  But the answer to this issue is expressly
stated in the EFAA that it is the court’s job to decide the application of the
EFAA, and not an arbitrator: 
 “DETERMINATION
OF APPLICABILITY.—An issue as to whether this chapter applies with respect to a
dispute shall be determined under Federal law. The applicability of this
chapter to an agreement to arbitrate and the validity and enforceability of an
agreement to which this chapter applies shall be determined by a court,
rather than an arbitrator, irrespective of whether the party resisting
arbitration challenges the arbitration agreement specifically or in conjunction
with other terms of the contract containing such agreement, and irrespective
of whether the agreement purports to delegate such determinations to an
arbitrator.”
9 USC §402(b) (Emphasis
added.)  See also, The Rutter Group, Contractual
Arbitration, Cal. Prac. Guide Employment Litigation Ch. 18-C (“Courts
have exclusive authority to determine whether a dispute or claim is covered by
the statute.”) The Court, therefore, rejects Defendants’ argument that arbitrability
of Plaintiff’s claims for sexual harassment must be decided by the arbitrator. 