  Case Number:  19STCV28669    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


19STCV28669




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Long Beach Memorial Medical Center, Dana Crompton, and Susan Arnheiter




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Tami K. Alan



 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Tami K.
Alan (“Plaintiff”) Filed an action against Defendant Long Beach Memorial
Medical Center, Dana Crompton, and Susan Arnheiter (“Defendants”) alleging employment
claims.  Defendants move for summary
judgment on Plaintiff’s complaint, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication
of issues.  
However, two of
Defendants’ proposed issues for summary adjudication are improper.  “A party may move for summary adjudication as
to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (f)(1).)  
Defendants move
for summary adjudication that “[t]he Settlement Agreement is invalid and
unenforceable, and Plaintiff’s claims are time barred . . . ,” and that
“Plaintiff failed to exhaust her administrative remedies as to her claims
predicated on post-2014 purported conduct.” 
(Notice of Motion, p. 2.)  The
Court cannot summarily adjudicate these issues because they do not “completely dispose[]
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages or an issue
of duty.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (f)(1).)  “There is little
flexibility in the procedural imperatives of [Code of Civil Procedure section
437c], and the issues raised by a motion for summary judgment (or summary
adjudication) are pure questions of law. 
As a result, section 437c is unforgiving; a failure to comply with any
one of its myriad requirements is likely to be fatal to the offending
party.”  (Brantley v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1607.) 
Accordingly, the
Court considers the motion as a motion for summary judgment or for summary
adjudication of Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action only.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
EVIDENCE
            Defendant’s
evidentiary objections to the Declaration of John A. Schlaff are
sustained.  Defendant’s evidentiary
objections to the Declaration of Tami Kim Alan are overruled.
DISCUSSION
All Causes of Action
Defendants contend the statute of limitations
bars Plaintiff’s claims.  Plaintiff
previously sued Defendants in Alan v. Long Beach Memorial Medical Center, et
al. (Super. Ct. L.A. County, 2011, No. BC454062 (“the BC454062 case”)).  In that matter, the parties entered into a  settlement agreement in which Defendants
agreed to “stipulate and agree to toll and waive all defenses based upon
timeliness (including, among others, defenses based upon various statutes of limitations,
the mandatory dismissal statutes set forth in the Code of Civil Procedure, or
the equitable defense of laches) as to any and all of the causes of action
contained in the operative complaint for a period of five years from the date
of this Agreement. In the event of resumption of the litigation, neither the
period of time prior to the execution of this agreement when Case No. BC454062
was pending, nor any period of subsequent peace among the parties pursuant to
this settlement, shall be counted against the mandatory dismissal statutes set
forth in the Code of Civil Procedure in any new or resumed action within the
scope of this agreement. In addition, the DEFENDANTS acknowledge that neither
the fact of the dismissal of the action nor its form (even if with prejudice)
shall be asserted as a defense to the resumption of a suit based upon the same
facts as the Pending Action provided such resumption occurs within the five
year tolling period provided for by this paragraph.”  It appears Defendants’ counsel in the
BC454062 case signed the agreement on August 25, 2014.  (Defendants’ Compendium of Evidence in
Support of Motion for Summary Judgment (Compendium), Exhibit 9.)  Thus, the agreement was to toll the statute of
limitations through August 26, 2019.  Plaintiff filed this action on August 13,
2019, within the tolling period.
Defendants now
argue the settlement agreement does not bind them because they did not sign the
agreement.  Defendants’ attorney in the BC454062 case signed the agreement, indicating
it was “APPROVED AS TO FORM ONLY.”  (Compendium,
Exhibit 9, p. 7 of 7.)   A
provision in the settlement agreement reflects the parties agreed it was
subject to judicial enforcement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
664.6 (section 664.6).  (Id.,
Exhibit 9, page 5 of 7.)  As Defendants
point out, a trial court cannot enter judgment pursuant to the terms of a
settlement agreement under the previous version of section 664.6 unless the
parties sign the agreement on their own behalf. 
(See Gauss v. GAF Corp. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1117.)  
However, Plaintiff does not seek to enter
judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement under section
664.6.  A settlement is not unenforceable
for all purposes merely because it does not fall within the requirements for
enforcement under section 664.6.  Therefore,
under the present circumstances of this matter, Defendants’ authorities are not
relevant.  “The attorney is authorized by
virtue of his employment to bind the client in procedural matters arising
during the course of the action but he may not impair the client's substantial
rights or the cause of action itself.”  (Linsk
v. Linsk (1969) 70 Cal.2d 272, 276.) 
In the instant case, Defendants’ counsel had the authority to stipulate
to toll the statute of limitations.  Further,
Defendants advance no evidence as to whether they performed pursuant to the
settlement agreement and thereby accepted it. 
(See Civ. Code, § 1584 [“Performance
of the conditions of a proposal, or the acceptance of the consideration offered
with a proposal, is acceptance of the proposal”]; Civ. Code, § 1589 [“A voluntary acceptance of the benefit
of a transaction is equivalent to a consent to all the obligations arising from
it, so far as the facts are known, or ought to be known, to the person
accepting”].)  Defendant fails to meet
its burden to show Plaintiff cannot prevail in this action because of the
statute of limitations.
Fourth Cause of Action
Defendants also argue the settlement in Castillo,
et al. v. Long Beach Memorial Medical Center, et al. (Super. Ct. L.A.
County, 2015, No. BC576936 (“the BC576936 case”)) bars Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action.  In that action, the trial court denied
Plaintiff’s request for exclusion from the class action settlement as untimely.  (Defendants’ Request for Judicial
Notice in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment, Exhibit 2.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff was a member of the
settlement class.  The settlement class
released the claims raised in that action. 
(Id., Exhibit 3.)  Such
claims include the wage and hour claims at issue in Plaintiff’s fourth cause of
action.  (Id., Exhibit 1.)  Accordingly, Defendants have met their burden
by showing Plaintiff cannot prevail on her fourth cause of action.  Defendants, therefore, have shifted the
burden to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether
Plaintiff can prevail on the claim.
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues without citation to authority, the judgment in the BC576936 case is not final such that the settlement
bars Plaintiff’s claim.  This argument
fails as unsupported.  Therefore, Plaintiff
has not met her burden of raising triable issues of material fact as to whether
Plaintiff can prevail on the fourth cause of action.
Plaintiff requests a continuance.  If the party opposing a summary judgment
submits declarations that show “facts essential to justify opposition may exist
but cannot, for reasons stated, then be presented, the court shall deny the
motion,” continue it for a reasonable period, or “make any other order as may
be just.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).)  The opposing party's declarations must
include: facts to support the argument controverting evidence may exist and why
the information sought is essential to opposing the motion; the specific
reasons why the party cannot present the evidence before the current deadline
to file opposition papers; an estimate of the time necessary to obtain such
evidence; and the specific procedures the opposing party intends to use to seek
the evidence.  (Johnson v. Alameda
County Medical Center (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 521, 532.)  The grant of a continuance is “virtually
mandated” if the opposing party makes the required showing.  (Dee v. Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (2003)
106 Cal.App.4th 30, 34, internal quotations omitted.)  
Plaintiff’s counsel, John A. Schlaff
(“Counsel”), has submitted a declaration in which he states he served a
deposition notice on Defendant Long Beach Memorial Medical Center, but the
deposition has not yet occurred.  Counsel
does not state, however, what facts Counsel hopes to elicit at deposition to
show the settlement in the BC576936 case does not bar Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action.  As such, Plaintiff fails to show a
continuance is warranted. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff fails to raise triable issues of
material fact as to whether Plaintiff can prevail on her fourth cause of action
against Defendants.  Therefore, the Court
grants Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of the fourth cause of
action.  Defendants’ motion is otherwise
denied.  
Defendants are ordered to give notice of the
Court’s order and to file a proof of service of same.