 Case Number:  23SMCV04061    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  I The matter is here on demurrer/motion to strike and also on
a motion to quash a subpoena directed to defendants’ bank records.  The demurrer is OVERRULED IN PART AND
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND IN PART; the motion to strike is DENIED; and the
motion to quash is DENIED.
Plaintiffs contend that defendants borrowed money with no
intention of paying it back.  Because
plaintiffs are elderly, plaintiffs also accuse defendants of financial elder
abuse.  The loans were actually a series
of loans.  On their face they are
commercial in nature—that is, to allow defendants to fund a business
enterprise.  They are reflected in notes
signed by Rafael, but not signed by Nowrouzian. 
Plaintiffs allege breach of written contract, oral contract, common
counts (money lent and account stated), fraud (intentional and negligent), and
elder abuse.
Turning first to the demurrer, Rafael states that the
complaint is uncertain and does not allege a written contract because the
written contracts on their face require that they be signed by witnesses.  While the language of the agreements could be
so interpreted, the court does not so interpret them for purposes of
demurrer.  All of the written agreements
are titled “Heter Iskoh” (actually a “Heter Iska”) agreements.  A word on what that is.  Under strict Jewish law (Halakha), it is
forbidden for a Jewish person to loan another Jewish person money and charge
interest.  That rule can present
difficulties where the parties actually wish to make a loan and collect
interest.  The way around that is through
a Heter Iska, which answers the question “when is a loan not a loan?”  The theory is that the lender/investor gives
money to the borrower/owner.  The money
is to be repaid, without interest, at a certain time.  So far, so good; no violation of
Halakha.  But to induce the
lender/investor to give the money, the borrower/owner promises to give the
lender/investor a return on the investment in the form of a profit (and loss)
participation.  That means that the money
above the principal is not technically “interest”; it is a return on
investment, which is permitted.  But the
borrower/owner is required to swear an oath that the money was used
wisely.  Under Jewish tradition, such
oaths are not given lightly.  They must
be witnessed and are generally avoided at all costs, or virtually all
costs.  Because the borrower/owner will
typically go to great lengths to avoid making such an oath, there is a
provision that the oath requirement is waived if the borrower/owner pays a
certain percentage back along with the principal.  Thus, by repaying the principal plus the
agreed upon percentage (not to be confused with interest), no oath is needed
and the investment is terminated and the stated profit participation in the
Heter Iska becomes irrelevant.  There is
an additional required element.  The
lender/investor must also pay the borrower/owner a fixed amount for the
borrower/investor’s work.  The amount
can, however, be nominal.  The Heter Iska
is done to avoid the prohibition on interest even though both parties know and
fully understand that the principal will be repaid in full with the additional
percentage as specified in the agreement and that the oath will not be required
because the percentage will be paid in lieu of the oath.
The key to the foregoing discussion (and really the major
point) is that the witnesses are not required to witness the loan; they are
required to witness the oath that the money lent/invested was spent
properly.  As such, there is at least
enough for the pleading stage to get past the “there are no witnesses to the
loan agreement” argument.
There is an interesting question whether a Heter Iska is
valid under California law.  The
loan/investment is structured only as an investment, not as a loan.  One could certainly argue that whatever winks
and nods might exist to conform with Halakha, California law ignores such
things in favor of the contract’s actual language.  What that would mean in this case is not that
money never changed hands, but rather that the loan will be treated as an
investment and the amount defendants owe plaintiff will be based on profits and
losses, not a percentage interest.  But
that is for another day.
The question is different as to Nawrouzian.  Nawrouzian did not sign the contract at
all.  Plaintiffs allege that Rafael
signed as Nawrouzian’s agent, but that does not appear anywhere on the loan
document.  More facts will need to be
alleged to make it past the pleading stage on the written contract as to
whether Nawrouzian is in fact  bound by
the agreement at all. 
Thus, the demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED
as to Rafael and SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to Nawrouzian.
The oral contract cause of action is pled in the
alternative.  There is enough here to get
past the pleading stage.  The major
question is the statute of frauds. 
Plaintiffs argue that the statute of frauds is no basis for a demurrer
because at least some of the loans are for less than $100,000 and could be
personal in nature.  As to the loan’s
nature, it appears to be a business loan from the face of the document.  At least as to those over $100,000, it would
seem that the elements are there for the statute of frauds.  While it is true that the statute of frauds
is normally an affirmative defense, like the statute of limitations it is
proper to demur on that basis if the elements of the defense appear in the
complaint itself.  They do here.  As to Rafael, however, there is a sufficient
written memorandum to overcome the defense as a pleading matter.  Therefore, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to
Rafael and SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to Nowrouzian to the extent it
pertains to the loans allegedly in excess of $100,000.  Among other things, plaintiffs will need to
describe the nature of the oral loan or loans, and must do so with some
particularity.  Further, because the
cause of action for an oral contract does not claim a series of specific
contracts, though, it is infirm. 
Plaintiffs need to specify the nature of the oral debt—for example, is
it one loan or a series of loans; if a series, the nature of each must be
alleged. 
The demurrer to the common count for money lent is
OVERRULED.  There is enough here to
overcome the pleading challenge.  The
demurrer to the common count for account stated is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND as to both defendants.  The gist of
account stated is that somewhere there exists an account that was sent by the
plaintiff to the defendant to which no objection was made.  The court does not see an allegation of that
here.
The demurrer to fraud is OVERRULED.  The theory is that the money was borrowed and
the borrowers had no intention of repaying the debt.  That is sufficient.  And there is enough detail to satisfy the
heightened pleading requirement.  It is
alleged that both defendants promised to repay with no present intent to do so.  As to negligent misrepresentation, the
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
It is one thing to say that defendants promised to repay the money but
never intended to do so; it is another to say that they negligently promised to
repay.  What does that even mean?  That they intended to repay the loan but
should have known (although they did not actually know) that they were
lying?  Plaintiffs will have to explain
it better than they do because on its face the theory is impossible.
The demurrer to elder abuse is OVERRULED.  If defendants took advantage of a person
within the statute by “borrowing” money they never intended to repay, that is
enough.  And given defendants’
mischaracterization of the Heter Iska in these papers, it is possible that such
was indeed their intent.
The motion to strike is DENIED.  To the extent it pertains to aspects of the
case where the demurrer was sustained, it is moot.  As to other aspects, there is enough here to
warrant the prayer.
Plaintiffs have 30 days’ leave to amend.
The court now turns to the discovery motion.
Plaintiffs sought defendants’ bank records.  Plaintiffs contend that those records will
show that money was paid to defendants and that no money was returned.  Given defendants’ position here, it is
certainly proper for plaintiffs to figure that they will need to prove those
elements of their case.  To that end,
they have subpoenaed not only defendants’ bank records, but their own.  While there is plainly a privacy interest, it
is overcome by plaintiffs’ need to prosecute their case.  And the matter is not very hard.
The court has approved a protective order in this case.  It will apply to defendants’ records to the
extent that the records contain the account numbers or records of transactions
unrelated to plaintiffs.  That does not
mean the records will not be produced; to the contrary, they will be
produced.  After all, plaintiffs here
might be investors rather than lenders. 
But defendants’ unrelated financial dealings may wind up having nothing
to do with this case need not be spread upon the public record to that extent.  Therefore, the motion to quash is DENIED.
The Calcor case is not really on point.  This is an objection made by defendants; not
the witness.  Calcor is designed
to avoid an unnecessary burden on the witness. 
(The court also notes that plaintiffs did offer to narrow the scope of
their request.  The court assumes that
offer is still good and the denial is based thereon.)
For the parties’ edification, the court appends its
guidelines on discovery.
 
 
DISCOVERY RELATED GUIDELINES FOR DEPARTMENT I
The guidelines below are not “rules” and they are not
universally applicable in all cases. 
Rather, they are guidelines as to the court’s general views.  Each case, of course, will be decided on its
own facts and circumstances, and some of the guidelines below may not apply to
particular circumstances.  That said, the
court does take these views seriously.
Discovery Responses
The Court provides the following guidance concerning its
general views on some common issues regarding responses to written
objections.  The Court has noticed that
many attorneys view objections and the manner of making them in a way different
than does the Court.  To avoid these
common pitfalls, the Court offers the following in addition to the provisions
of the Litigation Guidelines appended to the Los Angeles County Superior Court
Local Rules.
First, “General Objections” are not permitted.  The Code of Civil Procedure does not provide
for them, and therefore they are disregarded by the Court.  Any response that “incorporates” the “General
Objections” is improper by definition.  
Second, the Court often views boilerplate objections
as being in bad faith.  A bad faith
response is no response at all in the Court’s view.  Therefore, making boilerplate objections does
not preserve those objections nor does it constitute a good faith response to
written discovery.  A bad faith response
is viewed by the Court for what it is: bad faith.  The objections will be stricken and deemed
waived.  In the context of a Request for
Admission, such objections may lead to a finding that the request is deemed
admitted, although that will depend on the facts of the particular case and the
specific discovery at hand.
Objections should be tailored to each specific request.  If a request truly is overbroad, then an
objection to that effect is proper.  But
such an objection is best accompanied by some reasonable limitation by the
responding party that will narrow the request appropriately and (as narrowed)
provide a substantive response rather than a mere statement that the request is
overbroad.  The same is true as to an
objection that a request is unduly burdensome. 
The Court also notes that the party asserting that a request is unduly
burdensome has the obligation at some point to provide an evidentiary basis for
the objection, including evidence as to what the burden of compliance would
be.  (West Pico Furniture Co. v.
Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407.) 
Often such an objection will include a statement by the responding party
as to a narrower request that would not be unduly burdensome and provide
substantive responses as so limited. 
Objections that a request is “vague and ambiguous” must set forth the
vague and ambiguous term as well as the responding party’s reasonable
interpretation of that term as well as a statement that, so interpreted, the
response will provide the discovery requested. 
If there is no reasonable interpretation possible (which is a rare
situation), then the responding party must so state.  Objections as to privilege must set forth the
basis explaining why the information sought is in fact privileged.  Where a privilege is asserted in the context
of a document request, a privilege log must accompany the answer or be provided
within a short and reasonable time after the answer.  Where the objection is made in the context of
an interrogatory, it must be clear from the objection the scope of the
information being withheld.  If there is
no log, there should be no privilege objection to a document request (meaning
that a prophylactic privilege objection is the equivalent of no objection; it
preserves nothing).  There are some rare
exceptions, such as where the entire point of the discovery is to get allegedly
privileged information or where compliance would require a log that is in
essence an index of counsel’s file.  In
that situation, the log is unnecessary, but the assertion should be made that
the request is in that rare context.
Third, if an objection is made to the discovery but a
response is being given, it must be clear whether information or documents are
in fact being withheld on the basis of the objections.  If the objections are clear and done in the
manner set forth above, with statements in the objection as to a narrowing that
will make the request proper, this is usually a simple task.  The objections themselves state the limit and
the response will be full and complete as limited.  But where the objections are not so clear,
the response must clearly state whether any information or document is being
withheld on the basis of the objection and, if so, the extent of the
withholding.  Accordingly, in those
situations, phrases like “Notwithstanding and subject to the foregoing
objections, responding party states as follows” are improper.  Those sorts of phrases make the verification
useless, as the verifier can always fall back on the ”objections” as the reason
why a document was not produced or information was not disclosed.  On the other hand, where the line of
demarcation is clear, the verification will still serve its purpose.
Fourth, for document requests, the substantive
response must conform to the Code.  There
are relatively tight rules as to what the response must say, and the response
must say it.  For example, where a
responding party is not producing documents because they are not in the party’s
possession, custody, or control, the responding party must verify that a
diligent search has been made and must further provide the information set
forth in the Code of Civil Procedure in such cases.  In the case of interrogatories, the responses
must also conform to the Code of Civil Procedure and must be made after
diligent inquiry.  It is not proper to
refuse to respond because the responding party has no personal knowledge.  If the knowledge is hearsay, it must still be
disclosed, although it can be qualified to make it clear that it is not based
on the verifier’s personal knowledge.
Fifth, the Court frowns on responses that do not
conform to the foregoing rules being served with the view that the responses
will moot themselves out in the meet and confer process.  That is not how the process works.  A good faith response is required before the
meet and confer process begins.  The meet
and confer process will (hopefully) bridge the gaps between the parties’
respective positions.  Further, where a
response to a request for documents is made and documents are to be produced
subject to certain objections (with the documents withheld properly
delineated), the documents should be turned over irrespective of the meet and
confer.  The documents are to be produced
with alacrity to the extent that there is no objection to them.
What this means is that the response to a discovery request
is not a trivial undertaking.  Nabbing
the response from the form file is a generally bad idea and can lead to all
objections being waived.  The point is
that the boilerplate often renders the remainder of the response useless.  The only exception is where it is clear that
the substantive response is not in any way limited by the objections.  In that case, the objections do no harm,
although they also do no good.
Meet and Confer
The Code of Civil
Procedure requires that before a motion to compel further responses or a motion
for a protective order is filed, the parties engage in a good faith attempt to
resolve their differences.  They are to
“meet and confer” for that purpose.  Only
if that effort fails can a motion be brought. 

Sadly, many
litigants view the meet and confer process as just another procedural hoop
through which they must jump in order to bring the motion, similar to the need
to include an actual demurrer with the demurrer papers.  The Code requires it, so they do it, but no
one’s heart is really in it.  That is not
sufficient.
Given that, the
Court believes it appropriate to set forth how the Court views the meet and
confer requirement.  Failure to abide by
the guidelines below may well justify denial of the motion or a continuance of
it to allow the process to take place. 
If one party but not the other refuses to participate as set forth, more
likely than not the party refusing to participate will find itself on the
losing end of the motion.  The following
quotation fairly sums up the Court’s own view.
“[W]e feel compelled
to observe that resort to the courts easily could have been avoided here
had both parties actually taken to heart Justice Stone's
admonitions in Townsend that ‘the statute requires that there
be a serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution.’ (Townsend,
supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p. 1438.) Perhaps after 11 years it is
necessary to remind trial counsel and the bar once again that ‘[a]rgument is not the
same as informal negotiation’ (id at p. 1437); that attempting
informal resolution means more than the mere attempt by the discovery proponent
‘to persuade the objector of the error of his ways’ (id. at p.
1435); and that ‘a reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution
entails something more than bickering with [opposing] counsel....  Rather, the law requires that counsel attempt
to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate.’ (Id. at
p. 1439.)” (Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th
1277, 1294, emphasis in original, parallel citations omitted.) 
In practical terms, it means as
follows.  It is entirely appropriate to
begin the process with a letter or other correspondence.  The letter should not include a demand in the
form of an ultimatum, but it can certainly include the relief that is being
sought with an invitation to meet and confer. 
It is also entirely appropriate for the other party to respond with a
letter or other correspondence to set forth its position on the issues.  Such an initial exchange can often be helpful
to narrow the dispute.  Whether further
exchanges make sense will depend on each case and each dispute.
However, at some point, before impasse is
reached the process must include an actual “meet.”  The letters might well suffice to “confer,”
but an exchange of correspondence is not a meeting.  In the COVID-19 era, the “meeting” can be
virtual or telephonic, but a meeting there must be.  The meeting must be attended by a person from
each side with the authority to agree to the other side’s position without
getting further permission from anyone, including the client.  If only the client can give the needed authority,
then the client must be available instantaneously at all times during the
meeting.  This does not mean that one
side or the other must concede, but it does mean that the people meeting have
the ability in real and practical terms to strike a deal then and there.
The parties should approach the meet and
confer process as a problem-solving exercise. 
The purpose of the meet and confer is not to convince the other side of
the bankruptcy of its position; rather the purpose is to reach an agreement by
which the party seeking discovery is able to obtain the information that it
reasonably needs and the party providing discovery is not put to an undue
burden or forced to provide unnecessary information that might infringe on a
privacy interest or disclose a competitive trade secret or the like.
At the conclusion of the meet and confer,
the parties should have an agreed statement as to the outcome.  If the outcome is a total impasse, then they
should agree on that.  If they have
resolved some or all of their differences, then they should state—in
writing—what that agreement is so that there will be no confusion later.  Often, an agreement will be without prejudice
to a further request by the propounding party for more information after that
party receives the responses.
If a motion is still required, the
declaration in support should describe with some detail the meet and confer
process.  While the Court is not
interested in the back and forth, the Court is interested in when the meeting
took place, who was there, and how long it lasted.
All communications—in writing or oral—must
be civil, polite, and professional. 
Name-calling and accusations are devices that undermine the process;
they do not further it.  A party engaging
in such activity generally is not acting in a good faith effort to reach an
agreement.
 