 Case Number:  21STCV16346    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
3, 2023                 TRIAL
DATE:  Vacated
                                                           
CASE:                                Agusto Garcia, et al. v. Nax Lei
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV16346
 





















 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIES
 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION 
 
MOTION
TO HAVE REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS DEEMED ADMITTED



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Avis Rent a Car System, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On October 2,
2023, Defendant Avis Rent a Car System, LLC filed these motions to compel Plaintiffs
Agusto Garcia and Adoracion Garcia to provide responses to Defendant’s First
Set of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Demand for Production
of Documents, and to deem Request for Admissions, Set One, admitted against Plaintiffs.  Defendant seeks sanctions against Plaintiffs
and their counsel.
                                                     
            The motions
are unopposed.[1]
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES 
 
            If a party
to whom interrogatories and inspection demands were directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order to compel
responses without objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b),
2031.300, subd. (b).)  If a party to whom requests for admission are
directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for
an order that the truth of the matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  Failure to timely
serve responses waives objections to the requests.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a), 2033.280, subd.
(a).)    
 
            Monetary
Sanctions 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to
impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
            If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿ 
¿ 
            If the
court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to compel
responses to inspection demands, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction .
. . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).)  In the context of a motion to deem requests
for admission admitted, it is mandatory that the court impose monetary
sanctions on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely
response to the request necessitated the motion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
subd. (c).)
 
Sanctions against counsel:¿ The court in Kwan
Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (Hennings)
noted that discovery sanctions against an attorney are governed by a different
standard than sanctions against a party:¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
By the terms of the statute, a trial court under section
2023.030(a) may not impose monetary sanctions against a party’s attorney unless
the court finds that the attorney “advised” the party to engage in the conduct
resulting in sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 256, 261, 24
Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿ “Unlike monetary sanctions against a party, which are based
on the party's misuse of the discovery process, monetary sanctions against the
party's attorney require a finding the ‘attorney advis[ed] that conduct.’ ”
(Ibid.) “It is not enough that the attorney's actions were in some way
improper.” (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247 (Corns).)
Because an attorney's advice to  client is “peculiarly within [his or her]
knowledge,” the attorney has the burden of showing that he or she did not
counsel discovery abuse. (Ibid.) Accordingly, when a party seeking
sanctions against an attorney offers sufficient evidence of a misuse of the
discovery process, the burden shifts to the attorney to demonstrate that he or
she did not recommend that conduct. (Id. at pp. 200–201, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247; Ghanooni, at p.
262, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿¿ 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant
served Plaintiffs with these discovery requests on June 15, 2023.  However,
to date, Plaintiffs have not provided responses.¿ (See Caponegri
Decls.)¿ Therefore, all objections to the interrogatories and production demands
are waived.¿¿ 
 
            As Defendant
properly served the discovery requests and Plaintiffs failed to serve
responses, the Court finds Defendant is entitled to an order directing Plaintiffs
to provide responses to Defendant’s First set of Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Demand for Production of Documents.¿ In addition, Defendant
is entitled to an order deeming admitted Request for Admissions, Set One,
against Plaintiffs.
 
             Monetary
Sanctions
 
            Defendant
requests sanctions against Plaintiffs. 
Given that the Court has granted these motions, sanctions are warranted.
 Indeed, in the context of requests for
admissions, sanctions are mandatory.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(c).)  Pursuant to Hennings, supra,
imposition of monetary sanctions against counsel is also proper unless counsel
shows that he or she did not counsel the discovery abuse.¿ (Hennings, 58
Cal.App.5th at p. 81.)¿ Plaintiffs’ counsel does not meet their burden.   Accordingly, sanctions are imposed against Plaintiffs
and their counsel in the amount of $1,160, representing 4 hours at defense
counsel’s hourly rate and $360 in filing fees.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The
unopposed motions are granted.  
 
            Plaintiff
Agusto Garcia is ordered to provide verified, objection-free responses to Defendant’s
First Set of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Demand for
Production of Documents.  Defendant’s
Request for Admissions, Set One, is deemed admitted against Plaintiff Agusto
Garcia.
 
            Plaintiff Adoracion
Garcia is ordered to provide verified, objection-free responses to Defendant’s
First Set of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Demand for
Production of Documents.  Defendant’s
Request for Admissions, Set One, is deemed admitted against Plaintiff Adoracion
Garcia.
 
            The request
for sanctions is granted.  
 
            Plaintiff
Agusto Garcia and his counsel of record are ordered to pay sanctions in the
amount of $580 to Defendant, by and through their counsel.
 
            Plaintiff Adoracion
Garcia and her counsel of record are ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of
$580 to Defendant, by and through their counsel.
 
            Discovery
responses are to be provided and sanctions are to be paid within 30 days of the
date of this order. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   November 3,
2023                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 


