  Case Number:  20STCV41618    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
Hooman Enterprises, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
I.                  
OBJECTIONS
Defendant Long Beach Industrial Partners, LLC
(Defendant) objects to the declarations of Anne Redcross Beehler and Hooman
Nissani submitted with the motion for summary adjudication. Defendant’s
objections to the Nissani declaration are not material to the resolution of the
motion. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (q).) The objections to the
Beehler declaration are OVERRULED. 
 
Plaintiff’s
objections to the declaration of John L. Pagliasotti as a whole are OVERRULED,
as Pagliasotti may testify as to industry custom in relation to commercial
lease options. “Evidence
of custom or standard practice is
admissible to interpret the terms of a contract and to imply terms when no
contrary intent is apparent from the other terms of the contract.” (Midwest
Television, Inc. v. Scott, Lancaster, Mills & Atha, Inc. (1988) 205
Cal.App.3d 442, 451.) Objections No. 18–23 to the Pagliasotti declaration are
SUSTAINED, as his opinions on the interpretation of the addendum are without
foundation, since he had no role in the drafting of the addendum. Plaintiff’s objections
to the declarations of Enrique Vassallo, Jason Schirn, Robert Neal, and
Jennifer Penney are OVERRULED.
 
II.               
MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGEMENT
 
A party may move for summary judgment “if it
is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party
will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by
itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed
in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)   
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) Plaintiffs moving for summary
judgment may meet their initial burden by “prov[ing] each element of the cause
of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c(p)(1).) 
Once the plaintiff
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(p)(1).)  The defendant may not rely
upon the mere allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(p)(1).)  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Plaintiff Hooman
Enterprises, Inc. (Plaintiff) moves for summary adjudication of its third and
fourth cause of action in the Complaint for declaratory and injunctive relief
and specific performance, on the allegation that Defendant Long Beach
Industrial Partners, LLC (Defendant) failed to honor the option contained in
the lease agreement (Lease) between the parties. 
 
To obtain specific performance
after a breach
of contract, a plaintiff must generally
show: “(1)
the inadequacy of his legal remedy; (2)
an underlying contract that is both reasonable
and supported by adequate consideration; (3) the existence
of a mutuality
of remedies; (4) contractual terms which are
sufficiently definite to enable the court to know
what it is
to enforce; and (5) a substantial
similarity of the requested performance to that promised in the contract. 
 
(Real Estate Analytics, LLC
v. Vallas (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 463, 472.)
 
Plaintiff’s argument is based on
Paragraph 54 of the Lease Addendum (Addendum), executed contemporaneously with
a form lease drafted by the AIR Commercial Real Estate Association, which
provides that between May 1 and October 31, 2019, Plaintiff could exercise an
option to purchase the leased property for $6 million. (Motion Exh. A7, ¶ 54.) 
 
The interpretation of a contract
involves “a two-step process: ‘First the court provisionally receives (without
actually admitting) all credible evidence concerning the parties' intentions to
determine “ambiguity,” i.e., whether the language is “reasonably susceptible”
to the interpretation urged by a party. If in light of the extrinsic evidence
the court decides the language is “reasonably susceptible” to the
interpretation urged, the extrinsic evidence is then admitted to aid in the
second step—interpreting
the contract.
[Citation.]’ (Winet v. Price (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1165, 6
Cal.Rptr.2d 554.) The trial court's determination of whether an ambiguity
exists is a question of law, subject to independent review on appeal. (Ibid.)
The trial court's resolution of an ambiguity is also a question of law if no
parol evidence is admitted or if the parol evidence is not in conflict.
However, where the parol evidence is in conflict, the trial court's resolution
of that conflict is a question of fact and must be upheld if supported by
substantial evidence. (Id. at p. 1166, 6 Cal.Rptr.2d 554.)
Furthermore, ‘[w]hen two equally plausible interpretations of the language of a
contract may be made ... parol evidence is admissible to aid in interpreting
the agreement, thereby presenting a question of fact which precludes summary judgment if the
evidence is contradictory.’
(Wolf
v. Superior Court (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1343, 1351.)
 
Defendant in opposition argues
that Plaintiff could not exercise the option to buy the subject property
because it was not in full possession of the property during the option period.
It is undisputed that Plaintiff subleased the property. (Defendant’s Objections
to the Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (DUMF) No. 42.)
Defendant points to a provision in the lease, Paragraph 39.2, which states:
 
Any Option granted to Lessee in this Lease is
personal to the original Lessee, and cannot be assigned or exercised by anyone
other than said original Lessee and only while the original Lessee is in full
possession of the Premises and, if requested by Lessor, with Lessee certifying
that Lessee has no intention of thereafter assigning or subletting.
 
(Motion Exh. A5, ¶ 39.2.) 
 
This court declined to adopt
Defendant’s interpretation of the contract in overruling its demurrer on
January 10, 2022. The court ruled that it could not perform the full
evidence-based inquiry into competing contractual interpretations at the
pleading stage, and further noted that Defendant’s argument based on the above
paragraph failed to account for the Addendum in which the option is set out and
which contains terms inconsistent with paragraph 39.2 of the Lease.
 
The Addendum states in its
preamble, “In the event of any inconsistency or contradiction between the terms
and conditions of this Addendum and the terms and conditions of the Lease, the
terms and conditions of this Addendum shall prevail.” (Motion Exh. A7.)
Paragraph 54 of the Addendum states, “As a condition of this Lease, Lessee
shall have an option to purchase the Premises (the “Option”) on the terms and
conditions in the attached AIR Form Standard Offer, Agreement, and Escrow
Instructions for Purchase of Real Estate.” (Motion Exh. A7, ¶ 54.) The
Addendum lists the attached purchase agreement as describing the terms, and
does not mention or expressly incorporate Paragraph 39.2 of the Lease. The
Addendum states that the option can be exercised “[p]rovided Lessee is not in
any current monetary default of the Lease.” (Ibid.) Finally, Paragraph
54 states that “the Option may be assigned to any of Lessee’s assignees.” (Ibid.)
The Addendum expressly permits Plaintiff to sublease the premises. (Motion Exh.
A7, ¶ 58.) 
 
The Lease and Addendum are not
susceptible to the Defendant’s interpretation. Defendant relies on Paragraph
39.2, which is a provision in a form contract that contemplates only a
hypothetical option in general terms. The Addendum and the incorporated
purchase agreement set out the actual terms of the option agreement between the
parties. Paragraph 39.2 prevents a lessee from assigning the option and
requires the original lessee to be in full possession of the premises for any
option to be in effect. Paragraph 54 contradicts this provision, not only by
the omission of any full-possession requirement, but by the express sanction it
gives the lessee to assign the lease and the option to an assignee. 
 
The two provisions are thus fundamentally
in conflict. Defendant does not offer a good reason why the contract would
require the original lessee to remain in full possession of the premises in
order for an assignee to exercise the option, and Defendant cannot argue that
Paragraph 39.2 requires the assignee to be in full possession of the property, since
Paragraph 39.2 is intended to exclude assignees from the option full stop, and
no provision in the Addendum requires it. Defendant’s argument that full
possession is the only consideration for granting the option is unpersuasive,
as the consideration for the option was Plaintiff’s agreement to pay rent on
the property and abstain from monetary default through the option term.
(Opposition at p. 16.) This is what is meant when Paragraph 54 sets out the
option “[a]s a condition of this lease.” (Motion Exh. A7, ¶ 54.)  
 
The extrinsic evidence cited by
Defendant does not aid its interpretation. Defendant points to efforts made by
Plaintiff to relocate subtenants from the premises, ostensibly in implicit
acknowledgement of the Lease’s requirement that Plaintiff be in full possession
of the premises in order to exercise the option. (Opposition at p. 19.)
Defendant neglects the timing of these efforts — after Plaintiff had attempted
to exercise the option, and Defendant had notified Plaintiff of its rejection on
the grounds (and for the first time) that Plaintiff was not in full possession
of the premises.  (DUMF No. 75, 79,
128–149. Defendant contends in opposition that it had no duty to notify
Plaintiff of its full-possession interpretation of the Lease. (Opposition at
pp. 22–23.) But this mischaracterizes the argument. Defendant’s belated
advancement of the position counts against its interpretation, and Plaintiff’s
efforts to conform the premises to Defendant’s belated understanding does not
count against their interpretation.
 
Rather, the extrinsic evidence
uniformly favors Plaintiff’s interpretation. Plaintiff presents internal emails
of Defendant’s principals — the individuals who signed the Lease and Addendum —
expressing frustration with the profits being earned by Plaintiff on its
subleases on the property, while simultaneously noting that Plaintiff had an
option to purchase the property for $6 million, without mentioning paragraph
39.2 or a purported termination of the option resulting from Plaintiff’s loss
of possession. (Motion Exhs. A8, A9.) Plaintiff presents evidence that
Defendant in other instances[1]
used a standard AIR form lease addendum when incorporating options to purchase
into lease agreements, and that form agreement includes no preamble indicating
that the addendum’s terms shall control over the lease, and further, expressly
incorporates the provisions of Paragraph 39 of the form lease. (Motion Exh.
A3.) No such incorporation took place in the Addendum.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff was not
required to be in full possession of the premises when it exercised the option,
and it is entitled to specific performance of the option agreement. 
 
Defendant in opposition argues
that, notwithstanding the applicability of the full-possession provision,
Plaintiff was in breach of the contract by virtue of its performing unpermitted
construction work on the property. (Opposition at pp. 11–13.) Alternately,
Defendant asks for a continuance to allow for discovery into whether such work
has been done. (Ibid.)
 
Defendant’s argument is
unpersuasive. It cites the provision of the Lease stating that the lessee
“shall have no right to exercise an Option” during, among other circumstances,
“the time Lessee is in Breach of this Lease.” (Motion Exh. A5, ¶ 39.4.) Defendant
then cites Paragraph 13.1, subd. (c) of the Lease, identifying as a default “an
illegal activity on the Premises by Lessee.” (Motion Exh. A5, ¶ 13.1, subd.
(c).)
 
Defendant’s argument fails for a
number of reasons. First, the Lease does not describe all illegal activity as a
breach. The full provision describes as a breach a list of activities,
including “illegal activity on the Premises by Lessee, where such actions
continue for a period of 3 business days following written notice to Lessee.”
(Motion Exh. A5, ¶ 13.1, subd. (c).) Defendant does not contend that any
unpermitted construction continued for a period of 3 business days after
Plaintiff was give written notice. Additionally, the Addendum permits the
option to be exercised “[p]rovided Lessee is not in any current monetary
default of the Lease,” indicating that the absence of a monetary default is the
sole condition precedent. (Motion Exh. A7, ¶ 54.) Even if Plaintiff had
performed unpermitted construction, this would provide no basis to deny the
motion.
 
Accordingly,
the motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED.
 


