 Case Number:  BC691935    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  61 Plaintiffs
Flats Management Group, LLC and Simon A. Management, LLC’s Motion to Tax Costs
is GRANTED as to LACMTA, which cannot claim
costs as a non-prevailing party, and in the amount of $17,579.51 as to the
other defendants, leaving an overall cost award of $159,855.38.
Defendants Skanska Traylor Shea, Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transit Authority, and City of Beverly Hills’s Motion to Tax Costs
is GRANTED as to all costs sought against Defendants Skanska Traylor Shea and
the City of Beverly Hills, and is GRANTED as to LACMTA in the amount of
$10,349.00, leaving a costs award of $17,574.68.
 
I.    MOTION TO TAX COSTS
“Any notice of motion to
strike or to tax costs must be served and filed 15 days after service of the
cost memorandum. If the cost memorandum was served by mail, the period is
extended as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 1013. If the cost memorandum
was served electronically, the period is extended as provided in Code of Civil
Procedure section 1010.6(a)(4).” (California Rules of Court Rule 3.1700, subd.
(b)(1).) 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivision (b) [],
guarantees prevailing parties in civil litigation awards of the costs expended
in the litigation: ‘Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a
prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any
action or proceeding.’” (Williams v. Chino Valley Independent Fire Dist.
(“Williams”) (2015) 61 Cal.4th 97,
100.).
 
“If the items on a verified cost bill appear proper charges,
they are prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses and services therein
listed were necessarily incurred.” (Rappenecker
v. Sea-Land Service, Inc. (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 256, 266.) Although
individual cost items are ordinarily challenged by a motion to tax costs, no
cost-item is effectively put in issue by “mere statements” claiming them to be
unreasonable. (Ibid.) However, where
“it cannot be determined from the face of the cost bill whether the items are
proper,” “the mere filing of a motion to tax costs may be a ‘proper objection’
to an item.” (Nelson v. Anderson (1999)
72 Cal.App.4th 111, 131, 132.)
 
Plaintiffs Flats Management Group, LLC and Simon A.
Management, LLC (Plaintiffs) and Skanska
Traylor Shea, Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transit Authority (LACMTA), and
City of Beverly Hills (Defendants) have filed dueling motions to tax costs,
directed against dueling costs memoranda, based on differing conceptions as to
who is the prevailing party in this case. They also challenge particular cost
items contained in each memorandum. Defendants seek $177,434.89 in their
memorandum, and Plaintiffs seek $27,923.68 in theirs.
 
The Code of Civil
Procedure  provides guidance as to who
may be deemed a prevailing party for costs purposes:
 
“Prevailing
party” includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose
favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant
obtains any relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not
recover any relief against that defendant. If any party recovers other than
monetary relief and in situations other than as specified, the “prevailing
party” shall be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the
court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed, may apportion
costs between the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules
adopted under Section 1034.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1032, subd. (a)(4).)
 
The relevant procedural history of this case is as follows.
A bench trial was had on Plaintiffs’ claims for inverse condemnation, and on
May 27, 2022, this court rendered a decision in favor of Defendants and against
Plaintiffs. A trial was later held on Plaintiffs’ remaining causes of action,
and on May 24, 2023, the court granted nonsuit as to Defendants Skanska Traylor Shea, Skanska USA Building,
Traylor Brothers, Inc., S.J. Shea Co., Inc., and the City of Beverly Hills,
leaving only LACMTA as a defendant. The jury returned a verdict against LACMTA
amounting to more than $4 million. The parties then filed their respective
costs memoranda, and these motions followed. 
 
The
above procedural history makes the following reasonably clear. Plaintiffs are
the prevailing parties as to Defendant LACMTA, as they have obtained a “net
monetary recovery” against that Defendant. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1032, subd.
(a)(4).) They are therefore entitled to recovery their costs against that
Defendant. However, the other Defendants are prevailing parties “as against
those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that defendant,” and are
therefore entitled to recover their costs against Plaintiffs. (Ibid.) “T]he trial court has no discretion to deny prevailing party
status to a litigant who falls within one of the four statutory categories in
the first [sentence] of the provision. ‘As rewritten [in 1986], section
1032 now declares that costs are available as “a matter of right” when the
prevailing party is within one of the four categories designated by statute.” (Charton
v. Harkey (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 730, 738.) 
Plaintiffs argue that the prevailing defendants cannot
recover any of their costs, because they shared counsel and defenses with the
non-prevailing LACMTA, and they have not differentiated the costs in their
memorandum between those incurred by the prevailing parties and those incurred
by LACMTA. (Motion at p. 6.) Even though they are prevailing parties as against
Plaintiffs, “[a] prevailing party who is represented by the
same counsel as a nonprevailing party may only recover those costs the
prevailing party incurred and were reasonably necessary to the prevailing
party's conduct of the litigation, not the other jointly represented parties'
conduct of the litigation.” (Charton, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th
at p. 738.) “Whether to award costs that were incurred by both the
prevailing party and the nonprevailing party, and were reasonably necessary to
the conduct of the litigation for both the prevailing and nonprevailing party,
is left to the trial court's sound discretion based on the totality of the
circumstances.” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiffs object that Defendants have not differentiated
the costs among themselves, but also argue that they cannot do so, since they
presented a shared defense, based on shared theories, presented in shared
memoranda by a shared counsel. (Motion at p. 6.) But if this is the case, it
would not render Defendants’ costs unrecoverable; it would only make the
question of whether the prevailing Defendants can recover these costs a matter
of court discretion. Here, the court sees little reason why the prevailing
Defendants, against whom Plaintiffs have no recovery at all, cannot obtain
their reasonable costs — at least as to those costs incurred on or before May
24, 2023, when nonsuit was entered in their favor.
 
Setting a cut-off date of May 24, 2023, certain costs can be
readily identified as taxable. Several invoices are presented for court
reporter fees, both before and after the prevailing defendants were dismissed
from the case. $8,600.04 in court reporter fees were incurred over three days
post-dating the grant of nonsuit. (Costs Memo, Exh. 11.) These costs are
properly taxed as being primarily for the benefit of the non-prevailing
defendant. In the same vein, Defendants ought not to be compensated for a $60
filing fee for a demurrer that was overruled, or for $211.92 in filing and
associated fees for a motion to compel filed solely by LACMTA. Thus $8,871.96
is properly taxed from Defendants’ cost memo.
 
Plaintiffs identify other costs that they contend are
unreasonable. They identify the $8,707.55 in deposition costs for witnesses who
never appeared at trial. (Motion at p. 8.) Defendants in opposition do not
justify the costs except via a conclusory attestation that they were helpful in
preparing for trial. (Opposition at pp. 3–4.) While deposition costs are
compensable (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1033.5, subd. (a)(3)(A)), these
depositions were not necessarily incurred. Thus $8,707.55 in additional
amounts are properly taxed.
 
Plaintiff claims that the court
reporter fees are properly taxed in toto, because fees for transcripts not
ordered by the court are not compensable under Code of Civil Procedure §
1033.5, subd. (b)(5). (Motion at pp. 8–9.) But “[t]hese charges are not for
transcripts. They are for court reporter fees, an entirely different expense.
The parties have to pay the court reporter regardless of whether anyone orders
transcripts.” (Chaaban v. Wet Seal, Inc. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 49, 58.)
Court reporter fees are compensable under Code of Civil Procedure § 1033.5,
subd. (a)(11) and Government Code § 68086.
Plaintiff finally challenges the $67,261.10 sought for
electronic filing or service of documents through an electronic filing service
provider, noting that the costs sought under this prong are simply the bills
for Defendant’s e-discovery platform. (Motion at pp. 9–10.) Plaintiff is
correct that the fees here may not be sought under Code of Civil Procedure §
1033.5, subd. (a)(14), for “electronic filing and service of documents,” as
Defendants concede in opposition that the bills are for the use of an e-discovery
platform, encompassing “orderly storage of records, . . . advanced and
efficient search capabilities, and . . . efficient marking, redaction, and
bates number capabilities.” (Ward Decl. ¶ 7.) However, Defendants have shown
good cause permits the cost, even if not permissible as of right, as a cost
allowable in the court’s discretion under Code of Civil Procedure § 1033.5,
subd. (c)(4). (See Hooked Media Group, Inc. v. Apple Inc. (2020) 55
Cal.App.5th 323, 338 [upholding “$92,000 in e-discovery expenses claimed by
Apple for the conversion of native electronic files into usable form”].) 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion to tax costs is GRANTED as
to LACMTA, which cannot claim costs as a non-prevailing party, and in the
amount of $17,579.51 as to the other defendants, leaving an overall cost award
of $159,855.38.
There remains Defendants’ motion to tax costs sought by
Plaintiffs, who may claim their costs against the non-prevailing Defendant
LACMTA, if not against the other Defendants. Although Defendants argue that
Plaintiff did not prevail on the inverse condemnation claim, and is not
entitled to costs or attorney fees under Code of Civil Procedure § 1036 (which
allows such costs and fees to a prevailing plaintiff in an inverse condemnation
action), this argument applies to only a portion of Plaintiffs’ claimed costs:
the $6,364.00 sought for court reporter transcripts of the inverse condemnation
phase of trial. Plaintiffs did not prevail at that phase and are not entitled
to the costs of reporters obtained therein, and the amount of $6,364.00
is properly taxed from their costs award.
Defendants move to tax $2,116.55 for an expert appearance
fee sought under the “depositions” cost item, when expert fees are disallowed
as costs under Code of Civil Procedure § 1033.5, subd. (b)(1). This amount is
improper, as Plaintiffs already seek a fee for his deposition costs. Defendants
also argue that the invoice for the deposition of Plaintiffs’ Mohammad Ramlawi
is from a different case. (Motion at p. 5.) Plaintiffs contend that the
deposition was useful in this case as well, since it involved the same project
in the same area. (Opposition at p. 5.) But allowing Plaintiffs to claim the
cost in this action would risk permitting a double recovery. Thus the costs
bill is properly taxed in the amount of $3,985.00.
Defendants argue that certain costs claimed for trial
exhibits ought to be taxed because they were not presented at trial. (Motion at
pp. 5–6.) However, the court retains discretion to award “costs incurred in
preparing demonstratives and photocopies of trial exhibits, even though they
were not ultimately used at trial, when such materials are reasonably necessary
to the conduct of litigation and reasonable in amount.” (Segal v. ASICS
America Corp. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 651, 667.) Here, Plaintiffs claim to have
used the binder materials in question during trial preparation and for the use
of their own counsel during trial. (Opposition at pp. 6–7.) 
Defendants’ motion to tax costs is therefore GRANTED as to
all costs sought against Defendants Skanska
Traylor Shea and the City of Beverly Hills, and is GRANTED as to LACMTA in the
amount of $10,349.00, leaving a costs award of $17,574.68.
  