 Case Number:  BC709376    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar No.
Sadeghi vs. Pinscreen
Inc., et. al., Case No. BC709376
 
Tentative Ruling
re:  Defendant’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Request for Production of Documents
 
            Dr. Hao Li
(Defendant) moves to compel further responses from Dr. Iman Sadeghi (Plaintiff)
regarding Defendant’s requests for production of documents, set one (RFP).
Plaintiff opposes Defendant’s motion on the basis that he has filed sufficient
responses given the original and supplemental responses. Defendant’s motion is denied.
 
A party may move for an order
compelling further responses to a request for production of documents if the
demanding party deems that responses are incomplete, evasive, or contain
meritless objections. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) A motion to
compel further responses to requests for production “shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) 
“For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it ‘might
reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or
facilitating settlement.’ [Citation]. Admissibility is not the test and
information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to
admissible evidence. [Citation] These rules are applied liberally in favor
of discovery.” (Gonzales v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539,
1546.) “If the court determines that the answer or production sought is
subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given, or the
production be made on the resumption of the deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.480, subd. (i).)
 
Plaintiff need not provide
further responses to RFPs 5 and 56–61.
RFP 5 seeks all documents relating
to any misrepresentations made to Plaintiff by Defendant. (Davidson Decl. Ex.
A.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s responses are insufficient. Plaintiff has
provided numerous documents, including all communications between Plaintiff and
Defendant before the start of Plaintiff’s employment. (Zaffos Decl. Ex. 2.)
These documents would include any misrepresentations made to Plaintiff. The
Court does not find further responses warranted.
RFPs 56–58 seek all documents
relating to Plaintiff’s calculation of general or special damages or lost
income. (Davidson Decl. Ex. A.) RFPs 59–61 seek any documents related to
Plaintiff’s allegations in his complaint or responses to interrogatories. (Ibid.)
Defendant contends that Plaintiff has not sufficiently particularized his
submitted documentation. However, with respect to RFPs 56–58, Plaintiff has
supplied numerous records concerning damages and his W2 forms to show lost
income, and has not opposed Defendant’s subpoena to Google regarding his pay
stubs. (Zaffos Decl. Ex. 2.) Defendant should be able to derive the necessary
information from these documents. With respect to RFPs 59–61, Plaintiff has
produced troves of documents in response to Defendant’s general request. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff is not required to identify documents with greater specificity than
Defendant’s request. The Court does not find further responses warranted.
 
Plaintiff need not provide
further responses to RFPs 6–12 and 35–54.
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has
not identified responsive documents with respect to RFPs 6–12 and 35–54. These
request documents relating to specific allegations in the complaint. “Any
documents or category of documents produced in response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall be identified with the specific
request number to which the documents respond.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.280,
subd. (a).) Plaintiff has produced documents in response to all of Defendant’s
requests and identified the request to which each relates. (Zaffos Decl. Ex.
2.) This is all that is required by section 2031.280, subdivision (a). Thus,
the Court does not find further responses warranted.
 
Plaintiff need not provide
further responses to RFPs 13–34.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has
not provided code compliant responses with respect to RFPs 13–34, which address
Plaintiff’s income at Google and Pinscreen. When a party states that it will
comply with a particular demand, it must state that the production of documents
“will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things
in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of
that party and to which no objection is being made will be included in the
production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.) If a party represents that it
cannot comply with a demand, it “shall affirm that a diligent search and a
reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.” (Id.,
§ 2031.230.) 
Here, Plaintiff did not state whether
his compliance with Defendant’s requests is in whole or in part and did not
affirm that he had completed a diligent search in his initial responses. However,
in Plaintiff’s supplemental responses, he has provided documents responsive to
each of Defendant’s requests while affirming that a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry has been made in accordance with section 2031.230. Thus, the
Court does not find further responses warranted.
 
Sanctions
The Court does not impose sanctions
on Defendant pursuant to section 2031.310, subdivision (h). While Defendant
unsuccessfully made a motion to compel further responses, he acted with
substantial justification. Many of Plaintiff’s earlier deficient responses have
been cured by supplemental responses filed concurrently with the opposition to
this motion. Thus, Defendant made the present motion with substantial
justification, making sanctions unwarranted.