 Case Number:  22STCV06229    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
BOYD
  HORAN;
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
CITY
  OF ARTESIA, WILLIAM RAWLINGS, TONY LIMA., et al.;
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  22STCV06229
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  02/18/22
Trial
  Date: 06/02/25
 
 



 
Hearing date:              April 11, 2024
Moving Parties: 
        Defendant William Rawlings
Responding Party:
     Plaintiff Boyd
Horan

 
(1)   Defendant William Rawlings’
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint and
Motion to Strike
The court has
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
The court SUSTAINS William Rawlings’ demurrer to
the third and sixth causes of action of the First Amended Complaint, with 20 days leave to amend.
The court SUSTAINS
William Rawlings’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action of the First Amended
Complaint without leave to amend. 
The Motion to
Strike is MOOT because the court sustained the demurrer with leave to
amend as to the third and sixth causes of action and sustained without leave to
amend as to the fifth cause of action. 
Background
            Plaintiff
Boyd Horan filed this action on February 18, 2022 against defendants City of
Artesia, William Rawlings, Tony Lima, Monica Manalo, Ali Taj, and Does 1
through 10, alleging causes of action for (1) Violation of Cal. Labor Code §1102.5;
(2) Retaliation In Violation of FEHA (Cal. Gov’t Code §12940, et seq.); and (3)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. On April 8, 2022, defendants Tony
Lima, Monica Manalo and Ali Taj filed a demurrer to the Complaint which was
rendered moot by the filing of a First Amended Complaint. On February 17, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC is the operative
complaint and alleges six causes of action for (1) Violation of Cal. Labor Code
§1102.5; (2) Retaliation In Violation of FEHA (Cal. Gov’t Code §12940, et seq.);
(3) Hostile Work Environment; (4) Failure to Prevent Harassment; (5) Negligent
Hiring; and (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  This dispute arises out of Plaintiff’s alleged
wrongful termination. (Compl., ¶¶ 8-29.) 
            On
April 20, 2023, defendant William Rawlings (“Defendant”) filed a demurrer to
the FAC. Plaintiff filed an opposition on November 30, 2023. Defendant filed a
reply on December 6, 2023.
 
Legal
Standard
When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of
the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The
only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Discussion
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and
confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to in person or by
telephone for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached
through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.  (See Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.41.) 
Here, the parties declare that they met and conferred via telephone on
April 12, 2023. (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 3-5.) Plaintiff’s counsel provides evidence
showing that the parties met and conferred by telephone. (Id.; Ex. A and
Ex. B.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement was satisfied. 
 
Judicial Notice 
Under Evidence Code section 452, the court may take judicial notice of
“[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are
capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy,” and must take judicial notice of such facts
and propositions if a party so requests and provides sufficient notice to the
adverse party. (Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (h) & 453.)
However, the court does not “take judicial notice of the truth of factual
matters asserted therein.” (Ramsden v. Western Union (1977) 71
Cal.App.3d 873, 879.) “To go beyond notice of the existence of a document to an
interpretation of its meaning constitutes improper consideration of evidentiary
matters.” (Middlebrook-Anderson Co. v. Southwest Sav. & Loan Assn.
(1971) 18 Cal.App.3d 1023, 1038.)
Here, Defendant requests the court take judicial notice of the following
documents: 
Attached as Exhibit “C” to the Declaration of Warren M. Williams, Plaintiff’s
Claim for Money Damages, dated October 7, 2021. 
Attached as Exhibit “D” to the Declaration of Warren M. Williams, City of
Artesia’s Claim Rejection Notice, dated October 28, 2022.
The court DENIES the request as immaterial to the instant motion.
 
Demurrer
William Rawlings
demurs to the third, fifth, and sixth causes of action of the First Amended Complaint
on the grounds that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action. (CCP §§ 430.10(e).)
Third
Cause of Action – Hostile Work Environment
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to
state a cause of action for hostile work environment because he does not
identify any protected characteristic or harassing conduct. (Dem. p. 13.) In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the fact that he is not a member of a
protected class does not bar his ability to assert the hostile work environment
cause of action. (Opp. p. 4.) In reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
concedes that he is not a member of a protected class and was not personally
subjected to harassing comments or conduct because of his association with or
advocacy on behalf of others which results in the failure of the cause of
action. (Reply p.5.)
The elements of a cause of action for harassment based on hostile work
environment are: “(1) he was a member of a protected class; (2) he was
subjected to unwelcome racial [or other protected status] harassment; (3) the
harassment was based on race [or other protected status]; (4) the harassment
unreasonably interfered with his work performance by creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) [Defendant] is liable for the
harassment. (Thompson
v. City of Monrovia (2010)
186 Cal.App.4th 860, 876.)
The FAC alleges “while he was employed by the City, he was subjected to
harassing conduct that was severe or pervasive.” (FAC ¶ 48.) The FAC further
alleges “Mr. Horan also relayed the numerous complaints on behalf of City
employees against Rawlings for gender discrimination and harassment, pregnancy
discrimination, unlawful retaliation, and instructing employees to engage in
unlawful conduct on behalf of the City of Artesia.” (FAC ¶ 12.) The FAC further
alleges “Plaintiff further alleges upon information and belief that any
reasonable person in Plaintiff’s circumstance would have considered the work
environment to be hostile, intimidating, offensive, oppressive, or abusive.”
(FAC ¶ 49.)
Plaintiff’s facts remain meager. The allegations, even when read in the
light most favorable to Plaintiff and drawing every possible reasonable
inference therefrom, do not plead a “concerted pattern” of harassment. (Fisher
v. San Pedro Peninsula Hosp. (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 610.) Further,
these facts fail to show that Plaintiff was “specifically targeted [because he]
associated with and advocated for [a member of a protected class] . . .” [citations
omitted.] (Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860,
878.)
The Thompson
v. City of Monrovia case is
instructive. In Thompson v. City of Monrovia, appellant Thompson was a
white police officer who sued the respondent police department for harassment
and hostile work environment arising from offensive remarks and behavior
directed at an African American colleague. (Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 863.) The Court of
Appeal reasoned that “a plaintiff like Thompson, who is not within the
protected class, may satisfy the “protected class” requirement “based on
[his] association with or advocacy on behalf of protected employees.” (Id. at
876-877.) The Court of Appeal further reasoned that “if
Thompson produced evidence that he was personally “subjected to unwelcome
racial comments as a result of [his] association with or advocacy for protected
employees,” he would satisfy the second and third requirements (that he was
subjected to unwelcome racial harassment and the harassment was based on race).”
(Id. at 878.) 
 “To establish the fourth element—that the
harassment created a
hostile work environment—Thompson “ ‘must prove that the defendant's conduct
would have interfered with a reasonable employee's work performance and would
have seriously affected the psychological well-being of a reasonable employee …
.’ ” (Aguilar v. Avis Rent A Car System, Inc., supra, 21 Cal.4th at pp.
130–131.) Harassment, which may be verbal, physical, or visual and
“communicates an offensive message to the harassed employee” (Roby v. McKesson
Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 706), “ ‘cannot be occasional, isolated,
sporadic, or trivial[;] rather the plaintiff must show a concerted pattern of
harassment of a repeated, routine or a generalized nature.’ ” (Aguilar,
at p. 131.) Whether the harassment  is sufficiently severe or pervasive to
alter the conditions of the victim's employment and create an abusive
environment “must be assessed from the ‘perspective of a reasonable person
belonging to the racial or ethnic group of the plaintiff.’” [citation omitted.]
(Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 877.)
The instant cause of action fails for the same reasons it did in Thompson. Here, Plaintiff alleged that he suffered
harassment by Defendant Rawlings in retaliation for his advocating for the
rights of the employees in those protected classes that were too afraid to make
the reports themselves. (FAC ¶ 12.) Just as the Court of Appeal in Thompson found that appellant failed to meet any of these
elements because “he has not produced evidence
that he was subjected to harassing comments or conduct because
of his association with or advocacy on behalf of African Americans.” (Thompson
v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 878.) Similarly, here, Plaintiff’s allegations are
conclusory and fail to produce any evidence showing that he was subjected to
the harassing comments or conduct. Plaintiff’s reliance on Pantoja v. Anton is misguided because the facts are distinguishable
as plaintiff was a member of a protected class rather than an advocate. (Pantoja v. Anton (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 87, 93.) 
The
determination of whether Defendant’s actions were personnel decisions thus
requires determinations beyond the scope of this demurrer such that the
demurrer cannot be sustained on this ground. Therefore, Defendant’s reliance on
Jones v. The Lodge at Torrey Pines P'ship and Plaintiff’s reliance on Pollock
v. Tri-Modal Distribution Services, Inc. are immaterial to the instant
motion. (Jones v. The Lodge at Torrey Pines P'ship (2008) 42 Cal. 4th
1158, 1167-68; Pollock v. Tri-Modal Distribution Services, Inc. (2021)
11 Cal.5th 918.)
Nevertheless,
the FAC allegations are conclusory, and therefore the court will sustain the
demurrer as to this cause of action for failure to provide sufficient facts. 
The court is not yet persuaded that there is no reasonable possibility
that Plaintiff can cure the defect identified above.  Because “[l]eave to
amend is liberally allowed,” the court will grant Plaintiff leave to file a Second
Amended Complaint.  (See, e.g., Kempton v. City of Los Angeles
(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1344, 1348.) Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend as to the third cause of action.  The
court grants Plaintiff 20 days leave to amend.
 
Fifth
Cause of Action – Negligent Hiring 
Plaintiff concedes that the demurrer to the fifth
cause of action for negligent hiring has merit and, therefore, withdraws this
cause of action. (Williams Decl. ¶¶
5-6; Ex. B.)
The court
therefore SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action, WITHOUT
LEAVE AMEND.
 
Sixth
Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress [Mislabeled as
Seventh Cause of Action on FAC]
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress because Plaintiff’s government
claim does not include this cause of action and is therefore barred. (Dem. p.
12.) Further, the intentional infliction of emotional distress claims against
supervisors arising from wrongful termination in violation of public policy are
barred by Miklosy and the Worker’s Compensation Exclusive Remedy. (Id.)
Moreover, Plaintiff has not alleged extreme and outrageous conduct. (Id.
at p.13.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s arguments are
misguided because the Workers Compensation Exclusivity Doctrine does not bar a
claim that arises outside of an employee-employer relationship. (Opp.
p.8.)   Further the government claim is
not required for claims outside of the scope of employment. (Id.)
Additionally, Plaintiff provides examples of the alleged extreme and outrageous
conduct. (Id. at p. 10.)
To state a claim
for intentional infliction of emotional distress, a plaintiff must allege “(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and (3) the defendant’s extreme
and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the severe
emotional distress.” (Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc.,
(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 994, 1007).
The FAC alleges
“[t]he conduct of the City, Rawlings, Manalo, Taj, and Lima was outrageous and
outside the normal scope of the employment relationship. Defendants, and each
of them, knew that their conduct would result in plaintiff’s severe emotional
distress, and said conduct was perpetrated by defendants, and each of them,
with the intent to inflict, or with reckless disregard of the probability of
inflicting humiliation, mental anguish, and severe emotional distress upon
plaintiff.” (FAC ¶ 71.) The FAC also alleges “Mr. Horan learned that Rawlings
wanted to fire an employee who had complained about the fact he had not
received adequate notice that another employee in his same department had
tested positive for Covid-19. . . Just one week later, the City of Artesia
fired Mr. Horan in complete retaliation for his numerous complaints about
Rawlings.” (FAC ¶ 22.) The FAC further alleges “[s]uch conduct did, in fact,
result in severe emotional distress caused to the plaintiff.” (FAC ¶ 72.) These
facts are insufficient to state a cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress because they are conclusory. 
A personnel
management decision does not constitute extreme and outrageous conduct even if
it was improperly motivated by discrimination and retaliation. (See Janken
v. GM Hughes Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 79-80; see also Light
v. California Department of Parks and Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75,
101-02.) 
Labor Code
section 3600 et seq., provides that, subject to certain exceptions, workers’
compensation is the exclusive remedy for employees who sustain injuries arising
in the course of employment. (Lab. Code, § 3600.) To apply, the injury must
occur in the course of the employment and arise out of the employment. “That
is, the employment and the injury must be linked in some causal fashion.” (Mason
v. Lake Dolores Group (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 822, 833, internal quotations
and citation omitted.) 
Nevertheless, it
is disputed whether the alleged conduct was within the scope of employment. The
determination of whether Defendant’s actions were within the scope of
employment thus requires determinations beyond the scope of this demurrer such
that the demurrer cannot be sustained on grounds that the cause of action is
barred by the Worker’s Compensation Exclusive Remedy.  
However, the court
still finds that the facts alleged are insufficient to state a cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress because they are conclusory. 
The court is not yet persuaded that there is no reasonable possibility
that Plaintiff can cure the defect identified above.  Because “[l]eave to
amend is liberally allowed,” the court will grant Plaintiff leave to file a Second
Amended Complaint.  (See, e.g., Kempton v. City of Los Angeles
(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1344, 1348.) Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend as to the third cause of action.  
            The
court therefore SUSTAINS with leave to amend William Rawlings’ demurrer to the sixth
cause of action because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) The court grants Plaintiff 20 days leave to
amend.
 
Motion to Strike
Defendant
William Rawlings moves to strike punitive damages, attorney’s fees and claims
of restitution from the First Amended Complaint.
Motions to
strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not
challengeable by demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See
Code Civ Proc., §§ 435-437.)  A motion to strike can be made to strike
irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading or to strike any
pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule or order of the court.  (§ 436.)
The motion to
strike is MOOT given that the Court granted leave to amend as to the third and
sixth causes of action.
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
April 11, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M. TREU
Judge of the
Superior Court