 Case Number:  22STCV38475    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California 
County of Los Angeles 
 



 
OMAR MORENO, 
 
                            
  Plaintiff, 
 
                 
  vs. 
 
CENTRAL CITY COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER, INC., et al., 
 
                             
  Defendant(s). 


Case No.:   22STCV38475
 
DEPARTMENT 45 
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING 
 
 
 
Action Filed:   12/09/2022
  
 
Trial Date:   Not
  set.  



 
Hearing Date:              April 11, 2024
Moving
Party:             Defendant Dr. Gilbert
Varela 
Responding
Party:      None
Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Entire Action 
The
court considered the moving papers.  No
opposition papers have been filed as of April 9, 2024.  Defendant Varela filed notice of no
opposition on April 2, 2024.  
The Court GRANTS Defendant Varela’s
unopposed motion to compel arbitration. 
The case is stayed pending binding arbitration as to the entire action. 
Background
This is an action for
breach of contract and related employment claims.  On December 9, 2022, Omar Moreno
(“Plaintiff”) filed his Complaint against Central City Community Health Center,
Inc. (“Central City”), Gilbert Varela (“Varela”), and Does 1 to 20, asserting
six causes of action for: (1) Violation of Government Code section 12653; (2)
Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Police; (3) Breach of Contract; (4)
Interference with Contractual Relations; (5) Violation of Labor Code section
1102.5; and (6) Waiting-Time Penalties for Violation of Labor Code section 203.  Only Plaintiff’s fourth
cause of action is asserted against Varela.
On August 3, 2023, the Court approved
a Stipulation and entered an Order submitting Plaintiff’s claims against
Defendant Central City only to binding arbitration and issued a temporary state
of the action until the completion of mediation.  (Stipulation and Order 08/03/23.)  The Stipulation between the parties
acknowledged, among other things, Defendant Varela reserved his right to compel
arbitration at any time.  (Id.)
Defendant Varela has now filed
his instant motion to compel arbitration and stay entire action.  Defendant Varela requests for an order
compelling arbitration between Plaintiff and him on Plaintiff’s fourth cause of
action for Interference with Contractual Relations.  Defendant Varela also requests an order
staying the state court action pending resolution of this motion, and if
granted, pending resolution of the arbitration between the parties.  
Defendant Varela’s motion is made
pursuant to the agreement to arbitrate in the Employment Agreement and
Plaintiff’s claims arising from and related to the Employment Agreement between
Plaintiff and Defendant Central City, and the Order approving the Stipulation to
arbitrate Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant Central City only.  
Defendant Varela filed a
notice of no opposition on April 2, 2024. 
No opposition has been filed as of April 9, 2024.  Defendant Central City’s
counsel indicated he would not oppose the motion.  (Declaration of Salvator Boufadel, ¶ 9.) 
Allegations 
Defendant Central City is a Federal
qualified health care center, which is a special designation for a community
clinic.  Central City operates 16 health
clinics throughout Southern California, including throughout Los Angeles
County, Orange County, San Bernardino County, and Riverside County, it provides
medical services to over 400 residential care facilities, and it has 4 mobile
RV medical units.  Central City’s health
clinics, medical services, and medical units are designed to provide safety-net
health care for indigent people. 
(Complaint ¶ 10.)  
Defendant
Varela
used to be the CEO of Central City.  He
held that title for numerous years. 
Varela is also a medical doctor, and while he was CEO of Central City
(and afterward) he also ran his own medical clinics and other businesses,
including numerous board and cares.  (Id.
¶ 11.) 
Plaintiff was asked to become the CFO
of Central City.  He became the CFO on
November 3, 2018.  Within a couple of
months, Central City made him the Central City CEO.  Plaintiff signed multiple written employment
agreements.  His final written employment
agreement was to be Central City’s CEO up until March 4, 2031.  (Id. ¶ 12.)  Plaintiff
alleges various inappropriate conduct including financial improprieties,
fraudulent activity, misappropriation and theft of funds at Central City by Varela, Central
City’s Chairman of the Board—Luis Martin  (“Martin”), and Martin’s wife.  (Id. ¶¶ 13-23, 28-30)
Plaintiff reported the foregoing
conduct to a member of the Central City Board, to Central City’s outside
lawyer, and to Varela who had sway and complete influence over Central City.  (Id. ¶ 30.)  Shortly
after this reporting, Central City suspended Plaintiff and then fired him on
August 3, 2022.  ( Id. ¶ 31.) 
Central City suspended and then fired Plaintiff for his objecting
to, stopping some of, and reporting the numerous financial improprieties,
outright fraudulent activity, misappropriation and theft of funds, including
public funds, that had taken place at Central City by Martin, his wife, and
Varela.  ( Id. ¶ 32.) 

Judicial Notice
Defendant Varela has
requested that the Court take judicial notice of the following: 
(1)  
Plaintiff Omar Moreno’s Complaint against
Defendants Central City and Varela filed on December 9, 2022, commencing the
above-entitled action, Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22STCV38475,
attached as Exhibit 1 to the declaration of Boufadel; and 
(2)  
Stipulation and Entered Order submitting
Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant Central City only to binding arbitration
and related relief entered on August 3, 2023, in the above-entitled action,
attached as Exhibit 2 to the declaration of Boufadel. 
Pursuant to Evidence Code
sections 452 and 453, the Court GRANTS Defendant Varela’s requests.  
Legal Standard 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists….”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  The right to compel
arbitration exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact.   (Id. § 1281.2, subd. (a)-(c).)  “The party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)  
“California has a strong public
policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the arbitrability of a
dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” 
(Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000)
83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.)  “This strong
policy has resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be upheld
unless it can be said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not
susceptible to an interpretation covering the asserted dispute.” (Id.
[internal quotations omitted].)
Discussion 
1.    
Equitable Estoppel by Nonsignatory
Defendant
“[A] nonsignatory defendant may invoke an
arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when
the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and
intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.”  (Boucher v.
Alliance Title Co., Inc. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 271.)  “By
relying on contract terms in a claim against a nonsignatory defendant, even if
not exclusively, a plaintiff may be equitably estopped from repudiating the
arbitration clause contained in that agreement.”  (Id. at
272.)  “The focus is on the nature of the claims asserted by the plaintiff
against the nonsignatory defendant.”  (Id.)  “That the claims
are cast in tort rather than contract does not avoid the arbitration
clause.”  (Id.)  
Here, the Employment Agreement
between Plaintiff and Defendant Central City is not disputed.  (Boufadel Decl.; Ex. “2”; Declaration of  Alma Martinez; Ex. “3.”)  Further, it is not disputed that the
Employment Agreement provides a dispute resolution provision already invoked by
Plaintiff, giving rise to the arbitration pending between Plaintiff and
Defendant Central City.  (Boufadel Decl.;
Ex. “2”; Stipulation and Order 08/03/23.)
Defendant Varela contends first that
while he is a nonsignatory to the Employment Agreement between Plaintiff and
Defendant Central City, the equitable estoppel exception applies entitling him
to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for Interreference
with Contractual Relations.  The Court
agrees with Defendant Varela.  The Court
finds that the fourth cause of action concerns
the underlying contract—the Employment Agreement—containing an arbitration
provision.  Specifically, the fourth
cause of action for Interference
with Contractual Relations alleges the following: “Plaintiff
has or had valid an existing written employment contract with Central City,”
“Defendant Varela knew about this written employment contract between Plaintiff
and Central City,”  and “Defendant
Varela’s conduct caused Central City to breach its written contracts with
[Plaintiff] as alleged in this complaint.” 
(Complaint ¶¶ 68-71.)  These allegations are intertwined with Defendant
Central City’s conduct and alleged wrongdoing, and
they are founded in the employment relationship created by Defendant
Central City’s Employment Agreement with Plaintiff.  Further, the alleged conduct resulted in the
same amount of economic damages requested in Plaintiff’s Breach of Contract
cause of action alleged against Defendant Central City.  (Id. ¶¶ 64, 72.)  Defendant Varela can therefore seek to compel
arbitration of Plaintiff’s claim against him under the equitable estoppel
exception.  
Based on the foregoing, the Court
GRANTS Defendant Varela’s unopposed motion to compel arbitration.  The case is stayed pending binding
arbitration as to the entire action. 
It is so ordered.
 
Dated: April 11, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M.
TREU
                                                  
                                      Judge of the Superior Court