  Case Number:  19STCV14406    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California 
County of Los Angeles 
 



 
JOSE VILLAGOMEZ, 
 
                            
  Plaintiff, 
 
                 
  vs. 
 
DOES 1 through 100, INCLUSIVE, 
 
                             
  Defendant(s). 


Case No.:   19STCV14406
 
DEPARTMENT 45 
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING 
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:   04/25/2019
 
Trial
  Date:   N/A   



 
Hearing Date:              April 11, 2024
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff Jose
Villagomez 
Responding
Party:      Lien Claimant Oak River
Insurance Company 
Motion to Expunge
Lien  
The
court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. 
The
Motion to Expunge Lien filed by Plaintiff Jose Villagomez is DENIED. 
Background
This is a toxic tort
action.  On April 25, 2019, Jose
Villagomez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Does 1 through 100, alleging
five causes of action for (1) Negligence; (2) Strict Liability – Failure
to Warn; (3) Strict Liability – Design Defect; (4) Fraudulent Concealment; and
(5) Breach of Implied Warranties.
The Complaint alleges the
following: Plaintiff worked for Sierra Painting Company for the past 25 years
as a painter in the industrial, commercial, and residential sectors.  (Complaint ¶ 4.)  The chemical products that Plaintiff worked
with contained significant concentrations of benzene and other hemotoxic and
carcinogenic toxic chemicals.  (Id. at
¶ 7.)  Plaintiff was exposed to
toxicologically significant levels of these chemicals.  (Id.)  As a result, Plaintiff sustained serious
injuries to his internal organs, including leukemia, which he was first
diagnosed with on June 20, 2017.  (Id.
at ¶¶ 7-8.)  Defendants fraudulently
concealed the toxic hazards of their products from Plaintiff, the hazards of
the conditions under which Plaintiff worked, that Plaintiff was being exposed
to toxic chemicals from Defendants’ products, and the cause of Plaintiff’s injuries.
 (Id. at ¶ 13.)
On September 27, 2019,
Plaintiff filed Amendments to the Complaint substituting defendants Masco
Corporation and PPG Industries, Inc. for Doe 1 and Doe 2, respectively.  
On December 10, 2019,
Plaintiff filed Amendments to the Complaint substituting defendants DAP
Products, Inc., Dunn-Edwards Corporation, Masterchem Industries LLC, Old
Master, Rust-Oleum Corporation, Sunnyside Corporation, The Sherwin Williams
Company, The Sherwin Williams Company dba Krylon Products Group, The Sherwin
Williams Company dba McCloskey, The Sherwin Williams Company dba Minwax, Weiman
Products, LLC, and W.M. Barr & Company, Inc. for, Doe 3, Doe 4, Doe 5, Doe
6, Doe 7, Doe 8, Doe 9, Doe 10, Doe 11, Doe 12, Doe 13, and Doe 14, respectively.
On March 18, 2020, Oak River Insurance Company (“Oak River”), the workers
compensation carrier for Plaintiff’s employer, Sierra Painting Company, filed a
notice of lien, pursuant to California Labor Code sections 3852 to 2868, upon
any settlement or judgment rendered in favor of Plaintiffs in the amount of
$23,526.14 for workers’ compensation benefits paid to and on behalf of
Plaintiff to date, plus interest according to law, plus any amount for which
payments or obligations for payment arise prior to Satisfaction of
Judgment.  (Notice of Lien 3/18/20.)
After settling with all
Defendants, Plaintiff filed the instant motion on December 8, 2023, to expunge
lien asserted by Oak River.
Oak River filed its
opposition on April 2, 2024, and Plaintiff filed his reply on the same
day.  
Legal Standard
Labor Code sections 3852,
3859, 3860, and 3862 all deal with a situation in which an employee is injured
at work, and therefore receives worker’s compensation, but asserts a claim for
damages against a third party—rather than the employer—for causing the injury.  (For purposes of the following statutes,
“employer” is defined to include a worker’s compensation insurer. See Lab. Code
§ 3850(b).) 

Pursuant to Lab. Code § 3852:
The claim of an employee . . . for
compensation does not affect his or her claim or right of action for all
damages proximately resulting from the injury or death against any person other
than the employer. Any employer who pays, or becomes obligated to pay
compensation, . . . may likewise make a claim or bring an action against the
third person. In the latter event the employer may recover in the same suit . .
. the total amount of compensation . . . paid to the employee or to his or her
dependents.
Pursuant to Lab. Code § 3859(b):
Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in this chapter, an employee may settle and release any
claim he may have against a third party without the consent of the employer.
Such settlement or release shall be subject to the employer's right to proceed
to recover compensation he has paid in accordance with Section 3852.
Pursuant to Lab. Code § 3860:
(a) No release or settlement under
this chapter, with or without suit, is valid or binding as to any party thereto
without notice to both the employer and the employee, with opportunity to the
employer to recover the amount of compensation he has paid or become obligated
to pay and any special damages to which he may be entitled under Section 3852,
and opportunity to the employee to recover all damages he has suffered and with
provision for determination of expenses and attorney's fees as herein provided.
(b) Except as provided in Section
3859, the entire amount of such settlement, with or without suit, is subject to
the employer's full claim for reimbursement for compensation he has paid or
become obligated to pay and any special damages to which he may be entitled
under Section 3852, together with expenses and attorney fees, if any, subject
to the limitations in this section set forth.
Pursuant to Lab. Code § 3862:
Any employer entitled to and who has
been allowed and has perfected a lien upon the judgment or award in favor of an
employee against any third party for damages occasioned to the same employer by
payment of compensation, expenses of medical treatment, and any other charges
under this act, may enforce payment of the lien against the third party, or, in
case the damages recovered by the employee have been paid to the employee,
against the employee to the extent of the lien, in the manner provided for enforcement
of money judgments generally.
Discussion 
Plaintiff moves pursuant
to Labor Code section 3852 for an order expunging the lien asserted by Oak
River.  
Plaintiff contends Oak
River’s lien for $23,526.14 should be expunged because no medical treatment or
“benefits” were conferred upon Plaintiff since (1) Plaintiff’s employer
required him to submit to medical evaluation, not treatment, and (2) the lien
asserted by Oak River is for the expenses incurred in litigating Plaintiff’s
worker’s compensation, thus not paid to Plaintiff as “compensation.” (Motion,
pp. 4-5.)
In opposition, Oak River
contends that Plaintiff has failed to provide notice of settlement per
California Labor Code section 3860, which requires notice of settlement be
given to the employer/workers compensation carrier.  Further, because Plaintiff failed to provide
notice of settlement, Oak River was deprived of the right to pursue its credit
rights per California Labor Code section 3861. 
(Opposition, pp. 6-7.)  
In reply, Plaintiff
asserts the opposition is untimely, and, as a workers’ compensation insurer,
Oak River cannot recover anything on its lien since it did not file a complaint
in intervention in this case.  (Reply,
pp. 2-3.)  Plaintiff
cites Aetna Casualty & Surety Co. v. Superior Court (1993) 20
Cal.App.4th 1502 (“Aetna”) and the case explaining Aetna, American
Home Assurance Co. v. Hagadorn (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1898 (“Hagadorn”),
to support the latter argument.  (Id.)
Here, as a preliminary
matter, the Court finds that Oak River’s opposition is late.  Code
of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b) requires oppositions to be
filed nine court days before the hearing. 
Oak River filed its opposition on April 2, 2024, less than nine court
days before the hearing date of April 11, 2024. 

The
Court also finds that the Labor Code section cited by Plaintiff does not
provide for an expungement of the lien.  Plaintiff
moves pursuant to Labor Code section 3852.  This section provides where an employee brings an action for damages
proximately caused by a third person, an employer who pays or becomes obligated
to pay compensation, or salary in lieu of compensation, may likewise make a
claim or bring an action against the third person.  (Lab. Code, § 3852.)  “[T]he employer may recover in the same suit,
in addition to the total amount of compensation, damages for which he or she
was liable including all salary, wage, pension, or other emolument paid to the
employee or to his or her dependents.”  (Id.)  This
section does not provide for an expungement of the lien as requested by
Plaintiff.  Further, while Plaintiff
contends that Oak River was obligated to file a complaint in intervention to
protect its subrogation rights, citing Aetna and Hagadorn in support, Plaintiff raised such argument for
the first time in his reply thus leaving no opportunity for Oak River to
respond in its opposition.  
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED.
It is so ordered.
 
Dated: April 11, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M.
TREU
                                                  
                                      Judge of the Superior Court