 Case Number:  23STCV16760    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  32 


 
ADALBERTO CAMPOS,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
NATIONAL GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY, et
  al., 
                        
                       Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  23STCV16760
  Hearing Date:  January 13, 2025
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion for summary judgment 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 18, 2023, Plaintiff
Adalberto Campos filed this action against various insurance companies,
asserting breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing. The complaint stems from Defendants’ alleged refusal to cover
an auto accident that Plaintiff was involved in. Specifically, Defendants
allegedly rescinded coverage based on Plaintiff’s purported failure to disclose
an additional driver (Daniel Campos) on the policy. Plaintiff alleges that
Daniel Campos was a minor at the time of the accident, was not an additional
driver, and was not driving or present at the time of the accident.  
            On July 26, 2024, Defendants
National General Insurance Company (NGIC), Integon National Insurance Company
(Integon), and Allstate Insurance Company (Allstate) filed the instant motion
for summary judgment. Plaintiff’s counsel filed an opposing declaration on
December 27, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on January 8, 2025.  
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.” (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
DISCUSSION
I.
Defendants Are Not Liable as a Matter of Law
“A misrepresentation or concealment of a
material fact in connection with an application for insurance is grounds for
rescission of the policy.” (Superior Dispatch, Inc. v. Insurance Corp. of
New York (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 175, 191.) “[A]n actual intent to deceive
need not be shown.” (Ibid.) Furthermore, “[t]his is a subjective test
viewed from the insurer's perspective.” (Ibid.) “Thus, a
misrepresentation or concealment is material if a truthful statement would have
affected the insurer's underwriting decision.” (Ibid.) This is because
an insurance company has the freedom to choose whom it insures and what
information to rely on in making its coverage decisions. (Mitchell v. United
National Ins. Co. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 457, 469.)
            In this case, the insurance policy
with Integon also contained a fraud provision: “Any material misrepresentation
made in the application for this insurance shall give us the absolute right to
void and nullify this policy.” (Def.’s Stmt. of Undisputed Facts (UF) 56.) In
applying for the policy, Plaintiff signed a provision stating that “I,
Adalberto Campos, do hereby represent that I have listed all drivers/operators
of the insured motor vehicle(s) on the Carrier Application, and all residents
of my household (over the age of 14 and regardless of whether they drive the
vehicle) on the Carrier Application or Named Driver Exclusion document.” (UF
14.) Plaintiff failed to disclose at least three household members over
14-years-old on the application: Daniel Campos, Humberto Navarro, and Beatrice
Calvario. (UF 16, 35, 52.)
            When Plaintiff got into an accident
and submitted a claim, he revealed that Daniel Campos was an undisclosed
household member over 14-years-old. (UF 34-35.) Integon initiated a “re-rate”
process to determine how the newly discovered information would affect
Plaintiff’s policy under Integon’s underwriting and rating guidelines. (UF
40-41.) Integon utilized a software program to calculate a premium based on the
risks involved and determined that Plaintiff’s premium would have increased by
$2,609.20, or 80%. (UF 42-43.) After reviewing the claim, Integon decided to
rescind the policy based on the undisclosed household member and the associated
impact on the premium. (UF 44-46.) Plaintiff’s claim was also denied in light
of the rescission of the policy. (UF 47.) 
            The undisputed facts demonstrate
that Plaintiff made misrepresentations in his insurance application by falsely
stating that he had listed all household members over 14-years-old. This
misrepresentation was material because Integon’s guidelines determine that the
risk increases with more household members who could potentially drive a
vehicle. (UF 43, 53.) Thus, Integon was entitled to rescind the policy as a
matter of law. Without a contractual obligation to provide coverage, Defendants
cannot be liable for breach of contract or breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing. Plaintiff has not filed a substantive opposition
and therefore does not dispute any of the facts nor challenge any of the legal conclusions
in the motion. Accordingly, summary judgment is warranted.  
II.
Plaintiff Fails to Demonstrate the Need for a Continuance
            “If it appears from the affidavits
submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but
cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court shall deny the motion,
order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had,
or make any other order as may be just.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(h).) This
requires a “a good faith showing by affidavit that a continuance is needed to
obtain facts essential to justify opposition.” (Fisher v. Gibson (2001)
90 Cal.App.4th 275, 283.) 
            According to the declaration of
Plaintiff’s counsel, Plaintiff took the deposition of Rose Chrustic, an
underwriting manager for NGIC and Integon who provided a declaration in support
of the motion for summary judgment. (Tabone Decl. ¶ 3.) However, Ms. Chrustic
did not produce the documents listed in the deposition notice and did not
answer “many” questions about the re-rating and recission policy. (Id.,
¶¶ 5-7.) Plaintiff’s counsel also claims that Defendants provided defective
supplemental responses to written discovery, leading to a motion for
terminating sanctions. (Id., ¶¶ 9-10.) 
            However, Plaintiff fails to specify
which facts could be obtained from Ms. Chrustic’s deposition and how those
facts could raise a material dispute as to the particular issues implicated in
the motion. The same goes for the supposedly defective written responses.
Additionally, Plaintiff moved for sanctions rather than filing a motion to
compel, suggesting that the responses were not critical. Thus, Plaintiff has
failed to show that “facts essential to justify opposition” exist but cannot be
presented. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(h).) Accordingly, a continuance is not
warranted. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is GRANTED. 
 