 Case Number:  24STCP01675    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  85 
Scott Burkett, Isaac
Lowe, and Los Angeles Police Protective League v. City of Los Angeles, Dominic
Choi, and Kenneth Mejia, 24STCP01675 
Tentative decision on demurrer:  sustained in part



 
 
 
Respondent City of Los Angeles (“City”) demurs to the Petition
for writ of mandate filed by Petitioners Scott Burkett (“Burkett”), Issac Lowe
(“Lowe”), and the Los Angeles Police Protective League (“LAPPL”). 
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply, and
renders the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the
Case
            1. Petition
            Petitioners
filed the Petition against the City, Dominic Choi, Kenneth Mejia (collectively,
“City”) on May 22, 2024.  The Petition
alleges a cause of action for declaratory relief and two causes of action for traditional
mandamus.  The Petition alleges in
pertinent parts as follows.
 
            a.
Factual Allegations
            Petitioners
Burkett and Lowe are both sworn peace officers with the Los Angeles Police
Department (“LAPD”), members of the City’s Civil Service System, and entitled
to the protections of City Charter section 1070.  
Petitioner LAPPL is a recognized employee organization that
represents sworn non-management LAPD police officers regarding all matters
concerning wages, hours, and working conditions. 
            On
February 8, 2021, LAPD Police Chief Michael Moore’s complaint against Burkett
was heard by the Board of Rights. On January 11, 2023, the Board of Rights decided
to suspend Burkett from his position as a peace officer for 65 days without
pay. The Board of Rights’ order was executed shortly after its decision, on
January 18, 2023.  As a result, Burkett
did not receive the full amount of back pay owed to him for the period between
the issuance of the complaint on February 8, 2021 and the execution of the
Board of Rights’ order on January 18, 2023. 
            On
April 5, 2022, Petitioner Lowe was relieved of his duty without pay pending a
hearing before the Board of Rights. Lowe’s hearing was held on January 22 and
23, 2024. On January 23, 2024, Lowe and LAPD agreed to a one-year
rehabilitation program for the professional treatment of various issues, as
well as future hearing dates before the Board of Rights for quarterly progress
updates.  Following this agreement, Lowe
returned to work as a peace officer on January 24, 2024.  Shortly thereafter, Lowe was told that he
would receive all his back pay from April 5, 2022 through January 23, 2024.  Subsequently, Lowe was told that he would only
receive one year of back pay, not the two years of back pay he was owed. 
 
b. Causes of Action
The Petition’s first cause of action for declaratory relief alleges
that the City has a policy to refuse to restore to members of the LAPPL all
back salary, benefits, and other emoluments of employment due to them as a
result of reductions in, or complete exoneration of, their discipline by the Board
of Rights.  LAPPL desires a judicial
determination of this controversy and a declaration that the City must pay all
back salary, benefits, and other emoluments of employment to all LAPPL members
who are exonerated before the Board of Rights, from the date of their
respective suspensions or terminations to the date of their respective
reinstatements to employment, as if such improper separations from employment
never occurred.
The second cause of action for traditional mandamus alleges
that the City has a ministerial duty to provide Burkett with all back pay from
the time of his suspension from LAPD until the time of his reinstatement. The
City has failed to abide by City Charter section 1070(w) in that it failed to
pay Burkett all back pay owed to him required by law. Burkett has exhausted all
administrative remedies and has no plain, speedy, or adequate remedy in the
ordinary course of the law other than the relief sought by his Petition.
The third cause of action for traditional mandamus alleges
that the City has a ministerial duty to provide Lowe with all back pay from the
time of his separation from LAPD until the time of his reinstatement. The City has
failed to abide by City Charter section 1070(w) in that it failed to pay Lowe
all back pay owed to him required by law.  Lowe has exhausted all administrative remedies
and has no plain, speedy, or adequate remedy in the ordinary course of the law
other than the relief sought by his Petition.
 
c. Prayer for Relief
            Petitioner
seeks (1) a traditional writ of mandate requiring the City to provide Burkett
and Lowe all back pay from the time of their respective suspensions to the time
of their respective reinstatements, (2) a judgment declaring that City Charter section
1070(w) requires the City to provide Burkett, Lowe, and all members of LAPPL
with all back salary, benefits, and other emoluments of employment from the
dates of their improper separations from employment to the dates of their
reinstatements, (3) in the alternative, a judgment declaring that City Charter section
1070(w) is unconstitutional, (4) costs of suit, (5) attorney’s fees, and (6)
such other and further relief as the court may deem necessary, and proper.  Pet. Prayer, ¶¶ 1-6.
 
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On
May 22, 2024, Petitioners filed the Petition.
            On
August 2, 2024, City filed and served the instant demurrer.  On September 6, 2024, Petitioners filed and
served their opposition.  On September
12, 2024, the City filed and served its reply.
 
            B. Demurrer
1. Applicable Law
            Demurrers
are permitted in administrative mandate proceedings.  CCP §§1108,
1109.  A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleading alone and
will be sustained where the pleading is defective on its face. 
            Where
pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect by way of a demurrer or
motion to strike or by motion for judgment on the pleadings.  CCP
§430.30(a); Coyne v. Krempels, (1950) The party against whom a complaint
or cross-complaint has been filed may object by demurrer or answer to the
pleading.  CCP §430.10.  A demurrer is timely filed within the 30-day
period after service of the complaint.  CCP §430.40; Skrbina v.
Fleming Companies, (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1364. 
            A demurrer
may be asserted on any one or more of the following grounds: (a) The court has
no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading;
(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have legal capacity to sue; (c)
There is another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of
action; (d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties; (e) The pleading does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; (f) The pleading is
uncertain (“uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible); (g) In an action
founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the
contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct; (h) No certificate was
filed as required by CCP section 411.35 or (i) by CCP section 411.36.  CCP
§430.10.  Accordingly, a demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and
the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from
judicially noticeable matters.  CCP §430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan,
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.  The face of the pleading includes attachments
and incorporations by reference (Frantz v. Blackwell, (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 91, 94); it does not include inadmissible hearsay.  Day v.
Sharp, (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904, 914.   
            The sole
issue on demurrer for failure to state a cause of action is whether the facts
pleaded, if true, would entitle the plaintiff to relief.  Garcetti v.
Superior Court, (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1533, 1547; Limandri v. Judkins,
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 339.  The question of plaintiff’s ability to
prove the allegations of the complaint or the possible difficulty in making
such proof does not concern the reviewing court.  Quelimane Co. v.
Stewart Title Guaranty Co., (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 47.  The ultimate
facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all facts that
may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged.  Marshall v.
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403. 
Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations expressing mere
conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits to the
complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.  Vance
v. Villa Park Mobilehome Estates, (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709. 
            For all
demurrers filed after January 1, 2016, the demurring party must meet and confer
in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading for the purpose
of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.  CCP §430.31(a).  As part of
the meet and confer process, the demurring party must identify all of the
specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and provide
legal support for the claimed deficiencies.  CCP §430.31(a)(1).  The
party who filed the pleading must in turn provide legal support for its
position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative, how
the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any legal
insufficiency.  Id.  The demurring party is responsible for
filing and serving a declaration that the meet and confer requirement has been
met.  CCP §430.31(a)(3).   
            If a demurrer is sustained, the court may
grant leave to amend the pleading upon any terms as may be just and shall fix
the time within which the amendment or amended pleading shall be filed.  CCP
§472a(c).  It is an abuse of discretion to grant a motion for judgment
on the pleadings without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action.  Dudley v.
Department of Transportation (“Dudley”) (2001), 90 Cal. App. 4th
255, 260.  However, in response
to a demurrer and prior to the case being at issue, a complaint or
cross-complaint shall not be amended more than three times, absent an offer to
the trial court as to such additional facts to be pleaded that there is a
reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to state a cause of action.  CCP §430.41(e)(1).
 
2. City Charter  
Generally, LAPD officers cannot be suspended, demoted, or
removed from service except for good cause upon a showing of guilt before a
Board of Rights.¿ City Charter §1070(a).¿ An exception to this rule permits the
Chief of Police to demote a police officer or suspend him or her for up to 22
days following appropriate pre-disciplinary procedures.¿ City Charter
§1070(b).¿ Any such action is subject to pre-disciplinary procedures required
by law and a Board of Rights hearing if sought by the police officer.¿ Id.¿
This procedure, where the police officer elects to have a Board of Rights
hearing, is commonly referred to as an “opted” hearing.¿ A Board of Rights
hearing occurring after the Chief of Police demotes or imposes less than a
22-day suspension satisfies the requirement of an administrative appeal under
Govt. Code section 3304(b).¿ Jackson v. City of Los Angeles, (1999) 69
Cal.App.4th 769, 780; Holcomb v. City of Los Angeles, (1989) 210
Cal.App.3d 1560, 1566.¿¿ 
If the Chief of Police intends a penalty greater than a
22-day suspension, including termination, the matter is automatically referred
to a Board of Rights hearing.¿ This procedure, where the police officer has no
choice in the referral decision, is commonly called an “ordered” Board of
Rights hearing.¿ There is a one-year limitations period for termination,
suspension, and demotion.¿ City Charter §1070(d).¿¿¿ 
Whether the Board of Rights hearing is opted or ordered, it
is a de novo evidentiary hearing.¿ City Charter §1070(f).¿ The Board of Rights
consists of two officers with the rank of captain or above and one civilian.¿
City Charter §1070(h).¿ LAPD has the burden of prove by a preponderance of
evidence.¿ City Charter §1070(l).¿ 
Upon a finding of guilt, the Board of Rights recommends
discipline, ranging from reprimand, suspension without pay for up to 65 days,
with or without reprimand, demotion, and removal.¿ City Charter §1070(n).¿ Any
suspension without pay may not be more than 65 days.  City Charter §1070(n)(1).  The Chief of Police has discretion to impose
a lesser penalty than recommended, but not a greater penalty.¿ City Charter
§1070(p).¿ The officer can ask the Chief of Police for a rehearing at any time
within three years.¿ City Charter §1070(t).¿
When a member is restored to duty following removal or
temporary relief from duty, or whose suspension or demotion has been
overturned, in whole or in part, he or she is entitled to full compensation, or
back pay, from the City as if the penal action had not taken place.  City Charter §1070(w).  Such compensation shall not exceed one year’s
salary unless otherwise required by law.  City Charter §1070(w).
 
            C. Analysis
            Respondent
City demurs to the Petition’s three causes of action, asserting that each fails
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. CCP §430.10(e).

On July 16, 2024, counsel
for the City and Petitioners met and conferred by telephone pursuant to CCP
section 430.41.  Lo Decl.
¶¶ 4-5.  The City has
satisfied its requirement to meet and confer.
 
            1.
Section 1070
City Charter section 1070 (“section 1070”) provides that, when
a member is restored to duty following removal or temporary relief from duty,
or whose suspension or demotion has been overturned, in whole or in part, he or
she is entitled to full compensation, or back pay, from the City as if the
penal action had not taken place. 
§1070(w).  Such compensation shall
not exceed one year’s salary unless otherwise required by law.  Id.
            The City notes that section 1070(w)
prohibits the City from providing more than one year’s salary as backpay to an
employee whose suspension has been overturned or reduced.   There is an exception where backpay is
required by law, but the Petition fails to allege any law requiring
compensation greater than one year’s salary. 
The case cited by the Petition, Lowe v. California Resources Agency,
(“Lowe”) (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 1140, is irrelevant because it stands for
a plaintiff’s right to earnings after the employer’s wrongdoing.  The City is not alleged to have engaged in
wrongdoing or unlawful conduct.  Per the
Petition, Petitioner Burkett’s suspension was upheld by the Board of Rights and
Petitioner Lowe came to an agreement with the Board of Rights regarding his
discipline.  Pet., ¶13.  Dem. at 9.
            Petitioners
respond that Lowe sets forth the well-established proposition that the
purpose of back pay is to make an employee whole for the employer’s wrongdoing
-- i.e., the employer must provide the amount that the “plaintiff would
have earned but for the employer’s unlawful conduct.”  1 Cal.App.4th at 1144, n. 3. This includes
fringe benefits.  Ibid.  “The amount of backpay is based on the
differential between what [the officer’s] salary would have been had he not
been demoted and the salary he actually received.”  Henneberque v. City of Culver City,
(1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 837, 844.  “The
measure of recovery of a wrongfully discharged employee is the amount of salary
he or she would have earned plus other benefits, less the amount which the
employer proves the employee has earned or might have earned from other
employment.” Bevli v. Brisco, (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 986, 994.  Opp. at 8-10. 
Petitioners argue that, while they are not contesting their
discipline, it is incorrect to state that the Petition does not allege the
City’s wrongdoing. The wrongdoing was the placement of both Petitioners on
leave without pay for an extended period while they awaited a Board of Rights
hearing, where it was adjudicated that their conduct did not warrant that
deprivation.  Specifically, the Board of
Rights hearing for Burkett determined that he should only be suspended for 65
days, not over 700 days. For Lowe, he and the Board of Rights agreed that he
should not face further discipline and that he should be restored to his job if
he complied with certain conditions.  There
was no agreement for Lowe to be suspended for two years, which would exceed the
65-day limit. In both instances, the Department’s wrongful conduct was the
placement of the Petitioner on administrative leave without pay pending a
hearing at which he could face termination when termination was not warranted,
and then refusing to repay the full salary and benefits owed after his return
to his position.  Opp. at 8-9.
Petitioners argue that section 1070(w)’s provision that some
“other law” must require the payment of backpay in excess of one year is fulfilled
by section 1070(n)(1)’s own limit on suspensions to 65 days.  The City cannot rely on section 1070(w) to
impose a suspension of multiple years because to do so would effectively
eliminate the 65-day cap on suspensions where an administrative hearing lasted
more than one year, which is an absurd result. “When the statutory language is
ambiguous, a court may … reasonably infer that the enacting legislative body
intended an interpretation producing practical and workable results rather than
one producing mischief or absurdity.” Gattuso v. Harte-Hanks Shoppers, Inc.,
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 554, 567. The wrongdoing by the City, as alleged by
Petitioners, is its failure to make them whole -- i.e., the City’s
failure to provide them all backpay and benefits withheld beyond their lawful
suspensions as required by law. Accordingly, the Petition sufficiently alleges
that the City violated section 1070(w). 
Opp. at 11.
The City correctly replies that the requirement of “unlawful
conduct” for a backpay award does not include the scenario of modified
discipline.  This cannot reasonably be
called unlawful conduct.  In fact, Lowe’s
modified discipline occurred through his agreement with the Board of Rights.  Reply at 2. 

The purpose of section 1070(w)’s one-year limitation on
backpay awards is plainly to protect the public fisc from the City’s payment of
salaries and benefits to public employees who are not working.  In suggesting that their periods of administrative
leave were unlawful, Petitioners are wrongly equating suspensions with unpaid
administrative leave.  They are not the
same.  While both involve a loss of
compensation, the former is discipline and the latter is an employer action
preliminary to discipline.   Thus, Burkett
and Lowe were not suspended respectively for “over 700 days” and “two years” in
violation of section 1070(n)’s 65-day limit. 
As the City argues, if they believed they were suspended beyond the
65-day limit, their remedy was to contest the discipline.  Neither did so.[1]  
In short, the Petition fails to adequately allege Lowe’s and
Burkett’s right to backpay to rectify wrongful conduct by LAPD.  See Lowe, supra, 1
Cal.App.4th at 1144, n. 3.  
 
2. Declaratory Relief
The City argues that the Petition fails to state where an
actual controversy exists between Petitioner LAPPL and the City.  The Petition states that the City has “a
policy” but fails to identify it.  Petitioner
LAPPL’s mere belief that such a policy must exist is not sufficient to identify
an actual policy.  Magnolia Square
Homeowners Assn. v. Safecolns. Co., (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1049, 1057 ("information
and belief insufficient to establish essential facts).  Dem. at 10; Reply at 3.
Petitioners argue that the Petition properly states a cause
of action for declaratory relief, alleging the existence of a controversy.  Pet., ¶18. 
The City does not have a written policy, but it does follow a course of
action in refusing to provide compensation in excess of one year as required by
the exception to section 1070(w) and the common law.  Relief can be sought to challenge a pattern
and practice.  Declaratory relief has
been held to be the proper remedy when it is alleged an agency has a policy of
ignoring or violating applicable laws.” Venice Town Council v. City of Los
Angeles, (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1547, 1566.  “An action for declaratory relief is an
appropriate means of challenging an alleged ‘overarching’ policy or practice of
an agency where there is an actual and present controversy over the policy.”  K.G. v. Meredith, (2012) 204
Cal.App.4th 164, 177.  Opp. at 11-12.
The City’s policy is set forth clearly: the City does not
believe it must provide all backpay to officers who are suspended by a Board of
Rights after being placed on unpaid administrative leave for over one
year.  Petitioners contend that this
policy is an improper and unlawful reading of both section 1070(w) and existing
law.  Accordingly, a dispute exists for
which declaratory relief is appropriate. 
In the event the court determines that no other provision of law
requires the payment of back pay exceeding one year, the Petition further
requests a declaration that section 1070(w) is unconstitutional.  Pet., ¶19.  Declaratory relief is “an appropriate method
for obtaining a declaration that a statute or regulation is facially
unconstitutional.”  Tejon Real Estate
LLC v. City of Los Angeles, (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 149, 154.  Opp. at 12-13.
On the latter issue, Petitioners are correct.  The court has determined that the Petition
fails to identify a provision of law requiring the payment of back pay
exceeding one year, but that leaves open the issue of section 1070(w)’s
constitutionality. A facial attack on the overall constitutionality of a
statute or regulation may be made by an action for declaratory relief.  Taylor v. Swanson, (1982) 137
Cal.App.3d 416, 418.  Although the
Petition does not identify the constitutional provision violated, and does not provide
reasons why the one-year limit is unconstitutional, the City does not demur on
grounds of uncertainty.
The demurrer to the first cause of action therefore is
overruled.
 
3. The Mandamus Claims
A traditional writ of
mandate under CCP section 1085 is the method of compelling the performance of a
legal, ministerial duty.¿ Pomona Police Officers’ Assn. v. City of Pomona,
(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 578, 583-84.¿ Generally, mandamus will lie when (1) there
is no plain, speedy, and adequate alternative remedy, (2) the respondent has a
duty to perform, and (3) the petitioner has a clear and beneficial right to
performance.”¿ Id. at 584 (internal citations omitted).¿ Whether a
statute imposes a ministerial duty for which mandamus is available, or a mere
obligation to perform a discretionary function, is a question of statutory
interpretation.¿ AIDS Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of
Public Health, (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 693, 701.¿ 
 
a. Adequate Remedy at Law
The City argues that Petitioners have an adequate
remedy at law.  A mandamus proceeding is
not a civil action, but rather a special proceeding of a civil nature which is
available for specified purposes and for which the CCP provides a separate
procedure.  Binyon v. State of
California, (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 952, 994-95.  The first question to be determined in a
mandamus proceeding under CCP section 1085 is whether the petitioner has a
“plain, speedy, and adequate remedy, in the ordinary course of law.”  CCP §1086; Phelan v. Superior Court of San
Francisco, (1950) 35 Cal.2d 363, 366. 
Dem. at 13.
It is a well-settled general proposition that mandamus
is not an appropriate remedy for recovering money.  See, e.g., Wenzler v. Municipal
Court for Pasadena Judicial Dist., (1965) 235 Cal.App.2d 128, 133.  In mandamus proceedings involving claims for
wages by municipal employees or other remedy equivalent to a claim for monetary
damages, an ordinary civil action for damages generally is adequate and a writ
of mandate will be denied.  Tevis v.
City & County of San Francisco, (“Tevis”) (1954) 43 Cal.2d 190, 198.  Where a municipal employee could have filed
an ordinary civil lawsuit to recover salary or other monetary damages, the
trial court may properly deny the petition for writ of mandate because the
employee had a plain, speedy, and adequate alternative remedy at law. Coombs
v. Smith, (1936) 17 Cal.App.2d 454, 455.  Dem. at 13.
The City argues that the Petition’s mandamus causes of
action must be dismissed because are employment-related claims for which
Petitioners have an adequate remedy at law. 
Petitioners’ causes of action improperly combine multiple causes of
action into one by bootstrapping monetary claims within a CCP section 1085
cause of action, which is equivalent to a claim for damages.  See CRC 2.112.  Allowing these causes of action to proceed
would deny the City the procedural safeguards and administrative remedies provided
by the Labor Code, the right to conduct discovery, and the right to a jury
trial.  Dem. at 13-14.  
Petitioners correctly rely on an exception to the
general rule that mandamus is appropriate where the obligation to pay a public
employee depends upon the interpretation of a statute or ordinance or the
compensation must be approved by appropriate officials.  Opp. at 15.
The City cites Tevis, supra, 43 Cal.2d
at 198, but Tevis held that mandamus was appropriate to enforce the
right of municipal employees to receive vacation pay to which they were entitled
where the case involved the proper construction of the municipal charter and
the claim required approval of several public officials, explaining: 
 
“In a few
situations involving claims by state or municipal employees for wages the
general rule has been relaxed. For the most part, these cases concern
disputes as to the proper construction of a statute or ordinance defining or
giving rise to the exercise of official duty, and, although recognizing
that the ultimate effect of a decision may be to adjudicate a money claim, they
emphasize the necessity of official cooperation and the ministerial nature
of the official acts involved.” Id. at 1985 (emphasis added).  
 
See
also Coan v. State, (1974) 11 Cal. 3d 286, 291 (“Although a claim
for payment of salary is in effect a money claim, mandamus is a proper remedy
where the dispute concerns the proper construction of a statute or ordinance
giving rise to the official duty to pay the salary claim”).  Opp. at 
 In Glendale
City Employees’ Ass’n v. Glendale, (“Glendale”) (1975) 15 Cal. 3d
328, the California Supreme Court held that a writ of mandate is the
appropriate remedy where public employees seek the payment or recovery of wages
under a Memorandum of Understanding: 
 
“The usual remedy
for failure of an employer to pay wages owing to an employee is an action for
breach of contract; if that remedy is adequate, mandate will not lie….But
often the payment of the wages of a public employee requires certain
preliminary steps by public officials; in such instances, the action in
contract is inadequate and mandate is the appropriate remedy….”  Id. at 343 (citation omitted) (emphasis
added).  Opp. at 16-17.
 
Mandamus will be denied only when the party seeking
relief has an adequate remedy at law that is capable of directly affording and
enforcing the relief sought.  If the
remedy at law, although it could result in a judgment for plaintiff, is
nevertheless inherently incapable of compelling the performance of the specific
act which forms the subject matter of the mandamus claim, it cannot be said
that the remedy at law will supersede the remedy by mandamus.  Cory v. Poway Unified Sch. Dist.,
(1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 1158, 1166 (citation omitted).  Opp. at 18.
Generally, backpay is awarded incidental to a decision to
reinstate employment as a matter of both logic and law.  For this reason, it is not subject to the
claims filing requirements of the Govt. Claims Act (Govt. Code §§ 810-996.6)
for damages against the employing agency. 
Eureka Teacher’s Assn. v. Board of Education, (1988) 202
Cal.App.3d 469, 475.  Petitioners Burkett
and Lowe were reinstated to their employment and the calculation of their
backpay is incidental to that decision. 
It involves the proper interpretation of the limits of section 1070(w)
and Petitioners have no adequate remedy at law. 

 
b. Ministerial Duty
            The City
argues that Petitioners have not shown that it has a clear, present,
ministerial duty.  Petitioners allege
that the City had a ministerial duty to provide Petitioners Burkett and Lowe
with backpay in excess of one year if the law so requires.  Yet, the Petition fails to provide sufficient
facts to support its contention that the law requires backpay in excess of one
year.  The Petition merely states the
application of the law is “arbitrary, capricious” without providing specificity
or support to blanket allegations.  Pet.,
¶¶ 28, 36.  Dem. at 12.
The City notes that the Petition does not make any
assertion that the City performed anything other than discretionary
decision-making.  Petitioners Burkett and
Lowe were each charged with complaints heard by the Board of Rights. Adjudication
before the Board of Rights necessarily concerns a matter of discretion rather
than a matter of ministerial duty.  See
generally Mays v. City of Los Angeles, (2008) 43 Cal.4th 313,
317.  Upon a Board of Rights finding of
misconduct and penalty recommendation, the Chief of Police “has the discretion
to accept or reduce, but not to increase, any punishment recommended by the
Board of Rights.” Id. (citing §1070(p). 
Petitioner Burkett was suspended for 65 days without pay.  Pet., ¶10. 
Petitioner Lowe and the Board of Rights came to an agreement involving a
rehabilitation program and additional future hearing dates.  Pet., ¶13. Petitioners cannot establish a
ministerial duty on the part of the Board of Rights or the Chief of Police, nor
a right to the performance of a corresponding ministerial act.  Dem. at 12-13.
Petitioners argue that the City had a ministerial
duty.  Whether or not Petitioners can
prevail at trial on the issue of duty is immaterial at this stage; the issue is
whether they have sufficiently pled the existence of a ministerial duty, and
they have.  Petitioners assert that section
1070(w) establishes the ministerial duty to provide Burkett and Lowe with all
back pay and benefits that were withheld beyond the lawful terms of their
suspensions, as required by law.  In
addition, the City has a ministerial duty to not impose a suspension over 65
days.  The City provides no support for
its apparent claim that the “law” referenced in section 1070(w) must be
statutory, rather than common law.  The
common law is, indeed, the law.  As
discussed, the common law imposes this ministerial duty on the City through the
operation of section 1070(w).  The City also
has no response to the argument regarding the imposition of a suspension longer
than 65 days, which the Charter specifically prohibits.  Opp. at 13-14.
Petitioners add that there is no basis for the City’s
claim that “[t]he allegations in the Petition do not make a single assertion
that the City has a mandatory duty rather than a discretionary decision-making
duty. The Petition plainly states: “At all times herein mentioned,
Defendants/Respondents had a ministerial duty to provide Burkett with all back
pay from the time of their respective suspensions from the LAPD until the time
of their respective reinstatements, as Los Angeles City Charter section 1070,
subdivision (w), provides for back pay in excess of one year if the law so
requires.” Pet., ¶23.   The Petitioner further alleges: “The law
requires that an employee who has been the subject of unlawful conduct by an
employer is entitled to be returned to the financial position he or she would
have been in had the unlawful conduct not occurred.”  Pet., ¶24. 
Opp. at 14.
Petitioners fail to allege a ministerial duty required
by law.  The court has addressed their
arguments that the City imposed suspensions over 65 days on Lowe and Burkett. It
did not.  Further, Petitioners
incorrectly allege that the City has a ministerial duty under section 1070(w) to
provide backpay for all unpaid time.  Petitioners have not asserted an applicable
law that would trigger section 1070(w)’s “as required by law” provision.  Petitioners are unable to support their
contention with a law indicating that relieving officers of duty without pay
pending a disciplinary hearing is unlawful conduct.  Petitioner Lowe is further unable to support
his contention that relieving officers of duty without pay resulting in an
agreement between the employer and employee is unlawful conduct. As a result of
Petitioners failure to assert facts requiring the City to act “as required by
law,” they have not met their burden to establish a ministerial duty.  Reply at 4.[2]
The demurrer must be sustained for the second and
third causes of action.
 
4. Ripeness for Petitioner Lowe
“California courts will decide only justiciable
controversies.”  Wilson &  Wilson v City Council of Redwood City,
(2011)0 191 Cal.App. 4th 1559, 1573. 
The doctrine of justiciability, which includes “ripeness” and “actual
controversy” requirements, prevents courts from issuing advisory opinions.   Pacific Legal Foundation v. California
Coastal Commission, (“Pacific Legal Foundation”) (1982) 33 Cal.3d
158, 170.  This doctrine applies
regardless of the form of the action (mandamus, declaratory relief, or injunctive
relief).  Id. at 169-72.
For a controversy to be ripe, it “must be a real and
substantial controversy admitting of specific relief through a decree of a
conclusive character, as distinguished from an opinion advising what the law
would be upon a hypothetical state of facts.” 
Pacific Legal Foundation, supra, 33 Cal.3d at 170.  There is a two-part test for ripeness: (1) is
the dispute sufficiently concrete? and (2) what is the hardship to the parties
of withholding judicial review?  Id.
at 171.  A “hardship” means an “imminent
and significant hardship in further delay.” 
Farm Sanctuary, Inc. v. Dept. of Food & Agriculture, (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 495, 502.
The City argues that the Petition alleges that Lowe’s
hearing before the Board of Rights has been continued to future hearing dates
before the Board for quarterly progress updates on May 29, 2024, August 28,
2024, November 25, 2025, and January 7, 2025.  Pet., ¶13.  Hence, the Board of Rights hearing for
Petitioner Lowe has not yet been completed.  The agreement on which the third cause of action
is based has the potential to be altered.  Therefore, it is not ripe for adjudication.  Dem. at 14.
The court agrees with Petitioners that the claim is
ripe.  The fact that Lowe is subject to
quarterly progress reports before the Board of Rights does not affect the fact
that he is entitled to backpay.  Lowe was
relieved of duty without pay on April 5, 2022, and returned to work on January
24, 2024.  Pet., ¶¶ 12-14.  The City initially told Lowe on February 9,
2024 that he would receive backpay for the period April 5, 2022 through January
24, 2024.  Pet., ¶15.  Subsequently, the City told Lowe on February
15, 2024 that he would receive only one year of backpay.  Pet., ¶16.  Thus, Lowe’s right to backpay is undisputed
and the only issue is how much it should be. 
The facts that the Board of Rights still has jurisdiction, and that Lowe
might not meet his obligations in future progress reports, do not affect the
fact that he has been returned to duty and is entitled to backpay now.  The issue is ripe.
 
5. The City Controller
The City argues that the Petition does not set forth
any specific causes of action as to Kenneth Mejia, City Controller. None of the
facts in the Petition involve the City Controller. The City Controller is not a
necessary or indispensable party to the lawsuit under CCP section 389.  The City Controller has no interest in the
action, and any relief in this action can be accorded without detriment to him.  As such, the action should be dismissed
entirely as to the City Controller.  Dem.
at 15.
Petitioners respond that Mejia is both a necessary and
indispensable party because he is responsible for paying City employees’
salaries. Controller Mejia oversees a team of more than 160 employees who
manage the City’s accounting, payroll, and spending.  He is the elected paymaster, auditor, and
chief accounting officer for the City.  As
the court explained in Martin v. County of Contra Costa (1970) 8
Cal.App.3d 856, 866, reviewing a matter in which the trial court rendered
judgment only against the county and its board of supervisors and not the
county officers responsible for payment of the allowances, “[t]he only defect
in proceedings and judgment is the failure to join the proper ministerial
officers of the county government.”  Opp.
at 19.
The City replies that this case differs from the cases
cited by Petitioners where the mandate was to perform the ministerial act of
computing and paying salaries.  See Glendale,
supra, 15 Cal.3d 328, 345; Association for Los Angeles Deputy
Sheriffs v. County of Los Angeles, (219) 42 Cal.App.5th 918, 939.
 Here, there is no dispute about the
computation and payment of backpay.  The
City Controller has no ministerial duty to pay Petitioners; that decision lies
with the appointing authority. Further, the City operates under the single
employer rule – both the City Controller and the Chief of Police were
erroneously sued in this action.  Labor
Code §1182.12.  Reply at 5.
Whatever the applicability of Labor Code section
1182.12, the court agrees that Glendale is authority that the City
Controller is properly named in a mandamus backpay claim because he performs payment
computations as part of an administrative duty. 

 
D. Conclusion
The demurrer is overruled for LPPL’s declaratory
relief claim that section 1070(w)’s backpay limitation is unconstitutional and sustained
for the mandamus claims.  Petitioners
Lowe and Burkett have leave to amend to allege the unconstitutionality of
section 1070(w) as applied to them.


