 Case Number:  23LBCV01263    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  S27  

Background Facts

Plaintiff, King Fio Trucking, LLC
filed this action against Defendant, International Almond Exchange on 7/07/23
for breach of contract and common counts. 
On 4/09/24, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Settlement.    
 

Motion to Enforce
     Settlement

On 4/10/24, the parties filed a
stipulation pursuant to which they indicated they agreed to settle the entire
action, and they agreed that the Court would retain jurisdiction to enforce the
settlement per CCP §664.6.  A copy of the
parties’ settlement agreement is attached to the Declaration of Counsel, Laura
D. Each.  The agreement calls for
payments in the total amount of $187,882.55, and sets forth a payment schedule.
 
Each declares that Defendant made
the first three payments late, and, to date, has not made the fourth payment;
additionally the third payment was not in the full amount due.  
 
CCP §664.6 provides for a court
judgment in the event that the parties settle their dispute, in writing, and
subsequently fail to comply with the terms of the settlement.  The motion is unopposed and granted.  The request for attorneys’ fees is granted.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to lodge a
proposed judgment for processing.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   