  Case Number:  23LBCV00221    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  S27 Plaintiff, Cristina Alexandra Arnao filed this action against
Defendant, Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC for Violation of the Song-Beverly Act.  
 
On 9/10/24, Defendant filed motions to compel a vehicle inspection and
Plaintiff’s deposition.  Defendant set
both motions for hearing on 1/02/25.  
 
On 12/13/24, Defendant filed an ex parte application to shorten time
for the hearing on the motions. 
Plaintiff opposed the application, indicating her deposition is
scheduled for 1/07/25 and the vehicle inspection is scheduled for 1/21/25 (both
dates say 2024 in the opposition document, but the Court presumes they are
intended to be 2025).  The Court denied
the application.  
 
Plaintiff has not filed opposition to the motions.  That being said, the Court is inclined to
continue the hearing on the motions until after the scheduled deposition and
inspection, as the motions appear to be unnecessary.  
 
The hearing on the motions is continued to Tuesday, 1/28/25.  If the deposition and inspection go forward,
Defendant must take the motions off calendar promptly.  If the deposition and/or inspection does not
go forward, the parties must file briefs and declarations concerning the status
of the outstanding discovery no later than Thursday, 1/23/25.  
 
The Court notes that sanctions are not sought in the moving papers, and
therefore the only issue is attendance at the deposition and inspection.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  