 Case Number:  23LBCV00552    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiffs, Marcus Miller and Angie Muhamad filed this action against
Defendants, Brand Scaffold Services, Inc. and The AES Corporation for damages
arising out of injuries sustained in a workplace accident at AES’s power plant
in Puerto Rico.  Miller, who is a
California resident and employee of a California corporation, was injured in
the incident.  Plaintiff added AES Puerto
Rico, Inc. and AES Puerto Rico, L.P. as doe defendants.  
 
2.    
Demurrer
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Timeliness
of Demurrer
Plaintiffs argue the demurrer
should be summarily overruled because it was filed more than a month late.  Pursuant to Jackson v. Doe (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 742, 750, the Court has discretion to hear a late-filed
demurrer.  The Court will exercise its
discretion and do so at this time.
 
c.     Meet
and Confer
The parties adequately met and
conferred prior to the filing of the demurrer.
 
d.     Statute
of Limitations
Defendants’ primary contention on
demurrer is that the complaint is barred by the Puerto Rico statute of
limitations, which applies to the case because Plaintiff was injured in Puerto
Rico.  Plaintiff argues (a) this issue
cannot be decided on demurrer, and (b) the statute of limitations does not bar
the complaint in any event, because Defendants’ identities were not known at
the time Plaintiff filed the original complaint.
 
i.             
Choice of Law re: Statute of Limitations
 
In a personal injury case filed in
California for injuries sustained in Puerto Rico, the applicable statute of
limitations is determined by California's borrowing statute, CCP §361. This
statute generally requires the application of the statute of limitations of the
state or country where the cause of action arose, unless the plaintiff has been
a citizen of California and has held the cause of action from the time it
accrued.  Cossman v. DaimlerChrysler
Corp. (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 370.  
 
The phrase "except in favor of
one who has been a citizen of this State, and who has held the cause of action
from the time it accrued" in CCP §361 means that if the plaintiff was a
California citizen at the time the cause of action accrued and has continuously
held the cause of action, the California statute of limitations may apply
instead of the foreign jurisdiction's statute of limitations.  McCann v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2010) 48
Cal.4th 68.   
 
ii.            
Analysis
Defendants rely on McCann, supra,
to support their position that, even when the plaintiff is a citizen of
California, the courts must apply choice of law analysis to determine whether
the CA or foreign statute of limitations governs.  In McCann, however, the plaintiff had not
been a California resident at the time the cause of action accrued.  See McCann, at 76-77.  
 
It is not clear, from the face of
the complaint, whether Plaintiff resided in California at the time he was
injured or not.  The Court can only
sustain a demurrer based on facts pled in the face of the complaint.  Absent such pleading, the demurrer on this
ground is overruled.
 
e.     Privette

Defendants also argue the complaint
is barred by the Privette doctrine. 
Defendants correctly summarize the holding of Privette and its progeny
at page 9, lines 24-28 of their demurrer: a property owner that permits an act
or fails to prevent an act has engaged in passive negligence only and has no
liability for injuries to an independent contractor due to said passive
negligence.  
 
Defendants fail, however, to point
to any portion of the complaint that alleges they engaged in passive
negligence.  Notably, the only
allegations against the doe defendants are found at ¶1 of the complaint,
wherein Plaintiff alleges that the doe defendants were negligent, careless,
reckless, or in some manner legally responsible for the incident.  
 
The Court cannot find, on the face
of the complaint, that Plaintiff’s claims against the demurring defendants are
barred by the Privette doctrine.  The
demurrer on this ground is therefore also overruled.
 
f.      Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer is
overruled.  Defendants are ordered to
file an answer to the complaint within ten days.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   