 Case Number:  23LBCV00708    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Business Alliance
Insurance Company filed this action against Defendant, Virginia Trinh for
subrogation.  Defendant owns the property
located at 4139 Norse Way in Long Beach. 
Plaintiff’s insured, Yao Yuan Huang, runs a business (LV Seafood
Restaurant, Inc.) on the property.  On
4/29/20, there was a fire on the property. 
The fire was allegedly caused by the negligence of a worker hired by
Trinh.  The fire started entirely outside
of Plaintiff’s insured’s business, but spread to his business and caused
damage, for which Plaintiff (his insurance company) paid.  
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment
a.    
Parties’ Positions
 Defendant moves for summary judgment on the
complaint.  She contends she is an
additional named insured on Plaintiff’s insured’s policy, and therefore she
cannot be sued for subrogation.   She contends the action is frivolous, and
seeks sanctions against Plaintiff under CCP §128.5.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  It argues Defendant’s status as an additional
named insured does not insulate her from liability for subrogation.  It argues no sanctions can be imposed because
the motion is procedurally improper.
 
Defendant, in reply, contends
Plaintiff’s cited case is distinguishable and the language of the parties’
policy makes clear that she cannot be sued. 
She argues her request for sanctions is procedurally proper and should
be granted.  
 
b.    
Burdens
on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
c.    
Language
of Policy
The subject insurance policy
includes an indication that Defendant is an “additional named insured.”  It also includes language stating that the
additional insured persons are covered as follows: “Any person or organization
shown in the Policy Declarations, but only with respect to liability arising
out of the ownership, maintenance or use of the premises leased to you.”  
 
The commercial lease agreement
entered into between Plaintiff’s insured and Defendant requires the tenant to
maintain comprehensive public liability insurance insuring the landlord against
any liability arising out of the ownership, use, occupancy, or maintenance of
the premises and all areas appurtenant thereto. 

 
d.    
Gemini
Ins. Co. v. Delos Ins. Co. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 719
The parties discuss the holding of
Gemini v. Delos, and both parties contend the decision supports their position
concerning liability in subrogation under the circumstances.  In Gemini, a restaurant’s insurance policy
included an additional insured endorsement making the landlord an additional
insured with respect to liability arising from the restaurant’s acts,
undertaken in the course of the restaurant’s operations on the leased
premises.  The policy had an exclusion
for claims or suits between insureds. 
The tenant negligently started a fire, which damaged the landlord’s
property.  The landlord’s insurance
company (Gemini) sought to recover damages from the tenant’s insurance company
(Delos).   
 
The trial court held that, despite
the additional insured endorsement, the landlord was not an insured under the
tenant’s insurance policy.  The Court of
Appeals held:
All of this supports Delos's
position, but there is another relevant policy provision which compels a result
to the contrary. An endorsement titled “Additional Insured—Managers or Lessors
of Premises” reads, inter alia, “Who is an Insured (section II) is amended to
include as an insured the person or organization shown in the Schedule but only
with respect to such person or organization's liability which both (1) arises
out of the ownership, maintenance or use of that part of the premises leased to
you and shown in the Schedule, and (2) occurs on that part of the premises
leased to you and shown in the Schedule, and (3) results from and by reason of
your act or omission or an **892 act or omission of your agent or employee in
the course of your operations at that part of the premises leased to you and
shown in the Schedule.”
 
As Gemini reads this provision,
Loch Lomond is an additional insured only when and where it faces liability
arising from Bobby's acts, undertaken in the course of Bobby's operations on
the leased premises. The trial court agreed, as do we. An additional insured
provision is designed “ to protect parties who are not named insureds from
exposure to vicarious liability for acts of the named insured. [Citation.]”
(  Maryland Casualty Co. v. Nationwide
Ins. Co. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 21, 31, 76 Cal.Rptr.2d 113.)
 
The parties agree that no one has
ever sought to hold Loch Lomond liable for the fire at Bobby's. To the
contrary, in the underlying case, Loch Lomond sought to recover from Bobby's.
The interinsured claims and suits exclusion did not apply.
 
The Court of Appeals ultimately
concluded that the landlord’s insurance company was entitled, under the
circumstances, to recover against the tenant’s insurance company for the
damages caused by the tenant to the property outside of the tenant’s leased
property.
 
e.     Analysis
Defendant argues Gemini is not on
point because the language in the insurance policy in this case is different
from the language in the Gemini policy. 
Notably, the Gemini Court made clear that exclusionary clauses must be
interpreted narrowly and clauses providing for coverage must be interpreted
broadly.  
 
Defendant relies in large part on ¶B
in the parties’ Schedule of Additional Insureds Endorsement. The full
language of that paragraph is as follows:
B. MANAGERS OR LESSORS OF PREMISES 
The following is added as an
Additional Insured: 
Any person or organization shown in
the Policy Declarations, but only with respect to liability arising out of the
ownership, maintenance or use of that part of the premises leased to you and
shown in the Policy Declarations and subject to the following additional
exclusion: 
This insurance does not apply to: 
1. Any  "occurrence"
which takes place after you cease to be a tenant in the premises. 
2. Structural alterations, new
construction or demolition operations performed by or on behalf of the person
or organization shown in the Policy Declarations.
 
Defendant contends that, because
the damage occurred on the roof, and the roof is part of the premises owned by
Defendant, Defendant is covered and cannot be sued.  Defendant ignores, however, the “premises
leased to you” language she quotes.  The
“premises leased to you” is clearly only Plaintiff’s insured’s leased
premises.  The damages arose out of the
maintenance or use of a portion of the premises NOT leased to Plaintiff’s
insured, and therefore Defendant was not an additional insured with respect to
the damages under the policy’s language. 

 
The Court finds the facts of this
case are substantially similar to the facts of Gemini, and the policy is
sufficiently similar to the policy in Gemini as to require denial of the
motion.  
 
f.     
Sanctions
The Court notes that Defendant
seeks sanctions pursuant to CCP §128.5 in connection with her moving
papers.  Because the motion is denied,
the request for sanctions is also denied.
 
Additionally, CCP §128.5(f)(1)(A)
expressly clarifies that a motion for sanctions under §128.5 MUST be made
separately from any other motion or request, and §128.5(f)(1)(B) contains a
safe harbor provision.  Defendant failed
to comply with these requirements, and the request for sanctions would
therefore be denied even if the motion were otherwise granted.
 
g.    
Conclusion
The motion for summary judgment is
denied.  The motion for sanctions is also
denied.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  