

 
BACKGROUND
 
On
November 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Brant Silvia, Manley Thomas, and Terrell Johnson
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Parvis Sharaf
(“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 10, asserting causes of action for (1) breach of
implied warranty of habitability, (2) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment,
(3) general negligence, (4) maintenance of nuisance, and (5) unfair competition
under California Business and Professions Code section 17200. 
 
The
Complaint alleges the following. On November 3, 2015, the parties entered a
rental agreement for real property at 1252 N. Alexandria, Los Angeles, CA (the
“Property”). Compl., ¶¶ 1, 9; Exhibit A – a copy of the rental agreement. Despite
Plaintiffs asking Defendant to make necessary property repairs and
improvements, Defendant failed and refused to maintain and repair the Property
in a timely manner, and sometimes would not repair defective conditions (which
included running water, mold, and inadequate plumbing). Comp., ¶¶ 10-12, 30. When
repairs were undertaken, they were temporary fixes undertaken negligently and
in a manner that did not fix the underlying source of the problems. Comp., ¶
30. As a result of Defendant’s conduct, Defendant has become liable to
Plaintiffs for, among other things, economic damages that include the expenses
Plaintiffs incurred as a result of being forced to stay for months in hotels. Comp.,
¶ 34. 
 
On March
7, 2024, Plaintiffs amended the Complaint to substitute PSDS Investment Corp.
for the defendant sued fictitiously as Doe 1. 
 
On April
8, 2024, the Court held a hearing on Plaintiff Brant Silvia’s Ex Parte
Application to Enter Order for Joint Stipulation to Continue Discovery and
Motion Cut-Off Dates for Service of Deposition Subpoenas Duces Tecum. The Court
granted the request to extend the discovery cut-off date to April 25, 2024, and
motion cut-off date to May 2, 2024. 
 
On March
13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion for leave to file the first
amended complaint (“FAC”). 
 
On April
9, 2024, Defendant filed his opposition to the motion. 
 
On April
17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their reply. 
 
A
non-jury trial is set for May 7, 2024. 
 
MOVING PARTY’S
POSITION
 
            The effect
of the proposed amendment is to amend the Complaint to add the following: (1)
supporting and clarifying facts; (2) a cause of action for retaliatory eviction
under California Civil Code Section 1942.5; (3) a cause of action for Violation
of Los Angeles Municipal Code Sections 45.33 and 151.33 and Los Angeles
Ordinance No. 187109; and (3) add damages under Sections 1942.5, 45.35, and Los
Angeles Ordinance No. 187109. 
 
The proposed amendment is necessary
and proper as it rests on the same general set of facts. Plaintiffs have viable
causes of action for retaliatory eviction, and violations of Los Angeles
Municipal Code and Ordinance.
 
The facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered upon investigation and
discovery in the case. Due to Defendant not being forthright
with his discovery obligations, it has taken Plaintiffs time to discover the
facts and evidence necessary to support the amendments. 
 
The amendments were not made
earlier due to the need for investigation and discovery. Defendant has been
withholding information from Plaintiffs and has actively tried to hinder
Plaintiffs from prosecuting their case.
 
Defendant will not be prejudiced
because (1) Plaintiffs intend to file a separate motion to continue the trial
date, (2) Defendant was already named and served before the amendment was
proposed, (3) Defendant is listed as the agent for service with the California
Secretary of State for PSDS Investment Corp., a California corporation,
apparently the owner of the property at issue in this litigation, and (4)
Defendant was the main contact and managed the property when dealing with
Plaintiffs. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
Plaintiffs are still living in the
Property and have not been paying rent. Therefore, granting the motion will
only prolong the case and incentivize Plaintiffs to stay at the Property
rent-free, prejudicing the Defendant. 
 
The proposed claims are
insufficiently pled and were available to Plaintiffs at the time of filing. Since
Plaintiffs still live in the Property, their proposed retaliatory eviction
claim under Civil Code section 1942.5 has no merit. Likewise, Plaintiffs cannot
support their proposed claims for Los Angeles Municipal Code violations. 
 
Plaintiffs unduly delayed in
bringing the instant motion since they have been aware of facts relevant to their
proposed retaliatory eviction and Los Angeles Municipal Code claims since the
time of filing. 
 
Amending the Complaint will not
benefit Plaintiffs since the Defendant is the owner of PSDS Investment Corp.
and will accept any liability on behalf of PSDS Investment Corp.
 
The proposed amendments are
unnecessary and improperly pleaded; therefore, they are not brought in
furtherance of justice.

 
REPLY
 
In their
reply, Plaintiffs argue the following, among other things. 
 
Defendant
provides no case law that a motion for leave to amend can be denied based on
the alleged failure to pay rent. 
 
Contrary to
Defendant's arguments, Plaintiffs were not aware of their proposed claims at
the time of filing of the original Complaint. Instead, defense counsel
indicated on December 19, 2023, via email, that workers who were working on
fixing certain conditions at the Property were “workers from the street,”
showing that (1) the workers were not licensed contractors with California’s
Contractors State License Board, (2) Defendant failed to complete necessary
repairs and negligently made repairs, (3) Defendant engaged in activity
violating state law, (4) all supporting violations of Los Angeles Ordinance No.
187109, and (5) Plaintiffs’ services were decreased supporting violations of
California Civil Code Section 1942.5. In addition, Plaintiffs recently received
well over 300 pages of documents from the Los Angeles Housing Department (code
enforcement) through subpoena supporting the causes of action and supporting
damages at issue in this motion for leave to amend. 
 
Plaintiffs
brought this motion at their earliest opportunity. Moreover, it is an abuse of
discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or
prejudiced by the amendment. It is also irrelevant that new legal theories are
introduced as long as the proposed amendments relate to the same general set of
facts. 
 
The
statute of limitations has not run on claims against PSDS Investment Corp. In
addition, it will be efficient to sue PSDS Investment Corp. in this action because
it will avoid the filing of a separate lawsuit.
 
Plaintiffs
Brant Silvia and Manley Thomas no longer live in the Property.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO AMEND 
A.        Legal
Standard 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect.” Code Civ. Proc., § 473(a)(1). In addition, “any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” Code Civ. Proc., § 576.  
 
“[T]he
court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of
the pleadings.”  Howard v. County of
San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428. 
 
“Where
no prejudice is shown to the adverse party, the liberal rule of allowance
prevails.” Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564; cf. Arthur
L. Sachs, Inc. v. City of Oceanside (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 315, 324 (denial
of leave to amend on the eve of trial was error absent a showing a prejudice); Higgins,
supra, 123 Cal.App.3d at pp. 565–566 (same).
 
“A motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
(1)    Include
a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
 
(2)    State
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any,
and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and
 
(3)    State
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.”
 
Cal. Rule of Court, rule 3.1324(a).
 
“A
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:
 
(1)    The effect of the amendment;
 
(2)    Why the amendment is
necessary and proper; 
 
(3)    When the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and
 
(4)    The reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
Cal. Rule of Court, rule 3.1324(b).
 
B.        Discussion 
 
As an initial matter, the Court
finds that Plaintiffs have satisfied the California Rules of Court requirements
above. 
 
Plaintiffs, in pro per, move
for an order allowing them to file a FAC, adding a sixth cause of action for retaliation/discrimination
in violation of Civil Code section 1942.5 and a seventh cause of action for
violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code sections 45.33 and 151.33 and Los
Angeles Ordinance No. 187109. Plaintiffs also seek to add damages related to
those new causes of action, delete some allegations, and add facts missing in
their original Complaint. Plaintiffs argue that the amendments are necessary
and proper because they rest on the same general set of facts, and their
proposed new claims are viable. Plaintiffs testify that they could not bring
the motion earlier because they needed to conduct discovery, and Defendant was
deliberately withholding information from Plaintiffs. Motion, Declarations of
Brant Silvia, Manley Thomas, and Terrell Johnson, ¶¶ 4-6. As required,
Plaintiffs have attached a copy of the proposed FAC. Motion, Exhibit A. 
 
With regard to the retaliatory
eviction claim: “California has two parallel and independent sources for the
doctrine of retaliatory eviction.” Barela v. Superior Court (1981) 30
Cal.3d 244, 251. There is a common law retaliatory eviction defense. Id.
at p. 250. There is also Civil Code section 1942.5. Ibid. “Section
1942.5 is a remedial statute aimed at protecting tenants from certain types of
abuses.” Id. at p. 251. “Subdivision (c) of section 1942.5 provides that
it is unlawful ‘for a lessor to increase rent, decrease services, cause a
lessee to quit involuntarily, bring an action to recover possession, or
threaten to do any of such acts, for the purpose of retaliating against the
lessee because he or she has ... lawfully and peaceably exercised any rights
under the law.’” Ibid. Here, Plaintiffs allege that during their
tenancy, they engaged in protected activities, including notifying Defendants
of uninhabitable living conditions at the Property, calling code enforcement to
obtain correction of habitability issues, requesting repair and/or remediation
of those conditions, and denying entry into the Property when the defendants
did not provide written notice. Motion, Exhibit A – the Proposed FAC, ¶ 63. The
proposed FAC alleges that the defendants unlawfully decreased services for
Plaintiffs for lawfully and peaceably exercising their rights under the law. Id.
¶ 64.
 
Under the proposed seventh
cause of action, Plaintiffs allege the following, among other things. Los
Angeles Ordinance No. 187109 and Los Angeles Municipal Code sections 45.33 and
151.33 provide aggrieved tenants with a private right of action and affirmative
defense in eviction, ejectment, and other actions. Motion, Exhibit A – the
Proposed FAC, ¶ 71. The defendants have violated those laws by, among other
things, reducing or eliminating housing services required by lease, contract,
or law, and threatening or engaging in acts or omissions that interfered with
Plaintiffs’ right to use and enjoy their rented premises. Id. ¶ 72. 
 
The Court finds it proper to
grant Plaintiffs’ leave to amend the Complaint given the liberal policy
favoring amendments. Defendant argues that the proposed claims fail to state
facts that constitute a cause of action. To the extent that is true, Defendant
can file a demurrer, citing the relevant authorities. Defendant also argues
that Plaintiffs were aware of their claim at the time they were filing their
original Complaint. However, Defendant does not offer any evidence (e.g., a
declaration) to support that argument. On the other hand, Plaintiffs have
testified, and Defendant has not disputed, that Plaintiffs discovered facts
supporting the new claims through discovery that the Defendant was allegedly
withholding. In addition, as stated above, denying the motion where no
prejudice has been shown amounts to an abuse of discretion. Here, Defendant
only argues he will be prejudiced because the amendment will prolong the case
while Plaintiffs continue living in the Property without paying rent. However,
Defendant has not cited (and the Court has not found) any authority finding
that failure to pay rent is grounds for denying a motion for leave to amend. In
addition, Plaintiffs state that two of them have already left the Property,
disputing Defendant’s implied argument that all Plaintiffs are living in
the Property without paying rent. 
 
            For
those reasons, leave to file the proposed FAC is granted. 
 
II.        CONCLUSION 
            
Plaintiffs Brant Silvia, Manley Thomas, and Terrell
Johnson’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to serve and electronically file their
First Amended Complaint within 5 days of this ruling.
 
 Responsive
pleadings must be served and electronically filed within 30 days of service of Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint.
 
Moving Parties ordered to give notice.