

 
BACKGROUND
 
On
September 6, 2022, Plaintiff Jordan Brown (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendant Kylee Thurman (“Defendant”), asserting causes of action of
(1) breach of contract, (2) intentional tort, and (3) intentional tort. 
 
The
Attachments to the original Complaint allege the following. On or about August 13,
2017, the parties entered into an agreement to jointly procure, care for, and
pay expenses associated with the possession of Albus, a dog. On or about August
10, 2019, the parties ceased living together but agreed to continue sharing
custody of Albus. On or about January 24, 2022, Defendant breached the
agreement and committed intentional torts by refusing to continue sharing custody
of the dog. As a result of Defendant’s conduct, Plaintiff has suffered, among
other things, emotional distress and incurred damages of $5,201.62, consisting
of the dog’s adoption, medical care, feeding, and grooming. 
 
On
January 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendant, asserting the same causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2)
intentional tort, and (3) intentional tort, and essentially making the same
allegations as the original Complaint.
 
On
February 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application for an order
continuing trial in order to “move for leave to amend the first amended
complaint and for reclassification to unlimited jurisdiction, as well as to
continue efforts to serve subpoenas, evaluate tardy disclosures from Defendant,
and otherwise generally make ready for trial.” Ex Parte Application filed
February 28, 2024, pp. 1:26-2:3.
 
On
February 29, 2024, the Court denied the ex parte after finding that Plaintiff
failed to show circumstances warranting continuance of trial and reclassifying
the case on an ex-parte basis. 
 
On March
5, 2024, the Court called the case for trial and referred the matter to
Department 1 for trial assignment. However, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a
peremptory challenge to the assigned trial judge. Department 1 informed the
Court that there were no further trial assignments. The Court, therefore,
continued the non-jury trial to April16, 2024. 
 
On March
8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for reclassification, asking the Court for an
order reclassifying this matter from a limited civil to an unlimited civil
case. 
 
On March
21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to amend the FAC. 
 
On March
25, 2024, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application for an order advancing the hearing
on the motion for leave to amend from April 22, 2024, to April 15, 2024. 
 
On March
25, 2024, Defendant filed her objection to the ex parte application. 
 
On March
26, 2024, the Court denied the ex parte application because Plaintiff failed to
show the basis for granting ex parte relief. 
 
On April
2, 2024, Defendant filed her opposition to the motion for reclassification. On
April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed his reply. 
 
On April
9, 2024, Defendant filed her opposition to the motion for leave to amend. 
 
On April
15, 2024, the Court held a hearing on the motion to reclassify and denied the
motion. 
 
On April
16, 2024, all parties announced that they were ready for trial but due to the
unavailability of trial courtrooms, the non-jury trial was continued to its
current date, May 20, 2024. 
 
As of
April 18, 2024, Plaintiff has not filed any reply in response to the opposition
to the motion for leave to amend. 
 
MOVING PARTY’S
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
seeks leave to amend the FAC on the following grounds: (1) new allegations,
grounds for relief, damages calculation, and prayer that are the fruits of
information Plaintiff newly learned and/or came to understand pursuant to Dr.
Hoover’s 2/23/2024 report of her evaluation of Plaintiff; (2) new allegations,
grounds for relief, damages calculation and prayer that address
assertions/arguments Defendant has raised in her 2/9/2024 General Denial
responsive to the FAC, (3) Plaintiff’s emotional support animal, Albus, is not
fungible, and his value to Plaintiff is greater than merely the dollar amount
paid to adopt him more than six years ago justifying reclassification of this
action; and (4) basis for an award of attorney’s fees and costs under Civil
Code Section 3336.
 
.
 
OPPOSITION
 
Plaintiff’s apparent lack of
diligence in preparing his case and claimed “discovery” of new damages is
insufficient to justify amending the complaint. 
 
The declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel
submitted in support of Plaintiff’s motion for reclassification confirms that
Plaintiff was aware of these additional theories and alleged causes of action before
filing the FAC.
 
Defendant will be prejudiced if the
Court grants leave to amend because the parties have already appeared and
declared they are ready for trial. In addition, the Court has confirmed that
discovery is closed. The proposed amendment would require additional discovery
on Plaintiff’s new legal theories and alleged damages. However, such discovery
is not allowed because it has closed, and this is a limited civil case. Delaying
the trial further and forcing Defendant to conduct more discovery on untimely
brought claims is unfairly prejudicial to Defendant and is not in the interest
of justice.
 
REPLY
 
            None. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO AMEND 
A.        Legal
Standard 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect.” Code Civ. Proc., § 473(a)(1). In addition, “any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” Code Civ. Proc., § 576.  
 
“[T]he
court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of
the pleadings.”  Howard v. County of
San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428. 
 
“Where
no prejudice is shown to the adverse party, the liberal rule of allowance
prevails.” Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564; cf. Arthur
L. Sachs, Inc. v. City of Oceanside (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 315, 324 (denial
of leave to amend on the eve of trial was error absent a showing a prejudice); Higgins,
supra, 123 Cal.App.3d at pp. 565–566 (same).
 
“A motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
(1)    Include
a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
 
(2)    State
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any,
and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and
 
(3)    State
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.”
 
Cal. Rule of Court, rule 3.1324(a).
 
“A
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:
 
(1)    The effect of the amendment;
 
(2)    Why the amendment is
necessary and proper; 
 
(3)    When the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and
 
(4)    The reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
Cal. Rule of Court, rule 3.1324(b).
 
B.        Discussion 
 
As an initial matter, the Court
already heard and denied Plaintiff’s motion to reclassify on April 15, 2024. Therefore, Plaintiff’s request to
reclassify this case in the instant motion for leave to amend is denied as
moot. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that leave to amend should be granted for the following reasons. Since
the filing of his FAC, Plaintiff was professionally evaluated by Dr. Serina
Hoover, Psy.D. (“Dr. Hoover”). Dr. Hoover’s report constitutes clear new
evidence that Defendant’s conduct manifested substantial emotional distress to
Plaintiff such that he is entitled to and now seeks to demand damages above
this Court’s jurisdictional limits. Dr. Hoover’s findings on February 23, 2024,
“and/or” defenses in Defendant’s general denial filed on February 9, 2024,
justify Plaintiff’s intent to add the following allegations:
 
a.      
Negligent Infliction
of Emotional Distress, in the alternative to his extant cause of action for
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 
 
b.     
Violation of Penal
Code § 496, subsection c, which authorizes civil action for treble damages,
attorney’s fees and costs of suit; and 
 
c.      
The basis for
attorney’s fees and costs pursuant to, e.g., Civ Code Section 3336.
 
Notice of Motion, p. 2:3-19.
 
“If the motion to amend
is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal also
results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause
of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.” Morgan v. Superior Court of Cal. in and for Los Angeles County (1959)
172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530 (emphasis added).
 
            Here,
although the fact that trial is pending is not enough grounds for denying the
motion, Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration fails to comply with the California
Rules of Court. Counsel
testifies when
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered (i.e., allegedly
after Plaintiff received Dr.
Hoover’s expert report and Defendant filed her General Denial). Motion,
Declaration of Perrin Disner, ¶ 2. However, counsel does not specify (1) the effect of the amendment,
(2) why the amendment
is necessary and proper, and (3) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier. Cal. Rule of Court, rule 3.1324(b). Therefore, the Court does
not have enough information to find that its denial of the motion will deprive parties
of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense.
In addition, as stated above, “[a] motion to amend a pleading before trial
must: ¶ …. ¶ ….¶  State what allegations
are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by
page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.”
Cal. Rule of Court, rule 3.1324(a) (emphasis added). Here, the motion fails to
comply with that requirement. 
 
            For
those reasons, leave to amend is denied. 
 
II.        CONCLUSION 
            
Plaintiff Jordan Brown’s Motion for Leave to Amend the First
Amended Complaint and for Reclassification is DENIED.
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 