  Case Number:  20STCV12016    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




dennis luna

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
fernando gaytan

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV12016




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   7, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiffs’ motion to reopen summary
  judgment and set aside judgment
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Plaintiffs Dennis Luna and
Vanessa Luna Bishop
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Defendants Fernando Gaytan and Angie Coello
Motion to Reopen Summary Judgment and Set Aside Judgment 
The court
considered the moving and opposition papers filed in connection with this
motion.  No reply papers were filed. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court rules on defendants
Fernando Gaytan and Angie Coello’s evidentiary objections, filed on January 25,
2024, as follows:
Objections Nos. 1-5 are overruled. 
Objection No. 6 is sustained. 
The court does not rule on the evidentiary objections directed to the declaration
of Dennis Luna, filed by plaintiffs Dennis Luna and Vanessa Luna Bishop in
support of their opposition to defendants Fernando Gaytan and Angie Coello’s
motion for summary judgment, because the motion for summary judgment is not
before the court and because that declaration it is not material to the court’s
disposition of this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiffs Dennis Luna and Vanessa Luna Bishop (“Plaintiffs”) move the
court for an order (1) reopening the motion for summary judgment filed by
defendants Fernando Gaytan and Angie Coello (“Defendants”) and granted by the
court on March 6, 2023, and (2) vacating the judgment entered by the court in
favor of Defendants and against Plaintiffs on May 1, 2023. 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his
or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  An
application for relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision
(b) must be accompanied by a copy of the pleading proposed to be filed therein
and shall be made within a reasonable time not to exceed six months after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.  (Ibid.)  “A party seeking relief under section 473
bears the burden of proof.”  (Hearn v.
Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1205.) 
The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show that
the court’s March 6, 2023 order granting Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment and, subsequently, the judgment entered on May 1, 2023, was taken as a
result of Plaintiffs’ “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b); Hearn, supra, 177 Cal.App.4th at p. 1205.) 
In support of their motion, Plaintiffs have submitted the declaration
of plaintiff Dennis Luna, in which he states that (1) his attorney informed him
that he was behind on his legal bills; (2) he was unable to continue to retain
legal counsel because he could not obtain the funds necessary to pay those
bills; (3) on February 14, 2023, counsel ceased representing Plaintiffs in this
action; (4) plaintiff Dennis Luna believed that he could oppose Defendants’
motion orally at the hearing on the motion; and (5) he was surprised to learn
on March 6, 2023 that the motion had been granted and that the court’s ruling
indicated that Plaintiffs had not filed an opposition.  (Pl. D. Luna Decl., ¶¶ 4, 6-8.)  The court finds that this evidence is
insufficient to establish mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect. 
“Mistake is not a ground for relief under section 473, subdivision
(b), when ‘the court finds that the “mistake” is simply the result of
professional incompetence, general ignorance of the law, or unjustifiable
negligence in discovering the law . . . .’ 
[Citation.]  Further, ‘[t]he term
“surprise,” as used in section 473, refers to “ ‘some condition or situation in
which a party . . . is unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default
or negligence of his own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded
against.’ ”  [Citation.]’  [Citation.] 
Finally, as for inadvertence or neglect, ‘[t]o warrant relief under
section 473 a litigant’s neglect must have been such as might have been the act
of a reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances.’”  (Hearn, supra, 177 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1206 [internal citations omitted].) 

The court finds that plaintiff Dennis Luna’s declaration does not show
that Plaintiffs were unexpectedly placed to injury which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against, or that Plaintiffs’ decision to oppose
Defendants’ motion orally, and without filing opposition papers and evidence
with the court, would have been made by a reasonably prudent person under the
same circumstances.  (Hearn, supra,
177 Cal.App.4th at p. 1206.)  Further,
Plaintiffs’ mistake in failing to file an opposition with the court was the
result of their general ignorance of the law, which does not warrant relief
under section 473.  (Ibid.; Pl. D. Luna Decl.,
¶ 10 [“I am not an attorney and I did not know that there was a specific
procedure set forth in the Code of Civil Procedure for objecting to a summary
judgment motion”].)  
The court also notes, and
finds relevant, that Plaintiffs’ evidence shows that they were informed of
Defendants’ summary judgment motion on separate occasions in both December 2022
and February 2023.  (Pl. D. Luna Decl., ¶ 3
[“In December, 2022, I was informed by my then legal counsel . . . that a
motion for summary judgment was filed by Defendants], ¶ 6 [“I was reminded by
legal counsel of the Summary Judgment hearing”].)  Thus, Plaintiffs have conceded that they were
aware of Defendants’ motion for summary judgment and elected not to file a
written opposition thereto.  This
decision does not constitute a mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect. 
For the reasons set forth
above, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show that
the court should exercise its discretion to set aside the court’s March 6, 2023
order granting Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, reset the motion for
summary judgment for hearing, and vacate the resulting judgment entered by the
court on May 1, 2023.  The court
therefore denies Plaintiffs’ motion.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); Hearn, supra, 177
Cal.App.4th at p. 1206.)  
ORDER
            The court denies plaintiffs Dennis
Luna and Vanessa Luna Bishop’s motion to reopen summary judgment and set aside
judgment. 
The court orders defendants Fernando Gaytan and Angie Coello to give
notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  February 7, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court