 Case Number:  23GDCV00350    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 04/05/2024 – 8:30am
Case No. 23GDCV00350
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: WELL BUILT CONSTRUCTION & RENOVATIONS LLC v. JEIMECE WARE, an
individual; DOES 1-100 inclusive
[TENTATIVE
RULING– MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DEFAULT]
 
RELIEF REQUESTED¿ 
“Defendant,
Jeimece Ware, moves to set aside the default and default judgment entered
against her on the Complaint of Plaintiff Well Built Construction &
Renovations (Well Built). This motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 473(b) on the ground that the default judgment was taken
against her through her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect,
Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 on the ground that service of the summons
did not result in actual notice to her in time to defend the action, and on the
Court’s inherent, equitable power to set aside a judgment on the ground of
extrinsic fraud or mistake.”
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Defendant, Jeimece Ware
Responding Party: No Opposition
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion
Opposition Papers: No Opposition
Reply Papers: No Reply
16/21 Day Lapse (CCP §12c and §1005(b):
Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a): Yes/No – This motion was allegedly
served via mail and electronic mail. The mailing address that Defendant used to
serve Plaintiff’s counsel appears to be correct. However, with respect to
electronic mail, the email address on the proof of service does not match the
email address listed on eCourt for Plaintiff’s counsel.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, Well Built Construction
& Renovations LLC, filed a Complaint for breach of contract against
Defendant, Jeimece Ware, on 2/22/2023. On 7/27/2023,
Plaintiff filed a proof of service of summons indicating that Defendant was served
by substituted service on 7/15/2023.

On 9/5/2023,
Plaintiff filed a request for entry of default and the Court entered default on
9/5/2023.
On
10/19/2023, the Court entered default judgment against Defendant.
On
10/25/2023, the Court filed the notice of entry of judgment and certificate of
mailing. 
It appears
as if Plaintiff served the Notice of Entry of Judgment on 12/4/2023.
ANALYSIS
Defendant moves to set aside the
default and default judgment under three theories – CCP §473(b) on the ground
that the default judgment was taken against her through her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; CCP § 473.5 on the ground that service of
the summons did not result in actual notice to her in time to defend the action;
and on the Court’s inherent, equitable power to set aside a judgment on the
ground of extrinsic fraud or mistake.
CCP §473(b)
CCP
§473(b) states as follows:
The court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief
shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be
filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be
made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken… 
 
(CCP §473(b).)
 
Analysis of 473(b)
(1) The Motion is Timely Filed
“Notwithstanding
any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an
application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment…”
(CCP §473(b).) “We conclude that the six-month limitations periods of the
mandatory and the discretionary relief provisions of section
473(b) mean the longer of six calendar months or 182 days.” (Jiminez v.
Chavez (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 50, 58 citing Gonzales v. County of
Los Angeles (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 601.)
Here, default judgment was entered on 10/19/2023. This
motion was filed on 3/4/2024. At latest, it was served 5 calendar days after
March 4, 2024 via mail. Six months after 10/19/2024 would be April 19, 2024;
therefore, this motion was filed within six months of the entry of judgment.
(2) Application is
in Proper Form
“Legislature
intended the phrase “in proper form” to encompass the mandate that the
application for relief under section 473, subdivision (b) be accompanied by the
pleading proposed to be filed therein.” (Hernandez v. FCA US LLC (2020)
50 Cal.App.5th 329, 336-37 citing Carmel, Ltd. v. Tavoussi (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 393, 401.)
 
“[S]ubstantial compliance with that requirement is
sufficient.” (Dollase v. Wanu Water, Inc. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1315,
1324 citing Carmel, Ltd. v. Tavoussi (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 393, 403.)
Here, the motion was accompanied by a proposed answer.
(3) taken against him or her through his
or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
“…or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (CCP §473(b).)
Here, Defendant Jeimece Ware submitted a declaration
which stated :
1. I am the defendant in
the above captioned case. I have personal knowledge of the facts contained
herein, and if called upon to testify, I could and would competently do so. 
2. I make this
declaration in support of my Motion to Set Aside the Entry of Default and
Default Judgment entered against me. 
3. I reside at 3700 S.
Sepulveda #357, Los Angeles, CA 90034. I have resided at this address since
October 2022. I live there with my three kids, ages 10, 5, and 23 months. 
4. The first time that I
became aware of the lawsuit against me was in late September of 2023. A yellow
envelope with Summons and Complaint was stuffed in my mailbox. 
5. I was never handed a
copy of the Summons and Complaint. I have done nothing to avoid service of the
Summons and Complaint. 
6. On July 15, 2023 at
8:30 a.m. I was attending classes on the campus of Charles Drew University. I
was on campus until 2:00 pm. There was no one at my residence at that time. 
7. I retained LS Carlson
Law P.C., on January 5, 2024. I hoped that the law firm would be able to
negotiate some sort of settlement or alternatively address the judgment that
was entered against me.
8. The Complaint filed
against me omitted some material facts. Most importantly, the Complaint failed
to disclose that partial payments had already been made and all of the
repairs were not completed. Plaintiff is attempting to take advantage of
the situation to recover more than what might be deserved.
(Ware Decl. ¶¶1-8.)
Further, Defendant’s
former counsel submitted a declaration that stated:
1. I am a senior
associate at LS Carlson Law, P:C (the “Firm,”) attorneys for defendant Jeimece
Ware (“Defendant.”) I have personal knowledge of the facts contained herein,
and if called upon to testify, I could and would competently do so. 
2. I make this
declaration in support of Jeimece Ware’s Motion to Set Aside the Entry of
Default and Default Judgment entered against her. 
3. I was assigned to work
on Jeimece Ware’s case in early January 2024. My first correspondence with her
was on January 11, 2024. I introduced myself and provided a brief overview of
what I expected would occur. 
4. I sent a Notice of
Representation to counsels for Plaintiff Well Built Construction &
Renovations LLC Rodolfo Gaba, Jr. and Ryan M. Arakawa. In this letter I also
requested that they stipulate setting aside the default judgment so that the
case can be heard on its merits, and also avoid the need to have my client file
a motion to set aside the entry of default and the default judgment. 
5. Though opposing
counsels did not agree to stipulate setting aside the entry of default and the
default judgment. They did begin settlement negotiations. I believe that the
settlement negotiations were in good faith, but the parties still could not reach
an agreement.
6. I did not want to
conclude settlement negotiations until I absolutely needed to. Jeimece Ware’s
Motion to Set Aside the Entry of Default and Default Judgment has a 6 month
window to be filed under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b) and I wanted to
use it all to try to reach a settlement.
(Sarnowski Decl. ¶¶1-6.)
“The provisions of
section 473…are to be liberally construed and sound policy favors the
determination of actions on their merits.” [Citation.] Because the law strongly
favors trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 473
must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default.” (Shapell
Socal Rental Properties, LLC v. Chico’s FAS, Inc. (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th
198, 212.)
Here,
although Plaintiff filed a proof of service of summons indicating that
Defendant was served by substituted service on 7/15/2023; Defendant’s
declaration calls the substitute service into question because she states that
“The first time that I became aware of the lawsuit against me was in late
September of 2023. A yellow envelope with Summons and Complaint was stuffed in
my mailbox.” (Decl. Ware ¶4.) Further, Defendant’s declaration states that no
one was at her residence at the time of the alleged substitute service. (See
Decl. Ware ¶6.)
Therefore,
Defendant has demonstrated sufficient grounds to vacate the default and default
judgment entered against her in this case.
CCP
§473.5
CCP §473.5 states:
(a) When service of a summons has not resulted in
actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default
judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve
and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and
for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed
within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of:
(i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or
(ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the
default or default judgment has been entered.
(b) A notice of motion to set aside a default or
default judgment and for leave to defend the action shall designate as the time
for making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and
it shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party’s
lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her
avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve and file
with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be
filed in the action.
(c) Upon a finding by the court that the motion was
made within the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of
actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her
avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default or
default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to defend
the action.
(CCP §473.5(a)-(c).)
Here, Movant
sufficiently describes how she filed this within the 180 day timeframe.
Court’s
Inherent Equitable Power
As to Defendant’s basis for relief
under this theory, the Defendant states:
Courts have inherent, equitable power to set aside a
judgment on the ground of extrinsic fraud of mistake. (Olivera v. Grace
(1942) 19 Cal.2d 570, 575–576.) This term broadly applies whenever “when
circumstances extrinsic to the litigation have unfairly cost a party a hearing
on the merits.” (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981.) For a
default judgment, the party must demonstrate that it has a meritorious case, it
must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not presenting a defense to the
original action, and it must demonstrate diligence in seeking to set aside the
default once the default has been discovered. (Id., 8 Cal.4th at p.
982.)
(Def. Mot. p. 5.)
As to this
theory, Defendant provides little explanation as to what is considered extrinsic
fraud or mistake. Further, Defendant does not explain what the extrinsic fraud
or mistake was in this case.
As to
whether Defendant has a meritorious case, it is unclear how Defendant is
demonstrating it has a meritorious case. Defendant simply stated:
Jeimece Ware has a meritorious case. The Complaint omitted
some material facts. Most importantly, the Complaint failed to disclose that
partial payments had already been made and all of the repairs were not completed.
Plaintiff is attempting to take advantage of the situation. The relief sought
by Plaintiff is exaggerated. Payments made to Plaintiff have not been credited.
A complete accounting after thorough discovery will establish this fact.
(Declaration of Jeimece Ware, ¶5)
(Def. Mot. p. 8.)
Defendant provided no legal context or background
explanation as to how this shows that Defendant has a meritorious case. 
Defendant also argues she had a satisfactory excuse for not
presenting a defense because she was not informed of the lawsuit against her in
time for her to defendant and that the entry of default was taken completely by
her surprise. 
As to diligence in setting aside the entry of default and
default judgment, Defendant points to various portions of the Ware and
Sarnowski declarations.
TENTATIVE RULING
The
Court will hear from counsel
Sanctions


Under 473(c):
(1) Whenever the
court grants relief from a default, default judgment, or dismissal based on any
of the provisions of this section, the court may do any of the following:
(A) Impose
a penalty of no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) upon an offending
attorney or party.
(B) Direct
that an offending attorney pay an amount no greater than one thousand dollars
($1,000) to the State Bar Client Security Fund.
(C) Grant
other relief as is appropriate.
 
(2) However, where
the court grants relief from a default or default judgment pursuant to this
section based upon the affidavit of the defaulting party’s attorney attesting
to the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, the relief shall
not be made conditional upon the attorney’s payment of compensatory legal fees
or costs or monetary penalties imposed by the court or upon compliance with
other sanctions ordered by the court.
 
(CCP §473(c)(1)-(2).)   