 Case Number:  21PSCV01086    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 04/05/2024 – 8:30am
Case No.  21PSCV01086
Trial Date:   UNSET
Case Name: ERIC CHEN; CINDY CHOU v. JAMES WU; USA LIFE MANAGEMENT
CORPORATION; CHIHUANG WU; PIHUI WU
 
[TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM WAIVER OF OBJECTIONS] 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED 
“Defendant James Wu moves for an order relieving him from waiver of objections
to the discovery served on him by Plaintiffs on October 13, 2023.
 
The motion will be made on the
grounds that Defendant James Wu has served responses in substantial compliance
with sections 2030.010 et seq., 2031.010 et seq., and 2033.010 et seq., and the
failure to serve timely responses was the result of his attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
 
The
motion will be based on this notice, the attached memorandum of points and
authorities, and declaration of Lyle R. Mink; on all documents in the court
file, and on any documents and argument which may be presented to the court
before the ruling on the motion.”
 
PRELIMINARY PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Defendant, James Wu
 
Responding Party: Plaintiff, Eric
Chen
 
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC
Rule 3.1300(c)): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address: Ok
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Mink Reply Declaration
 
ANALYSIS
Uncertainty
and Failure to Properly File Motions
As
a preliminary matter, Defendant’s notice of motion and memorandum do not make
clear by any means as to which type of discovery (SROG, RPD, FROG, RFA) and which
set that Defendant is seeking relief from waiver of its objections. Defendant
simply explains that it is seeking relief from waiver of objections to the
discovery served on him by Plaintiffs on October 13, 2023.
 
Presumably,
based on the Mink declaration and the Opposition, it appears as if Defendant is
seeking relief from waiver of objections from RFAs, Set Two; FROG, Set Two;
RPD, Set  Three; and SROG, Set One.
 
Movant
should clarify at the hearing if these are the discovery sets that he seeks
relief for waiver of objections.
 
Assuming
Defendant is seeking relief from waiver of objections from RFAs, Set Two; FROG,
Set Two; RPD, Set  Three; and SROG, Set
One, Defendant did not properly file this motion. As pointed out by Plaintiff,
Defendant only filed one motion to address all four of these discovery methods.
 
A motion must be
brought separately as to each discovery method at issue. The instant motion
should have been filed as four separate motions and four filing fees paid.
Instead, Defendant filed only one motion. 
“[P]ayment of filing fees is both mandatory and jurisdictional.” (Hu
vs. Silgan Containers Corp. (1999) 70 Cal. App. 4th 1261,
1269.)  
Defendant is to
address whether any of these motions can be heard, or if only one of them can
be heard, and if only one motion can be heard, which motion it is that can be
heard. Defendant is also to address the issue of filing fees.
Statutes
on Granting Relief from Waiver of Objections
“If a party to whom a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve
a timely response to it, the following rules shall apply:
(a) The party to
whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed
waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege or on the
protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010).
The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its
determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with Sections
2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280.
(2) The party’s
failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.” (CCP §2031.300(a)(1)-(2).)
The relief is also
available with respect to interrogatories and requests for admissions under
similar provisions in CCP sections 2030.290(a)(1)-(2) and 2033.280(a)(1)-(2).
As indicated from
2031.300(a), 2030.290(a), and 2033.280(a), Defendant must demonstrate he
subsequently served a response that was substantially compliant and that the
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
Discussion


Lack of Case
Authority and Explanation as to How Defendant Complied
Defendant does not deny that it submitted
untimely responses.
In both Defendant’s
motion and his Reply, Defendant includes zero case law on what is considered
“substantial compliance” and what is considered “mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.”
Aside from Defendant’s
arguments on why it didn’t provide a timely response, Defendant’s only attempt
at making a substantive argument as to why he didn’t waive objections is based on
the Brookview Condominium case that Defendant cited that is entirely
inapposite as pointed out in the Opposition.
Both parties seem to
agree that the instant discovery was served electronically and to Defendant’s
Pasadena office on October 13, 2023. 
Defendant’s
explanations as to why it did not timely provide responses, and instead
provided responses untimely on November 27, 2023, is because Mr. Mink says he
was in trial from September 28, 2023 to November 1, 2023. Mr. Mink argues that
he did not see the discovery in his inbox while at trial and that he did not
receive the discovery served to the Pasadena office because he does not work in
the Pasadena office.
Defendant is under the
impression that failing to respond to discovery based on not seeing it or not having
the Pasadena office send it to him is mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. Neither in Defendant’s moving papers nor Reply does Defendant cite any
case law as to what is mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
Plaintiff in
Opposition argues that this is not excusable neglect. Plaintiff argues that
Defendant’s firm has more attorneys than just the attorney submitting the
moving declaration, and Plaintiff argues that multiple attorneys from
Defendant’s firm were cc’ed on the emailed discovery. 
Plaintiff also cites
to Spencer v. Merced County Office of Educ (1997) 59 Cal. App. 4th 1429,
1437 to argue that in order to determine if excusable neglect, inadvertence, or
mistake has occurred, the court should look at the nature of the mistake or
neglect, and whether counsel was otherwise diligent in investigating and
pursuing the claim. Plaintiff argues that Spencer also states in
examining the mistake or neglect, the court inquires whether a reasonably
prudent person under the same or similar circumstances might have made the same
error.
The problem the Court
faces in determining whether Defendant’s failure to timely respond was the
result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect is that Plaintiff’s
citation to Spencer is not directly on point (it does not pertain to a
case dealing with mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect under the
discovery statutes), and Defendant provides zero case law to support its
argument that its failure to respond simply because it didn’t see the discovery
because it was in trial supports a finding of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect. 
Although not
directly on point, the court in Bettencourt v. Los Rios Community College
Dist. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 270, 276 examined whether there was excusable
neglect for an attorney’s failure to file a claim with the correct public
entity. The court in Bettencourt stated that when deciding whether
counsel’s error is excusable, the court looks to: (1) the nature of the mistake
or neglect, and (2) whether counsel was otherwise diligent in investigating and
pursuing the claim. (Id.) Further in Bettencourt, the court noted
that in examining the mistake or neglect, the court inquires whether “a
reasonably prudent person under the same or similar circumstances” might have
made the same error.
Here,
Defendant has not demonstrated mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. Defendant’s
counsel simply argues that he did not see the discovery in his email, and as to
the mailed discovery, it was sent to an office that he does not work out of. Plaintiff’s
Opposition pointed out how other attorneys for Defendant were cc’ed on the
email containing the discovery, and Defendant’s Reply declaration does not even
attempt to address why other attorneys at his firm didn’t alert him of the
emails containing discovery. Further, Defendant’s declaration does not state
why there were no systems in place for the Pasadena office to alert him to the
discovery propounded on Defendant. Defendant does not include any declarations
by administrative employees explaining they made any type of error by failing
to forward discovery to Mr.  Mink.
Substantial
Compliance
Defendant
states that its untimely responses were substantially compliant, but Defendant
provides no case law as to what is considered substantially compliant.
In
Opposition, Plaintiff argues how the untimely responses were not substantially
compliant. Plaintiff cites to St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.
App. 4th 762, 779 to argue that all of Defendant’s responses were not
substantially complaint.
In Reply,
Defendant makes no legal argument as to how its responses were substantially
compliant.
While not
directly on point, St. Mary helps shed light on what is considered
“substantial compliance.”
In relevant
part of St. Mary:
“This formulation is unobjectionable so long as it is
understood to mean that each objective or purpose of a statute must be achieved
in order to satisfy the substantial compliance standard, but this language
cannot properly be understood to require ‘actual compliance’ with every
specific statutory requirement.” (Costa v. Superior Court (2006)
37 Cal.4th 986, 1017, fn. 24, 39 Cal.Rptr.3d 470, 128 P.3d 675 (Costa ).)
An appellate court in a more recent case succinctly observed: “Substantial
compliance with a statute is dependent on the meaning and purpose of the
statute.” (Freeman v. Vista de Santa Barbara Associates, LP (2012)
207 Cal.App.4th 791, 793, 144 Cal.Rptr.3d 42 (Freeman ).) 
…
We find no authority for this piecemeal approach to
adjudicating a tardy, proposed RFA response filed by a responding party prior
to the hearing on a deemed admitted motion. Subdivision (c) of section
2033.280 requires the court to evaluate whether the “proposed response to
the requests for admission” substantially complies with section
2033.220. (Italics added.) This *780 suggests that the
court evaluate qualitatively the proposed response to RFAs in toto to determine
whether it substantially complies with the code. It does not permit the court
to segregate each individual RFA response for the purpose of finding that
portions of the document are code-compliant (and will therefore be accepted),
while concluding that other portions are noncompliant (and will thus be
rejected). Furthermore, the fact that there is an effective statutory vehicle
by which a propounding party may seek a court order compelling a responding
party to cure individual RFA responses deemed not to be in compliance with
section 2033.220—namely, a motion to compel further responses under section
2033.290—offers additional support for our view that the court's seriatim
approach to St. Mary's proposed response to the
RFAs was improper. We therefore conclude that the court's misapplication
of section 2033.280 in granting the deemed admitted Motion in part
and denying it in part constituted an abuse of discretion. (See City
of Sacramento v. Drew, supra, 207 Cal.App.3d at p. 1297,
255 Cal.Rptr. 704 [“[a]ction that transgresses the confines of the applicable
principles of law is outside the scope of discretion and we call such action an
‘abuse’ of discretion.”].)
(St. Mary
v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 779-780.)
 
Here, Defendant provided responses after the deadline to
provide initial responses. These untimely responses were sent with
verifications. Opposition seems to argue that the untimely objections are not
in substantial compliance based on the argument that the objections were not in
substantial compliance with the code. However, to this Court, it seems that Opposition’s
arguments that the objections are not meritorious would be more properly
addressed on a motion to compel further responses.
In fact, Plaintiff’s Opposition even states that whether
these untimely objections were code compliant is subject to three motions to
compel further responses. [Opposition notes that the motions to compel further
are on calendar as the same day as the motion for relief from waiver of
objections but the Court does not find support for Opposition’s statement. In
fact, on March 8, 2024, the Court advanced and vacated the motions to compel
further scheduled for 3/8/2024.] Further, Opposition doesn’t fully address
which responses, in which discovery sets, are not substantially compliant.
Opposition cites to other motions that are allegedly on calendar that do not
appear to be on calendar.
As footnote 22 in St. Mary stated:

“Our conclusion that the proposed response was substantially code-compliant and
therefore the Motion should have been denied does not suggest that there are no
defects whatsoever with respect to any of the 41 responses to RFAs the court
found deficient and ordered to be deemed admitted. Indeed, St. Mary responded
to several of the individual RFAs with “[u]ncertain.” We surmise that these
responses are a denial based upon lack of information and belief; but if that
is the case, they do not comply in full with the requirements of subdivision
(d) of section 2033.220. Our disposition of this proceeding does not preclude
Schellenberg, on remand, from making a motion under section 2033.290,
after appropriate meet and confer efforts are exhausted, to compel St. Mary to
provide further responses to any of the RFAs he contends are not compliant with
the Code of Civil Procedure.” St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 762, 782, footnote 22.)
Since Defendant provided objections with verifications,
although untimely, the Court finds these responses substantially compliant. To
the extent that Plaintiff doesn’t find these objections/responses compliant, it
appears that Plaintiff’s relief would be to follow the procedural requirements
necessary to compel further responses.
TENTATIVE
RULING
The Court’s tentative is to deny the motion.
The Court will hear from counsel.   