  Case Number:  21GDCV00995    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 04/05/2024 – 8:30am
Case No. 21GDCV00995
Trial Date: N/A 
Case Name: JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. v. FLEXVISUAL, INC., et al.
[TENTATIVE
RULING– MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES]
RELIEF REQUESTED¿ 
Plaintiff,
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., moves this Court for an award of attorney fees in
the sum of $27,469.11 in the above entitled action as against Defendant
Flexvisual, Inc. and Defendant, Chad R. Williams pursuant to CCP §1033.5(c)(5)
and applicable case law on the ground that Plaintiff is entitled to recover
their attorney fees incurred as an element of costs pursuant to the Contract
and Guaranty.
 
The
Motion will be based on this Notice, the Memorandum of Points and Authorities,
the Declaration of Todd S. Garan filed concurrently herewith, the complete
files and records on file herein and upon such other and further oral and
documentary evidence as may be presented at the time of the hearing on this Motion.

 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Plaintiff, JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A.
Responding Party: No Opposition by either
Defendant

16/21
Day Lapse (CCP §12c and §1005(b): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok

Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a): No – Plaintiff allegedly served both
Defendants via mail. Neither Defendant appears to be represented by counsel.
As to Flexvisual, the mailing address on the proof of
service for this motion matches the mailing address on the Court’s file in
eCourt.
As to Chad Williams, the mailing address on the proof
of service indicates a Nevada address, but that address does not match the
address on file in eCourt. Further, the Court notes how on 8/26/2022 a motion
to be relieved as counsel was filed as to Chad Williams, and the motion listed
an address for Chad R. Williams as 6000 De Soto Ave. #144, Woodland Hills, CA
91367. Moving Plaintiff needs to address why there are so many addresses for
Chad Williams – this motion was served at a Nevada Address, eCourt lists an
address for Chad in La Crescenta, and a prior motion lists Chad’s address in
Woodland Hills. The Movant needs to point to specific proof in the Court’s own
record that demonstrates both of these parties’ addresses.
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Garan Declaration;
Proposed Order 
Opposition Papers: No Opposition
Reply Papers: No Reply


TENTATIVE
RULING
On
February 2, 2024, this Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment in
favor of Plaintiff and against Defendants Flexvisual and Chad R. Williams.
 
Plaintiff
moves this Court for an award of attorney fees in the sum of $27,469.11 in the
above entitled action as against Defendant Flexvisual, Inc. and Defendant, Chad
R. Williams pursuant to CCP § 1033.5(c)(5) and applicable case law on the
ground that Plaintiff is entitled to recover their attorney fees incurred as an
element of costs pursuant to the Contract and Guaranty.
 
Plaintiff
argues that it is the prevailing party under CCP § 1032(a)(4).
 
CCP
§1032(a)(4) states:  “Prevailing party” includes the party with a net
monetary recovery, a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered, a
defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and a
defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against
that defendant. If any party recovers other than monetary relief and in
situations other than as specified, the “prevailing party” shall be as
determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the court, in its
discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed, may apportion costs between
the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules adopted under
Section 1034. (CCP § 1032(a)(4).)
 
Plaintiff
argues it is the prevailing party because it was the party with a net monetary
recovery because the summary judgment was entered in favor of Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff
also cites § 1032(b) which states, “Except as otherwise expressly provided by
statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs
in any action or proceeding.” (CCP §1032(b).)
 
Plaintiff
also cites to § 1033.5(a)(10) which states, “The following items are allowable
as costs under Section 1032: Attorney’s fees, when authorized by any of the following:
(A) Contract. (B) Statute. (C) Law.” (CCP § 1033.5(a)(10).)
 
Plaintiff
then argues that the contracts at issue, the Contract and the Guaranty each
contain attorney’s fees and costs provisions, therefore, Plaintiff argues it
can recover attorney’s fees and costs from both Defendants based on the
contracts.
 
At
the hearing, Plaintiff is to point the Court to the specific provisions,
specific exhibits, and specific language that allows it to recover attorney’s
fees and costs as to each Defendant.
 
The
Court has concerns about awarding costs because the Notice of Motion only
requests attorney’s fees in the sum of $27,469.11 and makes no
mention of costs. Costs of $5,328.30 are not mentioned until the memorandum and
the conclusion. Further, the Plaintiff is to address whether it has to comply
with CRC, rule 3.1700(a)(1), and if Plaintiff has to comply with it, how it
complied with it. 
 
The
Court notes that Plaintiff did not file a memorandum of costs with the Court.
Plaintiff simply included a memorandum of costs in its motion for attorney’s
fees, but no memorandum of costs was filed with the Court. “A prevailing party
who claims costs must serve and file a memorandum of costs within
15 days after the date of service of the notice of entry of judgment or
dismissal by the clerk under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.5 or the date
of service of written notice of entry of judgment or dismissal, or within 180
days after entry of judgment, whichever is first. The memorandum of costs must
be verified by a statement of the party, attorney, or agent that to the best of
his or her knowledge the items of cost are correct and were necessarily incurred
in the case.” (CRC, rule 3.1700(a)(1).)
 
Plaintiff is also to address the service issues of the
motion itself that the Court pointed out.