 Case Number:  22STCV14367    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
 



KAREN JEAN ZIEGENBEIN 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
JANET LYNNE
  SAFFARI
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV14367  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 18, 2023



 
 
Attorney Jae
Kim’s motions to be relieved as counsel are DENIED.
            
Legal Standard
 
Motions to withdraw are routinely
granted if made in the proper form and presented with proper notice. The court
may issue an order allowing an attorney to withdraw from representation, after
notice to the client.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 284(2).) 
 
Discussion 
 
Attorney Jae
Kim brings two motions for relief as counsel as to Defendant Janet Lynne
Saffari and Cross-Complainant Richard Saffari.  In his declaration, he explains that there
have been “many conflicts and disagreements related to legal issues and the
direction of this case,” and that the clients do not always acknowledge the
non-applicability of certain legal issues. (See MC-052.) 
 
Trial is set
for 10/2/2023. Kim’s declaration does not offer any explanation as to why he
has only just now, on the eve of trial, moved to be relieved, despite claiming
that this conduct has been ongoing for many months. Moreover, Defendant’s
contention that there are disagreements between him and his clients is
insufficient to show that there has been an irreparable breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship. In light of these facts, the risk of prejudice if
Kim were relieved outweighs any potential prejudice if Kim is not relieved. 
 
            The
motions are DENIED.
 
It is
so ordered.
 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 