  Case Number:  20STCV49421    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



NALLELI
  COBO-URIARTE 
                           
         vs.
 
ALLENCO
  ENERGY INC., et al.  


 Case No.: 
  20STCV49421 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  September 18, 2023



 
 
Moving
Defendants’ motion for a stay of proceedings is DENIED.
 
On
12/28/2020, Plaintiff Nalleli Cobo-Uriarte (Plaintiff) initiated this action.
On 9/3/2021, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (FAC) against Allenco
Energy, Inc., Timothy James Parker, Clifford E. Peter Allen, St. James Oil
Corporation, and the Archdiocese of Los Angeles, alleging: (1) negligence; and
(2) strict liability for ultrahazardous activity. 
 
            Now,
Defendants Allenco Energy, Inc., Timothy James Parker, and Clifford E. Peter Allen
(collectively, Moving Defendants) move for a stay of proceedings, pending the
outcome of the ongoing parallel criminal matter. 
 
Factual Background
 
On August 3,
2020, the Los Angeles City Attorney's Office (LACA) acting as The People of the
State of California, filed a criminal Complaint and issued a summons on Moving
Defendants, directing them to appear on 10/20/2020, to answer 25 misdemeanor
criminal charges against them. The criminal case against moving defendants
remains pending before the Honorable Elizabeth Harris, Department 47, Los
Angeles Superior Court. The case here was filed 12/28/2020 and is set for jury trial
on 11/27/23.
 
Allenco is
alleged to have consistently polluted a residential neighborhood for years,
until it was forced to shut down the facility in 2013 due to the level of
contaminants omitted from the facility. After living near the Allenco site for
over a decade, Plaintiff here was diagnosed with cervical cancer in January of
2020. She was nineteen years old at the time of the diagnosis.
 
Discussion 
 
            Moving
Defendants argue that a stay here is appropriate because there is a risk of
self-incrimination as Defendants are required to participate in discovery in
this civil action while the criminal case against them was pending. 
 
            After
review, the Court disagrees. 
 
            As
noted by the California Supreme Court, “the fact that a man is indicted cannot
give him a blank check to block all civil litigation on the same or related
underlying subject matter.” (People v. Coleman (1975) 13 Cal.3d 867, 885
(internal quotes omitted).) Rather, “[j]ustice is meted out in both civil and
criminal litigation,” and the interests of justice “may very well require that
the compensation and remedy due a civil plaintiff should not be delayed (and
possibly denied).” (Ibid.)
 
            Thus,
there is no constitutional right to have a civil proceeding postponed because
of a parallel criminal proceeding, and in the absence of substantial prejudice
to the rights of the parties involved, simultaneous parallel civil and criminal
proceedings are unobjectionable under our jurisprudence.” (Avant! Corp. v.
Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 885.)  
 
Here, Defendants
contend that the LACA’s criminal investigation into and prosecution of Defendants
arises directly from the same or related transactions as in this action, which
concern Allenco’s alleged prolonged polluting of a residential neighborhood. This,
however, is a highly disputed fact.
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants have failed to demonstrate “how
Allenco’s failure to maintain its oil wells while in operation are covered
under the City’s misdemeanor complaint.” (Opp., 18-19.) 
 
Plaintiff’s deposition notice seeks
documents like: 
 
-        
All DOCUMENTS RELATING TO any
COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and anyone RELATING TO the SITE (Request No. 1); 
 
-        
All DOCUMENTS RELATING TO any
contamination migrating from the SITE (Request No. 2); 
 
-        
All DOCUMENTS RELATING TO any
complaints of contamination migrating from the SITE (Request No. 3); and,
 
-        
 All DOCUMENTS RELATING TO any COMMUNICATION
between YOU and any regulatory agencies RELATING TO the SITE. (Request No. 6).
 
LACA’s
misdemeanor complaint charges 25 counts alleging the failure to properly
remediate, maintain and operate the wells located at the facility, based
largely on inspections conducted by CalGEM, SCAQMD and LAFD. Given that
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants improperly maintained the oil wells at the facility,
and failed to timely comply with directives issued by regulatory notices, there
would seem to be at least some overlap. However, as noted by Plaintiff, the
criminal complaint largely concerns Allenco’s alleged failure to address
nonoperating wells, whereas this action concerns Allenco’s conduct and
emissions while it operated the facility,
and the initial steps to shut down the facility. This
action also turns on issues of causation between Allenco’s conduct and
Plaintiff’s cancer diagnosis, which is not in any way embraced by the criminal
complaint. Also, be it the misdemeanor case has been going on for three years,
there is no way to estimate when it might be concluded.
 
Furthermore,
discovery on this case has been ongoing for years which puts into question the
timeliness of this motion to stay.  The
case is set for jury trial in two months (11/27/23) and the parties should be
well underway designating experts.  As
such, the Court is not persuaded that last-minute discovery and depositions
will implicate Defendants’ Fifth Amendment privilege. However, the Court agrees
that the appropriate course of action is to allow the deposition and production
of documents to move forward, and for Defendants to assert the privilege specifically
where appropriate. This is because while there may be overlap between this
action and the criminal proceeding, there are also essential issues here which
are not implicated by that proceeding. 
 
As noted by
Plaintiff, a blanket stay of proceedings until the resolution of the criminal
proceeding at some uncertain time will substantially prejudice Plaintiff and
the fair prosecution of her case because any stay will “increase the danger of
prejudice resulting from the loss of evidence, including the inability of
witnesses to recall specific facts, or the possible death of a party.” (Avant!,
supra, 79 Cal. App. 4th at 887.)  Plaintiff has a right to resolution of her
dispute and could be greatly prejudiced by an indefinite stay of this proceeding
through no fault of her own.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Moving Defendants’ motion for a stay of proceedings is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 