 Case Number:  22STCP04406    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



TERRY KREKORIAN
 
  
        
  vs.
 
PCH TREATMENT,
  INC., et al.  
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCP04406
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 18, 2023



 
PCH’s motions
to compel further are DENIED. The Court declines to award sanctions at this
time.
 
On
12/19/2022, Terry Krekorian, as an individual and as a Trustee of the Mr.
Shmoobus Family Trust dated 1/25/2018 (Plaintiff) filed suit against PCH
Treatment, Inc., and Jeffrey D. Ball as an individual and as a Trustee of the
S&J Ball Family Trust dated 8/1/2014, alleging: (1) judicial dissolution;
(2) accounting; and (3) breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
            Now,
PCH moves to compel further responses to its Form Interrogatories (FROGs),
Special Interrogatories (SROGs), and Requests for Production (RFPs). 
 
Discussion 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff clarified that he emailed supplemental responses, and
supporting documents to PCH’s SROGs, FROGs, and RFPs on 8/14/2023. Plaintiff
also provided further supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs, as he had
failed to include supplemental responses to RFP Nos. 44 through 46.
 
            In
response, PCH’s counsel indicated no problems with the SROGs or FROGs. However,
PCH indicated that the RFPs responses to Nos. 25-30 remained insufficient. 
 
            As
a result, on 9/6/2023, Plaintiff provided further responses, as well as
supporting documents, to RFP Nos. 25-30. Plaintiff further reminded PCH that
because he has been denied access to his PCH email accounts that there could be
other documents that are not in his control and possession that could be
responsive.
            
            In
response, PCH’s counsel reiterated its contention that RFPs Nos. 45 to 46 were
deficient. Plaintiff indicated that further responses had already been produced
to those RFPs on 8/22/2023. 
 
            After
review, the Court finds this motion moot. Moreover, the Court finds sanctions
are not appropriate. First, Plaintiff’s opposition makes clear that he was
acting in good faith to comply with his discovery obligations. Second, the
delays in discovery were the result of Plaintiff’s counsel experiencing medical
issues. Counsel made the Court aware of these issues, and the Court asked PCH's
counsel to consider taking the matters off calendar if the supplemental
responses were forthcoming.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, PCH’s motions to compel further are denied.  The Court declines to award sanctions at this
time. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 