 Case Number:  23STCV08297    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



WARING PLAZA PROPERTIES, L.P. 
  
        
  vs.
 
MANATT, PHELPS & PHILLIPS, LLP, et
  al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV08297  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 18, 2023




 
 
Waring’s
demurrer to Manatt’s cross-complaint is OVERRULED as to the first and second
causes of action, and SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND, as to the fourth cause
of action.
 
            On 4/14/2023, Plaintiff Waring Plaza Properties, L.P.
filed suit against Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, LLP and Benjamin G. Shatz
(collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1) professional negligence; (2) breach
of implied contract; and (3) common counts. 
 
            On 7/5/2023, Cross-Complainant Manatt, Phelps &
Phillips, LLP filed a cross-complaint (XC) against Waring Plaza Properties,
L.P., alleging: (1) breach of written contract; (2) open book account; and (3)
quantum meruit; and (4) breach of implied-in-fact contract. 
 
            Now, Waring Plaza Properties (Waring) demurs to Manatt,
Phelps & Phillips, LLP (Manatt)’s first, second, and fourth causes of
action in the cross-complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Waring argues that: (1) Manatt cannot state a claim for
breach of written contract because the claim is based on a void agreement; (2)
Manatt cannot state a claim for open book account because it is based on a void
fee agreement and Manatt has failed to allege facts showing the parties
intended to be subject to an account; and (3) Manatt cannot allege an
implied-in-fact contract here because the law requires fee agreements to be in
writing. 
 
            After review, the Court disagrees and agrees in part. 
 
            As to the first claim, whether or not the fee agreement
is void is a factual determination not properly made at the pleading stage. As
such, the Court will not conclude, as a matter of law, that the agreement is
void and thus Manatt cannot maintain a claim for breach of the agreement.
Moreover, as noted by Manatt in opposition, there is an open question of fact
as to whether or not the agreements was ratified through performance.  (See French v. Freeman (1923) 191 Cal.
579, 590) (“Whether or not a person has ratified a voidable contract, or
elected to affirm it rather than to rescind it, depends primarily upon his
intention, and this is shown by his declarations, his acts, or his conduct,
which are matters of fact. The question is therefore a question of fact for the
determination of the jury.”)
 
            As for the second claim, Waring is of course correct that
“the mere recording in a book of transactions or the incidental keeping of
accounts under an express contract does not of itself create a book account.” (H.
Russell Taylor’s Fire Prevention Serv., Inc. v. Coca Cola Bottling Corp. (1979)
99 Cal.App.3d 711, 728.) However, whether monies owing under a contract may be
recovered on a book account turns on the specific facts of each case. There a
number of California cases holding that a law firm’s monthly billing statements
and records meet the elements of a book account where no set amount is
determined to be due each month, where record keeping is necessary to track the
varying amounts that come due during the applicable periods, and where the billing
statements constituted detailed permanent records. (See e.g. Parker v.
Shell Oil Co. (1946) 29 Cal.2d 503; In re Roberts Farms Inc. (9th Cir.
1992) 980 F.2d 1248.) Accordingly, Manatt is not precluded, as a matter of law,
from asserting an open book account claim based on attorney billing records.
Moreover, at the very least, there are issues of fact here as to whether or not
Manatt can be said to have maintained an account. 
 
            Finally, there is nothing impermissibly inconsistent
about maintaining a claim for both breach of contract and open book account.
When a pleader is in doubt about what actually occurred or what can be
established by the evidence, the modern practice allows that party to plead in
the alternative and make inconsistent allegations.” (Newport Harbor
Ventures, LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2017) 6 Cal. App. 5th
1207, 1222 (citation and quotation marks omitted).) Under the liberal rules of
pleading, a party “remains free to allege any and all ‘inconsistent counts’
that a reasonable attorney would find legally tenable on the basis of the facts
known to the plaintiff at the time.” (Id. at p.1223.) This means “a
plaintiff may plead inconsistent causes of action for breach of contract and
common count,” even if it cannot ultimately recover on both. (Ibid); see
also Rader Co. v. Stone (1986) 178 Cal. App. 3d 10, 29 (a party “is not
precluded by law from alleging in one cause of action the breach of a contract
and an inconsistent theory of recovery in another cause of action…. [S]uch
inconsistency is not fatal to [any] claims at the pleading stage, as a
plaintiff is permitted to plead inconsistent or alternative counts”;
punctuation omitted.)
 
            As for the fourth claim, Business and Professions Code
section 6148(a) states that “the contract for services in the case shall be in
writing.” In opposition, Manatt does not respond to this contention, but rather
argues that Waring is estopped from denying an implied-in-fact contract because
Waring’s own complaint asserts a claim for implied-in-fact contract. However,
the fact that another party alleges the existence of contract cannot save that
contract if it is barred as a matter of law. Manatt is equally entitled to
challenge the sufficiency of Waring’s allegations with respect to the
implied-in-fact contract allegation. Manatt must allege facts which could show
that they could enter into a valid agreement for legal services that was
implied-in-fact, rather than in writing.
 
            Based on the foregoing, Waring’s demurrer is overruled as
to the first and second causes of action, and sustained, without leave to
amend, as to the fourth cause of action. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 