 Case Number:  23STCV25542    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Bridgeland Resources, LLC,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV25542




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Pacific Coast Energy Company, LP,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: March 1, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Preliminary Injunction
Moving Party: Plaintiff Bridgeland Resources, LLC
Responding Party: Defendant Pacific Coast Energy Company, LP
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY
INJUNCTION IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On December 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the operative first amended complaint against Defendant, asserting nine causes
of action for breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, lien foreclosure, cancellation of instruments, tortious interference,
and declaratory and injunctive relief. The parties jointly operate oil fields. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
In deciding whether to issue a
preliminary injunction, the court looks to two factors: “(1) the likelihood
that the Petitioner will prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative balance of
harms that is likely to result from the granting or denial of interim
injunctive relief.” (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 553-54.) The
factors are interrelated, with a greater showing on one permitting a lesser
showing on the other. (Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v.
Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1414, 1420.)
 
A mandatory injunction
orders the defendant to take some affirmative action; it seeks to alter the status
quo, rather than maintain it. (URS Corp. v. Atkins/Walsh Joint Venture
(2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 872, 886 [“a mandatory injunction .. requires affirmative
acts that upset the status quo at the time the .. motion was filed”].) A
mandatory preliminary “is rarely granted” and “subject to stricter review on
appeal.” (Itv Gurney Holding v. Gurney (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 22, 29.)
 
Plaintiff moves for an order:
 
1. causing PCEC to withdraw liens 2023000300632 and
20230844285 it has attached on certain fields on which Bridgeland operates; 
 
2. causing PCEC to inform a third-party purchaser
that such liens have been withdrawn and direct the third-party purchaser to
release Bridgeland’s proportionate share of revenue Bridgeland is rightfully
entitled to; and
 
3. enjoining PCEC during the pendency of the
instant litigation from limiting and depriving Bridgeland of its proportionate
share of revenue associated with owning and operating certain oil fields in the
state of California.
 
Plaintiff asserts Defendant improperly has
placed liens on Plaintiff’s oil fields and improperly has instructed third
parties to divert any revenue from Plaintiff to Defendant to satisfy the liens.
Plaintiff represents that if these liens are not removed Plaintiff will not
have the means to continue to operate the fields, resulting in the permanent
shut down of those fields. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the requested injunction
is prohibitory, though it concedes that it would require “some affirmative
acts.” (Reply at 12.) Whether prohibitory or mandatory, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has not satisfied its burden, as discussed below. 
 
A. Success on the Merits
 
The dispute centers on the timeliness
of Defendant’s liens. The parties entered into a settlement agreement to
resolve issues around Plaintiff’s cost invoices to Defendant. Defendant
believes they are excessive and unsupported by evidence. 
 
The parties agreed to an audit of these
costs and agreed that no liens would be recorded during the “pendency of the
Subject Audit.” Plaintiff asserts Defendant’s auditor wrongfully issued the
audit results without completing the audit fieldwork. Plaintiff also maintains
that Defendant breached the agreement by recording its liens immediately after
the auditor issued its results, instead of waiting the 90-day contractual
period for Plaintiff to respond to the auditor. 
 
The relevant provisions of the
settlement are as follows:
 
5. JOAs Audit
Process. 
 
(a) Within ten
(10) business days of the Effective Date, the Parties will commence an expense
and revenue audit process (the “Subject Audit”) set forth in Exhibit B,
Paragraph 4 of the JOAs for periods covering June 17, 2021, through December
31, 2022 (the “Audit Period”). The Subject Audit will be undertaken by
the certified public accounting firm Forvis (the “Applicable Auditor”). The
Parties agree to conduct the Subject Audit on an expedited basis and agree that
(i) PCEC shall provide the audit report within ninety (90) days of the audit
fieldwork completion date, with such audit fieldwork completion date occurring
no later than December 17, 2023, and (ii) BR will respond to the audit report
within ninety (90) days of BR’s receipt of the same (the “Audit Response”).
In connection with the Subject Audit, each Party covenants and agrees to comply
with the deliverables set forth in Exhibit D in full acknowledgement that time
is of the essence. As to the Subject Audit, all other terms and conditions as
set forth in Exhibit B of the JOAs shall remain unchanged and are hereby
reaffirmed by the Parties. The expedited procedures set forth in this section
apply only to the Subject Audit for the Audit Period. PCEC shall be entitled to
replace the Applicable Auditor at any time; provided that such replacement
shall not extend the time of the Audit Response. For purposes of this Agreement,
the fieldwork to be conducted for the Subject Audit shall comprise both audit
testing and analysis. 
 
(b) During the
pendency of the Subject Audit, PCEC agrees and covenants to not file any
liens as to any amounts allegedly owed or due covering the Audit Period and
will resolve all matters through the notice and audit process set forth under
the JOAs.
 
In opposition, Defendant asserts that the
language of section 5 is ambiguous because there is no definition of “pendency
of the Subject Audit.” Defendant posits that Plaintiff’s 90-day response time
is not part of the audit process, making Defendant’s liens timely. Defendant also
maintains that Plaintiff has breached the settlement agreement by failing to
cooperate with the auditor, failing to initiate mediation before filing suit, and
demanding payment of costs subject to the audit before its completion. And Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff breached the parties’ Joint Operating Agreement by providing
unsupported cost invoices, which prompted the audit in the first place.
 
Plaintiff has failed to establish a
likelihood of success on the merits. The contract language at issue does not
clearly define the time period of the subject audit. Plaintiff’s and
Defendant’s respective interpretations each find support in the language. On
the one hand, the agreement includes the 90-day response time when outlining
the expedited process of the audit. On the other, the agreement states the
“Subject Audit” is to be conducted by the accounting company, implying
Plaintiff’s response is not part of the “Subject Audit.” And Defendant has
presented evidence that Plaintiff has not performed its obligations under the
contract by failing to participate in the audit and by failing to mediate
before bringing suit. The Court cannot find that Plaintiff is likely to prevail
based on the record before it.
 
B. Balance of Harms
 
Even if Plaintiff had established a
likelihood of success on the merits, Plaintiff has not sufficiently shown
irreparable harm. Plaintiff provides only a declaration from its president
stating Plaintiff’s operations may cease by April 2024 and stating there is a
“substantial risk” that certain oil fields will be permanently closed. Plaintiff
provides no documentation or other evidence to support these claims. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion for preliminary
injunction is DENIED.
 
 
 
 