  Case Number:  22STCV04376    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  39 Ellen Pittleman v.
Spina Organics, LLC
Case No.
22STCV04376
Motion for Leave
to Amend
 
            Plaintiff
Ellen Pittleman and her company, Hybrid Entertainment, Inc. (collectively,
“Pittleman”) filed a complaint against Mauro Spina and his company, Spina
Organics, LLC (collectively, “Spina”), and Spina filed a cross-complaint
against Pittleman.  Allegedly, Spina
hired Pittleman to update Spina’s website and assist Spina with its social
media presence.  Pittleman alleges that
she is owed $177,000 for her work.  Spina
alleges that it agreed to give Pittleman a commission of 10% on the net profits
from new sales made by Pittleman to Spina’s existing customer Healthy
Spot.  Spina alleges that Pittleman
demanded a 25% interest in the company, and when Spina refused, Pittleman
allegedly shut down its website and removed its products from Spina’s social
media accounts.  Plaintiff served a bill
of particulars in April 2022, and now seeks leave to amend, which Defendants
oppose.  
 
In an action on an account, a
plaintiff must itemize the account in a bill of particulars.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 454.)  The bill of particulars precludes the
plaintiff from advancing evidence beyond the items and amounts set forth in the
bill of particulars, unless the Court grants the plaintiff’s motion for leave
to amend the bill of particulars.  (Meredith
v. Marks (1963) 212 Cal.App.2d 265, 269-270.)  The Court has authority to permit the
plaintiff to amend the bill of particulars under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1).  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by ther code.”  The Court has wide discretion to allow either
party to amend pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1).)  Judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to
amend is liberally granted.  (Berman
vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945.)  “[I]t is an abuse of discretion for the court
to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by
the amendment.”  (Kittredge Sports Co.
v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel states that she retrieved and produced documents on April 3, 2023, with
the assistance of Apple Support.   Based on the information in those documents,
Plaintiff prepared the amended bill of particulars.  (Declaration of Pamela Koslyn, ¶ 4.)  Both Plaintiff’s expert and Defendants’
expert have reviewed and relied on Plaintiff’s amended bill of
particulars.  Additionally, Defendants’
counsel deposed Plaintiff about the amended bill of particulars.  (Declaration of Pamela Koslyn, ¶¶ 7-9.)  Accordingly, there is no prejudice as a
result of this amendment.  
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
original and amended bills of particulars are insufficient.  When a plaintiff furnishes a defective bill
of particulars, the defendant’s remedy is a noticed motion for a further
account and bill of particulars, and, if this motion is granted and the
plaintiff fails to supplement or amend the bill of particulars, the defendant
may make a motion to exclude the evidence. 
(Burton v. Santa Barbara Nat. Bank (1966) 247 Cal.App.2d 427, 433.)  Defendants have not done so.  
 
Based upon the foregoing, the Court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend
her bill of particulars is granted.
 
            2.         The amended bill of particulars is
deemed to have been served.
 
            3.         The Court’s clerk shall provide
notice.   