 Case Number:  23STCV06849    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  39 Kavien Amiri v.
Bryan Thomas Castorina, et al.
Case No.
23STCV06849
Motion to Compel
Arbitration
 
            Plaintiff
Kavien Amiri (“Plaintiff”), a self-represented party, filed this action against
his former attorney, Bryan Thomas Castorina, Esq., and his firm, the Law
Offices of Bryan Castorina, P.C. (collectively, “Defendant”).  Plaintiff asserts causes of action for
conversion, professional negligence, assault, battery, unfair business
practices, breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, declaratory relief, and unjust enrichment.  Defendants filed a cross-complaint for breach
of contract, for allegedly failing to pay legal fees.  Now, Defendants move to compel arbitration in
this case. 
 
The moving party on a petition to
compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as the
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to
reach a final determination.”  (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842, internal
quotations and citations omitted.)  
 
            Defendants
rely on a retainer agreement, pursuant to which Plaintiff retained Defendants
to represent him with defense of any unlawful detainer action and prosecution
of any lawsuit against the landlord for violations of various rental laws.  The retainer agreement has an arbitration
provision which states that any dispute over fees shall be arbitrated per
Business and Professions Code section 6200 et seq.  The retainer agreement states that any other
dispute “arising under this Agreement or in connection with the Attorney’s
services hereunder, including any claim for malpractice, shall be resolved by
binding arbitration in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration
Association . . . .”  
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court compels arbitration of all causes of action in the
complaint except as follows: 
 
            1.         Second Cause of Action (Professional
Negligence) re: the defamation case
            2.         Third Cause of Action (Assault)
            3.         Fourth Cause of Action (Battery) 
            4.         Eighth Cause of Action (Declaratory
Relief) 
            
The Court orders the parties to arbitrate the
cross-complaint in a separate arbitration under Business and Professions Code
section 6200 et seq. unless the parties stipulate to join this arbitration with
the mandatory arbitration by the American Arbitration Association, except as
the claim relates to the defamation case. 
      
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court grants in part and denies in
part Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration.
 
            2.         The Court order the parties to
participate in an arbitration through the American Arbitration Association with
respect to all of Plaintiff’s claims except the second cause of action as it
relates to the defamation case, as well as the third, fourth, and eighth causes
of action.
 
            3.         The Court orders the parties to
participate in an arbitration governed by Business and Professions Code section
6200 et seq. with respect to Defendants’ cross-claims except as it relates to
the defamation case.
 
            4.         The Court stays the remainder of this
case.  However, the Court authorizes the
parties to file stipulations relating to the arbitrations (e.g., to consolidate
the two arbitrations, etc.)
 
            5.         The Court advances and vacates all
dates.  The Court shall hold an Order to
Show Cause why the stay should not be lifted on June 27, 2024, at 8:30
a.m.  The Court orders Defendants’
counsel to file a status report concerning the arbitrations on or before June
10, 2024.  The Court orders the parties
to appear, either remotely or in-person.
 
            6.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
            