 Case Number:  23STCV12529    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  39 David Marco Weber
v. Jay Stuart Rothman
Case No.
23STCV12529
Trial
 
BACKGROUND
 
            David
Marco Weber (“Weber”) hired Jay Stuart Rothman (“Rothman”), an attorney to
represent him in a legal matter.  The
case settled, following which the parties had financial disputes.  Rothman filed a complaint in Case Number
23STCV11283 alleging that Weber owes him $1,830.40 in reimbursement for Westlaw
legal research fees, and $8,000 in reimbursement for the mediation.  In response, Weber filed the instant case,
asserting a single cause of action for declaratory relief.  Weber seeks a judicial determination that the
contract is voidable under Business and Professions Code section 6147(b) for
failure to comply with section 6147(a), or, in the alternative, that Rothman is
not entitled to $9,830.40.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1060 permits “[a]ny person interested . . . under a contract
. . . may, in cases of actual controversies relating to the legal rights and
duties of the respective partners, bring an original action or cross-complaint
in the superior court for a . . . determination of any question of construction
or validity arising under the instrument or contract.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1060.)  
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
The Court admitted
Exhibit #1—the retainer agreement at issue—pursuant to the stipulation of the
parties.  The Court excluded the remaining
exhibits (Exhibit #2 through Exhibit #11) under Evidence Code section 352, as
well as the testimony of the two proffered witnesses, Plaintiff and
Defendant.  The exhibits and witnesses’
testimony have no relevance to the issues before the Court, and any probative
value would be greatly outweighed by the prejudice associated with undue
consumption of time.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff argues
that Exhibit #1 does not comply with Business and Professions Code section 6147.  Subdivision (a) has a series of requirements
for retainer agreements based upon contingency fees.  Specifically:
 
1.         “A statement of the contingency fee
rate that the client and attorney have agreed upon.”
 
2.         “A statement as to how disbursements
and costs incurred in connection with the prosecution or settlement of the
claim will affect the contingency fee and the client’s recovery.”
 
3.         “A statement as to what extent, if any,
the client could be required to pay any compensation to the attorney for
related matters that arise out of their relationship not covered by their
contingency fee contract.  This may include
any amounts collected for the plaintiff by the attorney.”
 
4.         “[A] statement that the fee is not set
by law but is negotiable between attorney and client.”
 
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6147, subd.
(a).)  The agreement satisfies the first
requirement by virtue of Paragraph #3. 
The agreement satisfies the second requirement by virtue of Paragraph #5
and Paragraph #6.  The agreement
satisfies the third requirement by virtue of Paragraph #13.  The agreement satisfies the fourth
requirement by virtue of Paragraph #3. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant’s counsel “threatened to seek sanctions in the form of
attorney fees” in Defendant’s related collections action.  Plaintiff argues that these sanctions are not
disclosed in the retainer agreement, rendering it defective.  There are two problems with Plaintiff’s
argument.  First, the threatened sanctions
derive from Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7, stemming from a separate
action.  (See Plaintiff’s Trial Brief,
Exh. B.)  These are not potential costs
or expenses that must be disclosed in a retainer agreement because they derive
from a separate action based upon Plaintiff’s alleged sanctionable
conduct.  Second, the Court dismissed
that action, so no such sanctions were imposed. 
 
 
            Plaintiff
also relies on a sample fee agreement from the California State Bar’s website,
arguing that Defendant’s agreement is not consistent.  This is only a sample agreement; it does not outline
the only manner of compliance with section 6147(a).
 
            The
Court denies the request for a declaratory judgment on the second issue,
whether Rothman is entitled to collect $9,830.40 from Plaintiff.  It is not lawful to bring a claim for breach
of contract and the affirmative defenses as claims for declaratory relief. (See
California Ins. Guarantee Assn. v. Superior Court (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617,
1624.)  
 
“The declaratory relief statute should not
be used for the purpose of anticipating and determining an issue which can be
determined in the main action.  The
object of the statute is to afford a new form of relief where needed and not to
furnish a litigant with a second cause of action for the determination of
identical issues.
 
(General of America Ins. Co. v. Lilly
(1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.)
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court orders that Exhibit #1 shall
be admitted into evidence.  Exhibit #2
through Exhibit #11, and the testimony of the parties, shall be excluded under
Evidence Code section 352.
 
            2.         The Court finds that Exhibit #1
complies with Business and Professions Code section 6147, subdivision (a), and
is thus not voidable under subdivision (b).
 
            3.         The Court denies the request for a
declaratory judgment on the issue whether Plaintiff owes Defendant $9,83040.
 
            4.         Defendant may lodge a proposed judgment
if necessary.
 
            5.         The Court sets no future dates.
 
            6.         The Court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 