 Case Number:  23LBCV01728    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIAFOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICTROSA MAGDALENO GIL, Plaintiff(s), vs. AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) CASE NO: 23LBCV01728 [TENTATIVE] ORDER APPOINTING DISCOVERY REFEREE Dept. S27 8:30 a.m. October 8, 2024The Court has continued the hearing on this motion multiple times. On 9/24/24, the Court instructed the parties to work together to choose a discovery referee to resolve the issues. On 9/30/24, the parties filed two statements, both of which indicate the parties have agreed to use Matthew Proudfoot to “conduct the mediation.”The Court presumes the parties, by “conduct the mediation,” mean act as a discovery referee. The Court adopts the parties’ agreement and appoints Proudfoot to act as a discovery referee to resolve the issues between them. Per CRC 3.920, et seq., the Court orders the following:1. Findings: The Court finds that disputes exist between the parties as to discovery matters in this case, creating exceptional circumstances specific to the circumstances of this case. The interests of justice and efficiency will best be served by appointment of a referee for the purpose of hearing and determining these discovery matters and to report and make recommendations to the Court thereon.The Court also finds that no party has established an economic inability to pay a pro rate share of the referee's fee.2. Appointment of Referee: It is therefore ordered that .Matthew Proudfoot, 38 Discovery, Suite 200, Irvine, CA 92618, 949-753-0255, SB #155988, is appointed referee for such purposes.3. Matters Submitted: Any and all discovery motions now pending in this case, and any other discovery matters the Court may later refer to the referee are submitted to the referee for recommendation.4. Powers of Referee: In order to accomplish this reference, the referee shall have and is granted the following powers:(a) To set the date, time and place of all hearings.(b) To recommend the issuance of subpoenas.(c) To preside over hearings, take evidence and rule on objections and motions.(d) To order the production of all pertinent writings, records, and documents in possession of any of the parties. The referee, in this regard, is to recommend to the Court the imposition of any sanctions for the failure of any party or attorney to comply with such an order to produce or to cooperate with the referee.(e) To employ, as reasonably necessary, qualified experts, and to recommend to the Court appropriate fees for such services.(f) To order, supervise, preside over, conduct hearings, rule on objections and recommend sanctions for any appropriate discovery to accomplish this reference.(g) To petition the Court for any further, additional, and different powers pertinent to this reference.5. Report of Referee: The referee shall submit a written report to this Court within 20 days after the hearing, if any, has been concluded and the matter has been submitted, and shall serve report on all parties. The report shall contain the following:(a) Findings as to discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery in the action and as to the factual question[s] submitted.(b) A statement of the total hours spent and the total fees charged by the referee; and(c) Recommendations as to the following items:(1) The merits on the findings regarding any disputed issue described in paragraph 5(a) above; and(2) Amount of referee's fees and costs of the referee, and fees of any experts employed to assist the referee that the Court should allow; and(3) The reallocation of all costs and fees between the parties; and(4) The imposition of any sanctions against any of the parties and/or attorneys for failure to produce discovery items or to cooperate with the referee in this reference.Interim reports may be submitted from time to time by the referee to the Court.6. Objections to Report: Objections to the referee's report or recommendation may be filed with the Court no later than 10 days after the referee serves the report or all objections thereto will be deemed waived. Copies of such objections shall be served upon the referee and all other parties.7. Responses to Objections: Responses to objections to the referee's report or recommendations shall be filed with the Court and served on the referee and all other parties within 10 days after the objection is served.8. Court's Review: The Court will then review any objections to the referee's report and any responses submitted to those objections and shall thereafter enter appropriate orders.9. Fees and Costs—Payment: The maximum hourly rate the referee may charge is $500/hour. The referee shall receive a fee, as agreed to by the parties or, it the parties cannot agree, in a reasonable amount, subject to approval of the Court. The parties shall pay in advance to the referee, the estimated reasonable fees and costs of the reference, as may be specified in advance by the referee. The parties shall initially share equally by each paying their proportionate amount of the estimated fees and costs of the reference. The costs shall include the costs of a certified shorthand reporter if so ordered by the referee. All fees and costs shall be paid within 10 days of the billing by the referee. All fees and costs shall be subject to reallocation as recommended by the referee and as finally determined by the Court. The maximum number of hours for which the referee may charge is twenty hours.10. Facilities and Personnel: The use of court facilities and court personnel is not authorized. The reference will be conducted in a private facility.11. Jurisdiction Reserved: The Court reserves jurisdiction to make such other and further orders with respect to this reference as may be just and proper, including, but not limited to, the allowance of reference fees and costs, and the enforcement thereof.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. If the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar. If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.DATED: October 8, 2024 _____________________________________MARK C. KIM Judge of the Superior Court