 Case Number:  23LBCV00974    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA FORTHE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICTJESUS RENTERIA, ET AL., Plaintiff(s), vs. PINNER CONSTRUCTIONS CO., INC., ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 23LBCV00974 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: SUMMARY JUDGMENT MOTION Dept. S27 8:30 a.m. October 10, 2024Moving Party: Cross-Defendant and Cross-Complainant, Rika Corporation dba Diversified MetalworksOpposing Party: Defendant, Cross-Complainant, and Cross-Defendant, Kern Steel Fabrication, Inc.Notice: OK1. Background FactsPlaintiffs, Jesus and Diana Renteria filed this action against Defendants, Pinner Construction Co., Inc.., et al. on 6/06/23. Plaintiffs’ FAC alleges the defendants, and each of them, provided negligent drawings, plans, specifications, safety instructions, and designs for Plaintiff to use in constructing a building. As a result, the building Plaintiff was working on collapsed, causing him to sustain grave injuries. His wife sues for loss of consortium.Plaintiffs have added numerous doe defendants to the action. Many defendants have pending cross-complaints against the other defendants.As is relevant to this motion, Plaintiff’s employer was Cross-Defendant and Cross-Complainant, Rika Corporation dba Diversified Metalworks (“Diversified”). Diversified was a subcontractor on the subject product, and it provided structural steel services. Moving Party, Kern Steel Fabrication, Inc. (“Kern”) was also a subcontractor on the subject project, and it was the steel fabricator for the project. Plaintiff was injured while working on the steel framing, which collapsed.The relevant pleading in connection with this motion is Kern’s First Amended Cross-Complaint, which includes causes of action for equitable indemnity, contribution and apportionment, and declaratory relief.2. Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication3. Burdens on Summary JudgmentSummary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).) Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.” (Id. at §437c(o)(2).) A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim. (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.) Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or defense thereto.” (Ibid.)The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) Adefendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action. (Id. at §437c(p).) A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,[A] defendant may simply show the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.) Thus, rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation), a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)Thus, a moving defendant has two means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute: “The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.Until the moving defendant has discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action. (Id. at §437c(p)(2).) On a motion for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion. (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.)b. Initial NotesAll papers in opposition to the motion were due on or before 9/26/24. Kern filed opposition papers on 9/30/24 and 10/02/24. Due to the harsh nature of summary judgment, and because Diversified did not object, the Court has considered all opposition papers. The Court asks Kern to ensure timely filing and service of all papers in the future in connection with this action.Additionally, Kern makes reference to its original cross-complaint against Diversified in its opposition papers. As Diversified correctly notes in reply, the operative cross-complaint is the FACC, and the Court has considered only the FACC in drafting this ruling.c. Labor Code §3864Diversified contends Kern’s cross-complaint, and each cause of action asserted therein, is barred by Labor Code §3864. §3864 provides:If an action as provided in this chapter prosecuted by the employee, the employer, or both jointly against the third person results in judgment against such third person, or settlement by such third person, the employer shall have no liability to reimburse or hold such third person harmless on such judgment or settlement in absence of a written agreement so to do executed prior to the injury.d. Opposition ArgumentsKern opposes the motion, arguing (a) the parties’ course of conduct must be considered, (b) the parties had drafts of an agreement requiring Diversified to indemnify Kern, (c) Diversified waived its right to the protections of §3864 by commencing work without a signed agreement, and (d) §3864 does not bar Kern from seeking equitable indemnification, contribution, and/or apportionment.e. Course of ConductKern’s first and second arguments are lumped together in the opposition papers. Kern argues the parties’ course of conduct, both in connection with other projects and also in connection with the instant project, must be considered when determining whether or not Diversified must indemnify Kern. Kern does not cite any authority for the position that course of conduct can be used to overcome the §3864 statutory requirement of a signed written agreement pre-dating the subject injury. Absent such authority, the Court finds the parties’ course of conduct is not relevant.f. WaiverKern next argues Diversified waived its right to invoke the protections of §3864 because Diversified commenced work on the project without a signed agreement in place. Kern notes that the parties had been negotiating a draft of the agreement, and the draft contained indemnification language. Again, however, Kern cites no authority holding that statutory rights under §3864 can be waived. The statute’s clear and plain language, which has been upheld in numerous cases cited in the moving papers, makes clear that a signed agreement is a mandatory prerequisite to pursuing the claims set forth in the cross-complaint.g. §3864 Not a BarFinally, Kern argues §3864 is not a bar to Kern’s right to pursue its claims against Diversified, but Diversified’s right to pursue those claims is capped at the amount Diversified paid out to Plaintiff in workers’ compensation benefits.Kern cites numerous cases holding that an employee’s damage judgment against third parties must be reduced by an amount attributable to the employer’s proportionate share of the fault, up to the amount of workers’ compensation benefits paid. See, for example, DaFonte v. Up-Right, Inc. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 593, 599. However, as Diversified correctly notes in reply, the collective import of these cases is to clarify that the damages judgment must be reduced. Nothing about the cases permits a direct cross-complaint against the employer in circumvention of §3864.c. ConclusionDiversified established that the clear language of §3864 bars Kern’s claims against Diversified. Kern cited nothing to the contrary in opposition, and therefore the motion for summary judgment is granted.Diversified is ordered to give notice.Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. If the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar. If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.Dated this 10th day of October, 2024Hon. Mark Kim Judge of the Superior Court