  Case Number:  22LBCV00130    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIAFOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICTALEYDA PENALOZA, Plaintiff(s), vs. GENERAL MOTORS, LLC, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) CASE NO: 22LBCV00130 ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES; MOTION TO TAX COSTS Dept. S27 8:30 a.m. October 10, 2024MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEESMoving Party: Plaintiff, Aleyda PenalozaOpposing Party: Defendant, General Motors, LLCNotice: OKMOTION TO TAX COSTSMoving Party: Defendant, General Motors, LLCOpposing Party: Plaintiff, Aleyda PenalozaNotice: OK1. Background FactsPlaintiff, Aleyda Penaloze filed this action against Defendant, General Motors, LLC for violations of the Song-Beverly Act. The parties entered into a settlement, pursuant to which Plaintiff is entitled to attorneys’ fees and costs.2. Initial NotePlaintiff indicates in its motion for fees and also in opposition to the motion to strike or tax costs that Defendant has not complied with the terms of the settlement. The Court declines any request to award fees or costs associated with enforcement of the settlement in connection with this motion. The Court notes that Plaintiff filed a motion to enforce the settlement and set it for hearing on 3/04/25. The Court asks Defendant to promptly comply with all requirements under the parties’ settlement, and to negotiate with Plaintiff in good faith concerning payment of fees and costs to avoid the necessity of a hearing on the issue in March.3. Motion for Attorneys’ Feesa. Fees SoughtPlaintiff seeks to recover $136,706 in attorneys’ fees; this amount includes a lodestar multiplier of 2. Plaintiff contends the case could have been simple, but was made complicated by Defendant’s refusal to participate in discovery, refusal to comply with court orders re: discovery, refusing to respond to requests for a draft of the parties’ settlement agreement, and failing to appear in court for hearings re: settlement, all of which ultimately led to the need for Plaintiff to prepare for and appear at trial.b. OppositionDefendant opposes the motion, arguing a multiplier is not appropriate, and many of the fees should be reduced because the word is “canned.”c. “Canned” WorkThe majority of Defendant’s argument in opposition to the motion is that Plaintiff is billing an excessive number of hours for what is essentially “canned” work – work that is repeated in connection with every lemon law case litigated. The Court tends to agree. Defendant has shown, at pages 7-10 ofthe opposition brief, that the work done in this case is substantially the same as the work Plaintiff’s attorney does in every lemon law case. The Court will not repeat the argument or showing in this ruling, but agrees that the billing is excessive. The Court is inclined to reduce the billing by 1/3 in light of its finding that the billing is padded and redundant with other cases.d. MultiplierThe Court agrees with Defendant and finds a multiplier is not appropriate in this case. Most of the fees incurred in this case were billed by Plaintiff’s attorney Nancy Zhang, who bills at the rate of $500/hour. Pursuant to Ketchem v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1139, the Court should only award a multiplier based on exceptional representation if it finds the quality of representation far exceeds the quality of representation that would have been provided by an attorney of comparable skill and experience billing at the hourly rate used in the lodestar calculation. The Court noted that, otherwise, the fee award would result in unfair double counting and would be unreasonable.The Court finds $500/hour is a high billing rate. Defendant does not contest the billing rate, and the Court will allow it to stand. It is a rate, however, that does not justify a multiplier.e. ConclusionPlaintiff’s motion is granted in part. The Court awards 2/3 of $68,353, or $45,796.51 in attorneys’ fees.4. Motion to Strike or Tax Costsa. Memorandum of CostsPlaintiff filed a memorandum of costs on 7/29/24, seeking to recover $3188 in costs. The memorandum is accompanied by the judicial council form worksheet, which contains a detailed description of the costs incurred.b. Parties’ PositionsDefendant moves to strike the entire memorandum, contending Plaintiff failed to provide receipts with the memorandum and therefore cannot recover costs. Alternatively, Defendant moves to strike various items in the memorandum, contending they were not reasonable or necessary to the litigation.c. Strike Entire MemorandumDefendant urges the Court to strike the entire memorandum, contending Plaintiff failed to provide receipts to support the claimed costs, such that the entire memorandum is defective. Defendant cites no authority for this position. This position is, indeed, contrary to the law.The memorandum of costs itself will suffice to establish the reasonable necessity of the costs claimed. There is no requirement that copies of bills, invoices, statements, or any other such documents be attached to the memorandum. Supporting documentation must be submitted only if costs have been put in issue by a motion to tax costs. Jones v. Dumrichob (1998) 63 CA4th 1258, 1267.The motion to strike the entire costs bill is denied. The Court asks Defendant not to advance this argument in the future, as it is not legally sound.d. Jury FeesPlaintiff seeks to recover jury fees. Defendant argues the case never went to trial, and therefore jury fees should not be recoverable. Paying jury fees was entirely reasonable. Indeed, the case settled ON the trial date, after motions in limine were filed and after the Final Status Conference.e. Change of AddressDefendant does not complete its argument re: change of address costs, and therefore the argument is rejected.f. Motions in LimineDefendant argues the motions in limine were optional and one-sided. The fact that something is optional does not make it unreasonable. Litigation is typically one-sided, and the Court is not clear on the nature of the contention; should the motions have represented Defendant’s viewpoint on the evidence? This is nonsensical.g. Motions to CompelDefendant argues it should not have to pay costs association with motions to compel. The motions, however, were granted, and Defendant repeatedly failed to comply with the rulings. Defendant therefore failed to show the motions were unreasonable.h. Travel to and from FSCDefendant argues this expense was unnecessary “but for Counsel’s inaction.” Counsel’s inaction is not detailed. The Court is unclear on the nature of the inaction that rendered the FSC necessary. Clearly, attorneys must appear at all hearings that are scheduled.i. Courtesy CopiesPlaintiff seeks to recover $676.85 for courtesy copies of motions and other documents filed with the Court. The Court uses entirely online document imaging to review cases. Courtesy copies are not necessary. The Court asks Plaintiff to cease providing courtesy copies in the future. This cost will be taxed.j. Costs Associated with Today’s MotionsPlaintiff seeks to recover $561.65 in anticipated costs for filing fees and court reporter fees in connection with today’s motions. Defendant argues principles of equity preclude recovery of costs that have not yet been incurred. The costs will have been incurred by the time the Court rules on this motion. The Court will ask Plaintiff to confirm the costs were actually incurred, and will allow any cost actually incurred to stand.k. ConclusionThe motion to strike costs is denied. The motion to tax the costs associated with courtesy copies is granted. The Court will ask for confirmation of costs incurred in connection with today’s motions. The motion to tax costs is otherwise denied.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. If the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar. If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If anyparty does not submit on the tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.DATED: October 10, 2024 _____________________________________MARK C. KIM Judge of the Superior Court