 Case Number:  23TRCV01368    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling    HEARING DATE:                 August 13, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV01368   CASE NAME:                        Roswell  Properties LLC, LTD v. Deals 4 All Seasons, Inc., et al.     MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Roswell Properties, LLC,  LTD, an Ohio Limited Liability Company   RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendants, Deals 4 All Seasons Inc., Shiri  Taylor Dangor (No Opposition)   TRIAL DATE:                        None set.     MOTION:                              (1) Motion for Order Vacating  Dismissal to Enter Judgment Pursuant to Stipulation for Judgment   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) CONTINUE pending receipt  of evidence of the partial payments and remaining balance owed, without which  the Court has no basis for entry of a specific dollar amount in the proposed  judgment.     I. BACKGROUND    A.    Factual    On  May 1, 2024, Plaintiff, Roswell Properties, LLC, LTD (“Plaintiff”) filed a  complaint against Defendants, Deals 4 All Seasons, Inc., Shiri Tayar Dangor,  and DOES 1 through 10. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Breach  of Written Contract; (2) Breach of Written Contract – Enforcement of Personal  Guaranty; (3) Money Lent; (4) Account Stated; (5) Book Account; and (6) Money  Had and Received. The complaint is based on the allegation that on August 19,  2019, Defendant, Deals 4 All Seasons, Inc. (“Deals”) by and through its  President and Secretary, Defendant Shiri Tayar Dangor (“Dangor”) executed and  delivered to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (“Wells Fargo”), a Business  Lending Confirmation Letter (the “Credit Agreement”), for the renewal of  Defendant Deals existing revolving credit line ending in 67-18, in the  principal amount of $100,000 for the purpose of providing capital for the  operation of Defendant Deals’ business. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges  that the Credit Agreement provided for a draw down period through February 15,  2020. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff has alleged that within the past four (4)  years, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 337, Defendant Deals  breached the written agreements governing the loan by failing to make timely  payments as required under the terms of the Agreement as modified, and by  failing to repay all sums due after demand for payment, although timely demands  were made by Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶ 24.)    B.      Procedural    On July 9, 2024, Plaintiff  filed this Motion for Order Vacating Dismissal to Enter Judgment Pursuant to  Stipulation for Judgment. To date, no opposition has been filed.    II. ANALYSIS   A.      Legal Standard   Under Code of Civil Procedure, section  664.6:     (a) If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the  parties outside¿of¿the presence of the court or orally before the court, for  settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter  judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties,  the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement  until performance in full of the terms of the settlement. (b) For purposes of this section, a writing is  signed by a party if it is signed by any of the following:  (1) The party. (2) An attorney who represents the party.  (3) If the party is an insurer, an agent who is  authorized in writing by the insurer to sign on the insurer's behalf.”  B.     Discussion    Here,  Plaintiff’s moving papers seek entry of judgment on the parties’ stipulation, on  the grounds that Defendants are in default of a written Settlement Agreement  that provided for periodic payments towards an agreed amount.  Plaintiff moves this Court to enter judgment  pursuant to the signed Settlement Agreement and Stipulation for Judgment  (“Stipulation”), entered into by and between Plaintiff and the Defendants, to  enforce the terms of the same. Plaintiff contends that after the complaint was  filed, the parties reached a full settlement of the matter on July 31, 2023. Accordingly,  Plaintiff and the Defendants entered into a written Settlement Agreement that  this Court retains jurisdiction over pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 664.6, which includes entering judgment in the event of a default in  payments.    Pursuant to  the terms of the Stipulation, Defendants were to pay the total sum of $66,250  over time commencing August 25, 2023. Built into the settlement agreement was a  clause which provides that a failure to make any payment by its due date shall  constitute a default under the terms of the settlement which contemplates  immediate entry of judgment pursuant to the terms of the stipulation.    This Court  notes that the Stipulation filed by Plaintiff on June 12, 2024 was signed by Defendant  Dangor and Gerald A. Drake on August 24, 2023 and August 25, 2023. The Court  verifies that paragraph three (3) of the Settlement states, “[i]n the event of  a default under the written Settlement Agreement, [Plaintiff] shall have the  immediate right to seek entry of this Stipulation for Judgment by filing such  with the Court.” The Court finds the Stipulation to be valid and enforceable  under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6. Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration  provides that Defendants made monthly settlement payments of $3,500 to  Plaintiff from August 2023 through October 2023, and then “partial payments” in  unspecified amounts in the months thereafter.    (Declaration of Doug Harrah  (“Harrah Decl.”), ¶ 10.)  The Harrah  Decl. states that Defendants are in default, but it fails to provide a dollar  amount of the remaining balance due and fails to specify the amount of the  partial payments so the Court could calculate a balance due.  As such, Plaintiff is seeking this Court  grant an order vacating the dismissal without prejudice of the entire action  previously entered by this Court on October 23, 2023 as this Court retained  jurisdiction pursuant to Code of Civil procedure section 664.6 so that  Plaintiff may seek entry of judgment against Defendants Deals and Dangor  pursuant to the signed stipulation for judgment. (Harrah Decl., Exhibit B.)    While the  Court is inclined to vacate the dismissal, it cannot enter the proposed  judgment because the moving papers fail to provide admissible evidence of the  remaining balance due and of the partial payments made before this motion was  filed.  Accordingly, the COurt  tentatively would continue the hearing to allow Plaintiff to supply additional  evidence and to give adequate notice to Defendants of the continued hearing in  the event they are able to cure the default before the continued hearing, or to  file opposing evidence bearing on the remaining balance due it any.       IV. CONCLUSION   For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s for Order Vacating Dismissal to Enter Judgment  Pursuant to Stipulation for Judgment is CONTINUED.   Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.    