  Case Number:  21STCV3326    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 August 13, 2024 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  21STCV3326
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Plaintiff Doe v.
Innovative Fertility Center, et al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Plaintiff Doe   
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendants,
Innovative Fertility Center, Mark J. Rispler, M.D.
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        March 24, 2025
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Plaintiff’s Motion to
Quash or Modify Defendant, Mark Rispler’s Subpoena for Records
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED.  Potential areas for oral argument are noted
below
 
 
  
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
 
Plaintiff
Doe filed this action against Defendants Innovative Fertility Center, Mark J.
Rispler (collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1-50 on September 9, 2021. On
November 15, 2021, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants alleging the following causes of action: (1) Battery; (2) Sexual
Assault; (3) Medical Negligence; and (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress. These causes of action are based on Plaintiff’s allegation that on
October 1, 2019, during her medical appointment with Mark J. Rispler, M.D.,
that he intentionally and inappropriately used the transvaginal ultrasound wand
in a sexual nature as he was performing the exam. 
 
            On June 12, 2024,
Defendant, Mark Rispler (“Rispler”) served a deposition subpoena for Plaintiff
to produce documents. Plaintiff contends that the subpoena requires the
production of medical documents to be produced on July 2, 2024. As such,
Plaintiff seeks an order quashing or modifying the subpoena insofar as it seeks
the production of Plaintiff’s medical records, because: (1) the
subpoenas unreasonably infringe on Plaintiff’s constitutional right to privacy
under California law; and (2) the subpoenas are overbroad and irrelevant.
 
 
B. Procedural  
 
            On June 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this Motion to Quash or Modify Defendant, Mark Rispler’s Subpoena for Records.
On July 31, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition brief. On August 6, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply brief.  The Court
notes that this motion was field one day before the parties’ settlement
conference with Judge Tanaka.  
 
II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
 
            Preliminarily,
this Court notes that Plaintiff brings up a timing issue with the serving of
the deposition subpoena in her reply brief, i.e., that the subject medical
records subpoena was served after the discovery cut-off date.  No such argument was raised in the moving
papers.  The Court’s practice is to
either refuse to consider new matters raised for the first time in reply
papers, or to continue the hearing and allow the opposing party an opportunity
to file a sur-reply.  The Court will address
that issue first in oral argument.  
 
            Further, this
Court also notes that it has previously ruled on a very similar motion as to different
medical records in July of 2023, and the legal standards for addressing such a
motion have not materially changed in the last year. 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure § 1987.1 grants the trial court authority to quash a subpoena
when necessary. Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 provides: “If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
 
B.    
Discussion
 
Plaintiff
notes that the subpoena to produce documents, sent to Brandy Stewart, MSW,
seeks the following: 
 
Any and all documents and medical
records and reports, and all writings, including, but not limited to, all
office, emergency room. inpatient, outpatient, hospital charts and records,
including any and all electronically stored documents and files: any and all
radiology materials and films. X-rays, MRl's, and CT scans (a complete list of
breakdown from your film library must be provided prior to production of
requested films), pertaining to the care, treatment. And examination of [Plaintiff
Doe], DOB:07/02/1977, SSN: XXX-XX-0120. The subpoena seeks a production date of
July 2, 2024.
 
(Declaration
of Na’il Benjamin (“Benjamin Decl.”), ¶ 2, Exhibit A.) 
 
Defendant
argues that the records sought are those of Plaintiff’s treating therapist whom
she testified she only saw after the alleged incident with Dr. Rispler, and
solely about the alleged incident with Dr. Rispler. Plaintiff has alleged a
cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and that
Plaintiff is claiming financial and emotional damages as a result of the
incident for which she testified she treated with Stewart. The deposition excerpts
attached to the opposition papers show that Plaintiff testified she first
treated with trauma specialist Brandy Stewart after the subject October 1, 2019
ultrasound, and that Plaintiff treated with Ms. Stewart for approximately 20
sessions through 2020 or 2021 before seeing a different therapist, Mary Denise
Walton.    
 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendants’ subpoena unreasonably infringes on plaintiff’s rights
to privacy. Plaintiff concedes that the filing of her lawsuit may be deemed a
waiver of privacy as to matters embraced by the action. However, she argues
that the scope of the privacy waiver “must be narrowly rather than expansively
construed.” (citing Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20
Cal.3d 844, 859.) Plaintiff contends that Defendants’ subpoena seeks
all-encompassing requests relating to medical records being kept and maintained
by Brandy Stewart, MSW. Plaintiff argues that the overbroad language of these
requests risk production of documents that contain private medical information.
Plaintiff further argues that nothing in her complaint or operative discovery
responses reference her prior medical history or put it “at issue” in this
case. The Court disagrees. For the same reasons in Defendant’s opposition,
Plaintiff has placed her therapeutic visits with Ms. Stewart “at issue” in this
case by answering interrogatories and deposition question that identified Ms.
Stewart as a health care profession from whom Plaintiff sought treatment after
the incident.  On the record before the
Court, the treatment records, notes and other materials appear to be limited in
time to the period between October 2019 and December 31, 2021, which is a
reasonable time limitation.  With respect
to scope of records, the language of the SDT encompasses things it is unlikely
Ms. Stewart might have as a therapist, i.e., x-rays,, MRIs and CT scans, but if
Ms. Stewart did obtain such materials from Plaintiff or another provider to
assist in diagnosing and treating Plaintiff, those materials are within the
ambit of a reasonable scope given the nature of Plaintiff’s claims here.  
 
This Court notes, as it did in its
previous July 18, 2023 tentative ruling, that when a plaintiff puts her health
and physical condition at issue, the privacy and privileges that normally
attach to such sensitive information are “substantially lowered by the very
nature of the action.”  (Heller v. Norcal Mutual Ins. Co. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 30, 43.)  This
Court must “balance the public need against the weight of the privacy right”
and only serious invasions of privacy will bar discovery.  (Crab
Addison, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 958, 966.) 
There is not an egregious invasion of privacy every time there is a request for
private information and courts must “place the burden on the party asserting a
privacy interest to establish its extent and seriousness of the prospective
invasion.”  (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531,
557.)  Here, Plaintiff’s
Complaint contends that she has suffered the cost of medical treatment as well
as emotional and other non-economic damages because of Defendant, Mark J.
Rispler, M.D.’s inappropriate use of a vaginal ultrasound wand. However, “although in seeking recovery for
physical and mental injuries plaintiffs have unquestionably waived their
physician-patient . . . privileges as to all information concerning the medical
conditions which they have put in issue, past cases make clear that such waiver
extends only to information relating to the medical conditions in question and does not automatically open all of a
plaintiff’s past medical history to scrutiny.”  (Britt v. Superior
Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 849.)  The burden is on the party seeking
the constitutionally protected information to establish direct relevance. 
(Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017.) As such,
Defendants’ burden was to show this Court how the subpoena request was directly
relevant. This Court finds that Defendant has done so.  
 
The Court will entertain oral argument
from Plaintiff as to any specific scope limitations Plaintiff would like to
have the Court consider, i.e., if Plaintiff can identify specific documents or
other matters given or disclosed to Ms. Stewart that would be beyond the bounds
of the medical conditions Plaintiff placed in issue in this case.  But Defendant are entitled to learn about
Plaintiff’s treatment for her emotional and physical state as a claimed result
of the subject ultrasound wand incident and on the record before this Court,
Plaintiff received multiple treatment session with Ms. Stewart and discussed
the incident itself with Ms. Stewart.  
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Quash is DENIED. 
¿¿ 
Defendants are ordered to
give notice.