 Case Number:  22TRCV01219    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 August 13, 2024
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV01219
¿ 
CASE NAME:                         Jane Doe 1, et al v. Defendant Doe School District, et
al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant, Palos Verdes Peninsula Unified
School District
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiffs, Jane Doe 1, Jane Doe 2, Jane
Doe 3, Jane Doe 4, and Jane Doe 5. 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        January
27, 2025 
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1)
Defendant, Palos Verdes Peninsula Unified School District’s Notice of Motion
and Motion to Sever pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 379.5 and
1048(b)
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) ARGUE, but the Court is
leaning towards denial without prejudice after the parties can present offers
of proof or a more solid evidentiary foundation for applying the severance and
bifurcation standards.  Each side has
valid prejudice arguments if the Court rules against them, but the Court’s
interest is in the interests of justice in keeping these cases together or
separating them for trial.  The Court
identifies below points for oral argument 

 
The Court is aware
there is an IDC scheduled at 11 a.m. also on August 13, 2024.
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Factual¿ 
 
On November 14, 2022, Plaintiffs, Jane
Doe 1, Jane Doe 2, Jane Doe 3, Jane Doe 4, and Jane Doe 5 (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants, Defendant Doe School
District (“Defendant”), and Defendant DOES 2 through 100. On April 11, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). On July 18, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action
for: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent Supervision/Failure to Warn; and (3)
Negligent Retention/Hiring.  
 
Now,
Defendant, Palos Verdes Peninsula Unified School District (“District”) has
filed a Motion to Sever pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 379.5 and
1048, subdivision (b). 
 
B. Procedural 
 
On July 10, 2024, Defendant District has filed this Motion to
Sever. On July 31, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief. On July 31,
2024, Cross-Defendant, Garry Poe joined the Plaintiffs’ opposition. On August
5, 2024, District filed a reply brief. 
 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
A court may order a separate trial of any cause
of action or of any separate issue in furtherance of convenience, to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy.  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿1048, subd. (b).)  Whether there will
be a severance and separate trials on issues in a single action is a matter
within the discretion of the trial court. (Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative
Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847, 911-912.) 
 
B.    Discussion
 
Defendant District contends that Plaintiffs’
claims have been impermissibly joined because they do not arise from the same
events, transactions, or occurrences. According to Defendant District, the
allegations lack sufficient commonality for permissive joinder of Plaintiffs
under Code of Civil Procedure section 378.  (Ibid.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure, section 430.10,
subdivision (d) allows a party to demur to a pleading on the grounds that there
is a defect or misjoinder of parties.  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿430.10, subd.
(d).)  Section 430.80, subdivision (a) provides that a defendant who fails
to object to a complaint by demurrer or answer waives that objection “unless it
is an objection that the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause
of action alleged in the pleading or an objection that the pleading does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., §¿430.80, subd. (a).)  Defendant District did not raise the issue
of misjoinder by demurrer and/or its Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings, nor
as an affirmative defense to the complaint.  Accordingly, Defendant
District has waived the argument of improper joinder and cannot move to sever
the individual Plaintiffs’ claims into separate actions on this basis.  The Court will hear argument from the District on this point.  
 
If the District had not waived its right to assert misjoinder earlier in
this case, the Court in the exercise of its discretion would need to consider
the factors listed in Code of Civil Procedure §§ 379.5 and 1048(b).   Defendant contends that separate trials
will prevent confusion of issues and serious prejudice that would result, all
to the detriment of District. District argues that a jury would be unlikely to
care what the District did or did not do in conjunction with each of the
individual Plaintiff’s claims, and each of the five Plaintiffs separately and
individually bear the burden of establishing liability, causation, and damages,
arguing the evidence and analysis will be different for each case. The Court does
not entirely agree. 
 
All
of the Plaintiffs allege that they were a victim of childhood sexual assault by
Garry Poe who was given access to the plaintiffs when they attended school at
District.  The Court lacks evidence (or
offers of proof) bearing on some critical points argued, including the District’s
assertion in the Reply that the “allegations of abuse are largely focused on
post-graduation trips to Europe . . . .” 
The word “largely” in this context means “not exclusively.”  For example, if each Plaintiff was “groomed”
on school grounds, during the school year, under similar circumstances, such evidence
would tend to support a single trial and denial of bifurcation or
severance.  In such a case, making each
Plaintiff try her own separate case would be prejudicial to them.  Were the cases presented separately as to
each plaintiff, much of the same evidence would be duplicated in each separate
case, which is not in the interests of justice but which would unduly consume time
contrary to the interests of judicial economy. 
Each Plaintiff would assert in each separate case that the District knew
or should have known of Mr. Poe’s activities and claimed “grooming behavior” as
to the other plaintiffs, that the existence of multiple victims from the same
school by the same alleged perpetrator tends in reason to be admissible under
the Second District’s constructive notice standards in Jane Doe v. Lawndale Unified
School District (2022)  72
Cal.App.5th 113, 126, and such evidence would likely have bearing on what
constitutes reasonable measures to protect students from foreseeable injury at
the hands of others.  On the other hand, if
there were no abuse before graduation, if no abuse occurred on school grounds, and
Mr. Poe’s alleged liaisons with Plaintiffs occurred only on trips to Europe, particularly
if the alleged abuse occurred after a given Plaintiff had turned 18, a different
conclusion might be reached.  
 
Plaintiffs
cite to Moe v. Anderson (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 826 (“Moe”). In Moe,
two patients alleged that they were both victims of separate sexual assaults
allegedly committed by a physician. (Id. at 827.) Because the two patients’
claims alleged separate and distinct assaults, and events during separate and
distinct time periods, the medical group argued that joinder was impermissible
of the plaintiffs’ claims.  (Id.
at 836.) However, the Third District Court of Appeal found that joinder of the
plaintiffs’ claims against the medical group was appropriate as to the single
employer since the same basic issues of negligent supervision and hiring were
common to both the plaintiffs and would involve the same evidence against a
that single defendant. (Ibid.)  The
District properly points out that in Moe, the two plaintiffs alleged sexual
assaults by the defendant doctors allegedly occurred within a very short span
of a few months’ time and in the same medical office, while here the alleged assaults
took place years apart and possibly in multiple locations arguably outside of
District knowledge or control.  
 

               In short, the Court needs to hear
more about what the facts will be as to what activities allegedly occurred on
school grounds, and/or during school hours, what percentage of the total evidence
of abuse is likely to be within or outside the District’s constructive notice,
and whether any of the alleged abuse occurred after a given Plaintiff’s attainment
of the age of majority.  The Court would also
consider argument as to whether the cases should all remain together for the balance
for discovery and trial preparation, but bifurcated as to liability and damages
issues given that the liability issues appear to be more common among
Plaintiffs but their damages evidence and damages witnesses appear to be more
divergent among the Plaintiffs, judging in part from the parties’ IDC statements.    
 
 