 Case Number:  23PSCV00099    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  G Defendant Bhuvneshwari Corporation’s Motion to Dismiss
Respondent: Plaintiff Fine
Hospitality Group, LLC
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Bhuvneshwari Corporation’s Motion to Dismiss
is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
This is an action for breach
of contract. In January 2018, Plaintiff Fine Hospitality Group, LLC (FHG)
entered into a hotel management agreement with Defendant Bhuvneshwari
Corporation (Bhuvneshwari). According to the agreement, FHG agreed to provide
management services to a Comfort Inn & Suites located in Ontario. Subsequently,
FHG alleges Bhuvneshwari breached the agreements by failing to make payments,
including termination fees.
On January 12, 2023, FHG
filed a complaint against Bhuvneshwari and Does 1-25, alleging a single cause
of action for breach of contract.
On June 6, 2023, Bhuvneshwari
filed the present motion. A hearing on the motion and case management
conference are set for October 5.
ANALYSIS
Bhuvneshwari
moves to dismiss FHG’s Complaint on the grounds of exclusive concurrent
jurisdiction. For the following reasons, the court DENIES Bhuvneshwari’s motion.Legal Standard
The
doctrine of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction is a judge-made doctrine that
states “when two or more courts have subject matter jurisdiction over a
dispute, the court that first asserts jurisdiction assumes it to the exclusion
of the others.” (Shaw v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (2022) 78
Cal.App.5th 245, 255 (Shaw).) It “is based upon the public policies of
avoiding conflicts that might arise between courts if they were free to make
contradictory decisions or awards relating to the same controversy and
preventing vexatious litigation and multiplicity of suits.” (Ibid.)
In
contrast with the stricter requirements for a plea in abatement, this doctrine
“does not require absolute identity of parties, causes of action or remedies
sought in the initial and subsequent actions.” (Plant Insulation Co. v.
Fibreboard Corp. (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 781, 788 (Plant Insulation).)
Instead, it merely requires that “the court exercising original jurisdiction
has the power to litigate all the issues and grant all the relief to which any
of the parties might be entitled under the pleadings.” (Ibid.) It also
does not require the same subject matter and instead looks at “whether the
first and second actions arise from the ‘same transaction.’” (Id., at p.
789.) Where this doctrine is applicable, “the second action should be stayed.”
(Shaw, supra, 78 Cal.App.5th at p. 257.)
Discussion
In
this case, Bhuvneshwari argues this doctrine is satisfied by a pending action in
the Superior Court of California, County of Orange. But while Bhuvneshwari
references that action in the motion, Bhuvneshwari has failed to request the
court take judicial notice of that action or any relevant filings made in that
action. Nor does Bhuvneshwari provide any declarations and authenticated exhibits
to support these arguments.
Accordingly,
because the filings in the alleged first action are not properly before this
court, the court cannot analyze whether the exclusive concurrent jurisdiction
doctrine is applicable and thusly DENIES Bhuvneshwari’s motion without prejudice.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing,
Bhuvneshwari’s motion is DENIED without prejudice.