 Case Number:  23CMCV00858    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  A 
23CMCV00858 Simplified Labor Staffing
 Solutions, Inc. v. Tricap Int’l, et al.
Thursday, May 2, 2024, 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
OVERRULING DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The first amended complaint (“FAC”) filed
on October 20, 2023, alleges that on May 14, 2021, Plaintiff obtained a
judgment for breach of contract against Defendant, Tricap International
(“Tricap”), for $1,910,337.59. Defendant has not paid anything on the judgment
despite Plaintiff’s collection efforts. Plaintiff alleges Tricap is attempting
to conceal its assets by commingling assets with other entities, transferring
assets to Defendants, Caryn Blanc (“Blanc”) and Allan Parker (“Parker”).
Plaintiff alleges Defendant, ADP Express, LLC (“ADP”) is Tricap’s alter ego.
Plaintiff alleges claims to set aside (1) actual and (2) constructive fraudulent
conveyance, (3) for an order setting aside a void encumbrance or lien, and (4) for
civil conspiracy. 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       All Defendants demur to the claims for
actual and constructive fraudulent conveyance on grounds Plaintiff fails to
allege facts to support each element of the claim. Defendants argue that the third
and fourth causes of action are not cognizable causes of action. The Court
should deny leave to amend.
       Plaintiff argues that it understood the
Court’s order sustaining demurrer to require more specificity. Plaintiff has
alleged specific facts.  The third cause
of action to set aside a lien recorded by Defendant, Caryn Blanc, is made
pursuant to Civil Code § 3439.04. The fourth cause of action seeks judgment
against an alter ego of the judgment debtor, which is adequately alleged. 
       In reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiff
is referring to allegations in the FAC that are devoid of facts to show intent
and/or reasonable belief. Plaintiff has not alleged “badges of fraud” as this
Court when it sustained demurrer to the original complaint. Plaintiff’s
allegations on information and belief are not sufficient. 
 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       The bases for demurrer are limited by
statute and may be sustained for reasons including failure to state facts
sufficient to state a cause of action and uncertainty. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) A demurrer “tests the sufficiency
of a complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law.” (Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)
The court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th 634, 638.)      
IV.   
DISCUSSION
       The
Court grants Defendants’ request for judicial notice of court records in
Plaintiff’s underlying action bearing Case No. 20CMCV00014 entitled Simplified
Labor Staffing Solutions, Inc. v. Tricap International, LLC. Evid. Code, §
452(d) [permits judicial notice of Court records.].)
 
A.      The first
and second causes of action for actual and constructive fraudulent conveyance
are adequately alleged. 
       Under the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act
(“UFTA”), a transfer is voidable if it is made “(1) With actual intent to
hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor; (2) Without receiving a
reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or obligation, and the
debtor either:
(A)
Was engaged or was about to engage in a business or a transaction for which the
remaining assets of the debtor were unreasonably small in relation to the
business or transaction.
(B)
Intended to incur, or believed or reasonably should have believed that the
debtor would incur, debts beyond the debtor's ability to pay as they became
due. (Civ.
Code, § 3439.04, subd. (a).) 
       A “constructive” fraudulent conveyance is
one made without actual fraudulent intent but where the debtor did not receive “a
reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer” and “the debtor was
insolvent at that time, or the debtor became insolvent as a result of the
transfer or obligation.” (Civ.
Code, § 3439.05; Mejia
v. Reed (2003) 31 Cal.4th 657, 664.)

       Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not
alleged facts to conclude that Defendants had an actual intent to hide or
conceal assets. Plaintiff must allege “with particularity” the existence of
“badges of fraud” to indicate the required intent such as (1) "the debtor
made the transfer to an ‘insider’; (2) the debtor retained possession or
control of the property after the transfer; (3) the debtor had been sued before
making the transfer; (4) the debtor removed or concealed assets; (5) the value
of the consideration received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent to the
value of the asset transferred; and (6) the transfer occurred shortly before or
shortly after a substantial debt was incurred. (§ 3439.04, subd. (b).) None of
these factors is determinative, and no minimum or maximum number of factors is
required.” (Aghaian
v. Minassian (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 447, 456.) 
       A transfer by a debtor is fraudulent as
to creditors whose claims arose before the transfer “if the debtor made the
transfer (1) without receiving reasonably equivalent value in exchange, and (2)
either (a) was insolvent at the time of the transfer, or (b) became insolvent
as a result of the transfer." (Hasso
v. Hapke (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 107, 122.)
In determining the required intent, the trier of fact may consider whether the
transfer made to an insider, whether the transfer was disclosed or concealed, whether
before the transfer, the debtor had been sued or threated with suit, there was
“substantially all” of the debtor’s assets,” whether the consideration was
reasonably equivalent to the value of the assets, among other enumerated
factors. (Civ.
Code, § 3439.04.)
       Plaintiff alleges that around the time
judgment was entered against the debtor, Tricap, Defendants Blanc and Parker, principals,
and insiders of Tricap and ADP, “colluded and conspired” to transfer “substantially
all” of Tricap’s assets to Defendants or Tricap’s insiders for no consideration
to avoid detection and collection from creditors like Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 35-38.)
These allegations suggest fraudulent intent. Defendants allegedly concealed the
transfer of the debtor’s assets while negotiating and settling the underlying
judgment. (FAC, ¶ 39.) Defendants allegedly transferred the debtor’s assets
with intent to hinder, delay, and defraud debtor’s creditors. (FAC, ¶ 43.) Accordingly,
the first and second causes of action are adequately alleged. B.   Third cause of action to set aside void
encumbrance or lien
        Plaintiff
alleges that on September 10, 2020, Defendant Blanc recorded a lien against
Tricap on behalf of Caryn A. Blanc Revocable Trust and thereby established
herself as a secured creditor of Tricap. (FAC, ¶ 64.) Plaintiff alleges that
the lien is an artifice, created for the purpose of declaring a superior
security interest against debtor’s asserts to avoid Plaintiff’s efforts to
enforce its judgment. (FAC, ¶ 66.) This purported “obligation” was created with
the intent to hinder, delay, and defraud debtor’s creditors (FAC, ¶ 68.)
       This claim also alleges a fraudulent “transfer”
based on a specific transaction. A “transfer” is broadly defined to mean "every
mode, direct or indirect, absolute or conditional, voluntary or involuntary, of
disposing of or parting with an asset or an interest in an asset, and includes
payment of money, release, lease, license, and creation of a lien or
other encumbrance." (Civ.
Code, § 3439.01.) The purpose of the secured lien was to
create lien superior to Plaintiff’s judgment in order to hinder, delay, or
avoid Plaintiff’s collection efforts. 
       Accordingly, this claim is adequately
alleged. 
B.      Fourth
cause of action for action on a judgment
       Despite the caption, Plaintiff
essentially alleges alter ego allegations contending that a unity of interest
does not exist between Tricap, its members, and ADP. (FAC, ¶ 77.) Tricap’s
corporate form has been disregarded and is a mere sham or business conduit for
Defendants, Blanc, Parker, and ADP. (FAC, ¶ 78.) Defendants allegedly placed
Tricap’s assets beyond Plaintiff’s reach. (FAC, ¶ 79.) Defendants have
commingled funds, records, and control of Tricap. (FAC, ¶ ¶ 81.) Plaintiff
alleges that continuing to recognize Tricap and ADP as separate entities would
promote injustice or permit the perpetration of fraud. (FAC, ¶ 84.)
       Liability based on an alter ego theory is
not itself a claim for substantive relief, but rather a procedural claim “to
disregard the corporate entity as a distinct defendant and to hold the alter
ego individuals liable on the obligations of the corporation where the
corporate form is being used by the individuals to escape personal liability,
sanction a fraud, or promote injustice." (Hennessey's
Tavern, Inc. v. American Air Filter Co. (1988)
204 Cal.App.3d 1351, 1359.) Where it is asserted as a
basis for affirmative relief, and the court is asked to take action at the
pleading stage, the claim must be supported by facts to support two elements: “a
unity of interest and ownership, and an unjust result if the corporation is
treated as the sole actor.” (Vasey v. California Dance Co. (1977) 70
Cal.App.3d 742, 749.) “An allegation that a person owns all of the corporate
stock and makes all of the management decisions is insufficient to cause the
court to disregard the corporate entity.” (Leek
v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 415.)
Plaintiff’s factual allegations support the two elements necessary to assert
the claim.
       Finally, the amended complaint removes
the fifth cause of action for civil conspiracy. 
Civil
conspiracy is not a cause of action, but rather a legal doctrine that imposes
liability on persons who did not actually commit a tort but acted in concert
with another tortfeasor. To support this theory of liability, Plaintiff must
allege "1) the formation and operation of the conspiracy, (2) wrongful
conduct in furtherance of the conspiracy, and (3) damages arising from the
wrongful conduct.” (AREI II Cases (2013) 216
Cal.App.4th 1004, 1022.) As Plaintiff’s case authority confirms, a
conspiracy “must be activated by the commission of an actual tort." (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton
Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 511.) 
       Plaintiff alleges that Defendants engaged
in a conspiracy to delay Plaintiff’s collection efforts from Tricap by
“absconding” with Tricap’s business assets and other funds, in other words, by fraudulently
transferring Tricap’s assets with intent to hinder or delay Plaintiff’s
collection efforts (FAC, ¶ 31.) Plaintiff asserts Defendants’ conduct was in
furtherance of a common scheme. (FAC, ¶ 34.) These allegations, as well as the
more specific allegations referenced above, adequately allege a conspiracy theory
of liability.  
 
V.     
 CONCLUSION
       For
the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ demurrer to all causes of action is OVERRULED.
Defendants are ordered to file an answer to the first amended complaint within
10 days.  
 