 Case Number:  23CMCV01738    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  A 
23CMCV01738
 Melody Patton v. Leon Valdry
Thursday,
 May 2,  2024 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE
PLEADING 
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The complaint alleges that Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant
was wrongfully terminated when she rejected his unwarranted and unsolicited
sexual advances and assaults. Plaintiff alleges 12 causes of action for
discrimination, sexual harassment, retaliation, assault and battery and other
employment-related claims.
II.     
ARGUMENTS
Defendant demurs to all claims on
grounds they are barred by res judicata and collateral estoppel. Plaintiff
previously litigated the claims as part of her defenses to the unlawful
detainer action (“UD action”) which was finally litigated in Defendant’s favor.

In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that her employment-related claims were never litigated. The UD action
adjudicated Defendant’s right to possession only.  
In reply, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff could have litigated these claims in the UD action. Instead,
Plaintiff agreed to settle it. 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       The two statutory grounds for a defendant’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings is either that the court does not have
jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action, or the complaint does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438 subd. (c)(B).) A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the
same function as a general demurrer and attacks only defects disclosed on the
face of the pleadings or by matters subject to judicial notice. (Burnett
v. Chimney Sweep (2004)
123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1064.)
       Accordingly, all properly alleged material facts are deemed
true as well as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly
alleged.  (Fire
Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) For this reason, the Court does not consider
Defendant’s declaration asserting facts since they are extrinsic to the
pleading. 
       The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or
conclusions of fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action. (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)
IV.   
DISCUSSION
In its primary aspect, res judicata, or claim preclusion,
prevents relitigation of the same cause of action previously decided on the
merits in a second suit between the same parties or parties in privity with
them. (Central Delta Water Agency v. Department of Water Resources (2021)
69 Cal.App.5th 170, 206.) Three elements must be established: (1) the present
proceeding is on the same cause of action as the prior proceeding; (2) there
was a final judgment on the merits; (3) the parties in the present proceeding
or parties in privity with them were parties to the prior proceedings. (Id.) 
The
second aspect of res judicata known as collateral estoppel, or issue
preclusion, prohibits the relitigation of issues decided in a prior proceeding.
Issue preclusion applies "(1) after final adjudication (2) of an identical
issue (3) actually litigated and necessarily decided in the first suit and (4)
asserted against one who was a party in the first suit or one in privity with
that party." (DKN Holdings LLC v.
Faerber (2015) 61 Cal.4th 813, 825.)
Neither theory applies to bar Plaintiff’s claims. The
Court grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice of records in an unlawful
detainer case bearing Case No. 23STUD04817. (Evid. Code, § 452 (d) [permits
judicial notice of court records.].) The only issues raised in the  UD action was the landlord’s right to
possession of the premises and past due rent. (Defendant’s RJN, .pdf p. 4.) Plaintiff’s
defenses in the UD action do not assert any employment-related damage claims.
Nor could Plaintiff have asserted employment-related
claims as a defense. Tenants may assert legal or equitable defenses that "directly
relate to the issue of possession and which, if established, would result in
the tenant's retention of the premises.” (Drouet
v. Superior Court (2003) 31 Cal.4th 583, 587.)  As the UD action did not concern issues
identical to this claim, res judicata and collateral estoppel do not apply. There
is no evidence Plaintiff actually litigated the causes of action asserted here.

III.  CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for judgment
on the pleading is DENIED. 
 
 