  Case Number:  23STCV07389    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



CALIMA ELECTRIC, INC., a California corporation,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
THE HATCH GROUP, INC., a California corporation; ROLLING GREENS
  NURSERY, INC., a California corporation; SL RETAIL OWNER LLC, a Delaware
  limited liability company; and DOES 1 THROUGH 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV07389
 Hearing Date:   5/22/24
 Trial Date:        11/12/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Calima
  Electric, Inc.’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant The Hatch
  Group, Inc.’s Employee Shanon Johnson and the Production of Documents
  Described in the Notice of Deposition; and
Plaintiff Calima
  Electric, Inc.’s Request for Order Awarding Monetary Sanctions Against The
  Hatch Group, Inc., Shanon Johnson and Their Attorney of Record, Neda Cate,
  Esq., in the Sum of $3,750.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
1. Complaint
[Plaintiff Calima Electric, Inc.]
Plaintiff Calima Electric Inc.
(Calima Electric or Calima) sues (A) Defendant
/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant The Hatch Group, Inc. (The Hatch Group or
THG), (B) Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant Rolling Greens Nursery,
Inc. (Rolling Greens), (C) Defendant/Cross-Complainant SL Retail Owner LLC (SL
Retail), and (D) Does 1 through 100 pursuant to an April 9, 2024, First Amended
Complaint (FAC) alleging claims of (1) Breach of Written Contract, (2) Open
Book Account, (3) Quantum Meruit, (4) Violation of Prompt Pay Statute, (5)
Conversion, (6) Violation of California Penal Code Section 496, (7) Enforcement
of Contractor’s License Bond, and (8) Enforcement of Mechanic’s Lien Release
Bond.
The claims against THG arise from
allegations that THG as general contractor, owes Calima Electric as
subcontractor, $215,936.95 in relation to certain labor, supplies, materials,
and/or services for certain renovation work performed by Calima for THG at the
work improvement commonly known as the Rolling Green Home & Garden located
at 12833 Ventura Boulevard, Studio City, California 91604 (the Property).
2. Cross-Complaint
[Rolling Greens and SL Retail]
On July 27, 2023, Rolling Greens
and SL Retail filed a Cross-Complaint alleging claims of (1) Declaratory Relief
and (2) Indemnity against THG and Does 1 through 20.
The claims arise from allegations
that in 2021, Rolling Greens and SL Retail entered into a written lease
agreement relating to Rolling Greens’ lease of the Property, and that in March
2022, THG bound itself to that lease agreement by entering a separate
contractor agreement with SL Retail as owner of the Property, with the
contractor agreement incorporating the lease agreement’s terms at Article 9,
including a term requiring that THG pay off any mechanic’s lien on the
Property.
The Cross-Complaint attaches a copy
of the contractor agreement but not the written lease agreement.
On September 12, 2023, THG filed an
Answer to Cross-Complaint.
3. Cross-Complaint
[The Hatch Group]
That same day, THG filed a
Cross-Complaint alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Quantum Meruit,
and (3) Account Stated against Rolling Greens and Roes 1 through 100.
The claims arise from allegations
that Rolling Greens and Roes 1 through 100 owe THG $345,276 for the reasonable
value of services rendered in relation to the contractor agreement.
B. Relevant
Procedural History
On January 2, 2024,
January 16, 2024, and January 19, 2024, Calima Electric requested in writing
that THG provide dates for the scheduling of the depositions of THG’s employees
Shanon Johnson and Hector Vasques. Calima contends that Shanon Johnson has been
THG’s PMQ, and that THG has identified Johnson and Vasques as witnesses in this
action.
In response, THG failed
to provide any deposition dates.
Accordingly, on January
30, 2024, Calima served deposition notices noticing the deposition of Shanon Johnson
for February 22, 2024, and the deposition of Hector Vasques for February 28,
2024. Both deposition notices included 15 categories of document for
production.
On February 15, 2024,
THG’s counsel Neda Cate, Esq. served objections to Plaintiff’s deposition
notices. The objections claimed that neither the witness nor THG’s attorney of
record were available on the scheduled deposition dates. THG also generally and
specifically objected to each of the 15 categories of documents that were requested
in Plaintiff’s deposition notices.
On February 20, 2024,
Calima wrote to THG and agreed to continue the depositions of Shanon Johnson
and Hector Vasques and requested that THG provide alternative deposition dates
by Friday, February 23, 2024. The letter also explained why THG’s objections to
Calima’s production requests were defective. 
THG altogether failed
to respond to Calima’s February 20, 2024, letter, e.g., to provide any dates to
which to continue the depositions or agree to produce any documents responsive
to Calima’s deposition notices.
On March 6, 2024,
Calima once again wrote to THG and requested deposition dates.
That same day, Neda
Cate responded indicating that she would consult with THG and respond.
THG and Neda Cate failed
to follow-up or provide any deposition dates.
On March 13, 2024,
Calima again reached out to THG and requested deposition dates.
That same day, Neda
Cate replied by stating that she had not gotten dates from THG and would
continue to reach out to them. Neda Cate added that if Calima felt it had to
file a motion to compel, Cate would “understand.”
As of April 14, 2024,
THG still had failed to produce Shanon Johnson or produce any documents in
response to the deposition notice for Shanon Johnson.
The above summary is
derived from the moving papers and is not disputed in substance in the
opposition papers.
C. Motion Before the
Court
On April 14, 2024,
based on THG’s nonresponse, Plaintiff Calima Electric filed a motion to compel
the deposition of Shanon Johnson and for monetary sanctions against THG, Shanon
Johnson, and Cate. The motion contends that the deposition of Shanon Johnson is
sought because THG identified Johnson as a person with information responsive
to the Project and to the amount of money owed by THG to Plaintiff.
On May 9, 2024, THG
filed a combined opposition to Plaintiff’s motion and to a similar motion set
for hearing on June 11, 2024, in relation to THG employee Hector Vasques. The
opposition almost exclusively argues, in essence, that THG was attempting to
settle the case through an April 18, 2024, mediation with Rolling Greens, which
Plaintiff did not join, causing the mediation to fail, after which THG decided
to “now … focus[] on litigating this case,” giving Calima dates for the
depositions of Shanon Johnson and Hector Vasques (May or June 2024). THG argues
that the dates provided to Calima moot Calima’s motion and that sanctions would
be unjust where THG was attempting to resolve this case rather than filing
motions. THG adds other arguments that lack merit, discussed below.
On May 15, 2024,
Plaintiff Calima Electric filed a reply to the May 9, 2024, opposition. The
reply contends among other things that Calima has participated in several
settlement discussions with THG, all of which involved THG making promises that
it did not keep, making Calima wary of mediation absent established parameters,
which THG never provided, and where THG never actually requested that Calima
participate in the mediation with Rolling Greens.
Calima’s motion is now
before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Compel Deposition:
GRANTED.
A.
Legal Standard
If,
[1] after service of a deposition notice, [2] a party to the action or an
officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, [3] without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, [4] fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, [5] the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(a) [Arabic numerals added for clarity].)
The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1).)
The
motion shall also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (b)(2).)
If
the proposed deponent made some response to the deposition notice, then a
separate statement must accompany any motion to compel deposition attendance or
production. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
B.
Court’s Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff.
1. Procedural
Requirements
a. Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1345
Here, the moving papers satisfy
this rule of court by attaching a separate statement that contains the
discovery request (deposition request; production requests), the response to
the request (objections only), and the reasons why a deposition with production
of documents should be ordered. (Mot., Separate Statement, pp. 2-51.)
In contrast, THG’s opposition fails
to attach a separate statement, which undermines THG’s opposition insofar as THG
missed an opportunity to rebut the arguments raised in the moving papers’
separate statement.
b. Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2)
The opposition incorrectly argues
that “Calima has not presented any … declaration” “stating that the petitioner
has contacted the deponent to inquire about … non-appearance” at the deposition
“and [that] there is no proof of a non-appearance” because “Calima’s
depositions were taken off calendar.” (Opp’n, pp. 3-4.)
Indeed, the moving papers attach
evidence of three follow ups with THG regarding scheduling a deposition for Shanon
Johnson after THG objected to the deposition based on unavailability and other
grounds. (Mot., Gharakhani Decl., ¶¶ 21-28, Exs. 5-9.)
The opposition does not object to this
evidence. Instead, the opposition narrowly construes section 2025.450,
subdivision (b)(2) to argue that for that section to apply even where the
deponent cancels the deposition based on unavailability, the deposition must go
forward and the nonappearance taken as to satisfy the language of subdivision
(b)(2) at: “[A] declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the
deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” The Court disagrees with this
reading of the statute. A fair reading of the statute is the one suggested by
an established California authority that provides that to establish that a
follow-up contact was made, the movant should identify who made the contact,
the person contacted, the date, time, and method of contact (e.g., by
telephone), and the results of the contact (e.g., the deponent refused to
reschedule the deposition). (Motion to compel deposition attendance
(2024) O’Connor’s California Practice, ch. 9-D, § 3.1.1(5) [as of May 21,
2024].) Here, Plaintiff’s counsel identifies the times and dates on which
counsel followed up with THG’s counsel regarding new deposition dates for Shanon
Johnson. (Mot., Gharakhani Decl., ¶¶ 21-28, Exs. 5-9.) The Gharakhani
declaration and its attachments thus satisfy this statutory requirement.
2. Substantive
Discussion
a. Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a)
The Court finds in favor of Calima.
Calima attaches evidence showing
service of a deposition notice, regarding the deposition of an employee of a
party, with which the employee failed to proceed by having counsel object to
the deposition based on the unavailability of the witness and counsel. (Mot.,
Gharakhani Decl., ¶¶ 18-21, Exs. 2-5 [deposition notice for Shanon Johnson;
deposition notice for Hector Vasquez; objections to both deposition notices.)
The Court disagrees with THG’s
argument that in order for a party to “fail to appear” at a deposition, the
deposition must have taken place and a certificate of non-appearance issued.
The only reason that the original February 22, 2024, deposition of Shanon
Johnson was “taken off calendar” was because THG’s counsel (Neda Cate) served
objections to the deposition notice on February 15, 2024—a mere week before the
deposition—on the ground that “[n]either the witness nor THG’s attorney of
record [wa]s available” for the date of deposition. (Mot., Gharakhani Decl., ¶
20, Ex. 4 [copy of email].) THG argues that Calima should have attended the
deposition and taken notice of non-appearance before proceeding with this
motion. (Opp’n, p. 3.)
This argument attempts to have it
both ways. A deposition is canceled in response to the deponent stating his
unavailability and when the deposition does not go forward for that reason, the
deponent argues that the deposition should have gone forward and his
non-appearance taken before a motion to compel that same deposition can be
filed, despite deponent refusing to agree to dates for a long period of time.
Such arguments conflict with the nature of relief here. And nowhere does the
opposition cite supporting authority.
Therefore, the last question before
the Court is whether THG raised valid objections, which the Court finds it did
not.
The objections to the Shanon
deposition notice are contained in the moving papers as Exhibit 4 to the
Gharakhani declaration.
The general objection to the
deposition notice based on insufficient time to gather documents is unavailing.
THG had 27 days to collect documents in response to the deposition notice but
instead waited until a mere seven days before the deposition date to serve
objections. No separate statement elaborates this objection. The Court thus
rejects it.
The general objection to the
deposition notice based on privilege is applicable but can be mitigated with a
privilege log or a protective order, which are not addressed in the objections.
No separate statement elaborates this objection. The Court thus notes that to
the extent that the deposition and production are ordered, privilege objections
may be properly raised.
The general objection to the
deposition notice based on “non-statutory obligations” is not elaborated, is
not supported by a separate statement, and thus it is rejected.
The general objection to the
deposition notice based on unilateral setting of deposition is unavailing. The
Local Rules for the Los Angeles Superior Court do provide that “[i]n scheduling
depositions, reasonable consideration should be given to accommodating
schedules o[f] opposing counsel and of the deponent, where it is possible to do
so without prejudicing the client’s rights.” (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local
Rules, appen., rule 3.A., subd. (e)(2).) However, Plaintiff’s counsel attempted
to accommodate THG three times prior to serving the deposition notice. (Mot.,
Gharakhani Decl., ¶¶ 16-17, Ex. 1.) This objection thus not only lacks merit,
but completely ignores that Plaintiff made a good faith effort to work with
opposing counsel to schedule these depositions only to be met with silence.
The general objection to the
production requests based on privilege was addressed above in relation to the
deposition.
The general objections to the
production requests based on proprietary, trade secret, private, or otherwise
confidential information, or on calling for expert opinion, are not
sufficiently elaborated in the objections, are not supported by a separate
statement, and thus they are rejected.
The general objection to the
production requests based on, discovery is ongoing, is not a basis under the
Code to fail to attend a deposition duly noticed. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280, subd. (a).) Such a lack of discovery in hand could have been explained
at the deposition.
The general objection to the
production requests based on, improper definitions, instructions, and ESI
language, are rejected because the Court finds that the definitions,
instructions, and scope of ESI are permissible and do not render the production
requests defective. Moreover, these objections are not greatly elaborated in
the objections, are not supported by a separate statement, and are thus further
rejected on these further grounds.
The general objection to the
production requests based on duplicativeness is not greatly elaborated in the
objections, is not supported by a separate statement, and is thus rejected.
Moreover, an insufficient showing pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 2019.030 was
made here.
The remaining objections are
specific objections to the production requests, most of which incorporate the
above grounds for objecting to production. The Court rejects the repeat
objections on the above grounds.
The Court next discusses the
objections not already discussed above.
The biggest objection is relevance,
which is not properly raised by THG as to any of the production requests. For
example, discovery as to all communications between Shanon Johnson and Calima
(e.g., Nos. 1, 5) is relevant insofar as those communications could lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence regarding THG’s obligation to pay Calima for
its subcontract work, as based on Shanon Johnson’s knowledge of those
transactions as a THG employee. (See Mot., Gharakhani Decl., ¶ 31 [Johnson has
been THG’s PMQ, and THG identified Johnson and Vasques as witnesses].) The same
conclusion applies to requests to produce documents showing Johnson’s
communications with THG relating to Calima (No. 2), documents created in
response to conversations or meetings between Johnson (No. 7), and documents
showing communications between any person other than an attorney and Shanon
Johnson regarding the allegations in the pleadings (No. 10).
Moreover, the Court rejects the
specific objections of the requests being “vague, ambiguous overly broad,
burdensome, oppressive and designed solely for purposes of harassment.” These
objections are not greatly elaborated, are not supported by a separate
statement, and are thus rejected. The Court further rejects these objections on
the grounds that they are incorrect when compared to the “objectionable”
material.
Last, the Court rejects the
argument in the opposition papers contending that because THG offered
deposition dates in May or June 2024, this motion is moot. First, the Court
disagrees with the general principle that the service or submission to late
discovery alone satisfies the standard. (Cf. Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 409
[“Whether a particular response does resolve satisfactorily the issues raised
by a motion is a matter best determined by the trial court in the exercise of
its discretion, based on the circumstances of the case”].) Second, as noted by
Plaintiff Calima, THG’s offer regarding deposition dates was made a mere two
days prior to THG’s opposition deadline for this motion, connoting gamesmanship.
(Reply, Gharakhani Decl., ¶ 39.) Second, the opposition did not address the
production requests, hardly mooting all the issues before the Court. This
argument is thus found to lack merit.
Because THG failed to raise proper
objections, even beyond section 2025.410, the Court determines that Plaintiff
has standing to bring this motion to compel Shanon Johnson’s deposition.
b. Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1)
The Court adopts its discussion
above relating to relevance to determine that there is good cause for
production. 
3. Disposition
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED on
the above grounds.
 
III. Request for Sanctions: GRANTED, in part.
A. Legal Standard
If a motion under subdivision (a)
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated,
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
The court may award sanctions under
the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery,
even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion
was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party
after the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a).)
B. Court’s Determination
First, the Court notes
that the opposition papers repeatedly make what appear to be either
misrepresentations or heavily skewed representations that do not conform with
the evidence before the Court. For example, THG contends that Calima never met
and conferred or followed up in relation to Shanon Johnson’s deposition. The
evidence shows that three times after Neda Cate raised unavailability witness
and counsel unavailability for the deposition, Calima followed up with THG’s
counsel. “Written briefs or memoranda or points and authorities should not rely
on facts that are not properly part of the record.” (Super. Ct. L.A., Local
Rules, appen 3.A(c)(1).)
Second, the Court adopts its
discussion in Section II above to determine that because THG has continually
failed to submit its employee to a deposition, and because THG’s counsel has
played an integral part in the communications between Calima and THG, sanctions
are appropriate as to them.
The record is unclear as to Shanon
Johnson’s level of participation, if any, with a deposition, for which reason
the Court finds that sanctions are not merited against her.
Last, the Court determines that
$3,750 in sanctions is reasonable here, as comprised of: (1) a fee rate of $750
per hour, for an experienced practitioner whose declaration supports this fee
rate by showing counsel’s experience and skill; and (2) ten total hours reasonably
expended and to be expended in relation to this motion and an identical motion
for the deposition of Hector Vasques, of which Plaintiff is seeking half in
sanctions in this motion, and half for the second motion.
Sanctions are thus GRANTED, in
part, as against THG and attorney Neda
Cate, Esq. in the amount of $3,750, jointly and severally. 
IV. Conclusion
A. Compel Deposition
Plaintiff Calima Electric, Inc.’s
Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant The Hatch Group, Inc.’s Employee
Shanon Johnson and the Production of Documents Described in the Notice of
Deposition is GRANTED.
The parties are ordered to meet and
confer regarding deposition dates. The deposition should be taken within the
next 14 calendar days absent mutual written agreement of counsel.
If no agreement can be reached, the
Court will set the deposition date at oral argument after hearing the proposals
by both sides.
B. Request for Sanctions
Plaintiff Calima Electric, Inc.’s
Request for Order Awarding Monetary Sanctions Against The Hatch Group, Inc.,
Shanon Johnson and Their Attorney of Record, Neda Cate, Esq., in the Sum of
$3,750 is GRANTED, in part, as to The Hatch Group, Inc. and Neda Cate alone.
Defendant The Hatch Group, Inc. and
counsel Neda Cate, Esq. (274971) are
ordered, jointly and severally, to remit sanctions of $3,750 to Plaintiff
Calima Electric, Inc. within 30 days of this order.