  Case Number:  23SMCV02657    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  LIAV MANN,    Plaintiff, v.  BEVERLY HILLS UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV02657     Hearing Date:  May 9, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT BEVERLY HILLS UNIFIED    SCHOOL DISTRICT’S MOTIONS TO    COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSES TO    REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF    DOCUMENTS AND FORM    INTERROGATORIES, TO COMPEL    PLAINTIFF’S ATTENDANCE AT    DEPOSITION, TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR    ADMISSIONS ADMITTED AND FOR    SANCTIONS        BACKGROUND This action arises from a dispute between a school district and one of its students.  Plaintiff Liav Mann alleges that as a member of the wrestling team at Beverly Hills High School he was physically and verbally abused by his wrestling coach, Ryan Faintich.  Faintich is employed by Defendant Beverly Hills Unified School District (the “District”).  Faintich would tell members of his team to kick Plaintiff in the genitals and instructed Plaintiff not to fight back.  (Compl. ¶¶10-13.)  On one occasion, Faintich wrestled with Plaintiff, purposely headbutting him, leaving lumps on his forehead.  (Id. ¶ 22.)  Ultimately, Faintich kicked Plaintiff out of the wrestling team, and as Plaintiff alleges, prevented Plaintiff from enrolling in a regular P.E. class, resulting in an “F” grade that sunk his grade point average.  (Id. ¶¶39-42.) This hearing is on the District’s motions to compel responses to requests for production of documents (“RFPs”) and form interrogatories (“FROGs”), to compel Plaintiff’s attendance at a deposition, and to deem requests for admissions (“RFAs”) admitted.  The District propounded the RFPs and FROGs on August 23, 2023, and the RFAs on December 13, 2023.  While Plaintiff did not timely respond, he has since served responses without objections to these discovery requests.  The District also noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for December 13, 2023 but there was no appearance by Plaintiff on that date nor were any objections served as to the notice.  Plaintiff has not filed an opposition to the District’s motion to compel his deposition.      DISCUSSION RFPs and FROGs  A party must respond to interrogatories and requests for production of documents within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a);¿Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a).)  If a party to whom interrogatories or requests for production of documents are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b);¿Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  The party that fails to provide timely responses waives the right to make any objection, including one based on privilege or work-product protection.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a);¿Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).)  There is no time limit for a motion to compel responses to interrogatories or production of documents other than the cut-off on hearing discovery motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2024.020, subd. (a),¿2030.290;¿Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300.) Here, the District propounded RFPs and FROGs on August 23, 2023.  Plaintiff’s responses were originally due on September 27, 2023.  Plaintiff’s counsel asked for and was granted a two-week extension to provide responses but thereafter did not provide any responses.  Objections to any of the RFPs or FROGs were therefore waived.  Plaintiff’s counsel thereafter indicated they would serve responses by November 13, 2023, but never did so.   Plaintiff has now served responses to the RFPs and FROGs, without objections.  Plaintiff did not timely respond because of counsel’s mistake in failing to calendar the due date of the responses.  Counsel was diagnosed with prostate cancer in late 2023, and his illness caused him to mis-calendar the discovery deadlines.  (Virgilio Decl. ¶3.)  On these facts, the Court denies as moot the District’s motion to compel responses to its RFPs and FROGs.   RFAs Where a party fails to timely respond to a request for admission, the propounding party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants them relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).) Here, the District served the RFAs on December 13, 2023.  Responses to the RFAs were due by January 17, 2024.  Plaintiff failed to timely respond and accordingly, has waived all objections.  Plaintiff has now served responses to the RFAs, without objections.  As the responses were served before the hearing on this motion, the motion to deem RFAs admitted is denied.  There is no need to evaluate whether the responses are in substantial compliance or whether Plaintiff’s failure to respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect because Plaintiff is not seeking relief from the waiver of his objections.   Deposition Any party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  A properly served deposition notice is effective to require a party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and copying. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) The party served with a deposition notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)  In addition to serving this written objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c).) “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party . . . without having served a valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination, or to proceed¿with it, or to produce for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production . . . of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) Code of Civil Procedure section § 2025.450¿requires the Court to compel the deposition unless it finds a valid objection was served under¿§2025.410.  The objecting party has the burden to justify objections asserted.  (See¿Denari v. Superior Court (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1488, 1494-95.) No meet and confer is required to compel initial deposition attendance, but instead there must be a declaration showing that moving party inquired about the nonappearance.¿(Code Civ. Proc. §2025.450(b)(2).) “Implicit in the requirement that counsel contact the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance is a requirement that counsel listen to the reasons offered and make a good faith attempt to resolve the issue,” including by rescheduling.  (Leko v. Cornerstone Bldg. Inspection Serv. (2001) 86 Cal. App. 4th 1109, 1124.) Here, the District noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for December 13, 2023.  Plaintiff did not appear.  Plaintiff also did not serve any objections to the notice, thereby waiving any objections.  The District sent a letter to Plaintiff’s counsel regarding Plaintiff’s failure to appear at the deposition.  The letter also requested Plaintiff’s availability to reschedule the deposition.  The District’s letter was ignored.  Plaintiff has not filed an opposition to the District’s motion to compel his deposition.  On these facts, the Court grants the District’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s attendance at a deposition.  Plaintiff is ordered to appear at a deposition within 75 days of this Order.   Sanctions Where a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  While delayed responses may avoid a motion to deem admitted, they will not avoid monetary sanctions.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280 subd. (c); Gonzales v. Harris, 2021 Cal. Super. LEXIS 29267 at *6 (even if delayed responses are served, sanctions are mandatory because the motion had to be brought, regardless of whether it is ultimately denied because responses are served before the hearing).)  Plaintiff seeks relief from the imposition of¿sanctions based on¿mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect.  However,¿Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280 does not allow for such exceptions to the imposition of¿sanctions.¿ Accordingly, the Court grants the District’s request for $725.00 in sanctions relating to its motion to deem RFAs admitted.    In addition, Code Civ. Proc. §  2023.030¿permits courts to impose¿sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that constitutes a¿misuse of the¿discovery process.  Section 2023.010¿provides a non-exhaustive list of conduct that is considered misuse of the discovery process, including as relevant here,¿failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery and failing to comply with a Court order.  (Cal. Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(d),¿(g).)  Here, Plaintiff has failed to respond to RFPs and FROGs as well as to attend a duly noticed deposition.  On March 7, 2023, the Court ordered the parties meet and confer about the outstanding discovery.  Following the March 7 hearing, the District’s counsel sent a letter to Plaintiff’s counsel, asking their availability to meet and confer as instructed by the Court.  The District’s letter was ignored.  Notwithstanding, given counsel’s illness and admitted mistake in mis-calendaring the discovery deadline, the Court cannot conclude that an award of sanctions here would be in the interests of justice.  Accordingly, the Court denies the District’s request for $3,335 in sanctions relating to its motions to compel responses to its RFPs and FROGs and to compel Plaintiff’s attendance at a deposition.   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the District’s motions to compel responses to its requests for production of documents and form interrogatories and to deem requests for admissions admitted.  The Court GRANTS the District’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s attendance at a deposition; Plaintiff is ordered to appear for a deposition within 75 days of this Order.  The Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART the District’s request for sanctions.  IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: May 9, 2024     ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 