 Case Number:  23STCV15056    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



KEITH FEDER,
  M.D., INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
UNITED AIRLINES, INC., and DOES 1-10, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV15056
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date: August 19, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
UNITED AIRLINES, INC. (“Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
KEITH FEDER, M.D., INC. (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
This
action arises out of a dispute over the payment for medical services. After a
sustained demurrer to the original complaint (“Complaint”) with leave to amend,
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”) on February
26, 2024, asserting the following causes of action: (1) negligent
misrepresentation; and (2) promissory estoppel; or in the alternative, (3) recovery
of benefits under 29 U.S.C. section 1132, subdivision (a)(1)(B).
             
In
relevant part, the FAC alleges the following: Prior to providing services to a
patient, Plaintiff sought and obtained promises and representations from
Defendant’s agent, Aetna Life Insurance Co. (“Aetna”), on behalf of Defendant.  Plaintiff contacted Defendant via Aetna to
obtain a promise as to how Defendant presently pays for claims.  Plaintiff asked Defendant to promise and
represent Defendant’s payment rate for medical services.  (FAC, ¶¶ 27-33.)  Aetna, on behalf of Defendant, stated and
represented that the payment rate was usual, customary and reasonable (“UCR”).  (FAC, ¶ 31.)  Plaintiff also asked Aetna whether Defendant
pays using a Medicare Fee Schedule.  (FAC,
¶ 32.)  Aetna, on behalf of Defendant,
promised and represented that it does not.  (FAC ¶ 33.)  Based on these promises and representations of
fact and in reliance on their veracity, Plaintiff provided medical services to the
patient.  (FAC, ¶ 42.)  Neither Aetna nor Defendant, however, paid Plaintiff
for the services at the UCR rate.  (FAC,
¶¶ 57-58.)  Instead, Aetna, on behalf of
Defendant, paid at a Medicare rate.  (FAC,
¶¶ 39, 57.)  Based on these allegations, Plaintiff
asserts the foregoing causes of action.
 
On
May 31, 2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer (“Demurrer”) as to the first
and second causes of action for negligent misrepresentation and promissory
estoppel, respectively.  The Demurrer is
based on the grounds that the first and second causes of action are preempted
by Section 514 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended (“ERISA”), and that they fail to state a cause of action.  
 
Plaintiff
filed an opposition to the Demurrer on July 31, 2024, and Defendant filed a
reply on August 12, 2024.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of the August 8,
2024 Order issued by Judge Maurice A. Leiter of the Superior Court of
California, County of Los Angeles, in Beach District Surgery Center v.
United Airlines Inc. et al., Case No. 23STCV19725, in which Judge Leiter overruled
Defendant’s demurrer on the same grounds as the present Demurrer.
 
Plaintiff’s request is DENIED.  While a court
may take judicial notice of the official acts or records of any court in this
state and any state of the United States under Evidence Code, § 452(d), findings
in a prior judicial opinion are not a proper subject of judicial notice unless
it has a res judicata or collateral estoppel effect in a subsequent
action.  (Kilroy v. State of California (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 140,
148.)  Here, there is no indication that the findings in Judge Leiter’s
matter have res judicata or collateral estoppel effect in this case.   
 
MEET AND CONFER 
            The meet and confer requirement has been met.
             
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
A demurrer tests
the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  The court
accepts as true all material factual allegations and affords them a liberal construction,
but it does not consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions, speculation, or
allegations contrary to law or judicially noticed facts.  (Shea Homes Limited Partnership v. County
of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)  With respect to a demurrer, the complaint must
be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts pleaded.
 (Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87
Cal.App.4th 513, 517.)  
 
ERISA
Preemption
Section
514 of ERISA provides, in relevant part, that ERISA supersedes any and all
State laws insofar as they ... relate to any employee benefit plan.  (Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins.
Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1221 n. 2.)  A law relates to an employee benefit plan, in the
normal sense of the phrase, if it has a connection with or reference to such a
plan.  (Morris B. Silver M.D., Inc. v.
International Longshore & Warehouse etc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 793, 800
(“Morris”).)  With respect to preemption
of state law claims, the Supreme Court has held common law causes of action
based on alleged improper processing of a claim for benefits under an employee
benefit plan, undoubtedly meet the criteria for pre-emption under section 514(a).  (Id. at 801.)
 
            Here, the Court, in its February 8, 2024 Minute Order, had previously sustained,
with leave to amend, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first and second
causes of action in the Complaint, finding that “the first two causes of action
alleging state law claims are preempted by ERISA because they arise out of and
relate to the existence of an ERISA plan.”  The court's finding was based on the alleged
discussion between Plaintiff and a representative of the patient's ERISA plan,
acting on behalf of Defendant. The discussion revolved around alleged
misrepresentations concerning the payment terms of the patient's ERISA plan,
which formed the basis of Plaintiff's claims for negligent misrepresentation
and promissory estoppel.  Thus, the Court
concluded that Plaintiff does not allege circumstances that would extricate
Plaintiff’s claims from ERISA preemption.   
 
The Court also noted in its February 8, 2024 Minute
Order that the facts alleged in the Complaint differed from those of Morris.  In Morris, the plaintiff's pleading
alleged that an ERISA plan had broken a promise to pay a specified amount.  In the Complaint subject of the demurrer,
however, the representative's alleged promise regarding payment for services
was a general statement of policy, rather than a specific amount related to
specific services to be provided by Plaintiff. 

 
Plaintiff then filed the FAC, which is the subject
of the current Demurrer.  The Court
notes, however, that there is no substantive difference between the facts, as
alleged in the FAC, and those in the Complaint. 
Plaintiff merely added the qualifying phrase “[i]n connection with Provider
Claims only” to certain portions of the FAC. 
(FAC, ¶¶ 28-33.)  The insertion of
this verbiage does not change the fact that the negligent misrepresentation and
promissory estoppel claims are fundamentally grounded on the ERISA plan.  The Court thus reaches the same conclusion
that Plaintiff’s negligent misrepresentation and promissory estoppel claims are
inextricably intertwined with ERISA, and are thus preempted by it.  
 
A demurrer will be
sustained without leave to amend if there exists no reasonable possibility that
the defect can be cured by amendment.  (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The burden of proving such a reasonable possibility is squarely on the
plaintiff.  (Cooper v. Leslie Salt Co.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 627, 636.)  Here,
Plaintiff does not carry its burden
of proving a reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.
 
RULING
            Based on the foregoing, the Demurrer
as to Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action in the FAC is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 19th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 