Here is the YAML summary of the "Tentative Ruling" in the format you requested:

```
Case Number: Unknown
Plaintiff's Name: Jared Macial, Jorge Pulido
Defendant's Name: Rosecrans Avenue Property, LLC
People-Names: Jared Macial, Jorge Pulido, Rosecrans Avenue Property, LLC
Company-Names: Rosecrans Avenue Property, LLC
Places: Rosecrans Avenue
Dates: October 25, 2023
Events: Discovery motions, failure to provide discovery responses, seeking sanctions
Money: Sanctions (terminating, evidence, issue, and/or monetary)
Intentions: Rosecrans Avenue Property, LLC seeks sanctions against Plaintiffs for failing to provide discovery responses
Facts: Plaintiffs failed to file opposition, failed to provide discovery responses, Court granted motions to compel discovery responses
Disputes: Misuse of the discovery process, failure to comply with Court's order
Acts: Rosecrans Avenue Property, LLC seeks terminating, evidence, issue, and/or monetary sanctions
Agreements: Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010, Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030
Laws: California discovery law, Code of Civil Procedure
Case Citations: Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, Rail Services of America v. State Comp. Ins. Fund (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 323, Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262
Statutes: Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010, Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030
Roles: Plaintiff, Defendant, Judge
Significant Statements: "The trial court cannot impose sanctions for misuse of the discovery process as a punishment." (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992), "The Court will enter terminating sanctions—the pleadings of Jared Macial and Jorge Pulido are stricken with respect to Defendant."
```

And here is a summary of the tentative ruling in English text:

The Judge's tentative ruling is that Rosecrans Avenue Property, LLC will be granted terminating sanctions against Plaintiffs Jared Macial and Jorge Pulido for failing to provide discovery responses as ordered by the Court. The Judge finds that the Plaintiffs' failure to comply with the Court's order and their failure to participate in the discovery process warrant terminating sanctions, which will render their pleadings ineffective against the Defendant. The Judge also notes that the Plaintiffs' failure to file an opposition suggests that they do not wish to participate in the discovery process. The Judge will not award additional monetary sanctions. The Defendant is ordered to give notice of the terminating sanctions.