 Case Number:  23STCV00230    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




aaron celious

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
susan l. caldwell

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV00230




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


July
   11, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for judgment on the
  pleadings
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Susan Caldwell a/k/a
Caldwell Law Group            
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Aaron Celious 
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
The court considered the first 15 pages of the moving memorandum of
points and authorities filed on June 17, 2024. 
The court has disregarded the 16th through 23rd pages of the supporting
memorandum (numbered as pages 22 through 29), and orders that those pages are
stricken for exceeding the page limits set forth in California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1113.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule
3.1113, subd. (d) [“Except in a summary judgment or summary adjudication
motion, no opening or responding memorandum may exceed 15 pages”]; Code Civ.
Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) 
The court did not consider the “Notice of [Amended] Motion and Motion
of Defendant Susan Caldwell aka Caldwell Law Group and Motion for Judgment on
the Pleadings,” filed by defendant Susan Caldwell a/k/a Caldwell Law Group on
June 27, 2024, because (1) “all moving and supporting papers shall be served
and filed at least 16 court days before the hearing[,]” but (2) the amended
motion was filed and served on June 27, 2024, i.e., only nine court days before
the hearing on this motion.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
The court notes that (1) the notice of the amended motion states that
it has removed arguments and pages in order to comply with the page limit
requirements, and (2) the reply papers argue that the moving defendant fully
satisfied section 1005’s service requirements since the amended motion does not
rely on new authority or arguments.  The
court disagrees.  The amended notice of
motion expressly states that the arguments regarding violations of the statute
of limitations and the failure to plead injury in fact were “withdraw[n][,]”
such that the substance of the motion was altered.  (Notice of Amended Mot., pp. 1:23-2:2.)  The operative moving papers must be served and
filed “at least 16 court days before the hearing” on the motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)  Moving defendant did not comply with this
requirement and therefore deprived plaintiff Aaron Celious of sufficient notice
of the amended motion.  
The court considered the opposition and reply papers filed in
connection with this motion.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant Susan
Caldwell, a/k/a Caldwell Law Group’s request for judicial notice, but notes
that it does not take judicial notice of the truth of statements contained in
those documents.  (Evid. Code, § 452,
subds. (c), (d); Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of California
(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 836.)
DISCUSSION
Defendant Susan Caldwell, a/k/a Caldwell Law Group (“Defendant”) moves
the court for an order granting her motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
First Amended Complaint filed by plaintiff Aaron Celious (“Plaintiff”) in its
entirety. 
The court finds that Defendant has not met her burden to show that the
First Amended Complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action against Defendant and therefore denies Defendant’s motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(ii).) 
As set forth above, the court has considered only the first 15 pages
of Defendant’s supporting memorandum of points and authorities.[1]  However, in those pages, Defendant did not
present sufficient authority and argument establishing that Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute any cause of
action against Defendant. 
For example, while Defendant generally set forth the grounds on which
she was moving in the introduction—i.e., that Plaintiff does not have a lawful
assignment of the legal malpractice claim and does not have standing (Mot., pp.
7:14-8:3), the claims are time-barred (Mot., p. 8:4-6), and the First Amended
Complaint does not allege facts to support each cause of action (Mot., p.
8:7-12)—Defendant did not cite authority or present analysis in support of
those assertions.  Instead, the majority
of the memorandum is used to summarize the factual allegations set forth in the
First Amended Complaint and the documents of which Defendant has requested that
the court take judicial notice.  (Mot.,
pp. 8:13-20:3.)  
Moreover, to the extent that Defendant contends that the facts alleged
in the First Amended Complaint are inconsistent with the facts set forth in the
judicially noticed documents, the court finds that such arguments do not show
that the First Amended Complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action since (1) the court does not take judicial notice of the
truth of the statements set forth in those documents, and (2) Defendant did not
present sufficient argument establishing that the judicially-noticed documents
show that Plaintiff cannot allege element(s) of each cause of action alleged in
the First Amended Complaint.  (Mot., pp.
20:4-21:27.) 
The court notes that Defendant appeared to raise, albeit briefly, one
argument as to Plaintiff’s lack of standing in the first 15 pages of her
memorandum.  Specifically, in a footnote,
Defendant has argued that Plaintiff does not have standing to allege legal
malpractice claims against her on a theory of assignment.  (Mot., p. 12, n. 2.)  The court acknowledges that Defendant has
cited authority establishing that “the general rule in California bars the
assignment of a cause of action for legal malpractice . . . .”  (White Mountains Reinsurance Co. of
America v. Borton Petrini, LLP (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 890, 909.)  However, Plaintiff has alleged—and therefore
the court must accept as true—that he was “specifically named” as the client in
the parties’ fee agreement, and that he retained Defendant “to provide legal
services to Plaintiff in connection with the Unison action, thereby
establishing an attorney-client relationship between” them.  (FAC ¶¶ 22 [Defendant “emailed Plaintiff an
Attorney-Client Fee Contract that specifically named Aaron Celious as the
Client”], 107.)  
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff
cannot allege a cause of action for legal malpractice against Defendant as her
client.[2]  
ORDER
            The court denies defendant Susan
Caldwell a/k/a Caldwell Law Group’s motion for judgment on the pleadings.
            The court orders plaintiff Aaron
Celious to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  July 11, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


