 Case Number:  BC642728    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




oscar george

   , et al.;
 
Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
forshpan capital, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC642728




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


July
   11, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiffs’ motion for preliminary approval
  of derivative claim settlement
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Plaintiffs Oscar George, Robert
Margolis, Tirso George, and Tirso George Jr.   
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion for Preliminary Approval of Derivative Claim Settlement
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiffs Oscar George, Robert Margolis, Tirso George, and Tirso
George, Jr. (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action on December 2, 2016, against
defendants Forshpan Capital, LLC, Morton Forshpan, and Bear Valley Properties,
LLC, alleging four causes of action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2)
fraud; (3) concealment; and (4) securities fraud. 
On January 18, 2018, the parties filed a “Stipulation of the Parties
to Withdraw Opposition to Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay
Litigation,” in which the parties stipulated that, inter alia, the
parties should be compelled to arbitrate this action.  (Jan. 18, 2018 Stip., p. 1:12-15.)  On that date, the court entered an order on
the parties’ stipulation directing them to proceed to arbitration.  (Jan. 18, 2018 Stip. & Order, p. 2.)  Pursuant to the stipulation and order, this
action “has proceeded before the Hon. Richard Stone (Ret.) of Signature
Resolution . . . .”  (Barnes Decl., ¶ 2.)
Thereafter, on April 19, 2024, Plaintiffs, on the one hand, and
defendants Morton Forshpan and Forshpan Capital, LLC (“Defendants”), on the
other hand, executed the “Settlement Agreement and Mutual General Release” (the
“Settlement Agreement”), pursuant to which Defendants have agreed to pay to
Plaintiffs $193,750 to settle the remaining claim in this action.  (Brown Decl., Ex. 1, Settlement Agreement, ¶
3.)  Of that amount, and following
allocation of attorney’s fees and costs, $25,000 will be distributed to
Plaintiffs for the time and effort they expended in bringing this action
($12,500 to Oscar George, $7,500 to Robert Margolis, and $5,000 to Tirso
George, Jr.), and the remaining amount will be divided proportionally among the
investors of Victorville Oasis, LLC, excluding Defendants, Sharon Forshpan,
Reisha Forshpan, and Erik Spitznagel.  (Ibid.)

Plaintiffs now move the court for an order (1) approving the
settlement of their derivative claim, alleged as the second cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty against Defendants in their operative Second Amended
Complaint, and (2) dismissing the claim with prejudice upon approval of the
settlement.[1]  (Barnes Decl., Ex. A, SAC, p. 9:19-20.)
Because “shareholder derivative plaintiffs may be considered as
trustees or guardians ad litem to the corporation’s right of action[,]” “[s]uch
plaintiffs have no power to settle or compromise the corporation’s action
absent court approval.”  (Gaillard v.
Natomas Co. (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 410, 419, overruled on other grounds in Grosset
v. Wenaas (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1100, 1119, n. 16; Ensher v. Ensher,
Alexander & Barsoom, Inc. (1960) 187 Cal.App.2d 407, 410 [“a
stockholder bringing such a derivative suit is a trustee for the corporation’s
cause of action and as such cannot dismiss the action without the consent of
the trial court”].)  “A court reviewing a
settlement agreement considers whether the proposed settlement is fair and
reasonable in light of all relevant factors. 
[Citations.]  A court reviews the
settlement of a derivative suit as a means of protecting the interests of those
who are not directly represented in the settlement negotiations.”  (Robbins v. Alibrandi (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 438, 449 [internal citations omitted].)  In an effort to aid the court in the
determination of the fairness of a settlement agreement, Wershba v. Apple
Computer, Inc. (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 224, 244-245 (disapproved on other
grounds), discusses factors that the court should consider when evaluating the
reasonableness of a settlement.  “[A] presumption of fairness exists
where: (1) the settlement is reached through arm’s-length bargaining; (2)
investigation and discovery are sufficient to allow counsel and the court to
act intelligently; (3) counsel is experienced in similar litigation; and (4)
the percentage of objectors is small.”  (Id. at p. 245.)
As set forth above, the Settlement Agreement provides that Defendants
will pay to Plaintiffs $193,750 to settle the remaining derivative claim
alleged against them in Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint, of which (1) $25,000
will be distributed to three of the Plaintiffs for their efforts in bringing
the action, and (2) the remaining amount will be distributed proportionally to
the investors of Victorville Oasis, LLC, excluding Defendants and their family
members, after costs and attorney’s fees have been allocated.  (Brown Decl., Ex. 1, Settlement Agreement, ¶¶
3-3.1.)  Further, Plaintiffs, on behalf
of themselves and Victorville Oasis, LLC, have agreed to release all claims arising
out of, related to, or connected with this action and Victorville Oasis, LLC against
Defendants, and Defendants have agreed to release all claims arising out of,
related to, or connected with this action and Victorville Oasis, LLC against
Plaintiffs.  (Id., ¶¶ 6.1-6.2.)  The Settlement Agreement was reached following
the exchange and review of discovery, the arbitrator’s ruling on motions for
summary judgment or adjudication, a full-day session of mediation, and several
months of negotiations.  (Barnes Decl.,
¶¶ 3-4, 6; Brown Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) 
Based on the arguments and evidence set forth in the motion and the
declarations of Plaintiffs’ attorneys, Ethan J. Brown and Kete Barnes, the
court finds that the terms of the Settlement Agreement are fair, adequate, and
reasonable.  The court therefore approves
the Settlement Agreement and orders that Plaintiffs may dismiss their
derivative action against Defendants.  (Gaillard,
supra, 173 Cal.App.3d at p. 419, overruled on other grounds in Grosset,
supra, 42 Cal.4th at p. 1119, n. 16.) 
The court notes that Plaintiffs appear to request that the court set a
final approval hearing regarding the Settlement Agreement pursuant to
California Rules of Court, rule 3.769. 
That rule, however, applies to the settlement or approval of class
action settlements.  (Cal. Rules of Ct.,
rule 3.769 [entitled “Settlement of class actions”], subd. (e) [“If the court
grants preliminary approval [of a settlement or compromise of an entire class
action], its order must include the time, date, and place of the final approval
hearing; the notice to be given to the class; and any other matters deemed
necessary for the proper conduct of a settlement hearing”].)  While the court acknowledges that “[t]he duty
of a court reviewing a settlement of a class action provides a useful analogy”
to the duty of a court reviewing a settlement of a derivative action,
Plaintiffs have not cited authority establishing that the approval of the
settlement of a derivative action must comply with the rules governing the
settlement of a class action.  (Robbins,
supra, 127 Cal.App.4th at p. 449, n. 2.)  
Thus, to the extent that Plaintiffs request that the court set a final
approval hearing, the court denies that request.
ORDER
            The court grants plaintiffs Oscar
George, Robert Margolis, Tirso George, and Tirso George, Jr.’s motion for
approval of derivative claim settlement. 

            The court orders that the
“Settlement Agreement and Mutual General Release,” entered into by and between
plaintiffs Oscar George, Robert Margolis, Tirso George, and Tirso George, Jr.,
and defendants Morton Forshpan and Forshpan Capital, LLC on April 19, 2024, is
fair, adequate, and reasonable, and therefore approves that settlement.  The court further orders that plaintiffs Oscar
George, Robert Margolis, Tirso George, and Tirso George, Jr. may dismiss the
remaining derivative cause of action alleged against defendants Morton Forshpan
and Forshpan Capital, LLC in their operative Second Amended Complaint. 
            The court sets an Order to Show
Cause re dismissal of derivative claim for hearing on November 13, 2024, at
8:30 a.m., in Department 53. 
            The court orders plaintiffs Oscar
George, Robert Margolis, Tirso George, and Tirso George, Jr. to give notice of
this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  July 11, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


