  Case Number:  21STCV28642    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




los angeles unified school
   district

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
scottsdale indemnity
   company a/k/a nationwide e&s / specialty

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV28642




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


July
   11, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion for court determination
  of defendant scottsdale indemnity company’s claim of privilege
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Los Angeles Unified
School District           
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant Scottsdale Indemnity Company
Motion for Court Determination of Defendant Scottsdale Indemnity
Company’s Claim of Privilege
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Los Angeles Unified School District (“Plaintiff”) moves the
court for an order determining, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.285, that the attorney-client privilege or the attorney work production
protection do not apply, or that defendant Scottsdale Indemnity Company (“Defendant”)
has waived any claim of such privilege or protection, as to (1) all or part of
Defendant’s production of documents identified as Bates Nos. SCD0000732 – SCD0001049,
and (2) the portions of the March 25, 2024 deposition of Ana Campos concerning
Exhibit 17 to that deposition. 
“If electronically stored information produced in discovery is subject
to a claim of privilege or of protection as attorney work product, the party
making the claim may notify any party that received the information of the
claim and the basis for the claim.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.285, subd. (a).)  “After being notified of a claim of privilege
or of protection under subdivision (a), a party that received the information
shall immediately sequester the information and either return the specified
information and any copies that may exist or present the information to the
court conditionally under seal for a determination of the claim.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.285, subd. (b).) 
As a threshold matter, the court notes that the parties have not set
forth, in their briefs, the exact documents in the approximate 400-page
production that Defendant contends are privileged.  (Andrade Decl., Ex. A [March 26, 2024 letter
requesting the destruction of documents bates-numbered SCD0000732-SCD0001049];
Gerson Decl., ¶¶ 4-8.)  However, Defendant’s
revised privilege log, dated April 19, 2024, has identified the following page
numbers—which consist of emails, draft letters, counsel’s notes, and a form
setting forth premium information of a third party—as privileged: (1) numbers
906-910 (attorney-client privilege); (2) numbers 912-917 (attorney-client
privilege); (3) numbers 918-920 (work product protection); (4) numbers 924-928
(attorney-client privilege); (5) number 943 (work product protection); (6) numbers
956-958 (attorney-client privilege and work product protection); (7) numbers 959-962
(work product protection); (8) numbers 962-966 (attorney-client privilege); (9)
numbers 1046-1049 (attorney-client privilege); and (10) counsel’s notes set
forth on pages 733, 827, 831, 836, 839, 842, 845, 852, 854, 856, 858, 860, 861,
871, 972, 973, 975, 977, 1005, 1009, 1011, 1013, 1016, 1018, 1020, 1022, 1025,
1027, 1030, 1034, 1037, 1040, 1042, 1044, and 1045 (work product protection).  (Andrade Decl., Ex. F, Privilege Log, p. 1;
Gerson Decl., ¶ 15 [“On April 19, 2024, [Defendant] reproduced the file with
appropriate redactions of the privileged documents contained within the file,
and produced alongside it a new privilege log, noting the redactions”].)  
Thus, the court has evaluated Plaintiff’s motion and Defendant’s
claims of privilege as to the documents identified in Defendant’s April 19,
2024 privilege log.  
First, the court finds that Defendant has met its burden to
show that the documents containing email correspondence are protected by the
attorney-client privilege.  (Costco
Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 733 [“The party
claiming the privilege has the burden of establishing the preliminary facts
necessary to support its exercise, i.e., a communication made in the course of
an attorney-client relationship”].) 
Defendant has submitted evidence establishing that it retained (1) the
law firm Selman Breitman, LLP (the “Selman Firm”) as its outside coverage
counsel, and (2) the law firm Manning & Kass, Ellrod, Ramirez, Trester LLP
(the “Manning Firm”) to defend defendant After School All Stars (“ASAS”) in the
underlying action and in this action.  (Gerson
Decl., Ex. A, McRoberts Decl., ¶ 7; Hochhausler Decl., ¶¶ 1-2, 4.)  Defendant has also submitted evidence
explaining that K&K Insurance Group, Inc. (“K&K”) acted as its claims
administrator, and performed various claims administrations functions,
including retaining defense counsel for ASAS. 
(Gerson Decl., Ex. A, McRoberts Decl., ¶ 8.)
As to the communications between Defendant (including through its
claims administrator, K&K) and the Manning Firm regarding the defense of
ASAS, the court finds that Defendant has made a prima facie showing that the
communications were made in the course of a tripartite attorney-client
relationship and therefore are protected by the attorney-client privilege
because (1) “[w]hen an insurer retains counsel to defend its insured, a
tripartite attorney-client relationship arises among the insurer, insured, and counsel[,]”
and (2) Defendant has submitted evidence establishing that it, as the insurer
for ASAS, retained the Manning Firm to represent ASAS, its insured.  (Bank of America, N.A. v. Superior Court (2013)
212 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1083; Hochhausler Decl., ¶ 4; Andrade Decl., Ex. F,
Privilege Log, p. 1, ¶ 9 [email correspondence between Manning Firm and
K&K].)  Thus, the “confidential
communications between either the insurer [(here, Defendant)] or the insured
[(here, ASAS)] and counsel [(here, the Manning Firm)] are protected by the
attorney-client privilege, and both the insurer and insured are holders of the
privilege.”  (Bank of America, N.A.,
supra, 212 Cal.App.4th at p. 1083.)
As to the communications between Defendant (including through its
claims administrator, K&K) and the Selman Firm, the court finds that Defendant
has made a prima facie claim of privilege by showing that (1) Defendant
retained the Selman Firm to act as its coverage counsel, such that (2) the
communications described in the privilege log—which describe the subject emails
as confidential communications with coverage counsel—were made in the course of
an attorney-client relationship.  (Gerson
Decl., Ex. A, McRoberts Decl., ¶ 7; Costco Wholesale Corp., supra,
47 Cal.4th at p. 733 [party has initial burden of establishing preliminary
facts of a communication made in the course of an attorney-client
relationship]; Andrade Decl., Ex. F, Privilege Log, p. 1, ¶¶ 1 [email correspondence
between Selman Firm and K&K], 2 [email correspondence forwarding
communications from Selman Firm between K&K and Defendant], 4 [email
correspondence between K&K, Selman Firm, and Defendant], 6 [email
correspondence between K&K, Selman Firm, and Defendant], 8 [email
correspondence between Selman Firm, K&K, and Defendant].) 
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has met its burden to make a
prima facie claim of privilege as to the communications between it, its claims
adjuster K&K, the Manning Firm, and the Selman Firm.  (Costco Wholesale Corp., supra,
47 Cal.4th at p. 733.)
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden to show
that the communications are not privileged. 
(Costco Wholesale Corp., supra, 47 Cal.4th at p. 733
[“Once that party establishes facts necessary to support a prima facie claim of
privilege, the communication is presumed to have been made in confidence and
the opponent of the claim of privilege has the burden of proof to establish the
communication was not confidential or that the privilege does not for other
reasons apply”].) 
Plaintiff contends that the privilege arising from an attorney-client
relationship (whether arising from a tripartite relationship or generally) does
not apply here because such privilege does not “protect an insurer’s internal
communications concerning coverage issues relevant to the insured’s litigation”
and Defendant “retained coverage counsel to perform [Defendant’s] investigation
of the claim (i.e., claims handling)[.]” 
(Reply, p. 3:1-3, 3:8-9.)  The
court disagrees. 
The court acknowledges that a court should determine the dominant purpose
of the relationship between an insurance company and its in-house attorneys to
determine whether the relationship is one of attorney-client or one of claims
adjuster-insurance corporation.  (Costco
Wholesale Corp., supra, 47 Cal.4th at pp. 739-740.)  If the court determines that the dominant
purpose of such a relationship is not that of attorney and client,
communications between the insurer and its counsel that is acting as a claims adjuster
would not be protected by the attorney-client privilege.  (Id. at p. 740.)  As set forth above, Defendant met its initial
burden to show the existence of an attorney-client relationship by submitting
evidence establishing that it retained the Selman Firm as its coverage counsel,
such that it is presumed that the communications were made in confidence.  (Gerson Decl., Ex. A, McRoberts Decl., ¶ 7;
Costco Wholesale Corp., supra, 47 Cal.4th at p. 733.)
Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s relationship with the Selman Firm is
more analogous to claims adjuster-insurance company than attorney-client.  In support of this contention, Plaintiff
relies on the following two assertions made by Defendant in its motion for
summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication: (1) Defendant
“retained coverage counsel who promptly sought information necessary for
[Defendant’s] coverage investigation[,]” and (2) Defendant “promptly retained
coverage counsel and promptly agreed to defend [Plaintiff] under a reservation
of rights.”  (Andrade Reply Decl., Ex. H,
p. 24:4-5, 24:8-11.)  The court finds
that these two statements do not show that the “dominant purpose” of the
relationship between Defendant and the Selman Firm was that of claims
adjuster-insurance corporation.  These
statements do not establish that the Selman Firm was acting solely as a claims
adjuster, or even acting mostly as a claims adjuster, on behalf of
Defendant.  As set forth above, the
inquiry concerns the “dominant purpose” of the relationship between
Defendant and the Selman Firm.  (Costco
Wholesale Corp., supra, 47 Cal.4th at p. 739 [emphasis added].)  
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that the
attorney-client privilege does not apply on the ground that the dominant
purpose of Defendant and the Selman Firm’s relationship was that of claims
adjuster-insurance corporation.  Moreover,
the court finds relevant that, in its opposition papers, Defendant represented
that its communications involving, inter alia, the Selman Firm concerned
“case strategy and case updates,” further supporting Defendant’s assertion of
the existence of an attorney-client relationship between it and the Selman
Firm.  (Opp., p. 12:11-13.) 
Third, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden to show
that Defendant waived its right to assert the attorney-client privilege and
work product protection.  (Costco
Wholesale Corp., supra, 47 Cal.4th at p. 733.)
The right of any person to claim attorney-client privilege “is waived
with respect to a communication protected by the privilege if any holder of the
privilege, without coercion, has disclosed a significant part of the
communication or has consented to the disclosure made by anyone.  Consent to disclosure is manifested by any
statement or other conduct of the holder of the privilege indicating consent to
the disclosure, including failure to claim the privilege in any proceeding in
which the holder has legal standing and the opportunity to claim the
privilege.”  (Evid. Code, § 912, subd.
(a).)  “‘[T]he disclosure contemplated in
Evidence Code section 912 involves some measure of choice and deliberation on
the part of the privilege holder.’”  (McDermott
Will & Emery LLP v. Superior Court (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1038, 1101; State
Compensation Ins. Fund v. WPS, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 644, 652 [“Based
on the language of Evidence Code section 912, we hold that ‘waiver’ does not
include accidental, inadvertent disclosure of privileged information by the
attorney”].)  
“When determining whether an inadvertent disclosure waived the
attorney-client privilege, a trial court must examine both the subjective
intent of the privilege holder and any manifestation of the holder’s intent to
disclose the information. 
[Citations.]  Other relevant
considerations include the precautions the holder took to maintain the
privilege and the promptness with which the holder sought return of the inadvertently
disclosed document.”  (McDermott Will
& Emery LLP, supra, 10 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1101-1102 [internal
citations omitted].) 
Plaintiff contends that both Defendant and ASAS waived their rights to
assert the attorney-client privilege and work product protection because (1)
Defendant did not attempt to claw back the documents until two years after the
production thereof; (2) Defendant raised a privileged-based objection at the
end of deposition, after allowing Plaintiff’s counsel to question Ana Campos
about one of those documents; and (3) ASAS did not assert the privilege at the
deposition of Ana Campos.  The court
disagrees.  
Defendant has submitted evidence establishing that (1) its counsel
inadvertently overlooked the subject communications and documents and did not
intend to include those documents in Defendant’s production, and (2) it did not
discover the production of the privileged documents until the March 25, 2024 deposition
of Ana Campos.  (Gerson Decl., ¶¶ 8-13;
Roberts Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.)  Moreover,
counsel states that they did not have occasion to review the documents after
Defendant’s 2022 production.  (Gerson
Decl., ¶ 12; Roberts Decl., ¶ 6.)  
The court finds that Defendant did not have the “subjective intent” to
disclose privileged materials to Plaintiff in its production, nor did Defendant
manifest an intent to disclose or to consent to disclose such information by
asserting the privilege two years after its production, in light of the
evidence establishing that Defendant first learned of the disclosure at that
time and (1) asserted the privilege at the end of the deposition and on the
record, and (2) promptly requested, the day after the deposition, that
Plaintiff destroy the documents.  (McDermott
Will & Emery LLP, supra, 10 Cal.App.5th at p. 1101; Evid. Code,
§ 912, subd. (a); Andrade Decl., Ex. A [March 26, 2024 letter from Defendant
requesting destruction of documents].)
The court acknowledges, as Plaintiff has pointed out, that Defendant’s
counsel did not object to the use of one privileged document (labeled as
Exhibit 17) until the conclusion of Ana Campos’s deposition.  (Limber Decl., ¶ 5 [stating that, “[a]t the
conclusion of the Campos deposition[,]” counsel asserted privilege].)  However, the court finds that this conduct
does not evidence a subjective intent to disclose privileged information.  The attorney representing Defendant in this
deposition has stated, in her declaration, that while she believed the exhibit
“appeared on its face to contain privileged material,” she “wanted to fully
review and analyze the document and identify all individuals referenced, before
making any statements on the record.” 
(Limber Decl., ¶ 3.)  After
reviewing the exhibit during a break, counsel asserted the attorney-client
privilege on the record.  (Limber Decl.,
¶¶ 4-5.)  The court finds that
Defendant’s counsel’s conduct, in ensuring the applicability of the claim of privilege
before asserting it on the record and doing so at the conclusion of the
deposition, does not show a subjective intent to disclose the information, or to
consent to its disclosure.  (McDermott
Will & Emery LLP, supra, 10 Cal.App.5th at p. 1101; Evid. Code,
§ 912, subd. (a).) 
The court further finds that ASAS did not waive its right to claim the
attorney-client privilege and work product protection by electing not to assert
the privileges at the deposition of Ana Campos. 
Counsel for ASAS has stated, in his declaration, that (1) he did not
intend to waive any privilege claims on behalf of ASAS, and (2) he did not make
an objection on the deposition record because Defendant had already asserted
the privilege, such that counsel “did not see the need to make a redundant
objection.”  (Hochhausler Decl., ¶¶ 8,
6.)  The court finds that this evidence
shows that ASAS did not have the subjective intent to disclose or to consent to
the disclosure of privileged information. 
(McDermott Will & Emery LLP, supra, 10 Cal.App.5th at
p. 1101; Evid. Code, § 912, subd. (a).) 
Thus, for the reasons set forth above, the court finds that Plaintiff
did not meet its burden to show that Defendant and/or ASAS waived their rights
to assert the attorney-client privilege. 
Finally, the court notes that three entries on Defendant’s privilege
log identify three categories of documents that it contends are subject to the
work product protection.  (Andrade Decl.,
Ex. F, Privilege Log, p. 1, ¶¶ 3, 5, 10.) 
The parties do not expressly address these entries or dispute that they
are subject to the work product protection provided by Code of Civil Procedure
section 2018.010 et seq.; instead, Plaintiff appears only to argue that Defendant
and ASAS waived this protection.  (Mot.,
p. 10:22-25.)  However, the court has
determined, for the reasons set forth above, that Defendant did not waive its right
to claim that the documents in the subject production are privileged.  The court finds that Defendant did not waive its
right to claim the work product protection for the same reasons set forth
above.  
 
 
ORDER
            The court denies plaintiff Los
Angeles Unified School District’s motion for determination of claim of
privilege. 
            The court orders defendant
Scottsdale Indemnity Company to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  July 11, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court