 Case Number:  23SMUD02481    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Barrington Pacific, LLC v. Avy
Jozay 



Case No.:


23SMUD02481


Complaint Filed:


9-29-23           




Hearing Date:


1-30-24 


Discovery C/O:


3-18-24




Calendar No.:


18


Discovery Motion C/O:


4-1-24




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


4-15-24



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
MOVING
PARTY:   Plaintiff Barrington Pacific,
LLC
RESP.
PARTY:         Defendant Avy Jozay
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Plaintiff
Barrington Pacific, LLC’s (“Barrington Pacific”) Motion for Protective Order is
DENIED. Defendant Avy Jozay’s discovery requests are reasonably calculated to
lead to discovery of admissible evidence regarding Plaintiff Barrington
Pacific, LLC’s intent when it made the decision to withdraw the Property at
issue from the rental market.
 
            Defendant
Avy Jozay’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED as to the existence of the
Complaint filed in Barrington Pacific, LLC v. Endurance American Specialty Ins.
Co., et al., LASC Case No. 23STCV23944 dated 10/02/2023, but not the truth of
the allegations therein. 
 
            Plaintiff
Barrington Pacific, LLC’s objection to the September 17, 2020 email from Emma
Garcia to Roberto Aldape is SUSTAINED. 
 
            Defendant
Avy Jozay’s foundation objections to Barrington’s counsel’s estimates of the
time and cost to produce the documents sought by Plaintiff are SUSTAINED. (Portions
of paragraphs 11-14 of the declaration of Shannon Dudic.) (“[A] boilerplate
sentence, ‘If called as a witness I could and would competently testify under
oath to the above facts which are personally known to me,’ is not
sufficient to establish personal knowledge. (Citation.) ‘Where the facts stated
do not themselves show it, such bare statement of the affiant has no redeeming
value and should be ignored.’ ”).”  Gamboa v. Northeast Community
Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 168–169
REASONING
            “California
law provides parties with expansive discovery rights.” (Lopez v. Watchtower
Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566,
590.) The concept of relevance in the discovery context is broader than
evidence that is admissible at trial. “Unless otherwise limited by order of the
court… any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action... if the
matter… appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “The concept of relevance in the
discovery context is, of course, broader than evidence that is admissible at
trial (citation)... Any doubts regarding relevance are generally resolved  in favor of allowing the discovery. (Citation.)
Because of the breadth of the standard of discovery relevance, “[m]uch of the
information that surfaces during pretrial discovery may be unrelated, or only
tangentially related, to the underlying cause of action.” (Citation.) Mercury
Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 97–98.
 
“For discovery purposes,
information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the
case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.” (Gonzalez v.
Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546 [quotations omitted].) “In
sum, the relevance of the subject matter standard must be reasonably applied;
in accordance with the liberal policies underlying the discovery procedures,
doubts as to relevance should generally be resolved in favor of permitting
discovery.” (Pacific Telephone. & Telegraph Co. v. Superior Court
(1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 173.) “[T]rial courts issuing discovery orders and
appellate courts reviewing those orders should do so with the prodiscovery
policies of the statutory scheme firmly in mind. A trial court must be mindful
of the Legislature's preference for discovery over trial by surprise, must
construe the facts before it liberally in favor of discovery, may not use its
discretion to extend the limits on discovery beyond those authorized by the
Legislature, and should prefer partial to outright denials of discovery” Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 540.
 
Finally, for good cause shown a
judge may make any order that justice requires to protect any party or other
natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense. CCP § 2030.090(b)


            Barrington
seeks a discovery protective order “limiting the scope of discovery to (1)
Plaintiff’s compliance with the statutory procedural requirements of the Ellis
Act; and (2) Plaintiff’s intent to withdraw the residential rental units at
Barrington Plaza from rental use permanently at the time Plaintiff filed the
Notice of Intent on May 8, 2023.”  Barrington
further seeks to prohibit any discovery of  “(a) Plaintiff’s intent in the three years
prior to May 8, 2023, (b) the property’s future use, and (c) purported
alternatives to and details regarding Plaintiff’s planned construction for
installation of the fire life safety improvements mandated by the City” (Proposed
Order, received 12-29-2023.) 
 
            “The Ellis
Act prohibits a city or county from ‘compel[ling] the owner of any residential
real property to offer, or to continue to offer, accommodations in the property
for rent or lease’.” 
(City of West Hollywood v. Kihagi (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 739, 743, citing
Gov. Code, §
7060, subd. (a).) “[A]
tenant who believes the landlord's invocation of the [Ellis] Act is phony and
that the landlord actually intends to offer the vacated units to new tenants
may controvert the landlord's statement of intent. The landlord will then have
the burden to establish his or her bona fide intent to withdraw the property
from the market by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Drouet v. Superior
Court (2003) 31 Cal.4th 583, 597.) 
 
            Under Los
Angeles Municipal Code (“LAMC”) §§ 151.09 subdivision A .10 a landlord may
bring an action to recover possession of a rental unit when the landlord seeks
in good faith to recover possession of the rental unit to demolish the rental
unit; or remove the rental unit permanently from rental housing use.
            
            The Court
agrees with Defendant that her discovery requests are directly related to the
discovery of information that that could shed greater light on the credibility
of Barrington intent when it made its decision to withdraw the property from
the rental market and whether that decision was made in good faith consistent
with the Ellis act.  Even considering counsel’s
speculative estimates of the cost to comply with the requested discovery, Barrington
has not shown that the burden and expense of responding to that discovery clearly
outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020, subd., (a).) 
 
Finally, regardless of Barrington’s
failure to meet its burden to obtain a broad protective order, the Court will
address in the Informal Discovery Conference any further objections to the
requested discovery, including possible means to mitigate any undue burden of Barrington
producing the requested documents.