 Case Number:  23SMCV03853    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Hernandez-Venegas, et al. v.
Coastal Health Care, Inc, et al.  



Case No.:


23smcv03853


Complaint Filed:


8-18-23           




Hearing Date:


1-20-24


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


15


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF
PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants Coastal Health
Care, Inc. and Brentwood Health Care, Inc., Dba Brentwood Healthcare Center, 
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiffs Rita
Hernandez-Venegas, Individually And As Successor-In-Interest To Anna Valarie
Casillas Flores (Deceased), Jaime Hernandez, Jr., Anita Hernandez-Barba, and
John Anthony Hernandez
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendants Coastal
Health Care, Inc. and Brentwood Health Care, Inc., Dba Brentwood Healthcare
Center Motion to Strike Portions of the Plaintiffs’ Complaint is DENIED as to striking
the prayer for punitive and treble damages under the first cause of action for
elder abuse (Compl., Prayer, p. 34:23–25.). Plaintiffs have successfully plead
enough facts for punitive damages under CC § 3294, and treble damages under CC
§ 3345. 
 
            The parties
have stipulated, and the Court has signed an order, to strike attorney’s fees,
punitive damages, and treble damages from the fourth cause of action for violation
of patient’s bill of rights (health & safety code § 1430(b).) (See 11-2-23
Stipulation and Order Striking Portions of the Plaintiffs’ Complaint.)
Defendants Motion to Strike the Plaintiffs Prayer, pg. 35:11–13 is MOOT. 
  
            In ruling
on a motion to strike, the court reads the entire challenged pleading as whole,
with all parts in context. (Courtesy Ambulance Service v. Superior Court
(1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1519. “The allegation of specific intent is adequate
as a matter of pleading to show malice.” (Ibid.) “[A] motion to strike is generally used to
reach defects in a pleading which are not subject to demurrer. A motion to
strike does not lie to attack a complaint for insufficiency of allegations to
justify relief; that is a ground for general demurrer.” (Pierson v. Sharp Memorial Hospital, Inc. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342.)
 
I.               
Punitive Damages 
 
            CC
§3294(a) provides, “In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising
from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.” (Cal Civ. Code § 3294, subdiv., (a).) 
 
            “Malice is
‘conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.’ (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is ‘despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.’
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) Despicable conduct is conduct that is so
vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been
described as having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.”
(Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.)
 
            Whether
Defendants’ conduct is “despicable conduct” is a question of fact for the jury
that a court should not decide in ruling on a motion to strike. (Robinson v.
Managed Accounts Receivable Corp., (2009) 654 F. Supp. 2d 1051, 1065; see Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228–1229 [“A jury should
decide whether [Defendant’s] alleged sexual relations with [Plaintiff] were
despicable enough to warrant the imposition of punitive damages.”]
 
 
            “In
order to obtain the [Elder Abuse] Act's heightened remedies, a plaintiff must
allege conduct essentially equivalent to conduct that would support recovery of
punitive damages.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32
Cal.4th 771, 789.) “[M]aking it more difficult for Elder Abuse Act plaintiffs
to plead punitive damages would, as a general matter, likely diminish the
willingness of attorneys to undertake such cases on a contingency basis. (See
Welf. & Inst.Code, § 15600, subd. (h) [reciting Legislature's observation
when enacting Elder Abuse Act that “few civil cases are brought in connection
with this abuse due to ... the lack of incentives to prosecute such suits”].).”
(Id., at p. 787.)
 
            Plaintiffs
successfully state enough facts to plead punitive damages under the first cause
of action for elder abuse.  Defendants’
argument that Plaintiff only plead recklessness and thus punitive damages are not
allowed is incorrect. Plaintiff pleads facts to allege both malice and
oppression within the “Recklessness, Ratification, Authorization and Direct
Participation” section of the Complaint (See Compl., ¶¶ 74–104.) In sum, Plaintiffs
plead specific facts alleging the Defendants authorized, ratified, and directly
participated in the wrongful conduct of not administering the specified amount
of insulin to Decedent causing Decedent’s eventual death. (Id.) The
Court finds a reasonable jury could find the Plaintiffs pleaded facts to be
despicable conduct, and thus a motion to strike punitives is not appropriate at
this stage. 
 
            Thus,
Defendants’ Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from the first cause of action
for elder abuse is DENIED. 
 
II.             
Treble Damages
            
            Civ Code § 3345 applies to “actions
brought by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of" senior citizens and disabled
persons “to redress unfair or deceptive acts” (Civ. Code, § 3345.)
 
 
Whenever the trier
of fact makes an affirmative finding in regard to one or more of the factors
set forth in paragraphs (1) to (3), inclusive, it may impose a fine, civil
penalty or other penalty, or other remedy in an amount up to three times
greater than authorized by the statute, or, where the statute does not
authorize a specific amount, up to three times greater than the amount the
trier of fact would impose in the absence of that affirmative finding.
 
(1)            
Whether the defendant knew or should have known that
his or her conduct was directed to one or more senior citizens or disabled
persons. 
. . . .
(3)       Whether one or more senior citizens,
disabled persons, or veterans are substantially more vulnerable than other
members of the public to the defendant's conduct because of age, poor health or
infirmity, impaired understanding, restricted mobility, or disability, and
actually suffered substantial physical, emotional, or economic damage resulting
from the defendant's conduct.
 
            (Civ.
Code, § 3345.)
 
            Plaintiffs satisfy
the pleading requirements of Civ. Code § 3345 by alleging Defendants knew their
conduct was directed towards senior citizens or disabled persons, that  that Defendants operate a nursing facility,
that Defendants knew their nursing facility was understaffed for the purpose of
cutting costs therefore creating a high risk of patient injury, that Defendants
knew Decedent needed insulin and other care to prevent major health issues, and
that upon Decedent’s admittance to the facility the Defendants knew they could
not provide the care Decedent needed. (Compl., ¶¶ 72, 73, 74, 78, 81, 82, 83,
103.)  The Court finds that Plaintiffs
alleged facts which place the complaint within the purview of Civ Code 3345 by
pleading unfair or deceptive acts against the Decedent, a senior citizen and
disabled person.  
 
            Thus,
Defendants’ Motion to Strike Treble Damages is DENIED.
 