 Case Number:  22STCV36742    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
A-Ju Realty, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV36742




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Kee Whan Ha, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: February
2, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents
Moving Party: Plaintiffs
A-Ju Realty, Inc. and Yun Sam Chung 
Responding
Party: Defendants Kee Whan Ha, Hannam Chain U.S.A., Inc., Jung Wan Koo and
Newkoa, LLC
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO
SERVE FURTHER RESPONSE TO THE SUBJECT DISCOVERY WITHIN 20 DAYS OF NOTICE OF
RULING.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 7, 2023, Plaintiffs A-Ju Realty, Inc. and Yun Sam Chung
filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendants Kee Whan Ha,
Hannam Chain U.S.A., Inc., Jung Wan Koo, 1000 South Vermont, LLC and Newkoa,
LLC, asserting 12 causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, fraud,
conversion, accounting, and intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
Plaintiff A-Ju Realty, Inc. was a 22.5% member of Defendant 1000 South
Vermont, LLC, which owned certain real property in Koreatown, Los Angeles.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Ha, the manager of Vermont, represented that
Vermont was going to develop the property and would require significant capital
investment from Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs were not able to provide additional
capital and instead agreed to a buyout of A-Ju’s 22.5% interest in Vermont for
$3,000,000.00. Plaintiffs allege Defendants did not actually intend to develop
the property, but rather intended to sell the property to a developer, which it
later did for $40,000,000.00. Plaintiffs allege Defendants made these
misrepresentations to induce Plaintiffs to sell the membership interest in
Vermont and keep the profits of the sale for themselves.
 
ANALYSIS
 
The moving party on a motion to compel further responses to requests for
production of documents (“RPDs”) must submit “specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  (CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).)  If the moving party has shown good cause for
the RPDs, the burden is on the objecting party to justify the objections.  (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct (2002) 95 Cal.
App.4th 92, 98.)
 
Plaintiffs move to compel further responses to requests for production
from Defendants. The Court previously continued the motion to allow the parties
to meet and confer over Defendants’ supplemental responses and to tell the
Court what requests remain at issue. 
 
Plaintiffs represent that three categories of documents remain at issue:
(1) documents relating to the actual or potential sale of the property; (2) documents regarding transactions made between
and among the Ha Defendants, including with entities and individuals controlled
by the Ha Defendants; and (3) the books and records of Defendant 1000 South
Vermont, LLC. Defendants assert these requests are overbroad, irrelevant and
violate Defendants’ privacy rights. 
 
These requests seek
information that is relevant to Plaintiff’s case. Defendants’ privacy rights
are outweighed by the need for discovery. The motion is GRANTED.
 
The Court declines to award
sanctions as Defendants have made good faith efforts to supplement their
production.


 