 Case Number:  22STCV39957    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
22STCV39957




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: February 2, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
(2) Motions to Quash Service of Summons
Moving Party: Specially Appearing Defendants
Cosentino Group, S.A. and Stylenquaza LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas and
Alma Delia Llamas
 
T/R:     SPECIALLY APPEARING DEFENDANTS
COSENTINO GROUP, S.A. AND STYLENQUAZA LLC’S MOTIONS TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS
ARE CONTINUED TO MAY 10, 2024 AT 9:00AM TO ALLOW FOR JURISDICTIONAL DISCOVERY.
PLAINTIFF MAY FILE SUPPLEMENTAL BRIEFS OF NO LONGER THAN EIGHT PAGES PER DEFENDANT
BY APRIL 26, 2024. EACH DEFENDANT MAY FILE A SUPPLEMENTAL BRIEF OF NO LONGER
THAN EIGHT PAGES BY MAY 3, 2024.
 
DEFENDANTS TO
NOTICE.  
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 13, 2023, Plaintiffs Rodolfo
Garcia-Rosas and Alma Delia Llamas filed the operative first amended complaint
against Defendants Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al., asserting causes of
action for (1) negligence; (2) strict liability – warning defect; (3) strict
liability – design defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied
warranties; and (6) loss of consortium. Plaintiff alleges he developed
silicosis and consequential injuries through his employment working with stone
products manufactured, distributed, and/or supplied by Defendants.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of
his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”  (CCP §
418.10(a)(1).)  “When a motion to quash is properly brought, the
burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish the facts of
jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.)
A non-resident
defendant may be subject to either general or specific jurisdiction. (See Elkman
v. National States Insurance Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1314.)  General jurisdiction exists when a defendant
is domiciled in the forum state or his activities there are substantial,
continuous, and systematic. (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2005)
130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796.) 
 
Specific
jurisdiction involves a 3-part test in California. California courts adopt the
same test as the test used by the court in Boschetto v. Hansing (9th
Cir. Cal. 2008) 539 F.3d 1011,1016: “ ‘(1) The nonresident defendant must do
some act or consummate some transaction with the forum or perform some act by
which he purposefully avails himself of the privilege of conducting activities
in the forum, thereby invoking the benefits and protections of its laws; (2)
the claim must be one which arises out of or results from the defendant's
forum-related activities; and (3) exercise of jurisdiction must be reasonable.’
Panavision International, L.P. v. Toeppen (9th Cir. 1998) 141 F.3d 1316,
1320 [applying California law].).” (Jewish Defense Organization, Inc. v.
Sup. Ct. of Los Angeles County (Rambam) (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054.)
 
A. Cosentino Group, S.A.’s Motion to Quash
Specially Appearing Defendant Cosentino
Group, S.A. moves to quash service of summons on the grounds that service was
defective and that the Court does not have personal jurisdiction over
Defendant. 
1. Service
Defendant was served by personal service on
their Vice President at a company event in British Columbia, Canada. Defendant
asserts this service was improper as it failed to comply with the Hague
Convention requirements. Article 10 of the
Hague Convention states: 
Provided the State of
destination does not object, the present Convention shall not interfere with - 
a) the freedom to send
judicial documents, by postal channels, directly to persons abroad, 
b) the freedom of judicial
officers, officials or other competent persons of the State of origin to effect
service of judicial documents directly through the judicial officers, officials
or other competent persons of the State of destination.           
Here, the state of origin is California. The
parties dispute the meaning of “state of destination.” Defendant asserts this
term refers to Spain because Defendant is a Spanish corporation. Plaintiff
asserts the term refers to Canada because that is where service took place. The
Court finds that “state of destination” means the state in which service is
taking place. Nothing in the Hague Convention or the California Code of Civil
Procedure requires service on a foreign person or foreign corporation in the
state of residency or domicile. Article 10 allows for service directly through competent persons of Canada.
Plaintiff
has presented evidence showing service was effected by Canadian process servers
in compliance with British Columbian laws. The California Code of Procedure
allows service on a corporation via personal service of its vice president.
(CCP § 416.10(b).) It also
allows for service on individuals outside the United States. (CCP § 413.10(c).)
Plaintiff has complied with Section (b) of Article 10.
2. Personal Jurisdiction
There is no dispute the Court lacks general
jurisdiction over Defendant. Defendant asserts the Court also lacks special
jurisdiction because Defendant is merely a “holding company” that does not make
or distribute the stone products as issue in this action. In opposition,
Plaintiff presents evidence showing Defendant markets itself as the main entity
that controls its stone manufacturing and distribution; Plaintiff requests
jurisdictional discovery.
Jurisdictional discovery is appropriate.
Plaintiff is entitled to learn the nature and extent of Defendant’s involvement
with its stone manufacturing and distribution to California. 
The motion is CONTINUED.
B. Stylenquaza LLC’s Motion to Quash
Specially
Appearing Defendant Stylenquaza moves to quash service of summons on the
grounds that service was defective and that the Court does not have personal
jurisdiction over Defendant. Plaintiff has since re-served Defendant with summons
and complaint, making this aspect of the motion moot. 
 
There is no
dispute that the Court lacks general personal jurisdiction over Defendant, a TX
based company.
 
Defendant distributes quartz slabs supplied by a Vietnamese quartz manufacturer,
Vicostone JSC. Defendant represents that it does not regularly do business in
California but admits that it directly distributed 22 slabs to California from
2018-2022, and has distributed slabs to Defendant Pental Granite and Marble,
LLC, who then distributes to California. 
 
Defendant asserts that these contacts are
insufficient to establish purposeful availment and that they are not related to
Plaintiff’s claims. The Court agrees that there is no evidence these contacts
are related to Plaintiff’s claims. Plaintiff alleges that he was exposed to
Defendant’s products but does not provide any declarations or other evidence
supporting this allegation. The Court will allow jurisdictional discovery on
the issue of Defendant’s contacts with California and its distribution of slabs
to Pental and Marble.
 
Defendant’s motion is CONTINUED.


 