  Case Number:  20STCV41499    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  82 Horizon Mesa LLC
v. White Lily Builders, Group, Inc., et al.
Case No.
20STCV41499
Order on Plaintiff’s
Ex Parte Application to Shorten Time/Advance Hearing
 
The court issued the following order on
Monday, April 22, 2024.  Therefore, the hearing
is off-calendar.
 
Plaintiff Horizon Mesa LLC (“Plaintiff”)
filed an ex parte application to shorten time and advance the hearing on
Plaintiff’s application for a writ of attachment.  The basis of
Plaintiff’s ex parte application is as follows: “Plaintiff is informed and
believes that Defendant will not be able to satisfy the judgment in this matter
based upon the investigation into Defendant’s litigation history and that there
is already at least one secured creditor against Defendant inferring that
Defendant generally does not pay its debts.”  (Plaintiff’s Ex Parte
Application, p. 6:4-8.)  In Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration, he
identifies a series of other lawsuits and states: “In addition to these prior
lawsuits and secured creditor actions, I believe that without this writ of
attachment, Defendant will do everything possible to prevent Plaintiff from
seeking Defendant’s assets to satisfy a judgment against it.  There is
already one secured creditor against Defendant and upon information and belief
there will be others.  For these reasons it is imperative that Plaintiff
obtain a pre-judgment writ of attachment against Defendant.”  (Declaration
of Sean Dowsing, ¶ 13.)  
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 166(a)(1), the court declines to hold a hearing on this ex parte
application to shorten time and advance the hearing on Plaintiff’s application
for a writ of attachment, set for July 17, 2024.  Plaintiff received the
first available hearing date for its application for a writ of attachment, and
Plaintiff articulates no good cause to advance this hearing date.  This
case was filed on October 29, 2020, and has been pending for approximately
three-and-one-half years, affording Plaintiff’s counsel ample opportunity to
seek a writ of attachment.  The other lawsuits referenced by Plaintiff’s
counsel were filed between 2020 and 2022.  Moreover, Plaintiff’s counsel
advances no evidence that Defendants are concealing assets or would not satisfy
any judgment, relying entirely on speculation that Defendant “generally does
not pay its debts.”  Even if true, Plaintiff’s counsel provides no basis
to “jump the line” with respect to other potential creditors.  Simply, if
the court heard Plaintiff’s application for a writ of attachment on an
emergency basis, it would have to do so in countless civil cases in which the
defendant is subject to other lawsuits and/or has unsatisfied
judgments/liabilities.  The court need not reach Defendants’ counsel’s
argument that she requires additional discovery in order to oppose the
application for the writ of attachment.    
 
Based upon the foregoing, Plaintiff’s ex
parte application is denied.  The court’s clerk shall provide
notice.   