  Case Number:  24VECV00174    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  O
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



BOGHOS GARABED
  BABADJANIAN, an individual, 
                  Plaintiff,
         vs.
 
MARIYAN KHOSRAVIZADEH,
  an
individual;
  ALDEA GROUP LLC, a
California
  Limited Liability Company;
BENJAMIN
  LEVY, an individual;
ALEXANDER
  GILANIANS,
  an individual; ALL PERSONS UNKNOWN, CLAIMING
ANY LEGAL OR EQUITABLE RIGHT, TITLE,
  ESTATE, LIEN OR INTEREST IN THE PROPERTIES DESCRIBED IN THE COMPLAINT ADVERSE
  TO PLAINTIFF'S
TITLE, OR ANY CLOUD ON PLAINTIFF'S TITLE
  THERETO, NAMED AS DOES 1-10, INCLUSIVE, and DOES 11-20, INCLUSIVE,
 
                  Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 24VECV00174
 
ORDER
  SUSTAINING DEFENDANTS MARIYAN KHOSRAVIZADEH, ALDEA GROUP LLC, AND BENJAMIN
  LEVY’S DEMURRER WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
 
ORDER
  OVERRULING IN PART AND SUSTAINING IN PART DEFENDANT ALEXANDER GILANIANS’S
  DEMURRER WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND



I.       INTRODUCTION
This case
arises out of a dispute between Plaintiff Boghos Garabed Babadjanian
(“Plaintiff”) and Defendants Mariyan Khosravizadeh (“Khosravizadeh”), Aldea
Group LLC (“Aldea”), Benjamin Levy (“Levy”), and Alexander Gilanians
(“Gilanians”)(collectively, “Defendants”). (See Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”), ¶¶ 1.1-1.8.) Plaintiff alleges he helped
finance the purchase of a property based on an agreement with Khosravizadeh
(and later Aldea and Levy) that the property, located at 6754 Aldea Ave,
VanNuys, CA 91406 (“Property”), would be held in trust and given to his
daughter upon Plaintiff’s death. (See id.) Plaintiff alleges Gilanians,
as his former attorney, helped facilitate the Property’s purchase. (See id.
at ¶¶ 4.6-4.7.)
On September
6, 2024, Plaintiff filed his SAC. Plaintiff originally filed this action in
both his individual capacity and in his capacity as trustee for The Sara
Babadjanian Family Trust Dated October 20, 2023 (“Trust”), but removed the
Trust as a plaintiff after the Court sustained Khosravizadeh, Aldea, and Levy’s
Demurrer to his First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). 
Khosravizadeh,
Aldea, and Levy (“Demurring Defendants”)
now demurrer to Plaintiff’s first through seventh causes of action.  
Gilanians also demurrers to Plaintiff’s
second, eighth, and ninth causes of action. 
II.     PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On January 12,
2024, Plaintiff and the Trust filed a Complaint, alleging (1) Breach of Oral
Joint Venture Agreement; (2) Constructive Fraud; (3) Imposition of Constructive
Trust; (4) Unjust Enrichment; (5) Declaratory Relief; (6) Fraud; and (7) Elder
Abuse.
On March 7,
2024, Plaintiff and the Trust filed a FAC, alleging (1) Breach of Oral Joint Venture
Agreement; (2) Constructive Fraud; (3) Imposition of Constructive Trust; (4)
Unjust Enrichment; (5) Declaratory Relief; (6) Fraud; (7) Elder Abuse; (8) Legal
Malpractice; and (9) Breach of Fiduciary Duty.
On April 30,
2024, Plaintiff and the Trust filed Notice of Lis Pendens. 
On June 4,
2024, Gilanians filed his Answer. 
On August 12,
2024, the Court issued an order sustaining Khosravizadeh, Aldea, and Levy’s
Demurrer.
On September
6, 2024, Plaintiff filed his SAC, alleging (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Constructive Fraud; (3) Imposition of Constructive Trust; (4) Unjust Enrichment;
(5) Declaratory Relief; (6) Fraud; (7) Elder Abuse; (8) Legal Malpractice; and
(9) Breach of Fiduciary Duty.
On October 4,
2024, Gilanians filed his instant Demurrer (“Gilanians Demurrer”). 
On October 8,
2024, Demurring Defendants filed their instant Demurrer (“Demurrer”). 
On October
23, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition to Gilanians’s Demurrer (“Gilanians Opposition”)
and his Opposition to Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer (“Opposition”). 
On October 29,
2024, Gilanians filed his Reply (“Gilanians Reply”). 
On October
30, 2024, Demurring Defendants filed their Reply (“Reply”).  
III.    LEGAL
STANDARD
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading
(complaint, answer or cross-complaint). (See Code Civ. Proc. §§
422.10, 589; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)[1] It
is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the
complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in
the complaint are assumed to be true. (See Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th
at 994.) 
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and
also consider matters which may be judicially noticed.” (Mitchell v.
California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007
(citation omitted); see also Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.
(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed
to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally
construed. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).)  
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded.” (Id.) In testing the sufficiency of the
complaint, the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (See Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence
or other extrinsic matters. (See SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered. (See
Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court
to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso
v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862
[disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos.
(1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents of release not part of court
record].) Accordingly, “[w]hether the plaintiff will be able to prove the
pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer.” (Stevens v.
Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609-10.) 
A demurrer can only be sustained when
it disposes of an entire cause of action. (See Poizner v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian
Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The
burden is on the complainant to show the Court a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969)
70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
IV.     MEET AND CONFER
Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a),
emphasis added.) A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the
results of the meet and confer process. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)
         Demurring Defendants filed a declaration attesting to
the parties’ telephonic meet and confer and unsuccessful attempt to informally
resolve their perceived issues with the FAC. (See Declaration of Andre
Boniadi filed May 28, 2024, ¶ 2.)
The
Court therefore finds Demurring Defendants have fulfilled their meet and confer
requirements.
Gilanians
has not, however, fulfilled his meet and confer requirements. Gilanians filed a
declaration stating he “engaged in a meet and confer process with Plaintiffs’
counsel through the following means: meeting and conferring with Plaintiffs
counsel via email correspondence.” (Declaration of Alex Gilanians filed October
4, 2024, ¶ 3.) An exchange of emails is insufficient. The Court will
nonetheless address the merits of Gilanians’s Demurrer in the interest of
judicial efficiency. 
V.      ANALYSIS  
The Court will first address Demurring
Defendants’ Demurrer and will next address Gilanians’s Demurrer. 

A.           
Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer
Demurring
Defendants demurrer to Plaintiff’s first through seventh causes of action. (See
Demurrer.)
1.             
Request for Judicial Notice
The
Court GRANTS Demurring Defendants’ request for judicial notice of the Civil
Harassment Restraining Order After Hearing issued on January 18, 2024, LASC
Case No. 23VERO01314. 
2.            
Plaintiff Fails to State a Breach of
Contract Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants.
In an
effort to properly state a breach of contract cause of action, Plaintiff shifted
the focus of his SAC away from the issue of title transfer to Plaintiff’s alleged
right to reside at the Property until his passing. (Compare SAC, ¶¶
1.1-1.8 with FAC, ¶¶ 1.1-1.6.) Now Plaintiff clarifies the terms of the agreement
allegedly breached: Plaintiff “shall continue to reside at the Subject Property
until his passing…and…[t]he title to the Subject Property was being held in
trust for the benefit of his daughter, who would receive the title upon his
passing.” (SAC, ¶ 1.2(3).) Plaintiff alleges Demurring Defendants have already
breached, or have anticipatorily breached, this agreement in the following ways:
(1) Khosravizadeh
sought to evict Plaintiff from the Property by having Plaintiff falsely arrested,
by urging the city attorney’s office to charge and arrest Plaintiff after he
had already been released from jail, by seeking a restraining order against
Plaintiff, and by impounding Plaintiff’s vehicles and discarding Plaintiff’s
personal belongings to clear way for construction at the Property; and (2)
Demurring Defendants have demonstrated “their intent to treat the Subject
Property as their own and sell it for their sole profit” by hiring contractors
to make improvements to the Property and by Khosravizadeh’s communications with
“police officers responding to Plaintiff’s calls for trespass and disposal of his
personal belongs that she is the owner of the Subject Property, which is not
true, and that Plaintiff is nothing more than a leasee [sic].” (SAC, ¶¶ 1.7,
4.12-4.14, 4.16, 4.20, 5.3, 5.4.) 
“The standard elements of a claim for
breach of contract are: (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse
for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178 (cleaned up).)
Demurring
Defendants argue “Plaintiff’s SAC fails to set forth any allegation showing how
either of…[the]…terms of the oral contract are breached. No facts are presented
that Defendant has actually been evicted or that eviction proceedings have been
filed.” (Demurrer, pg. 9.) Demurring Defendants argue Plaintiff has not demonstrated
how hiring contractors to make improvements to the Property would constitute a
repudiation of the agreement, nor can Plaintiff refute the fact that he does
not own the Property and thus that Khosravizadeh’s representations regarding
ownership interest are false. (See Demurrer, pp. 8-9.) 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues “[t]his matter is ripe as Demurring Defendants are
in breach, or at the very least, anticipatory breach, of the material term that
Plaintiff shall have a comfortable life-estate in the Subject Property” and
“[a]dditional facts are also pled to sufficiently demonstrate Demurring
Defendants’ anticipatory repudiation of the aforementioned material term and
their agreement to transfer title to the Subject Property to plaintiffs
daughter upon his passing.” (Opposition, pg. 3.) 
The Court
disagrees and finds Plaintiff has again failed to state sufficient facts to
support a cause of action for breach or anticipatory breach of contract against
Demurring Defendants. As the Court noted in its Order dated August 12, 2024
(“Order”), anticipatory breach requires “a clear, positive, unequivocal refusal
to perform” or “conduct where the promisor puts it out of his power to perform
so as to make substantial performance of his promise impossible.” (Taylor v.
Johnston (1975) 15 Cal.3d 130, 137.) Here, Plaintiff has not alleged
Demurring Defendants have made a “a clear, positive, unequivocal refusal to
perform.” (Taylor, 15 Cal.3d at 137.) The Court also does not find hiring
contractors to make improvements to the Property and Khosravizadeh’s alleged
representations of ownership of the Property to constitute an implied
repudiation because such conduct does not put Demurring Defendants out of their
“power to perform so as to make substantial performance of [their] promise
impossible.” (Id.) 
Evicting
Plaintiff for no reason other than to remove Plaintiff from the Property and
take possession of the Property (thus denying Plaintiff his right to possess
the Property until his passing) could constitute breach of the
agreement, but that is not what Plaintiff has alleged here. Plaintiff alleges he
was falsely arrested for “making criminal threats to Defendant Khosravizadeh” and
that he “stipulated to the restraining order, wherein he agreed not to contact
Defendant Khosravizadeh, in an effort to bring down the temperature and upon
the urging of his family who were very concerned about his health.” (SAC, ¶¶
4.12-4.14.) Plaintiff’s own allegations therefore describe a civil dispute
between him and Khosravizadeh, one that appears to be unrelated to Plaintiff’s
right of possession as contemplated by the alleged agreement. Particularly
relevant to the Court’s analysis is that a Civil Harassment Restraining Order
cannot, as a matter of law, be used as a substitute for an unlawful detainer proceeding
to adjudicate a party’s right to possess a property. (See People v. Thompson
(1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1265, 1270.) In short, Plaintiff’s
allegations are not sufficient to allege breach of contract against Khosravizadeh,
and they certainly are not sufficient to allege breach of contract against Levy
and Aldea, as Plaintiff does not allege Levy and Aldea were even involved in Khosravizadeh’s
alleged eviction attempts.[2]  
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS the Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s first
cause of action for breach of contract against Demurring Defendants WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND.
3.            
Plaintiff Fails to State a Constructive
Fraud/Breach of Fiduciary Duty Cause of Action Against Khosravizadeh.

“The
elements of the cause of action for constructive fraud are: (1) fiduciary
relationship; (2) nondisclosure (breach of fiduciary duty); (3) intent to
deceive, and (4) reliance and resulting injury (causation).” (Younan v. Equifax
Inc. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 498, 517, n. 14.) Breach of fiduciary duty, in
turn, requires a plaintiff to “demonstrate the existence of a fiduciary
relationship, breach of that duty and damages.” (Charnay v. Cobert
(2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 182.)
Demurring
Defendants argues Plaintiff has again failed to alleged a fiduciary
relationship and, even if Plaintiff had alleged a fiduciary relationship, the
agreement has not been breached. (See Demurrer, pg. 10.) 
The
Court again finds Plaintiff has failed to properly allege his second cause of
action for constructive fraud/breach of fiduciary duty.[3]
As discussed above and in the Court’s Order, the Court does not find Khosravizadeh
breached the agreement between she and Plaintiff and therefore does not find
she has breached any fiduciary duty she may or may not owe to Plaintiff. 
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s second
cause of action for constructive fraud/breach of fiduciary duty as alleged
against Khosravizadeh WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
4.            
Plaintiff Fails to State a Constructive
Trust Cause of Action Against Aldea.
“A
constructive trust is an equitable remedy that compels a wrongdoer—one
who has property or proceeds to which he is not justly entitled—to transfer
same to its rightful owner.” (Shoker v. Superior Court of Alameda County
(2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 271, 278 (emphasis added).) “It may be imposed in
practically any case where there has been a wrongful acquisition or detention
of property to which another is entitled.” (Taylor v. Fields (1986) 178
Cal.App.3d 653, 665.) Constructive trust “is not an independent cause of action
but merely a type of remedy for some categories of underlying wrong.” (Glue-Fold,
Inc. v. Slautterback Corp. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023, fn. 3.) 
Plaintiff
has not materially altered his third cause of action for imposition of a
constructive trust from his previous constructive trust allegations in his FAC.
Plaintiff alleges “[b]y reason of Defendants Khosravizadeh, ALDEA GROUP, LLC
and BENJAMIN LEVY’S anticipatory repudiation of the Agreement, ALDEA GROUP, LLC
now holds the deed to the Subject Property, which should be held for the
benefit of Plaintiff during his lifetime and his daughter upon his passing.” (SAC,
¶ 7.1.) 
The
Court reiterates its finding in its prior Order. Imposition of constructive
trust is not a cause of action. Even if it were, Plaintiff does not allege he
is entitled to the Property. Again, Plaintiff alleges the agreement is such
that Plaintiff “shall continue to reside at the Subject Property until his
passing…and…[t]he title to the Subject Property was being held in trust for the
benefit of his daughter, who would receive the title upon his passing.” (SAC, ¶
1.2(3).)
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS Demurring
Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for constructive
trust against Aldea WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND insofar as Plaintiff may include a constructive trust as a remedy, assuming
the necessary supporting elements are pleaded elsewhere. Plaintiff may not,
however, plead constructive trust as a standalone cause of action in and of
itself.
5.            
Plaintiff Fails to State an Unjust
Enrichment Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants. 
“California
does not recognize unjust enrichment as a separate cause of action.” (Castillo
v. Toll Bros., Inc. (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1172, 1210.) However, in ruling
on a demurrer, a court should “ignore erroneous or confusing labels if the
complaint pleads facts which would entitle the plaintiff to relief.” (McBride
v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 387.) A purported cause of action
for unjust enrichment may be understood by the court as an attempt to plead a
cause of action giving rise to a right to restitution. (See McBride, 123
Cal.App.4th at 388.) “[R]estitution may be awarded where the defendant obtained
a benefit from the plaintiff by fraud, duress, conversion, or similar conduct.
In such cases, where appropriate, the law will imply a contract (or rather, a
quasi-contract), without regard to the parties’ intent, in order to avoid
unjust enrichment.” (Id.) 
Plaintiff
has not materially changed his unjust enrichment cause of action in his SAC.
Plaintiff alleges Demurring Defendants have “received, and continue to receive,
the benefit of the subject property not being deeded to Plaintiff,” are now “indebted
to plaintiff in the sum of not less than one million dollars,” and that
Plaintiff is “entitled to the rent it should have and could have collected from
the time it demanded that defendants transfer the subject property back to
Plaintiff.” (SAC, ¶¶ 8.1-8.3.) 
The
Court again finds Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action for unjust
enrichment against Demurring Defendants. Plaintiff’s allegations that he is
entitled to title of the Property and the Property’s rental income are in
direct contradiction to the allegations which precede Plaintiff’s unjust
enrichment allegations (and which are incorporated by reference into
Plaintiff’s unjust enrichment cause of action). (See SAC, ¶¶ 1.0-7.2,
8.0.) As the Court stated in its Order, unless and until Plaintiff alleges facts
to support a right to title or rental income, Plaintiff cannot maintain a claim
that Demurring Defendants have been unjustly enriched. 
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS Demurring
Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for unjust
enrichment against Demurring Defendants
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
6.            
Plaintiff Fails to State a Declaratory
Relief Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants.
A cause
of action for declaratory relief requires the following elements: (1) person
interested under a written instrument or a contract; or (2) a declaration of
his or her rights or duties (a) with respect to another or (b) in respect to,
in, over or upon property; and (3) an actual controversy. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 1060.)    
Plaintiff
has not materially changed his declaratory relief cause of action against
Demurring Defendants. Plaintiff again alleges he believed he had equitable
title to the Property, Demurring Defendants have refused to transfer/convey the
Property to Plaintiff, the Property belongs to Plaintiff, and Plaintiff is
being denied his rightful ownership of the Property. (See SAC, ¶¶
9.1-9.4.) Plaintiff again incorporates all prior allegations into his declaratory
relief cause of action. (See SAC, ¶ 9.0.) 
Plaintiff
has not alleged he is entitled to title of the Property and thus has not
alleged he is entitled to “a judicial determination of [his] rights and duties
with respect to the subject property, and a declaration as to whether the
subject property currently in the sole name and possession of defendants, and
each of them, is in fact the subject property of defendants or the subject
property of Plaintiff pursuant to the Agreement.” (SAC, ¶ 9.5.)
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS Demurring
Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for declaratory
relief against Demurring Defendants
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
7.            
Plaintiff Fails to State a Fraud Cause of
Action Against Demurring Defendants.
“The
elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its falsity, (3) with the intent to
induce another's reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) justifiable reliance,
and (5) resulting damage.” (Conroy v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2009) 45
Cal. 4th 1244, 1255.) “The elements for a fraudulent concealment claim are: (1)
the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the
defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff,
(3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with
the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware
of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed
or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of
the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Nissan Motor
Acceptance Cases (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 793, 826 (internal quotations
omitted).) “No liability for concealment exists unless there is a duty to
disclose.” (Id.) 
“Relevant
to the element of duty for fraud and deceit claims, in transactions which do
not involve fiduciary or confidential relations, a cause of action for
non-disclosure of material facts may arise in at least three instances: (1) the
defendant makes representations but does not disclose facts which materially
qualify the facts disclosed, or which render his disclosure likely to mislead;
(2) the facts are known or accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows
they are not known to or reasonably discoverable by the plaintiff; (3) the
defendant actively conceals discovery from the plaintiff.” (Id.
(internal quotations and brackets omitted).)
“[F]raud
must be specifically pleaded. This means: (1) general pleading of the legal
conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2) every element of the cause of
action for fraud must be alleged in full, factually and specifically, and the
policy of liberal construction of pleading will not usually be invoked to
sustain a pleading that is defective in any material respect.” (Wilhelm v.
Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.) In
addition, a cause of action of fraud against a corporation requires a plaintiff
to allege the names of persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when. (See Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157-58.)
However,
this rule of particularity must be applied differently in the case of
non-disclosure because it is difficult to allege “who” or “how” or “by what
means” something was not disclosed or “when” or “where” a statement was not
made. (See Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning
Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) Less particularity is
required in these cases because the facts supporting concealment are more
likely to be known by a defendant. (See id.)
Nevertheless,
the Court once again finds Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action for
fraud. The Court acknowledges Plaintiff’s efforts to bolster his cause of
action with additional information about Demurring Defendants’ alleged
misrepresentations. (Compare SAC, ¶¶ 10.5-10.6 with FAC, ¶¶
10.0-10.8.) But Demurring Defendants’ alleged misrepresentations are simply
that “Plaintiff can comfortably live in [the Property] for the rest of his
life, and the deed for which will be transferred to Plaintiff’s daughter upon
his passing,” misrepresentations that Plaintiff alleges Demurring Defendants
have continued to make through counsel. (SAC, ¶¶ 10.5-10.6.)
These
alleged misrepresentations, however, are nothing more than conclusory and speculative allegations that Plaintiff will
not be allowed to remain in possession of the Property until his death and that
the Property will not be transferred to Plaintiff’s daughter upon the
occurrence of this triggering event. Moreover, they are the sort of allegations
that Plaintiff could reasonably be expected to plead with more specificity as
they describe representations made to him, not facts concealed from
him. Plaintiff therefore has again failed to adequately allege Demurring
Defendants have made representations to Plaintiff with knowledge of the falsity
of those representations. 
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS Demurring
Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for fraud against Demurring Defendants WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
8.            
Plaintiff Fails to State an Elder Abuse
Cause of Action Against Demurring Defendants
To state a cause of action for elder
abuse and neglect, a plaintiff must allege “[f]inancial abuse, as defined in
Section 15610.30.” (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.07(a)(3).) Welf. & Inst.
Code § 15610.30, in turn, defines financial abuse of an elder adult as taking
or assisting in taking real property for wrongful use and/or with intent to
defraud, or by undue influence. (See Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.30(a)(1)-(3).)
As the
Court previously held in its Order: Other than alleging Plaintiff is over the
age of 65, Plaintiff has not alleged even the barest of allegations to support
a cause of action for elder abuse as defined by Welf.
& Inst. Code § 15610.07(a)(3). Plaintiff claims no ownership of the
Property. Thus, it is impossible for Demurring Defendants to have taken or
assisted in the taking of the Property from Plaintiff. 
 Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s seventh
cause of action for elder abuse against Demurring
Defendants WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
B.           
Gilanians’s Demurrer
Gilanians
demurrers to Plaintiff’s second, eighth, and ninth causes of action. (See Gilanians
Demurrer.) Plaintiff’s allegations against Gilanians consist of the following:
(1) Gilanians shared an attorney-client relationship with Khosravizadeh
and Khosravizadeh referred Gilanians to Plaintiff; (2) Gilanians represented
Plaintiff in two separate lawsuits, one of which resulted in a settlement of $164,206.45;
(3) Plaintiff told Gilanians to transfer the settlement proceeds to Ridgegate
Escrow Inc. for use as the downpayment on the Property and that the transfer
was to take place as part of Plaintiff’s agreement with Khosravizadeh; (4)
Gilanians did not advise Plaintiff of “the risks of transferring money for the
purchase of residential property by another without documentation evidencing
any agreement securing Plaintiffs residency at the Subject Property for the
remainder of his lifetime or any legal or ownership interest in the Subject
Property;” (5) Gilanians ignored Plaintiff’s demands for documentation
evidencing Plaintiff’s ownership interest and did not advocate on Plaintiff’s
behalf; and (6) Gilanians testified on behalf of Khosravizadeh at the
restraining order hearing. (SAC, ¶¶ 4.6-4.7, 4.11, 4.15.) All of this,
Plaintiff alleges, amounted to a breach of Gilanians’s fiduciary duty to
Plaintiff and to legal malpractice. (See SAC, ¶¶ 6.0-6.14, 12.0-12.6.)
As a
preliminary procedural matter, Plaintiff argues in opposition that Gilanians
cannot properly demurrer because he did not demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 430.41(a) and (b). (See Opposition
Gilanians, pg. 7.) Code of Civil Procedure § 430.41(a) and (b) concern a party’s
meet and confer obligations, which the Court has already addressed above.
Gilanians filed his Demurrer within 30 days of Plaintiff’s service of his SAC
as required by Code of Civil Procedure § 430.40(a). (See Gilanians
Demurrer.) Plaintiff cites no other authority for why this Court should not
hear Gilanians’s Demurrer. The Court will thus not address this argument
further and turns its attention to the merits of the Gilanians’s Demurrer.   
1.             
Plaintiff Has Stated Sufficient Facts to
State a Constructive Fraud/Breach of Fiduciary Duty Cause of Action Against Gilanians
“The
elements of the cause of action for constructive fraud are: (1) fiduciary
relationship; (2) nondisclosure (breach of fiduciary duty); (3) intent to
deceive, and (4) reliance and resulting injury (causation).” (Younan v.
Equifax Inc. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 498, 517, n. 14; but see Code
Civ. Proc. § 1573 (listing the elements of constructive fraud and not requiring
an intent to deceive.) Breach of fiduciary duty, in turn, requires a plaintiff
to “demonstrate the existence of a fiduciary relationship, breach of that duty
and damages.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 182.)
Gilanians
argues Plaintiff’s second cause of action fails as to him because there are no
allegations Gilanians was party to the agreement or Plaintiff sought advice
from Gilanians as to the purchase of the Property or the risks of investing his
settlement proceeds. (See Gilanians Demurrer, pp. 6-8.)
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues he and Gilanians shared a fiduciary relationship, Gilanians
knew of the agreement and Plaintiff’s understanding of the agreement, Gilanians
did not keep any documentation memorializing the agreement, Gilanians intended
to deceive Plaintiff, and Plaintiff relied on Gilanians. (See Opposition
Gilanians, pp. 8-10.) 
In
reply, Gilanians argues “[t]he gist of the allegations against Defendant AG in
a nutshell is that Defendant AG knew Plaintiff was using his money as a down
payment to buy a house with his partner of 20 years and did not advise
Plaintiff against the possible problems of doing so.” (Reply, pg. 5.)
The
Court finds Plaintiff has stated sufficient facts to state a cause of action
for constructive fraud/breach of fiduciary duty cause of action against
Gilanians. Plaintiff alleges Gilanians was his attorney at the time of the
events at issue and, as such, Gilanians had a clear fiduciary duty to
Plaintiff. (See White Mountains Reins. Co. of America v. Borton Petrini, LLP
(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 890, 902; see also Mark Tanner Const., Inc. v.
HUB Int'l Ins. Services, Inc. (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 574, 585.) Plaintiff
alleges Gilanians breached that duty by, despite his full knowledge of the
circumstances of the agreement, transferring the settlement proceeds without
fully advising Plaintiff of the risks of doing so without a written agreement, by
failing to assist Plaintiff despite their attorney-client relationship, and by
testifying on behalf of Khosravizadeh at the restraining order hearing. Plaintiff
further alleges he relied on Gilanians’s representation as his attorney and has
been damaged as a result of this reliance. 
To
further inquire whether Gilanians’s alleged breaches truly constitute a
breach of his fiduciary duties (as Gilanians appears to argue) would be inappropriate
at the pleading stage, as whether a defendant breached its fiduciary duty is typically
a question of fact. (See Kirschner Bros. Oil, Inc. v. Natomas Co. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 784, 790.)[4]
Accordingly,
the Court OVERRULES Gilanians’s Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s second cause of
action for constructive fraud/breach of fiduciary duty as to him. 
2.            
Plaintiff Fails to State a Legal Malpractice
Cause of Action Against Gilanians
“In
California a viable legal malpractice claim requires proof of ‘(1) the duty of
the attorney to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as members of his or
her profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the breach and the resulting injury; and
(4) actual loss or damage resulting from the attorney’s negligence.’ The third
and fourth elements cannot be overlooked. Thus, in transactional as well as
litigation malpractice actions, a plaintiff ‘must show that but for the alleged
malpractice, it is more likely than not that the plaintiff would have obtained
a more favorable result.’” (Landmark Screens, LLC v. Morgan, Lewis &
Bockius, LLP (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 238, 247-248 (citations omitted).)
Gilanians
first argues Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action for legal malpractice is barred
by the statute of limitations pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 340.6
because Plaintiff’s initial complaint was filed more than one year after
Gilanians made the settlement proceeds transfer and because the statute of
limitations was not tolled. (See Gilanians Demurrer, pp. 9-11.) Gilanians
also argues Plaintiff fails to allege Gilanians was representing Plaintiff when
Plaintiff entered into the agreement with Khosravizadeh or that he was
representing Plaintiff in regards to the purchase of the Property. (See Gilanians
Demurrer, pg. 9.)
Code Civ. Proc. § 340.6 sets
forth the statute of limitations for attorney malpractice actions and provides:
“(a) An action against an attorney for a wrongful act or omission, other than
for actual fraud, arising in the performance of professional services shall be
commenced within one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of
reasonable diligence should have discovered, the facts constituting the
wrongful act or omission, or four years from the date of the wrongful act or
omission, whichever occurs first.” The statute of limitations is tolled until
the potential plaintiff has “sustained actual injury.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
340.6(a)(1).) “[A]ctual injury occurs when the client suffers any loss or
injury legally cognizable as damages in a legal malpractice action based on the
asserted errors or omissions.” (Jordache Enterprises, Inc. v. Brobeck,
Phleger & Harrison (1998) 18 Cal.4th 739, 743.). Determining actual
injury is largely a factual inquiry, as “the particular facts of each case must
be examined in light of the wrongful act or omission the plaintiff alleges
against the attorney.” (See Jordache Enterprises, Inc., 18 Cal.4th at
743, 766-767.) “There is no requirement that an adjudication or settlement must
first confirm a causal nexus between the attorney's error and the asserted
injury.” (See Jordache Enterprises, Inc., 18 Cal.4th at 752.) The loss,
diminution or substantial impairment of a right or remedy may constitute injury
or damage for legal malpractice purposes. (See Adams v. Paul (1995) 11
Cal.4th 583, 589-591 & fn. 5.) 
Plaintiff’s legal malpractice claim is not barred
by the statute of limitations. Plaintiff alleges he did not discover the facts
constituting the wrongful acts or omissions of any of the Defendants
until August of 2023, when Plaintiff “was arrested for making criminal threats
to” Khosravizadeh. (See SAC, ¶ 4.12.) Contrary to Gilanians argument in
his Demurrer, Plaintiff doesn’t allege he suspected wrongdoing after the
settlement proceeds were transferred, nor is it reasonable to assume Plaintiff should
have discovered the wrongdoing via reasonable diligence—Plaintiff’s allegations
against Gilanians are based on Gilanians’s alleged acts of non-disclosure.
The Court also finds Plaintiff has stated
sufficient facts to constitute a legal malpractice action against Gilanians.
While true that Plaintiff does not allege Plaintiff specifically consulted
Gilanians in regards to the agreement or the purchase of the Property,
Plaintiff does allege Gilanians’s awareness of the agreement and its terms and
Gilanians’s alleged failure to later assist Plaintiff despite the parties’
attorney-client relationship. At the pleading stage, these allegations are
enough to constitute a cause of action for legal malpractice. 
Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES Gilanians’s
Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action for legal malpractice. 
3.            
Plaintiff’s Ninth Cause of Action for Breach
of Fiduciary Duty Against Gilanians is Duplicative of Plaintiff’s Second Cause
of Action. 
Plaintiff’s
ninth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty against Gilanians is
duplicative of Plaintiff’s second cause of action for constructive fraud/breach
of fiduciary duty. Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS Gilanians’s Demurrer as to
Plaintiff’s ninth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND.
VI.    
CONCLUSION
Based on
the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
first through seventh causes of action WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
The
Court also OVERRULES Gilanians’s Demurrer as to Plaintiff’s second and eighth
causes of action but SUSTAINS it as to Plaintiff’s ninth cause of action WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
Plaintiff
shall file a third amended complaint on or before November 22, 2024.
         IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED: November 6, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


