 Case Number:  20STCV40501    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  30 MARGARET STEPHENS, AN INDIVIDUAL vs CITY OF BURBANK, A PUBLIC ENTITY, et al.Judgment on the PleadingsTENTATIVEDefendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is DENIED. Plaintiff to give notice.Legal StandardA defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint or the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(b)(1), 438(c)(1)(B)(i) and 438(c)(1)(B)(ii).)“A motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made at any time either prior to the trial or at the trial itself. [Citation.]” (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 877.) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. Presentation of extrinsic evidence is therefore not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999 (Citations Omitted).) The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322 (citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216).)Code of Civil Procedure section 438, subdivision (h) sets forth the Court’s authority to grant Motions for Judgment on the Pleadings with leave to amend:“(1) [A Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings] may be granted with or without leave to file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be.…(4) If the motion is granted with leave to file an amended complaint, then the following procedures shall be followed:(A) If an amended complaint is filed after the time to file an amended complaint has expired, then the court may strike the complaint pursuant to¿Section 436¿and enter judgment in favor of that defendant against that plaintiff or a plaintiff.….(C) Except where subparagraphs (A) and (B) apply, if the motion is granted with respect to the entire complaint with leave to file an amended complaint, but an amended complaint is not filed, then after the time to file an amended complaint has expired, judgment shall be entered forthwith in favor of the moving party.”(Code Civ. Proc., § 438(h)(1), 438(h)(4)(A), and 438(h)(4)(C).)“A court may … at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper[,] … [s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)DiscussionDefendant moves for judgment on the pleadings on the ground that Plaintiff failed to file an amended complaint within the period allotted by the Court after the Court granted Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings.Meet and ConferThe Court finds that the meet and confer requirements have not been met. (Code Civ. Proc. § 439(a).) Nevertheless, as this is not a ground to deny the motion, the Court turns to the merits. (Id., § 439(a)(4).)MeritsThe Court does not reach the substantive issues, because the motion is denied on procedural grounds.  On September 19, 2023, this Court granted Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings, allowing Plaintiff 20 days leave to amend the complaint. (9/19/23 Minute Order.) Defendant argues Plaintiff failed to file an amended complaint.The subject motion is denied. A motion for judgment on the pleadings is not the proper vehicle for this request. A defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint or the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(b)(1), 438(c)(1)(B)(i) and 438(c)(1)(B)(ii).) Here, Defendant does not move under either ground.The Court notes a motion to strike is filed as to the same arguments made in this motion. Thus, the Court will address the merits of the parties’ arguments in the motion to strike.