  Case Number:  23AHCV00884    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PERLA MAGENO,
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ATLANTIC
   RESTAURANT, INC.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00884
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   17, 2024




 


 


 



 
Layla
 Toma seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for defendant
 Atlantic Restaurant, Inc. (“Defendant”) on grounds that there has
 been an irreparable breakdown of the working relationship between counsel and
 client. Absent a showing of resulting prejudice, an attorney’s request
for withdrawal should be granted. (People v. Prince (1968) 268
Cal.App.2d 398, 406.) 
The Court notes that trial in this
matter is not yet set and no prejudice will result from granting this motion. However,
the proposed order is incomplete because it does not specify if there are any
applicable deadlines for the outstanding discovery listed in Item 8. Accordingly,
the hearing on this motion to be relieved is CONTINUED to January 31, 2024.
Counsel must submit a revised proposed order no later than 5 days before the
hearing. The proposed order should list any relevant deadlines for the pending
discovery listed in Item 8 and check Item 5a. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 17th
day of January 2024         
 




 


 




 


William
  A. Crowfoot 
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.