  Case Number:  23TRCV00741    Hearing Date:   August 21, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
FRANCISCO
  BRIGIDO NAVA,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00741




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
GREG
  JARA,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          August 21,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Hector C. Perez,
for defendant and cross-complainant Greg Jara
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The Court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  The motion is GRANTED. The Court orders that
the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for defendant and
cross-complainant Greg Jara, effective upon the filing of the proof of service
of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel –
Civil” (Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the client.
BACKGROUND
On March 15, 2023, plaintiffs
Francisco Brigido Nava and Maria Gomez Ruiz filed a complaint against Greg Jara
for (1) negligence, (2) breach of implied warranty of habitability, (3)
wrongful eviction, and (4) fraud.  
On May 1, 2023, defendant Greg Jara
filed a cross-complaint against plaintiffs for (1) abuse of elder person and
(2) IIED.
On July 18, 2024, the Court denied
defense counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel without prejudice as counsel
did not use the mandatory form for counsel’s declaration.
Trial is set for November 13, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Defendant and cross-complainant Greg
Jara’s attorney, Hector C. Perez, seeks to be relieved as counsel.
            Counsel states in his declaration
that his client advised him that he did not want counsel to work on the matter
anymore and that counsel was further informed that the client was in the
process of hiring another attorney.
            The Court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied.  The Court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reason why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted.
            The motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED. The Court
orders that the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for defendant and
cross-complainant Greg Jara, effective upon the filing of the proof of service
of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel –
Civil” (Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the client.
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.