 Case Number:  23STCV08473    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior Court of
California
County of Los
Angeles
Department 50
 




LAWRENCE ADAMS,

 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
NEUTRAL GROUND, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 23STCV08473




Hearing Date:


October 21, 2024




Hearing
  Time:   2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
 
DEMURRER TO
  FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT FOR DAMAGES; 
 
DEFENDANT LOS
  ANGELES HOUSING DEPARTMENT’S MOTION TO STRIKE
 




Background
On April 17, 2023,
Plaintiff Lawrence Adams (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Neutral Ground, Corey Sims, City of Los Angeles, and Los Angeles Housing
Department (“LAHD”). 
On December 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”), alleging causes of action for (1) declaratory relief, (2)
breach of contract, (3) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, and (4) common counts-account stated. The first and fourth causes of
action of the FAC are alleged against LAHD. 

LAHD now demurs to first and fourth causes of action of the FAC. LAHD
also moves to strike portions of the FAC. LAHD’s demurrer and motion to strike
are unopposed. 
 
 
Request for Judicial
Notice
The Court grants LAHD’s request for judicial
notice.  
Demurrer 
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    Allegations of the
FAC 
In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that on or about
November 18, 2005, Neutral Ground, Inc. was granted title to real property
known as 5972 S. Normandie Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90044 (herein, the “Normandie
Property”). (FAC, ¶ 7.) On or about June 12, 2012, Neutral Ground “conveyed
title to Corey Sims to the [Normandie Property]…” (FAC, ¶ 8.) “On or about
February 19, 2016 Corey Sims conveyed title to [Plaintiff] to the [Normandie Property]…”
(FAC, ¶ 9.) Plaintiff further alleges that “[o]n or about November 17, 2021 a
grant deed conveyed title to [Plaintiff] to the [Normandie Property]…” (FAC, ¶ 10.)

            Plaintiff alleges that “[d]ue to
certain building deficiencies the subject property was placed in the REAP
program with the City of Los Angeles Housing Department. All rent now would be
paid directly into a REAP Account and would not be disbursed back to the
landlord until the repairs were made and approved upon review by various
agencies of the City of Los Angeles.” (FAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges that “this
REAP money is his money as it was collected during his period of ownership.” (FAC,
¶ 16.) 
            Plaintiff further alleges that
“Neutral Ground and Sims and [Plaintiff] agreed to settle and resolve the
controversies between them as to the Normandie Property in exchange for a total
payment of $30,000 by Defendants Neutral Ground and execution of reconveyance
or deed revesting title in Sims as to the Normandie Property by [Plaintiff].” (FAC,
¶ 19.) Plaintiff alleges that he “is entitled to this money collected by REAP
because all parties signed the settlement agreement permitting and assenting to
[Plaintiff] receiving all back rent.” (FAC, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff alleges that “all
defendants are refusing to distribute these funds to Plaintiff Adams.” (FAC, ¶
22.) Plaintiff further alleges that he “seeks an injunctive order that the City
of Los Angeles REAP program office send the payment to his address and should
not be split up by any other party.” (FAC, ¶ 24.)  
C.    Fourth Cause of
Action for Common Counts – Account Stated 
In the fourth cause of action for common counts – account stated,
Plaintiff alleges that “certain REAP funds have been collected by the REAP
Program and…these funds are now in dispute as to [sic] its rightful owner is.”
(FAC, ¶ 46.) Plaintiff alleges that he “is entitled to all REAP funds and
Defendant Sims differs with this position.” (FAC, ¶ 47.) Plaintiff alleges that
“defendant owes Plaintiff these REAP funds from previous rent collected.” (FAC,
¶ 49.)
In the demurrer, LAHD argues, inter alia, that Plaintiff’s “account
stated cause of action…fails because he still has not alleged compliance with
California’s Tort Claims Act.” (Demurrer at p. 4:17-18.) In State of
California v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1239, the California Supreme Court noted as follows:
 
“Under
[Government Code] section 911.2, ‘[a] claim
relating to a cause of action for death or for injury to person or to personal
property … shall be presented as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section 915) of this chapter not later than six months
after the accrual of the cause of action.’ Section
945.4 then provides that ‘no suit for money or damages
may be brought against a public entity on a cause of action for
which a claim is required to be presented in accordance with Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 900) and Chapter 2 (commencing
with Section 910) of Part 3 of this division until a written claim therefor
has been presented to the public entity and has been acted upon by the board,
or has been deemed to have been rejected by the board, in accordance with
Chapters 1 and  2 of Part 3 of this division.’…(Italics added.)
Thus, under these statutes, failure to timely present a claim for money or
damages to a public entity bars a plaintiff from filing a lawsuit against that
entity.” (Emphasis in original.) 
In State of
California v. Superior Court, the California
Supreme Court “conclude[d] that a plaintiff
must allege facts demonstrating or excusing compliance with the claim
presentation requirement. Otherwise, his complaint is subject to a general
demurrer for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.” ((Id. at p. 1243.) 
As noted by LAHD, Plaintiff’s FAC does not
appear to allege facts demonstrating compliance with the claim presentation
requirement. Plaintiff did not file any opposition to LAHD’s demurrer. Thus,
Plaintiff does not point to any allegations in the FAC concerning Plaintiff’s
compliance with the claim presentation requirement (or any alleged facts
excusing compliance with the claim presentation requirement).[1]  
LAHD also asserts that
“Plaintiff cannot allege an account stated common count against LAHD.” (Demurrer
at p. 6:24.) LAHD cites to Zinn v. Fred R. Bright Co.
(1969) 271 Cal.App.2d 597, 600,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he essential elements of an account stated are: (1)
previous transactions between the parties establishing the relationship of
debtor and creditor; (2) an agreement between the parties, express or implied,
on the amount due from the debtor to the creditor; (3) a promise by the debtor,
express or implied, to pay the amount due.” LAHD asserts that Plaintiff’s
“common counts-account stated” cause of action fails because Plaintiff “has
identified no agreement between him and LAHD (or the City) or any previous
transactions demonstrating that the City owes [Plaintiff] any amount of ‘debt.’”
(Demurrer at p. 7:3-5.) Plaintiff does not oppose LAHD’s demurrer and
accordingly does not address this point. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court
sustains the LAHD’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action of the FAC for
common counts – account stated.  
 
D.    First Cause of
Action for Declaratory Relief
LAHD also asserts that declaratory relief is not a proper cause of
action against LAHD. In the first cause of action for declaratory relief,
Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “a Settlement Agreement and General
Release Agreement was singed [sic] by Adams, Sims and Neutral Grounds which
included a signed addendum that [Plaintiff] was to collect all back rents from
the property, 5972 Normandie Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90044.” (FAC, ¶ 30.)
Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he City of Los Angeles seeks to pay all remaining
REAP fuds [sic] to Sims as well which is counter to this agreement.” (FAC, ¶
32.) Plaintiff alleges that he requests “a judicial declaration as to the issue
of damages, contribution and indemnification and who should get the REAP monies
held by the agency.” (FAC, ¶ 33.)  
LAHD asserts that “[d]eclaratory relief is not the appropriate vehicle
for judicial review of the administrative actions that [Plaintiff]
challenges—that is, the decision to place the Normandie Property in REAP and
LAHD’s actions with the REAP escrow account.” (Demurrer at p. 5:17-19.)  
LAHD cites to State v. Superior Court (1974) 12 Cal.3d 237, 249, where the California Supreme Court found that “[i]t is settled that an action for declaratory
relief is not appropriate to review an administrative decision. Veta’s attempt
in the third cause of action to obtain review of the Commission’s denial of the
permit by means of declaratory relief is improper, and the demurrer should have
been sustained insofar as Veta alleged that it met the requirements for
issuance of the permit and that the Commission lacked jurisdiction to hear the
appeal from the decision of the regional commission.” (Internal citations
omitted.) LAHD also cites to Tri-County Special Educ. Local Plan Area v. County of
Tuolumne (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th
563, 576, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[t]he declaratory relief provisions do not independently
empower the courts to stop or interfere with administrative proceedings by
declaratory decree.” Plaintiff does not oppose LAHD’s demurrer. Thus, Plaintiff
does not address the foregoing legal authority.  
LAHD also asserts that “[e]ven if [Plaintiff]
were not barred from proceeding based on the above, his declaratory relief
action fails as a matter of law.” (Demurrer at p. 6:4-5.) LAHD cites to Los
Angeles Municipal Code section 162.08, which
concerns “Termination of REAP,” and provides, inter alia, that “[a]ny
escrow funds remaining after the expenditures as provided herein, and upon City
Council removing the Property from REAP, shall be returned to the property
owner who owned the property at the time the City Council authorizes the
termination of the escrow account. The Department shall refund any remaining
escrow account balance to the property owner recorded with the Los Angeles County
Recorder’s Office.” (LAHD’s RJN, Ex. A, Los Angeles Mun.
Code, § 162.08, subd. D.) 
LAHD asserts that here, Plaintiff “admits he was not the property
owner at the time the Normandie Property was released from REAP.” (Demurrer at
p. 6:9-10.) LAHD points to paragraph 23 of the FAC,
which alleges that “Plaintiff is no longer on title as due to the settlement
agreement entered into in December of 2022, he came off title as required by
the settlement terms and as a consequence he would not be on title on the day
of distribution.” (FAC, ¶ 23.) Plaintiff does not oppose the demurrer and
accordingly does not address this point. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains
the LAHD’s demurrer to the first cause of action of the FAC for declaratory
relief. 
Motion to Strike 
A court may
strike any “¿irrelevant, false, or improper
matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of
a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 436¿¿.) “¿The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)¿¿ 
LAHD moves to strike references to “Los
Angeles Housing Department” from the FAC. (Notice of Mot. at p. 2:4-12.) As set
forth above, the Court sustains LAHD’s demurrer to the first and fourth cause
of action of the FAC. Only the first and fourth causes of action of the
FAC are alleged against LAHD. Thus, the Court finds that LAHD’s motion to
strike portions of the FAC is moot.[2] 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing,
the Court sustains LAHD’s demurrer to the first and fourth causes of action of
the FAC. LAHD’s motion to strike is denied as moot. 
The Court orders Plaintiff
to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of
this Order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days, the Court orders LAHD
to file and serve a proposed judgment of dismissal within 30 days of the date
of this order. (¿Donald v. Cafe Royale, Inc. (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 168, 186 [“An
order sustaining a demurrer without leave to amend is not a final judgment; a
judgment of dismissal follows such an order as a matter of course.”]¿.)¿ 
LAHD is ordered to give notice of this
Order.
 
DATED:  October 21, 2024   
                        ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


