  Case Number:  21STCV28284    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



ARMANDO VAZQUEZ-RAMOS, as Successor Trustee of the LOURDES
  R. VAZQUEZ FAMILY LIVING TRUST of 2004,
  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
ANTONIO RAMOS VAZQUEZ, in his individual capacity, et al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 
  21STCV28284 




Hearing Date:


October 21, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
PLAINTIFF
  ANTONIO RAMOS VAZQUEZ, SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE OF THE LOURDES R. VAZQUEZ FAMILY
  LIVING TRUST AGREEMENT OF 2004 [sic] MOTION TO TERMINATE PLAINTIFF’S COUNSEL
  AND DISMISS COMPLAINT




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



            
Background
            Plaintiff Armando Vazquez-Ramos, as Successor Trustee of the Lourdes R.
Vazquez Family Living Trust of 2004 (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on July 30,
2021 against, inter alia, defendants Antonio Ramos Vazquez, in his
individual capacity, and Fernando Ramos Vazquez, in his individual capacity.
Plaintiff filed the operative Verified First Amended Complaint on December 5,
2023, alleging causes of action for (1) quiet title to real property and for
injunctive relief, (2) constructive trust, (3) accounting, (4) tort of deceit,
and (5) cancellation of instruments. 
            On
February 6, 2024, Antonio Ramos Vazquez, in his individual
capacity and as co-trustee of the Vazquez Brothers Living Trust of 2006, and Fernando Ramos
Vazquez, in his individual capacity and as co-trustee of the
Vazquez Brothers Living Trust of 2006 (jointly, “Cross-Complainants”) filed a
Cross-Complaint against Armando Vazquez-Ramos, in his individual
capacity and as co-trustee of the Vazquez Brothers Living Trust of 2006, and
Roe 1, in his or her capacity as Personal Representative of the Estate of
Lourdes R. Vazquez. On  
May 14, 2024, Cross-Complainants filed the operative First Amended
Cross-Complaint, alleging causes of action for (1) reformation of deeds and (2)
declaratory relief.   
            Antonio Ramos
Vazquez, Successor Trustee of the
Lourdes R. Vazquez Family Living Trust of 2004 (herein, “Antonio Ramos Vazquez”)[1] now moves “for an order to terminate Plaintiff’s
counsel Julia Sylva and dismiss Case No. 21STCV28284 with prejudice.” The motion is unopposed. 
            Discussion 
            As set forth above, Antonio Ramos Vazquez moves “for an order to terminate Plaintiff’s counsel Julia Sylva and
dismiss Case No. 21STCV28284 with prejudice.” (Mot. at p. 2:5-6.) Antonio Ramos Vazquez asserts that “[t]his motion is
based on the grounds that Plaintiff ARMANDO VAZQUEZ-RAMOS, Successor Trustee of
the Lourdes R. Vazquez Family Living Trust of 2004…has passed away on August 4,
2024 and he no longer has standing to pursue this action.” (Mot. at p. 2:6-10.) Antonio Ramos Vazquez contends that “[a]s
successor trustee of the Lourdes R. Vazquez Family Living Trust Agreement of
2004, ANTONIO has standing to act as the Plaintiff. As such, he wishes to
terminate Plaintiff’s counsel Julia Sylva and dismiss the First Amended
Complaint with Prejudice.” (Mot. at p. 2:10-13.) 
            In the motion, Antonio
Ramos Vazquez contends that “[p]ursuant to Professional Rule of Conduct No.
1.16(a)(4), a lawyer shall withdraw from representation of a client if the
lawyer is discharged. On September 10, 2024, Antonio discharged SYLVA as
attorney for the Plaintiff and requested that she sign the Substitution of
Attorney. To date, SYLVA has not withdrawn from representation of the
Plaintiff.” (Mot. at p. 4:24-28.) 
            The Cout notes
that Rule
1.16(a)(4) of the State Bar Rules of
Professional Conduct provides, “[e]xcept as stated in paragraph (c), a lawyer
shall not represent a client or, where representation has commenced, shall
withdraw from the representation of a client if:…the client discharges the
lawyer.” But Antonio Ramos Vazquez does not appear to
provide any evidence that Plaintiff discharged his lawyer. Antonio Ramos
Vazquez does not cite any legal authority to support the proposition that he
may discharge Plaintiff’s counsel. 
            In addition,
Antonio Ramos Vazquez does not cite to any legal authority to support his
request that the Court “terminate Plaintiff’s counsel Julia Sylva.” (Mot. at p.
2:5.) It is unclear on what legal basis Antonio Ramos Vazquez contends the
Court may “terminate” Plaintiff’s counsel. Antonio Ramos Vazquez also does not
cite any legal to support the proposition that he “has standing to act as the Plaintiff.” (Mot. at p. 2:11-12.) 
            Moreover, Antonio
Ramos Vazquez does not cite any legal authority to support his request to
dismiss this action. Thus, it is unclear on what legal basis Antonio Ramos
Vazquez seeks to dismiss the instant action. Additionally, because Antonio
Ramos Vasquez is appearing in his capacity as a trustee, he must be represented
by counsel. 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court does not find that Antonio Ramos Vazquez has demonstrated grounds to “terminate Plaintiff’s counsel Julia Sylva” or to dismiss this
case.  
            Conclusion
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Antonio
Ramos Vazquez’s motion is denied in its entirety. 
Antonio Ramos Vazquez is
ordered to provide notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  October 21, 2024                           ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


