 Case Number:  23STCP02225    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




RAFAEL NIEVES,
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
WASSERMAN MEDIA GROUP LLC, 
                        Respondent.


Case No.:


23STCP02225




Hearing Date:


October 21, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
RESPONDENT
  WASSERMAN MEDIA GROUP, LLC’S JOINT MOTION TO SEAL PLEADINGS CITING OR QUOTING
  SEALED DOCUMENTS
 




Background
On June 23, 2023, Petitioner Rafael Nieves
(“Petitioner”) filed a Petition to Vacate Contractual Arbitration Award in this
action against Respondent Wasserman Media Group LLC. 
On April 8, 2024, Petitioner filed the
operative First Amended Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award (the “First
Amended Petition”). The First Amended Petition alleges, inter alia, that
Petitioner seeks “an Order from the Court vacating the Arbitration Award
rendered by Joshua M. Javits on May 8, 2023, modified on May 23, 2023, and
thereafter modified again on February 3, 2024 concerning Mr. Nieves and
Respondent, Wasserman Media Group LLC...” (First Amended Petition, p. 2.) 
            Respondent
Wasserman Media Group, LLC (“Respondent”) and Petitioner (jointly, the “Moving
Parties”) now jointly move to seal “all pleadings that cite or quote the May 8,
2023 Arbitration Decision and Award, the May 23, 2023 Final Award and Addendum,
and the February 3, 2024 Addendum to the Arbitration Decision and Award and the
Final Award and Addendum (collectively, the ‘Award’), [and] the parties’
Employment Agreement (the ‘Employment Agreement’).” The motion is unopposed. 
Discussion 
Generally, court records are presumed to be
open unless confidentiality is required by law. (¿Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd¿. (c).) If the presumption of access
applies, the court may order that a record be filed under seal “¿if it
expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding
interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.¿” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.550, subd¿. (d).) 
As set forth above, the Moving Parties move to seal “all pleadings that cite or quote the May 8, 2023
Arbitration Decision and Award, the May 23, 2023 Final Award and Addendum, and
the February 3, 2024 Addendum to the Arbitration Decision and Award and the
Final Award and Addendum (collectively, the ‘Award’), [and] the parties’
Employment Agreement (the ‘Employment Agreement’).” (Notice of Mot. at p. 1:6-9.)
The Moving Parties also state that “[i]n advance of
their respective hearings on their Motions to Confirm and Vacate the
Arbitration Award, the Parties each filed motions, oppositions, and reply
papers, along with supporting declarations and exhibits, evidentiary
objections, and responses to evidentiary objections….In each of these
documents, the Parties cite or quote the sealed Award and Employment Agreement
and other material which quote or discuss those documents…Accordingly, the
Parties now seek to seal the portions of their respective motions, oppositions,
reply papers, supporting declarations and exhibits, evidentiary objections, and
responses to evidentiary objections.” (Mot. at p. 1:17-25).[1]
The Moving Parties submit the Declaration of
Brent S. Silverman in support of the joint motion to seal. Mr. Silverman,
counsel for Respondent, states that “[t]he dispute between WMG and Rafael
Nieves…concerns the parties’ employment agreement (the ‘Employment Agreement’)
and the Employment Agreement’s post-employment covenants.” (Silverman Decl., ¶
3.) Mr. Silverman states that “[t]he parties arbitrated this dispute pursuant
to the jurisdiction of the [Major League Baseball Players Association] and in
accordance with the Agent Regulations. The arbitration hearings were conducted
confidentially under the [Major League Baseball Players Association’s]
arbitration system. The hearings were held in Los Angeles, California on April
27-29, July 11-13 and September 27-28, 2022.” (Silverman Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Mr. Silverman indicates that “[o]n May 8,
2023, the arbitrator issued a confidential Arbitration decision and Award in
WMG’s favor, setting forth a framework for calculating damages but not
specifying an exact amount of those damages. On May 23, 2023, the arbitrator
issued a Final Award and Addendum…On February 3, 2024, the arbitrator issued an
Addendum to the Arbitration Decision and Award and the Final Award and
Addendum, awarding WMG damages against Nieves.” (Silverman Decl., ¶¶ 5, 6.) 
Mr. Silverman asserts that “[b]oth the Award
and the Employment Agreement contain highly private and confidential
employment, financial and personnel information. Among other things, the Award
discusses at length: (1) a private dispute between WMG and its former employee
Nieves, including without limitation (a) confidential provisions in the parties’
employment agreement, (b) confidential employment-related claims that Nieves
asserted against WMG, and (c) confidential claims that WMG asserted against
Nieves relating to his misappropriation of protected information; and (2) the
proprietary manner in which WMG compensated Nieves.” (Silverman Decl., ¶ 6.) 
Mr. Silverman also indicates that “[i]n
advance of Nieves and WMG’s concurrent hearings on their Motions to Confirm and
Vacate the Arbitration Award, WMG filed a Notice of Motion and Motion to
Confirm the Arbitration Award, an Opposition to Nieves’s Motion to Vacate the
Arbitration Award, and a Reply in support of WMG’s Motion to Confirm the
Arbitration Award, along with supporting declarations and exhibits, and
evidentiary objections. In each of these documents, WMG cites or quotes the
sealed Award and Employment Agreement and other material which quote or discuss
those documents. The portions of the filed documents that cite or quote the
sealed records were filed under seal and lodged with the Court. True and
correct copies of the foregoing filed pleadings and supporting documents are
attached as Exhibit ‘3.’” (Silverman Decl., ¶ 9.) 
The Moving Parties also submit the Declaration
of William D. Wheelock in support of the joint motion to seal. Mr. Wheelock,
counsel for Petitioner, states that “[i]n advance of Nieves’ and WMG’s
concurrent hearings on their Motions to Confirm and Vacate the Arbitration
Award, Nieves filed his Memorandum of Points and Authorities in support of
Petition to Vacate the Arbitration Award, an Opposition to Wasserman Media
Group’s (‘WMG’) Motion to Confirm the Arbitration Award, and a Reply in support
of Nieves’ Petition to Vacate the Arbitration Award, along with supporting
declarations and exhibits, and responses to WMG’s evidentiary objections. In
each of these documents, Nieves cites or quotes the sealed Award and Employment
Agreement and other material which quote or discuss those documents. The
portions of the filed documents that cite or quote the sealed records were
filed under seal and lodged with the Court. True and correct copies of the
foregoing filed pleadings and supporting documents are attached as Exhibit ‘4.’”
 (Wheelock Decl., ¶ 3.) 
In the motion, the Moving Parties assert that
“[h]ere, the Award and the Employment Agreement have been ordered sealed…The
Parties are therefore prohibited from disclosing the contents of the Award and
Employment Agreement.” (Mot. at p. 2:21-23.) The Moving Parties note that on
May 7, 2024, Department 19 of this Court issued an Order providing, inter
alia, that “[t]he Award, Employment Agreement, and all applicable
portions of the Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award, filed on 2/21/2024, and
the First Amended Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award, filed on 4/08/2024,
that cite or quote the Award or the Employment Agreement, are hereby sealed...” (Emphasis
added.) The May 7, 2024 Order defines the “Award” as “the May 8, 2023
Arbitration Decision and Award, the May 23, 2023 Final Award and Addendum, and
the February 3, 2024 Addendum to the Arbitration Decision and Award and the
Final Award and Addendum (collectively, the ‘Award’).” 
The Moving Parties cite to California Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subdivision (e)(4),
which provides that “[u]nless the sealing order provides otherwise, it
prohibits the parties from disclosing the contents of any materials that have
been sealed in anything that is subsequently publicly filed.” 
As discussed, the May 7, 2024 Order provides, inter alia, that “[t]he
Award,” and the “Employment Agreement” are “hereby sealed.” Accordingly,
pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subdivision (e)(4), the Court finds that the Moving Parties have demonstrated
grounds to seal the portions of the Moving Parties’ respective motions to confirm
and vacate the arbitration award that cite or quote the Award or Employment
Agreement, as well as the corresponding oppositions, reply papers, supporting
declarations and exhibits, evidentiary objections, and responses to evidentiary
objections that cite or quote the Award or Employment Agreement. 
However, the Court notes that it appears the
Moving Parties seek to seal a variety of information that is not the Award or
Employment Agreement, or that does not cite, quote, or discuss the Award or
Employment Agreement. (Silverman Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 3; Wheelock Decl., 
¶ 3, Ex. 4.) As discussed above, the Moving Parties move to
seal “all pleadings that cite or quote” the Award or Employment Agreement.
(Notice of Mot. at p. 1:6-9.) Much of the redacted information in Exhibit 3 to
Mr. Silverman’s declaration and Exhibit 4 to Mr. Wheelock’s declaration does
not appear to cite or quote the Award or Employment Agreement. 
Moreover, the Court notes that the Moving
Parties appear to seek an order sealing future unspecified pleadings that may cite
or quote the Award or Employment Agreement. The Moving Parties do not appear to
cite to any legal authority supporting this approach. Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.551, “[a] record must
not be filed under seal without a court order,” and “[a] party requesting that
a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order
sealing the record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551,
subds. (a)-(b).) Thus, the Court denies any purported request by the Moving
Parties to seal future unspecified records. 
Conclusion 
Based
on the foregoing, the Moving Parties’ joint motion to seal is granted in part.
The
Court Orders sealed those portions of the
Moving Parties’ respective motions to confirm and vacate the arbitration award
that cite or quote the Award or Employment Agreement, as well as the portions
of the corresponding oppositions, reply papers, supporting declarations and
exhibits, evidentiary objections, and responses to evidentiary objections that cite
or quote the Award or Employment Agreement. The Moving Parties’ motion to seal
is otherwise denied. 
Should the Moving
Parties seek to seal the remaining redacted information included in Exhibit 3
to Mr. Silverman’s declaration and Exhibit 4 to Mr. Wheelock’s declaration that
does not cite or quote the Award or the Employment Agreement, a further motion
to seal such information will be necessary. Otherwise, the Moving Parties shall
file unredacted copies of such information. 
The
Moving Parties are ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  October 21, 2024                           
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


