 Case Number:  24STCV13657    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



MIN WONG, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
TEDDY CHANG, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  24STCV13657




Hearing Date:


October 21, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT, TEDDY
  CHANG’S DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT; 
 
DEFENDANT, TEDDY
  CHANG’S MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF COMPLAINT



            
Background
Plaintiff Min Wong
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on May 31, 2024 against Defendant Teddy Chang
(“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) trespass, 
(2) violation of “Los Angeles Municipal
Code Sec. 46.02,” (3) “wrongful tree removal under
California Civil Code,” (4) negligence, (5) negligent hiring and supervision,
(6) private nuisance, (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (8)
negligent infliction of emotional distress, and (9) conversion. 
            The
Complaint alleges, inter alia, that Plaintiff is the owner of real
property located at 3045 Chadwick Dr, Los Angeles, CA 90032 (the “Property”).
(Compl., ¶ 1.) Defendant is the owner of real property located at 5000
Templeton Street, Los Angeles, CA, which is adjacent to Plaintiff’s Property.
(Compl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff’s Property includes a 50-foot California Live Oak tree
(the “Tree”) that was located entirely within the boundaries of the Property.
(Compl., ¶ 6.)
            Plaintiff
alleges that “[o]n or around April 28, 2023, without any prior notice,
permission, or consent from Plaintiff, Defendant hired workers who trespassed
onto Plaintiff’s Property and proceeded to cut down the Tree in its entirety.”
(Compl., ¶ 8.) “Plaintiff’s wife discovered the felled Tree on April 29, 2023,
while watering plants in the backyard of the Property.” (Compl., ¶ 10.) “On
April 30, 2023, three of the workers hired by Defendant returned to the
Property to cut the fallen Tree into smaller pieces.” (Compl., ¶ 11.) “Plaintiff’s
wife spoke with two of the workers, Victor and Almando, who informed her that
Defendant had ordered the Tree’s removal because Defendant intended to sell his
property and build a large apartment complex.” (Compl., ¶ 12.) “On May 3, 2023,
Plaintiff hired Aztec Land Surveys, Inc. to conduct a professional survey of
the Property, which confirmed that the Tree was located entirely within
Plaintiff’s property lines.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) 
            Defendant
now demurs to the second, third, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action of
the Complaint. Defendant also moves to strike portions of the Complaint. Plaintiff
opposes both. 
Demurrer
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    Second Cause of
Action for Violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code Section
46.02
In the second cause of action of the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that
“Los Angeles Municipal Code Sec. 46.02 prohibits
the removal or destruction of protected trees, including California Live Oaks,
without a permit.” (Compl., ¶ 21.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant violated
Los Angeles Municipal Code Sec. 46.02 by causing
the removal and destruction of Plaintiff’s protected California Live Oak tree
without obtaining the necessary permit.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) 
In the demurrer, Defendant argues that “there is no private cause of
action for an alleged violation of a municipal code.” (Demurrer at p. 7:9-10.) Defendant
cites to, inter alia, Cohen v. Superior Court (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 706, 711,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “Government Code
section 36900, subdivision (a) provides: ‘Violation of a city ordinance is
a misdemeanor unless by ordinance it is made an infraction. The violation of a
city ordinance may be prosecuted by city authorities in the name of the people
of the State of California, or redressed by civil action.’”
(Emphasis in original.) The Court of Appeal in Cohen found that “[h]aving
reviewed the statute’s plain language and legislative history, we
conclude the Legislature only intended section
36900 to grant city authorities—not all private parties—the right to
redress violations of municipal ordinances via either criminal prosecution or
civil action.” (Ibid.)  
However, the Court notes that on September 18, 2024, the California
Supreme Court granted a petition for review in Cohen. (See Cohen
v. S.C. (Cal. Sept. 18, 2024) No. S285484, 2024 WL
4230503, “[t]he petition for review is granted…The issue to be briefed and
argued is limited to the following: Does Government
Code section 36900, subdivision (a) confer upon private citizens a right to
redress violations of municipal ordinances?) The California Supreme Court noted
that “[p]ending review, the opinion of the Court of Appeal, which is currently
published at 102 Cal.App.5th 706, 322 Cal.Rptr.3d 62,
may be cited, not only for its persuasive value, but also for the limited
purpose of establishing the existence of a conflict in authority that would in
turn allow trial courts to exercise discretion under Auto
Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456, 20
Cal.Rptr. 321, 369 P.2d 937, to choose between sides of any such conflict.”
Here, however, Defendant does not appear to cite to Cohen
v. Superior Court, supra, 102 Cal.App.5th 706 for the limited
purpose of establishing the existence of a conflict in authority. 
            Defendant also cites to Lu v. Hawaiian Gardens Casino, Inc. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 592, 596, where
the Court of Appeal noted that “[a] violation of a state statute does not
necessarily give rise to a private cause of action. Instead, whether a party
has a right to sue depends on whether the Legislature has manifested an intent
to create such a private cause of action under the statute.” (Internal
quotations and citations omitted.) But here, Plaintiff’s second cause of action
does not allege a violation of a state statute. As discussed, the cause of
action alleges a violation of “Los Angeles Municipal Code Sec. 46.02.” 
Moreover, in light of the fact that the California Supreme Court has
granted review in Cohen to determine whether “Government
Code section 36900, subdivision (a) confer[s] upon private citizens a right
to redress violations of municipal ordinances,” the Court declines to sustain
Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action on the grounds that “there
is no private cause of action for an alleged violation of a municipal code.” (See
Cohen v. S.C. (Cal. Sept. 18, 2024) No. S285484,
2024 WL 4230503; Demurrer at p. 7:9-10.)
In light of the foregoing, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to
the second cause of action of the Complaint. 
C.    Third Cause of
Action for “Wrongful Tree Removal Under California Civil Code” 
In the third cause of action, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia,
that “Defendant wrongfully caused the removal and destruction of Plaintiff’s
Tree without permission or justification…Defendant’s actions in removing the
Tree were willful and malicious, justifying an award of treble damages under
California Civil Code sections [sic] 3346.” (Compl., ¶¶ 26-27.) 
Civ. Code, section 3346, subd. (a) provides
that “[f]or wrongful injuries to timber, trees, or underwood upon the land of
another, or removal thereof, the measure of damages is three times such sum as
would compensate for the actual detriment, except that where the trespass was
casual or involuntary, or that the defendant in any action brought under this
section had probable cause to believe that the land on which the trespass was
committed was his own or the land of the person in whose service or by whose
direction the act was done, the measure of damages shall be twice the sum as would
compensate for the actual detriment, and excepting further that where the wood
was taken by the authority of highway officers for the purpose of repairing a
public highway or bridge upon the land or adjoining it, in which case judgment
shall only be given in a sum equal to the actual detriment.” 
            In the demurrer, Defendant argues
that “Plaintiff pleads conclusory allegations, including Paragraph 26: ‘Defendant
wrongfully caused the removal and destruction of Plaintiff’s Tree without
permission of justification:’, and Paragraph 27: ‘Defendant’s actions in
removing the tree were willful and malicious justifying an award of treble
damages under California Civil Code section 3346.’ These
allegations provide nothing but conclusory allegations…” (Demurrer at pp.
7:26-8:2.) Defendants contend that “Plaintiff provides no facts to support such
allegations.” (Demurrer at p. 8:3-4.) 
            But as set forth above, Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that “[o]n or around April 28, 2023, without any
prior notice, permission, or consent from Plaintiff, Defendant hired workers
who trespassed onto Plaintiff’s Property and proceeded to cut down the Tree in
its entirety.” (Compl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n April 30, 2023,
three of the workers hired by Defendant returned to the Property to cut the
fallen Tree into smaller pieces.” (Compl., ¶ 11.) Plaintiff further alleges
that “[o]n May 3, 2023, Plaintiff hired Aztec Land Surveys, Inc. to conduct a
professional survey of the Property, which confirmed that the Tree was located
entirely within Plaintiff’s property lines.” (Compl., ¶ 14.)          Plaintiff also notes that the
Complaint alleges that “Defendant had ordered the Tree’s removal because
Defendant intended to sell his property and build a large apartment complex.”
(Compl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff asserts that “[t]his allegation supports an inference
that Defendant acted willfully and with improper motive.” (Opp’n at p.
4:20-22.) 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
does not find that Defendant has shown that the allegations of the third cause
of action are “conclusory.” Accordingly, the Court overrules Defendant’s
demurrer to the third cause of action of the Complaint.[1] 
D.    Sixth Cause of
Action for Private Nuisance
Next, Defendant argues that “Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for
‘private nuisance’ is duplicative of his negligence causes of action and
therefore surplusage and demurrable.” (Demurrer at p. 8:11-13.) Defendant cites
to El Escorial Owners’ Assn. v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007)
154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349, where the Court of Appeal noted that “the
factual allegations incorporated into the nuisance cause of action involved
negligence and defective workmanship. Where negligence and nuisance causes
of action rely on the same facts about lack of due care, the nuisance claim is
a negligence claim. The trial court reasonably found that Escorial’s
nuisance cause of action was merely a clone of the first cause of action using
a different label.” (Internal citations omitted.)[2] 
However, although Defendant argues that the private nuisance cause of
action is duplicative of the negligence “causes of action,” Defendant does not
compare the allegations of these causes of action. In the fourth cause of
action for negligence, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant owed a duty of care to
Plaintiff to ensure that any actions taken with respect to trees on or near the
property line would not cause harm to Plaintiff’s Property or Plaintiff’s trees…Defendant
breached this duty of care by failing to ascertain the location of the Tree,
failing to obtain the necessary permits for tree removal, and causing the
destruction of Plaintiff’s Tree without permission or justification.” (Compl.,
¶¶ 30-31.) To the extent Defendant’s argument concerns the fifth cause of
action for negligent hiring and supervision, this cause of action alleges that “Defendant
had a duty to exercise reasonable care in the hiring and supervision of the
workers he employed to perform work on or near the property line between his
property and Plaintiff’s Property…Defendant breached this duty by failing to
properly screen, train, and supervise the workers he hired, resulting in the
wrongful removal and destruction of Plaintiff’s Tree.” (Compl., ¶¶ 34-35.) 
In the sixth cause of action for private nuisance, Plaintiff alleges
that “Defendant’s actions in causing the removal and destruction of Plaintiff’s
Tree have created a substantial and unreasonable interference with Plaintiff’s
use and enjoyment of the Property…The removal of the Tree has decreased the
aesthetic value and privacy of the Property, and has increased the risk of soil
erosion and landslides.” (Compl., ¶¶ 38, 39.) The Court does not find that the
private nuisance cause of action is duplicative of Plaintiff’s causes of action
for negligence or negligent hiring and supervision. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to
the sixth cause of action of the Complaint. 
E.     Seventh Cause of
Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 
Defendant asserts that the seventh cause of action fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. “The elements of a prima
facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress [are] (1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.” (Davidson v. City of Westminster (1982) 32 Cal.3d 197, 209 (internal
quotations and citation omitted).) “Conduct to be outrageous must be
so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” (Ibid.) 
In the demurrer, Defendant argues that “[a]s to the claim of
Intentional Infliction of Emotional distress –Plaintiff merely state [sic] the
Defendant’s conduct was ‘outrageous’ – a purely conclusory allegation with no
facts to support it at all.” (Demurrer at p. 10:2-4, emphasis omitted.) But
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant’s conduct in causing the removal and
destruction of Plaintiff’s cherished Tree was outrageous and exceeded all
bounds of decency tolerated in a civilized society.” (Compl., ¶ 42.) Plaintiff
alleges that “[t]he Tree…provided significant aesthetic, environmental, and
property value benefits to the Plaintiff and the Property.” (Compl., ¶ 7.) The Court finds that Plaintiff has adequately alleged “outrageous
conduct” for purposes of Plaintiff’s cause of action for intentional infliction
of emotional distress. 
Defendant also argues that “Plaintiff cannot
plead a claim for emotional distress based on property damage or the removal of
the tree.” (Demurrer at p. 11:20-21.) Defendant cites to Erlich
v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543,
554, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[t]he fact that emotional
distress damages may be awarded in some circumstances does not mean they are
available in every case in which there is an independent cause of action
founded upon negligence. No California case has allowed recovery for emotional
distress arising solely out of property damage.” (Internal quotations and
citations omitted.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff cites to Hensley v. San Diego Gas & Electric Co. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 1337, 1348-1349,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[o]ur high court and lower courts have
long held that once a cause of action for trespass or nuisance is
established, a landowner may recover for annoyance and
discomfort, including emotional distress or mental anguish, proximately
caused by the trespass or nuisance. (Acadia,
California, Limited v. Herbert (1960) 54 Cal.2d 328, 337…[‘It
is settled that, regardless of whether the occupant of land has sustained
physical injury, he may recover damages for the discomfort and annoyance of
himself and the members of his family and for mental suffering occasioned by
fear for the safety of himself and his family when such discomfort or suffering
has been proximately caused by a trespass or a nuisance’]…” The Hensley
Court noted that “[t]his is so even where the trespass or nuisance involves
solely property damage.” (Id. at p. 1349.) The
Hensley Court also noted as follows with respect to Erlich v. Menezes, supra, 21 Cal.4th 543:

 
“SDG&E points in isolation
to Erlich’s statement that “‘[n]o California case has allowed
recovery for emotional distress arising solely out of property damage.’” (Erlich v.
Menezes, supra,
21 Cal.4th at p. 554, quoting Cooper v. Superior Court, supra,
153 Cal.App.3d at p. 1012.) In making that statement, Erlich was
observing that even if the defendant’s negligence gave rise to a sufficient
independent duty to the plaintiffs, such a finding would not entitle them to
emotional distress damages: “‘The fact that emotional distress damages may be awarded
in some circumstances [citation] does not mean they are available in every
case in which there is an independent cause of action founded upon
negligence.’” (Erlich, at p. 554,
italics added.) Because the plaintiffs’ mental suffering due to the negligent
construction of the house “derive[d] from an inherently economic concern,”
there was no precedent for an award of emotional distress damages based on a
finding of the defendant’s negligence. (Id. at
p. 558.) Erlich pertains only to actions for negligent
breaches of contract or negligence. It does not address nuisance or trespass
cases, or whether emotional distress damages are available in such cases at
all. Nothing in Erlich precludes or limits the Hensleys from
seeking emotional distress damages.” (Hensley v. San
Diego Gas & Electric Co., supra, 7
Cal.App.5th at pp. 1358-1359.)

In light of this authority, the Court does
not find that Defendant has shown that Plaintiff may not allege a claim for
emotional distress in this action. 
Defendant also argues that “Plaintiff has
pled no facts evidencing the claimed severe emotional distress. Instead,
Plaintiff simply pleads conclusory averments that Plaintiff suffered ‘severe
emotional distress, mental anguish’ and will continue to do so in the future.”
(Demurrer at p. 11:4-6, emphasis omitted.) Defendant cites to Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1004, where the
California Supreme Court noted that “in intentional infliction actions,
recovery is allowed only for severe or extreme emotional distress. Severe
emotional distress means emotional distress of such substantial quality or
enduring quality that no reasonable [person] in civilized society should be
expected to endure it.” (Internal quotations and citation omitted.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “Plaintiff
has alleged that Defendant’s conduct caused her to suffer severe emotional
distress, including shock, anxiety, and distress over the loss of the cherished
tree.” (Opp’n at p. 7:1-2.) But the Complaint does not appear to contain such
allegations regarding shock and anxiety. Rather, in the seventh cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s
intentional infliction of emotional distress, Plaintiff has suffered and will
continue to suffer severe emotional distress, mental anguish, and other damages
in an amount to be proven at trial.” (Compl., ¶ 44.) The Court agrees with
Defendant that this allegation is conclusory. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the seventh cause of action of the Complaint, with
leave to amend. 
F.     Eighth Cause of
Action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress 
In the demurrer, Defendant asserts that “Plaintiff may not state a
separate claim for negligent infliction of emotional distress.” (Demurrer at p.
11:8-9.) Defendant cites to Burgess v. Superior
Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1072,
where the California Supreme Court noted that “[w]e have repeatedly recognized
that [t]he negligent causing of emotional distress is not an
independent tort, but the tort of negligence.” (Internal quotations and
emphasis omitted; see also Catsouras v. Department of California Highway Patrol (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 856, 876 [“[n]egligent infliction of emotional distress is not
an independent tort…”].) In the opposition, Plaintiff does not
appear to cite any legal authority demonstrating that Plaintiff may allege an independent
cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff
acknowledges that “NIED is not a distinct tort.” (Opp’n at p. 7:15-16.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action of the Complaint, without
leave to amend. 
            Motion
to Strike
A court may
strike any “¿irrelevant, false, or improper
matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of
a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 436¿¿.) “¿The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)¿¿ 
Defendant moves to strike a number of allegations from the
Complaint. First, Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s punitive damages
allegations. Plaintiff seeks punitive damages in connection with the first
cause of action for trespass. (Compl., ¶ 19.) In addition, Plaintiff’s prayer
for relief alleges that Plaintiff seeks punitive damages. (Compl., Prayer for
Relief, ¶ 3.) 
The
Court notes that Defendant’s motion discusses law applicable to punitive
damages, but Defendant does not appear to apply such law to the
allegations of the Complaint here. (See Mot. at pp. 6:12-7:20.) Defendant
does not appear provide any analysis as to why Plaintiff’s punitive damages
allegations should purportedly be stricken. Defendant simply concludes that the
allegations are “[not] sufficient to
state a claim for punitive damages.” (Mot. at p. 4:15.) The Court does not find
that Defendant has shown that Plaintiff’s punitive damages allegations should
be stricken. 
Next, Defendant moves to strike paragraphs 42, 43, and 44
of the Complaint. These paragraphs are contained in the seventh cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress. As set forth above, the Court
sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the seventh cause of action, with leave to amend.
Thus, the Court denies Defendant’s motion to strike paragraphs 42, 43, and 44
of the Complaint as moot. 
Defendant also moves to strike the allegation that “Defendant wrongfully caused the removal and destruction of
Plaintiff’s Tree without permission or justification.” (Compl., ¶ 26.) Defendant
cites to Smithson v. Sparber (1932) 123 Cal.App. 225, 232,
where the Court of Appeal found that “[a] reading of the complaint from
beginning to end indicates, as we have already said, a claimed case of
negligence and nothing more. Whatever words are found in the pleading (such,
for instance, as ‘carelessly, negligently, wilfully, wrongfully, and in fraud
of the rights of these plaintiffs’) going to state the pleader’s conclusions,
may be disregarded.” But the Court does not see how this shows that the
entirety of paragraph 26 of the Complaint should be stricken. Moreover, the
motion does not appear to contain any analysis specifically discussing the
allegations of this paragraph of the Complaint. The Court denies Defendant’s
motion to strike as to paragraph 26.  
Lastly,
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s request “[f]or attorney’s fees as
permitted by law.” (Compl., Prayer for Relief, ¶ 6.) However, the motion
does not appear to contain any argument as to why this allegation should be
stricken. Thus, the Court denies Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s
request for attorney’s fees. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court denies Defendant’s motion to strike in its entirety. 
 
Conclusion
Based on the
foregoing, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the seventh cause of
action of the Complaint, with leave to amend. The Court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the eighth cause of action of the Complaint without leave to amend.
The Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the second, third, and sixth causes
of action of the Complaint. 
Defendant’s
motion to strike is denied. 
Plaintiff is
ordered to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the
date of this order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days, the Court
orders Defendant to file and serve his answer to the Complaint within 30 days
of the date of this order.
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  October 21, 2024                           ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


