 Case Number:  23PSCV00819    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  K Plaintiff Jose Madriz’s Motion to Strike Portions of
Camino Real Mexican Food, Inc.’s [First Amended] Answer is DENIED. The Second Amended
Answer filed on October 31, 2023 is stricken.
Plaintiff’s demurrer is OVERRULED in part (i.e., as to
the first, fourth and tenth affirmative defenses) and SUSTAINED in part (i.e.,
as to the second, third, fifth through ninth and eleventh affirmative
defenses). The court will hear from counsel
for Plaintiff as to whether leave to amend is requested, and as to which
affirmative defense(s), and will require an offer of proof if so.
Background   
Plaintiff Jose Madriz (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Plaintiff has
Arthrogryposis and uses a wheelchair for mobility. On January 27, 2022,
Plaintiff went to Casa Alvarez (“Restaurant”) located at 19744 Colima Road,
Rowland Heights, California 91748 (“Subject Property”) but encountered numerous
ADA non-compliant conditions in the restroom which denied Plaintiff full and
equal access. The Restaurant is owned and/or operated by Camino Real Mexican
Food, Inc. (“Camino Real”) and the Subject Property is owned by Rowland Heights
Properties, LP (“Rowland Properties”) and Rowland Heights Holdings, LP
(“Rowland Holdings”).
On June 28,
2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint, asserting causes of action
against Rowland Properties, Howland Holdings, Camino Real and Does 1-10 for:
1.                 
Violation
of the Americans with Disabilities Act 
2.                 
Violation
of the Unruh Civil Rights Act
3.                 
Violation
of the California Disabled Persons Act
A Case
Management Conference is set for November 8, 2023.
Legal Standard
Motion to Strike
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a)
Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” The
grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Demurrer
“The answer to a
complaint shall contain: (1) The general or specific denial of the material
allegations of the complaint controverted by the defendant. (2) A statement of
any new matter constituting a defense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30, subd. (b).)
“Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 431.30, subdivision (b)(2), the answer to a complaint must
include ‘[a] statement of any new matter constituting a defense.’ The phrase
‘new matter’ refers to something relied on by a defendant which is not put in
issue by the plaintiff. Thus, where matters are not responsive to essential
allegations of the complaint, they must be raised in the answer as ‘new
matter.’ Where, however, the answer sets forth facts showing some essential
allegation of the complaint is not true, such facts are not ‘new matter,’” but
only a traverse.” (State Farm Mut.
Auto. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 721, 725.)
A demurrer to an
answer may be made upon any one or more of the following grounds: (1) The
answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense; (2) The answer
is “uncertain,” i.e., ambiguous or unintelligible; (3) Where the answer pleads
a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the answer whether the contract is
written or oral. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.20.)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves to strike out portions of
Camino Real’s First Amended Answer (“FAA”). Plaintiff also demurs to the first
through eleventh affirmative defenses in the FAA.
Motion
to Strike
Plaintiff first seeks to strike out
“information and belief” statements contained in the FAA.
A complaint alleging a construction-related
accessibility claim must be verified. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.50,
subd. (b)(1).) An answer to a verified complaint must also be verified. (Code
Civ. Proc., §
446, subd. (a).) “If the complaint is verified,. . . the denial of the
allegations shall be made positively or according to the information and belief
of the defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (d).)
“If the defendant has no information
or belief upon the subject sufficient to enable him or her to answer an
allegation of the complaint, he or she may so state in his or her answer and
place his or her denial on that ground.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).)
“The denials of the allegations controverted may be stated by reference to
specific paragraphs or parts of the complaint; or by express admission of
certain allegations of the complaint with a general denial of all of the
allegations not so admitted; or by denial of certain allegations upon
information and belief, or for lack of sufficient information or belief, with a
general denial of all allegations not so denied or expressly admitted.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).)
“If the matter is within the defendant's
actual knowledge or by its nature is presumed to be within his knowledge, or if
the defendant has the means of ascertaining whether or not it is true, a denial
on information and belief or for lack of either will be deemed sham and evasive
and may be stricken out or disregarded.” (Dobbins v. Hardister (1966)
242 Cal.App.2d 787, 791).
Plaintiff complains that while Camino
Real’s FAA “affirmative[ly] admit[s] or denie[s] Paragraphs 12, 13, 17 and 26 of Plaintiff’s verified complaint, all other
paragraphs have been denied on the basis of lack of “sufficient information or
belief.” (Motion, 3:5-7). Plaintiff, however, has failed to specifically
address the paragraphs he contends were improperly denied on the basis of
insufficient information and belief because they were either within Camino
Real’s actual knowledge or presumed to be within defendant’s actual knowledge.
The court declines to do Plaintiff’s work for him. The motion to strike is
denied.
Demurrer
The affirmative defenses of
failure to state a claim (i.e., first affirmative defense), lack of standing
(i.e., fourth affirmative defense) and no damages (i.e., tenth affirmative
defense) do not raise any new matter, but are merely responsive to the
allegations pleaded by Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s demurrer to same is overruled.
The affirmative defenses of
effective access (i.e., second affirmative defense), Defendants provided
services via alternative methods (i.e., third affirmative defense), performance
of duties (i.e., fifth affirmative defense), no barriers (i.e., sixth
affirmative defense), reasonableness, good faith and non-discrimination (i.e.,
seventh affirmative defense), no discrimination (i.e., eighth affirmative
defense) and good faith barrier removal (i.e., ninth affirmative defense) all
raise new matter; as such, Plaintiff’s demurrer to same is sustained.
Camino Real’s eleventh affirmative
defense (i.e., right to amend) is not an “affirmative defense;” rather, it is a
statement that “Defendant reserves the right to amend this Answer should it
later discover facts demonstrating the existence of additional affirmative
defenses.” This is an improper attempt at requesting an amendment rather than a
defense.  Amendments may be requested
from the court; they are not reserved on an answer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a).) The demurrer, then, is sustained.