 Case Number:  23PSCV01282    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  K Defendants Bryan Perez Rodriguez’s and Neri Rodriguez’s
Motion to Strike the “Punitive” Attachment from Plaintiffs’ Complaint is GRANTED.
The court will hear from counsel for
Plaintiffs as to whether leave to amend is requested and will require an offer
of proof if so.
Background   
Plaintiffs Sheldon Ross and Pamela Jones Colcote (together, “Plaintiffs”)
sustained injuries in a May 2, 2021 motor vehicle accident.
On May 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint, asserting
causes of action against Bryan Perez Rodriguez, Neri Rodriguez (together,
“Defendants”) and Does 1-25 for:
1.                 
Motor
Vehicle
2.                 
General
Negligence
A Case Management Conference is set for November 8, 2023.
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the
face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Discussion
Defendants move the court for an order striking out the “Punitive”
attachment to Plaintiffs’ complaint.
Punitive damages may be awarded in an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract upon clear and convincing evidence that a
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).)
“Malice” is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” is defined as
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)
“Fraud” is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
A “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as intentional,
willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of ‘oppression,
fraud, or malice. . .’” (Brousseau v.
Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “The mere allegation an intentional
tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts
must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.)
The California Supreme Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 892 determined that “the act of operating a motor vehicle
while intoxicated may constitute an act of ‘malice’ under § 3294 if performed
under circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable
dangerous consequences.” In Dawes v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 89, the Fourth District Court of
Appeal noted that driving while intoxicated does not always give rise to a
claim for punitive damages: “[W]e do not agree that the risk created generally
by one who becomes intoxicated and decides nevertheless to drive a vehicle on
the public streets is the same as the risk created by an intoxicated driver’s
decision to zigzag in and out of traffic at 65 miles per hour in a crowded
beach recreation area at 1:30 in the afternoon on a Sunday in June. The risk of
injury to others from ordinary driving while intoxicated is certainly
foreseeable, but it is not necessarily probable." Notably, both Taylor and Dawes were decided prior to 1987, when the Legislature added the
requirement to Civil Code § 3294 that conduct be “despicable” in order to
support imposition of punitive damages under a malice/willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others standard.
Plaintiffs have alleged, without more, that:
Before the collision in question,
Defendant voluntarily began drinking, and did 
in fact consume, a large quantity
of alcohol with the intention and expectation of operating a motor vehicle
shortly thereafter. Defendant knew and was fully aware 
that he was going to be required to
drive his vehicle when he first began drinking 
alcohol and nevertheless consumed a
large quantity of alcohol knowing the risk 
that he would be intoxicated as a
result thereof. At the time of the collision, 
defendant was driving his vehicle
under the influence of alcoholic beverage or 
drue [sic], or under the bombined
[sic] influlene [sic] of alcoholic beverage and 
drug, and while under the influence
was negligent in driving his vehicle, in 
violation of Vehicle Code Sections
23152(a); 23152(b); 23578, and these 
violations were the legal cause of
Plaintiffs’ serious injuries and property 
damage as described herein.
 
Prior to the impact between
Plaintiffs’ and Defendant’s vehicles, Defendant, 
Bryan Perez Hernandez was driving
at a high rate of speed on the I-605 Fwy in 
reckless disregard of the rights
and safety of others on the freeway. Thus, 
defendant did willfully and
knowingly consume great quantities of alcoholic 
beverages to the point of
intoxication and drunkenenes [sic] and, knownging [sic] 
full well that he was intoxicated
from excess drinking of alcoholic beverages, did 
decide to operate and did operate
his motor vehicle. Said operation of a motor 
vehicle was done with a conscious
disregard to the safety of others, including 
Plaintiffs. While operating his
motor vehicle, Defendant was aware of the proper consequences.
 
Plaintiffs, however, have failed to allege specific facts
showing malice and/or any other aggravating circumstances in the instant case;
as such, the motion is granted.