  Case Number:  23STCP03040    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  85 
 
Matthew Sorensen v. Commission on Teacher
Credentialing, 23STCP03040

 
Tentative decision on petition for writ of mandate: granted
for remand




 
 
Petitioner Matthew Sorensen (“Sorensen”) seeks a writ of
mandate directing Respondent California Commission on Teacher Credentialing (“Commission”)
to set aside its decision to revoke his credential.
The court has read and considered the moving papers,
opposition, and reply, and renders the following tentative decision.[1]
 
A. Statement of the Case
Petitioner Sorensen commenced this proceeding on August 22,
2023.  The verified Petition alleges in
pertinent part as follows.        
On December 7, 2021, the Commission brought charges against
Sorensen, alleging that he had engaged in conduct demonstrating unfitness to
teach.  
On October 11, 2022, a three-day hearing was held before an
Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”).  The
ALJ found that most allegations were unsubstantiated.  For the remaining allegations, specifically
Sorensen’s interactions with a female student, G.S., and his failure to appear
in court for a traffic ticket issued in the 1990s, the ALJ found that those
facts did not warrant revoking Sorensen’s teaching license and revocation would
be “excessively punitive”.  Therefore,
the ALJ recommended a public reprimand. 
On June 23, 2023, the Commission overturned the ALJ’s
decision, made its own findings of fact, and revoked Sorensen’s teaching
license.  The Commission’s decision was mainly
based on its contention that Sorensen showed G.S. an “egregious” video even
though the Commission never saw it.  The
Commission also based its decision on Sorensen’s failure to appear in court for
a 20-year-old traffic ticket.  The
decision failed to set forth any clear basis that warranted overturning the
ALJ’s decision.  
Sorensen submitted a Petition for Reconsideration.  On July 24, 2023, the Commission sent a letter
to Sorensen, stating that his Petition for Reconsideration was “denied by
operation of law because no action was taken by the Commission on the Petition
before the Decision and Order took effect.” 

Petitioner Sorensen alleges that the Commission abused its
discretion because it did not proceed in the manner required by law, and its
decision was not supported by the findings and the findings are not supported
by the evidence.
 
B. Standard of Review
CCP section 1094.5 is the administrative mandamus provision
which structures the procedure for judicial review of adjudicatory decisions
rendered by administrative agencies.  Topanga
Ass’n for a Scenic Community v. County of Los Angeles, (“Topanga”)
(1974) 11 Cal.3d 506, 514-15.  
CCP section 1094.5 does not in its face specify which cases
are subject to independent review, leaving that issue to the courts.  Fukuda v. City of Angels, (“Fukuda”)
(1999) 20 Cal.4th 805, 811.  In cases
reviewing decisions which affect a vested, fundamental right the trial court
exercises independent judgment on the evidence. Bixby v. Pierno, (“Bixby”)
(1971) 4 Cal.3d 130, 143.  See CCP
§1094.5(c).  A trial court reviewing an
administrative decision that imposes discipline on a professional licensee must
exercise its independent judgment based on the evidence before it.  Sulla v. Board of Registered Nursing,
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1200.
Under the independent judgment test, “the trial court not
only examines the administrative record for errors of law but also exercises
its independent judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de
novo.”  Bixby, supra,
4 Cal.3d at 143.  The court must
draw its own reasonable inferences from the evidence and make its own
credibility determinations.  Morrison
v. Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles Board of Cmrs., (2003) 107
Cal.App.4th 860, 868.  In short, the
court substitutes its judgment for the agency’s regarding the basic facts of
what happened, when, why, and the credibility of witnesses.  Guymon v. Board of Accountancy, (1976)
55 Cal.App.3d 1010, 1013-16.
“In exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must
afford a strong presumption of correctness concerning the administrative
findings, and the party challenging the administrative decision bears the
burden of convincing the court that the administrative findings are contrary to
the weight of the evidence.”  Fukuda,
supra, 20 Cal.4th at 817.  Unless it can be demonstrated by petitioner
that the agency’s actions are not grounded upon any reasonable basis in law or
any substantial basis in fact, the courts should not interfere with the
agency’s discretion or substitute their wisdom for that of the agency.  Bixby, supra, 4 Cal.3d 130, 150-151;
Bank of America v. State Water Resources Control Board, (1974) 42
Cal.App.3d 198, 208.
The agency’s decision must be based on a preponderance of
the evidence presented at the hearing.  Board
of Medical Quality Assurance v. Superior Court, (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 860,
862.  The hearing officer is only
required to issue findings that give enough explanation so that parties may
determine whether, and upon what basis, to review the decision. Topanga,
supra, 11 Cal.3d 506, 514-15. 
Implicit in CCP section 1094.5 is a requirement that the agency set
forth findings to bridge the analytic gap between the raw evidence and ultimate
decision or order.  Id. at 515.
An agency is presumed to have regularly performed its
official duties (Evid. Code §664), and the petitioner therefore has the burden
of proof.  Steele v. Los Angeles
County Civil Service Commission, (1958) 166 Cal.App.2d 129, 137.  “[T]he burden of proof falls upon the party
attacking the administrative decision to demonstrate wherein the proceedings
were unfair, in excess of jurisdiction or showed prejudicial abuse of
discretion.  Alford v. Pierno,
(1972) 27 Cal.App.3d 682, 691.
The propriety of a penalty imposed by an administrative
agency is a matter in the discretion of the agency, and its decision may not be
disturbed unless there has been a manifest abuse of discretion.  Lake v. Civil Service Commission, (“Lake”)
(1975) 47 Cal.App.3d 224, 228.  Neither
an appellate court nor a trial court is free to substitute its discretion for
that of the administrative agency concerning the degree of punishment imposed.  Nightingale v. State Personnel Board, (“Nightingale”)
(1972) 7 Cal.3d 507, 515.  The policy
consideration underlying such allocation of authority is the expertise of the
administrative agency in determining penalty questions.  Cadilla v. Board of Medical Examiners,
(“Cadilla”) (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 961. 
 
C. Governing Law
1. The Investigation
Each allegation of an act or omission by a holder of a
credential for which he may be subject to an adverse action shall be presented
to the Committee of Credentials (“Committee”). 
Education Code[2]
§44242.5(a).  The Committee has
jurisdiction to commence an initial review upon receipt of, inter alia, an affidavit or declaration
signed by a person or persons with personal knowledge of the acts alleged to
constitute misconduct (§44242.5(b)(2)) or a statement from an employer
notifying the Commission that a credential holder has resigned as a result of,
or while an allegation of misconduct is pending.  §44242/5(b)(3).  The initial review commences on the date that
the written notice is mailed to the credential holder informing him that his
fitness to hold a credential is under review. 
§44242.5(c).
Except for an allegation of sexual misconduct with a minor
or a pattern of misconduct, the allegation shall be presented to the Committee
for initial review within four years from the date of the alleged act or
omission, or within one year from the date the act or omission should have
reasonable have been discovered. 
§44242.7(a).  
The Committee’s formal review shall be held no later than
six months after commencement of the initial review.  §44244(b)(1). 
Pursuant to the formal review, the Committee shall investigate all
alleged misconduct and circumstances in mitigation and aggravation.  §44242.5(c)(1).
In conducting its investigation, the Committee shall
determine the relationship between the alleged misconduct and the credential
holder’s fitness, competence, or ability to effectively perform the duties
authorized by the credential.  5 CCR
§80302(a).  Such relationship may be
based on facts which include the following: (1) the likelihood that the conduct
may have adversely affected students, fellow teachers, or the educational
community, and the degree of such adversity anticipated; (2) the proximity or
remoteness in time of the conduct; (3) the type of credential held or applied
for by the person involved; (4) the extenuating or aggravating circumstances
surrounding the conduct; (5) the praiseworthiness or blameworthiness of the
motives resulting in the conduct; (6) the likelihood of the recurrence of the
questioned conduct; (7) the extent to which disciplinary action may inflict an
adverse impact or chilling effect upon the constitutional rights of the person
involved, or other certified persons; (8) the publicity or notoriety given to
the conduct.  Id.
Upon completion of the investigation, the Committee shall
report its actions and recommendations to the Commission, including its
findings as to probable cause, and if probable cause exists, its
recommendations as to the appropriate adverse action.  §44242.5(e)(1).  If the Committee determines that probable
cause for an adverse action on the credential exists, the credential holder may
request a hearing and the Commission shall initiate an adjudicatory hearing as
required by the Administrative Procedures Act in title 2, Division 3, of the
Government Code (§11520 et seq.).  §44242.5(c)(3)(B).
 
2. Grounds for Discipline
The Commission shall
revoke or suspend a teacher’s credential if it finds inter alia that the teacher engaged in immoral conduct,
unprofessional conduct, or acts of moral turpitude.  §44421, 44345.  There is a substantial overlap between these
forms of misconduct.  Morrison v.
State Board of Education, (“Morrison”) (1969) 1 Cal.3d 214, 220, n. 9.
 
a. Immoral Conduct
The courts have developed a broad and well-understood
definition of “immoral conduct” in teacher dismissal cases: “[...] that which
is hostile to the welfare of the general public and contrary to good
morals.  Immorality has not been confined
to sexual matters, but included conduct inconsistent with rectitude, or
indicative of corruption, indecency, depravity, dissoluteness; or as willful,
flagrant, or shameless conduct showing moral indifference to the opinions of
respectable members of the community, and as an inconsiderate attitude toward
good order and public welfare.”  Palo
Verde Unified School Dist. v. Hensey, (1970) 9 Cal.App.3d 967, 971-72
(quoting Board of Education of San Francisco Unified School Dist. v. Weiland,
(“Weiland”) (1960) 179 Cal.App.2d 808). 
Based on this definition, a teacher’s falsification of attendance
records to add names of three students to secure continued employment was
deemed immoral conduct and dishonesty. Weiland, supra, 179
Cal.App.2d at 808.  Similarly, a
teacher’s removal of school property (a public address system speaker) from the
classroom wall was deemed immoral.  Palo
Verde Unified School District v. Hensey, supra, 9 Cal.App.3d at 967.
 
b. Unprofessional Conduct
“Unprofessional conduct” is behavior that “violates the rules
or ethical code of a profession” or conduct that is “unbecoming [of] a member
of a profession in good standing.”  Board
of Education of City of Los Angeles v. Swan, (1953) 41 Cal.2d 546, 553, overruled on other grounds, Bekaris
v. Board of Education of the City of Modesto, (1972) 6 Cal.3d 575, 588, n. 7.  A particular act or omission on the part of a
teacher may constitute not only unprofessional conduct but also evident
unfitness for service and a persistent violation of or refusal to obey
prescribed rules and regulations.  Perez
v. Comm’n on Prof. Comp., (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1167, 1174-1175; Board
of Education v. Swan, (1953) 41 Cal.2d 546, 551.  Conduct constituting evident unfitness for
service will often constitute unprofessional conduct.  Woodland Joint Unified School District v.
Comm’n on Prof. Comp., (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1429, 1445. 
 
c. Moral Turpitude
The California
Supreme Court has defined “moral turpitude” as “an act of baseless, vileness or
depravity in the private and social duties which a man owes to his fellowmen,
or to societ in general, contrary to the accepted and customary rule of right
and duty between man and man, or everything done contrary to justice, honesty,
modesty or good morals.”  Rice v.
Alcoholic Beverage Control Appeals Board, (1979) 89 Cal.App.3d 30, 36
(citation omitted).  “Yet it is innately
a relative concept depending on both contemporary moral values and the degree
of its inimical quality whose purpose as a legislative standard is not
punishment but protection of the public.” 
Id.  Pursuant to
section 44345, moral turpitude is only actionable when it is related to fitness
to teach, so it is similar to evident unfitness for service.
 
d. Unfit to Teach



A finding of misconduct is not alone enough to revoke a
credential.  Instead, that misconduct
must render the teacher unfit to teach.  San
Dieguito Union High School District v. Commission on Professional Competence,
(“San Dieguito”) (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 278, 288.  The conclusion of unfitness must be based upon
an objective standard such as that articulated in Morrison, supra, 1
Cal.3d at 220.  See also San
Dieguito, supra, 135 Cal.App.3d
at 288.
In Morrison, the California Supreme Court articulated
factors to consider in whether a credentialed employee’s misconduct renders him
unfit for service as a teacher: (a) likelihood that the conduct at issue may
have adversely affected students/fellow teachers; (b) degree of such adversity
anticipated; (c) proximity or remoteness in time of the conduct; (d) type of
teaching certificate held by the party involved; (e) extenuating or aggravating
circumstances, if any, surrounding the conduct; (f) likelihood of recurrence of
the questioned conduct; (g) praiseworthiness or blameworthiness of motives
resulting in the conduct; (h) extent to which disciplinary action may inflict
an adverse impact or chilling effect upon constitutional rights of the teacher
involved or other teachers.  Id.
at 229-30.  Not every Morrison
factor must be considered; a trier of fact may consider all the factors that
are relevant to the respective case.  Ibid;
West Valley-Mission College v. Concepcion, (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1766.
The Commission has
adopted factors similar to Morrison in 5 CCR section 80302(a).
 
D. Statement of Facts
1. Background
On or about August 4, 2004, the Commission issued a Single
Subject Teaching Credential to Sorensen with an expiration date of July 1,
2025.  See AR 46.  From the middle of the 2017-2018 school year
through the 2019-2020 school year, Sorensen was a Probationary Teacher at Golden Valley High School (“Golden Valley”)
in Santa Clarita, California, a school in the William S. Hart Union High School
District (“Hart School District”). 
During this time, he was employed as a certificated social studies
teacher and baseball coach.  See AR 46.
In light of red flags surrounding Sorensen -- he had the
highest number of complaints of any other teacher or coach -- the Golden Valley
administrators documented the basis for his non-reelection.  See AR 47.  Effective June 30, 2020, his employment
by Hart School District was terminated.  See
AR 47.  
 
2. The
Accusation
On December 7, 2021, the Commission's Executive
Director, Mary Vixie Sandy, filed the Accusation alleging that Petitioner's
credential is subject to discipline for (1) unprofessional conduct, (2) immoral
conduct, (3) evident unfitness for service, and (4) acts involving moral
turpitude.  AR 114-21.  
The charges were
based on the Golden Valley principal’s questioning of students in December 2020
and a meeting of the Hart School District in November of 2019 where the
following accusations were raised: 
a. During
summer camp in 2019, Sorensen invited cross-country girls to run through the
sprinklers on the field.  Sorensen did
not invite the cross-country boys;
b. Sorensen asked
a student, without context, about his first kiss.  Sorensen stated that he remembered his first
kiss and that "she had the biggest jugs I've ever seen. Bigger than any of
the girls at this school";
c. Sorensen requested
that female students be team manager and did not base his selection on baseball
knowledge;
d. Sorensen attempted
to organize a joint practice with softball players;
e. A staff
member reported that Sorensen reset the seating chart to be boy/girl and when
asked why he stated it was to teach them to be gentlemen;
f. Sorensen
would approach students in class multiple times during the same period;
g. Sorensen asked
a student to go get him lunch during class time;
h. Sorensen
asked a student to go check with players to see what they were bringing to
potluck during class time;
i. Sorensen drove
two female students in a vehicle; and
j. A
female student reported that Sorensen called her “Princess”.  AR 118-19.
The remainder
of the Accusation was based on the Commission’s investigation after Sorensen was
terminated by Hart School District, including two criminal misdemeanor
convictions in 1997 for violating Penal Code section 853.7 (failure to appear
in court) and Vehicle Code section 14601.1(A) (driving on a suspended license).  AR 119-20. 

The Golden
Valley principal’s December 2020 interviews alleged that another incident
occurred in January of 2020 in which Sorensen showed a student, G.S, “a video
of the type of dance he wanted, which involved “twerking” and ‘stripper moves’”
and that he brought marijuana to campus. AR 119.
As aggravating factors, Sorensen’s misconduct (a)
evidenced multiple acts of wrongdoing or demonstrate a pattern of misconduct,
(b) significantly harmed a child entrusted to the care of a credential holder
or applicant, and significantly harmed the public or the educational system and
(c) demonstrated indifference toward the consequences of his misconduct.  AR 121.
 
3. The
Hearing
An ALJ conducted
a hearing regarding the Accusation from October 11 to October 13, 2022.  AR 105.  The parties cite only a portion of the testimony
from the hearing.  The cited portions are
as follows.
The Hart
School District sent Sorensen a notice of non-reelection on February 24, 2020.  Reporter’s Transcript (“RT”) Vol. I, p. 47; AR
154.  The notice explained that Sorensen had
not been rehired for the following academic year and no specific details were given
why he was not re-elected.  See RT
Vol. I, p. 45-46. 
Sorensen was
given the option to resign so that the non-election would not impact his job
search. RT Vol. II 128-29.  Instead of
resigning, Sorensen objected to his non-reelection based on his performance
evaluations and hired a lawyer who advanced a claim of wrongful termination in
a letter dated April 14, 2020.  AR 217, 248-54.

Soon after Sorensen
asserted his wrongful termination claims, the Hart School District reported an
investigation of him to the Commission.  RT
Vol. II, pp. 85-86.  The documents
related to Sorensen’s claim of wrongful termination were provided to the
investigator, Judith Arce (“Arce”), on or around June 26, 2020.  RT Vol. II, p. 97.  As part of her investigation, she discovered that
Sorensen had a 1997 misdemeanor conviction for driving without a license and
failure to appear in Court.  RT Vol. II,
pp. 79-80, 90-91; AR 174-75.  Arce contacted
students beginning in December of 2020 regarding their recollections of Sorensen’s
conduct while he was employed at Golden Valley.  RT Vol. II, pp. 65-66; AR 167-69. 
G.S. testified
at the hearing that Sorensen made her feel “really uncomfortable” when he said
that his request for her to organize a dance should remain between the two of
them.  RT Vol. II, p. 33.  He “showed [G.S.] a video of what he did at
his other school with the cheerleaders and the baseball team that he was also
the coach of, and the girls, they were dancing for the baseball team, and it
was very inappropriate.”  RT Vol. II, p. 33.
 G.S. testified that she “felt
uncomfortable” when she watched the video, both because Sorensen was present
and because “they were dancing like, basically, strippers. They were bending over,
dancing very feminine, but in an inappropriate way….”  RT Vol. II, p. 33. 
 
4. The Proposed Decision
The ALJ concluded that many of the Accusation’s charges were
unproved. AR 11. However, G.S. testified credibly about her interactions with
Sorensen.   AR 11.  G.S.’s testimony substantiated that (1)
Sorensen approached students multiple times in class during the same period,
(2) he asked a student to get him lunch during class time, (3) he asked a
student during class time to go check with the players to see what they were
bringing to potluck, and (4) he showed G.S. a video of the type of dance he
wanted her to coordinate, which involved “twerking” and “stripper” moves, which
made her uncomfortable.   AR 11.  Sorensen also admitted to sarcastically
calling a student “Princess” to make a point. 
AR 12.  His 1997 misdemeanor
convictions also were established.  AR
14-15.
After evaluating the Morrison factors, the ALJ concluded
that showing G.S. an inappropriate video was the “most serious” misconduct.  AR 25.  Sorensen “violated the trust placed in him as
a teacher when he showed G.S. an inappropriate video….” AR 15.  This harmed both G.S. and the educational
system.  AR 15.  He also demonstrated indifference toward the
consequence of his misconduct, and he should have known that it could
negatively impact her.  AR 15.  In mitigation, Sorensen generally received
positive performance reviews during his employment at Golden Valley and at his
new school after his termination, nine Golden Valley teachers wrote him letters
of recommendation for his job search, and two coaches testified to his
character.  AR 17.  The Complainant also “offered no evidence of
similar misconduct.”  AR 25.
The ALJ concluded that Sorensen demonstrated poor judgment,
but this did not warrant revocation of his teaching credential and doing so
would be “excessively punitive.” AR. 25. The ALJ recommended that Sorensen be
publicly reprimanded.
 
5. The Commission’s Decision
The Commission rejected the ALJ's proposed decision of
public reproval.  AR 27.  The Commission thereafter decided the case
upon the record as authorized by the Administrative
Procedures Act (“APA”).   Govt. Code §11517(c)(2)(E)).  In accordance with the APA, the Commission ordered the reporter’s transcript
and requested briefings from the parties, which were reviewed at its April 2023
meeting.  See Govt. Code §11517(c)(2)(E)(ii).  
On June 23, 2023, the Commission issued its decision,
effective July 23, 2023, revoking all credentials, certificates, and
authorizations issued to Sorensen.  AR 77.
 
a.
Background
The Commission discussed Sorensen’s background as a
probationary social studies teacher and baseball coach at Golden Valley,
Principal Salvador Frias’ November 4, 2019 meeting with Sorensen to discuss
allegations of misconduct, the red flags of an unusual number of complaints
about Sorensen, and the school board’s February 19, 2020 decision not to re-elect
Sorensen.  AR 47.
b. G. S.
The Commission discussed the testimony of Sorensen's former
female student, G.S.  G.S testified that she was a student in
Sorensen’s history class during the 2019–2020 school year.  AR 48. 
Prior to starting the class, she had heard rumors about him that
concerned her.  AR 48.  During class, she noticed that Sorensen would
approach students and have conversations with them or ask them to do things for
him.  AR 48.  He repeatedly approached her and asked her
personal questions about her family, friends, and dating life.   AR 48. 
He initiated similar conversations with her outside of class.  He asked her for input during class about a
baseball team potluck meal he was planning and asked her to check with players
about what they would bring.  AR 48.  On one occasion, he asked G.S. to retrieve
his lunch from him during class.  AR
48.  She perceived him as making an "extra
effort" to have personal conversations with her, which made her
uncomfortable.  AR 48-49.  G.S.
testified that these distractions caused her to do poorly in that class.  AR
48-49.
G.S. was a member of
the school dance team, and Sorensen asked her to organize and perform a dance
with other dance team members for the upcoming baseball team banquet and to "make
it very feminine."   AR 49.  He
offered to let the dancers practice in his
classroom.  AR 49.  When G.S. suggested that he coordinate with
the dance team supervisor, he said “it should just stay between [G.S.] and him
and [the supervisor] did not need to know about it.”  AR 49.
Sorensen showed G.S. a
video of what he described as female students dancing for his baseball team at
another school where he worked before Golden Valley.  AR 49. 
G.S. described this video as "very
inappropriate" and the students were "dancing like basically
strippers."  AR 49.  G.S.
told her dance team supervisor and then an assistant principal.  AR 49. 
G.S. was transferred out of Sorensen’s
classroom mid-year.  AR 49.  G.S. concluded that Sorensen’s behavior had
made her feel uncomfortable throughout the school year.   AR 49. 
Memoranda of G.S’s statements to the dance team supervisor and the
investigator corroborated her testimony. 
AR 49.
 
c. The Principal’s Notes
Golden Valley Principal Frias’ notes show that he met with Sorensen
to discuss the multiple complaints, which were red flags since Sorensen was a
probationary teacher and should have been on his best behavior.  AR 50.  The red flags included a complaint that Sorensen  had marijuana in his coaching bag during a
baseball game, that he invited only the girls of the cross country team to run
through sprinklers, that he told students about his first kiss and made crude
reference to the girl having the "biggest jugs," that he only asked
female students to be the baseball team manager without consideration of  their baseball knowledge, that he attempted
to organize a joint baseball/softball practice of boys and girls, that he assigned
a seating chart with boy/girl placement to teach boys to be gentlemen, that he
engaged in unauthorized driving of two female students in a vehicle, and that
he called a female student "Princess."  AR 46,
47, 50-52.
The Commission noted Sorensen’s two 1997 misdemeanor
criminal convictions for violating Penal
Code section 853.7 (failure to appear in court) and Vehicle Code section 14601.1(a) (driving on a
suspended license).  On June 30, 2021,
the court granted Sorensen’s motion to
have this conviction expunged.  AR 52-53.
 
d. Sorensen
Sorensen admitted asking G.S. to choreograph a dance for the
baseball team but denied showing an inappropriate video.  AR 53. 
He claimed that he showed G.S. a video on YouTube produced by
Disney.  AR 53.  He asked multiple students to choreograph the
dance and G.S. “backed out for whatever reason”.   AR 53. 
He typically asked students about their families but had no specific
memory of personal conversations with G.S. and denied crossing the line with
her.  AR 53.  He denied taking an inappropriate interest in
G.S. and said that "nothing stood out
about her.  She was a run of the mill
student".  AR 53.  As a result, he had not noticed that she
transferred out of his class mid-year.  AR 53.
Sorensen denied the bulk of the other accusations.  AR 54. 
He did admit to driving students in his vehicle to a baseball game and
asserted that it was not improper since he needed to get the kids to the
game.  AR
55.
The Commission discussed Sorensen’s claim of retaliation (AR
54-55) and noted that he has taught at Monterey High School and a charter
school in Palmdale subsequent to leaving Golden Valley.  AR 55-56. 
He received positive performance reviews at Golden Valley and Monterey,
two Golden Valley baseball coaches testified to his character, and Sorensen also
submitted two character references from former Golden Valley students who
played baseball.  AR 57.
 
e. Proved Allegations
The Commission concluded that, as G.S. testified, the
Complainant proved that Sorensen approached students in class multiple times in
the same period, he asked a student to get him lunch during class time, and he
asked a student to go check with players to see what they were bringing as
potluck.  AR 58.  He also asked G.S. to organize a dance for
the baseball team and showed her a video involving “twerking” and “stripper
moves” which made her uncomfortable.  AR
58.  G.S. testified credibly and was
corroborated by her prior consistent statements.   AR 58. 
Sorensen’s testimony about G.S. as a run of the mill student about whom
nothing stood out was not credible given that he admitted asking her to
coordinate a dance for the baseball team. 
AR 58-59.  Complainant also proved
that Sorensen called a student “Princess” and that he had suffered the two
misdemeanor convictions.  AR 59.  The remaining allegations were unproved.  AR 59-60.
The Commission concluded that Sorensen had committed
unprofessional conduct by approaching students in class to discuss personal
matters and asking G.S. to get him lunch during class time and help with the potluck,
both of which interfered with education time. 
AR 62.  This behavior evidenced
overfamiliarity with students and failed to maintain professional
boundaries.  AR 62.
Sorensen’s behavior escalated when he asked G.S. to organize
a dance for the baseball team.  AR
62.  When she tried to redirect him by
asking that he speak with the dance supervisor, he attempted to ensure her
secrecy by telling her the matter should stay between them and the supervisor
did not need to know about it.  If his
intentions were innocent, he would not have made that request.  AR 62. 
He escalated this wildly inappropriate interaction by showing her a
video involving “twerking” and “stripper moves” which made G.S. uncomfortable
and made it necessary for her to transfer classes mid-year.  AR 63. 
Finally, Sorensen’s misdemeanor convictions set a poor example for
students, suggesting that obedience to law is unimportant.  AR 63. 
As a result, Sorensen was guilty of unprofessional behavior.  AR 63. 
Sorensen’s showing of a video to G.S. where the girls danced
like strippers also was immoral and aggravated by his request that she organize
a dance for the baseball team without the dance supervisor’s knowledge.  AR 64. 
These same actions reflect acts of moral turpitude.  AR 67. 
Sorensen was not guilty of the charge of evident unfitness for
service.  AR 64-65.
 
f. Disposition
After considering the Morrison factors, the
Commission decided to revoke Sorensen’s license.  AR 68-73. 
The Commission acknowledged that many allegations were unproved, but
those that were proved demonstrated an alarming pattern of lack of boundaries
and poor judgment which harmed a student and had a great likelihood of harming
other teachers and the educational community. 
AR 75.  Admittedly, some
allegations were woefully lacking in detail, but G.S. testified credibly and
his request that she organize a dance was not an innocent request.  AR 75. 
It was exacerbated by the video and his attempt to maintain secrecy.  AR 75. 
Sorensen’s failure to show remorse or appreciate the wrongfulness of his
misconduct was an aggravating factor, his favorable letters and performance
reviews did not alleviate this concern, and revocation of his credentials was
necessary to protect the public.   AR 76.

Sorensen submitted a Petition for Reconsideration in advance
of the date by which the Commission’s decision was to become final.  On July 24, 2023, the Commission sent a letter
to Sorensen stating that his Petition for Reconsideration had been “denied by
operation of law because no action was taken by the Commission on the Petition
before the Decision and Order took effect.” 
 
E. Analysis
Petitioner Sorensen seeks a writ of mandate directing the Commission
to set aside its decision on the ground that the penalty of credential
revocation is not supported by application of the Morrison factors.   
 
1.     
Preliminary Issue
Petitioner Sorensen’s
opening brief does not challenge the Commission’s findings that he is guilty of
unprofessional conduct, immoral conduct, and acts of moral turpitude.  The opening brief only challenges the Commission’s conclusion that, based on the findings
and an evaluation of the Morrison factors, he is unfit to teach.  Sorensen contends that the Morrison
findings are unsupported.  
Sorensen attempts to challenge the three findings of
misconduct in his reply.  Sorensen argues
that the ALJ only cited the dance incident with G.S. and Sorensen’s use of the
term “Princess” as a basis for unprofessional conduct.  AR 23. 
The Commission expanded this scope to include Sorensen’s 1996 failure to
appear in court, his requests to have students help him organize a potluck, and
his personal questions to students as conduct warranting adverse action.  AR 61-63. 
Sorensen argues that none of these additional acts can support an unprofessional
conduct finding because section 44938(a) requires a school district to send a
teacher a 45-day notice when it seeks to dismiss the teacher on the ground of
"unprofessional conduct” and Sorensen never received such a notice.  See
Woodland Joint Unified School
Dist. v. Commission on Professional Competence, (1992) 2 Cal. App.
4th 1429, 1445.  In fact, the Commission
found “it is unclear what notice respondent was provided of any need for
remediation.  AR 65.  Reply at 2.
Aside
from the fact that section 33938(a) is inapplicable to the Commission because
it requires notice of unprofessional conduct by a school board in terminating
an employee, this is a new issue raised for the first time in reply and is
waived.  Regency
Outdoor Advertising v. Carolina Lances, Inc., (“Regency”) (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 1323, 1333 (new evidence/issues raised for the first time in a
reply brief are not properly presented to a trial court and may be disregarded).  
Similarly, Sorensen notes that the
Commission found that the showing of the video to G.S. was “immoral as it is
contrary to good morals” (AR 64) and demonstrative of “flagrant, shameless
indecency” giving rise to a finding of immoral conduct.  He argues that “[i]n a disciplinary
proceeding against a public school teacher, the administrative agency cannot
‘abstractly characterize'’ a teacher’s conduct in the statutory language (i.e.,
as ‘immoral’ and so on) unless that conduct indicates his unfitness to teach.”  Comings
v. State Bd. of Education, (1972) 23 Cal.App.3d 94,103.  Immoral conduct warranting dismissal has been
found to include such conduct as falsification of records to secure continued
employment and public posting on a Web site of pornographic photos and obscene
texts accessible to students.  Board of Education v. Weiland,
(1960) 179 Cal. App. 2d 808, 812; San
Diego Unified School Dist. v. Commission on Professional Competence,
(2011) 194 Cal. App. 4th 1454, 1466.  
However, having “bad taste” is not the same as immorality.  Palo
Verde Etc. Sch. Dist. v. Hensey, (1970) 9 Cal. App. 3d 967, 973
(“while we find this incident to be in bad taste, we can find in it no evidence
of immorality”).  Reply at 3.
Again,
Sorensen raises a new issue raised for the first time in reply and is
waived.  Regency, supra, 31
Cal.App.4th at 1333.  Additionally, he has
the burden to demonstrate that the administrative record does not contain
sufficient evidence to support the agency’s decision.  State Water Resources Control Board Cases,
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 674, 749.  If a
petitioner contends that some issue of fact is not sustained, he is required to
set forth in his brief all the material evidence on the point and note merely
his own evidence.  Unless this is done,
the error is deemed to be waived.  Id.
(quoting Foreman & Clark Corp. v. Fallon, (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875,
881).  Sorensen fails to set forth the underlying
evidence on the video issue.
Finally, with respect to acts of moral turpitude, Sorensen
argues that the Commission’s opposition deliberately misquotes In re Lesansky, (2001) 25 Cal.
4th 11, *14, which dealt with the question of whether a criminal felony
conviction could lead to summary disbarment of an attorney.  Id. at 9. 
In contrast, section 44345(e), on which the Commission relies, requires
a showing that any adverse action based on “moral turpitude” shall be “based
upon reasons related to the applicant's fitness to teach….”  Reply at 3-4.
While this argument is raised in response to the
Commission’s opposition, it is irrelevant because Sorensen does not dispute the
Commission’s finding he is guilty of acts of moral turpitude.[3]
 
2. Analysis of the
Morrison Factors
Thus, the only issue properly raised is whether the Morrison
factors implemented by 5 CCR section 80302(a) support revocation of Sorensen’s
credentials.  The Commission considers
only those factors most pertinent to the fitness inquiry (West
Valley-Mission Community College District v. Concepcion, (1993) 16
Cal.App.4th 1766, 1777), and not all eight Morrison factors need
be examined (Governing Bd. of ABC Unified Sch. Dist. v.
Haar, (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 369, 384).
 
a. The
Likelihood that the Conduct May Have Adversely Affected Students/Teachers
This factor in actual adverse impacts as well as the
likelihood that the teacher's conduct may have adversely affected students and
other teachers.  Broney v. California Commission on Teacher
Credentialing, (“Broney”) (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 462, 477.
The Commission found that Sorensen's conduct towards G.S. "did in fact adversely affect G.S. as she struggled to learn while in
respondent's class."  She became so
uncomfortable that she requested to transfer from his class.  AR 69. 
She had to re-start her studies mid-year with a new teacher, learn new
classroom procedures, and catch up to where the other students were.  AR 69.  Other staff and administrators were told
about his behavior and had to take actions to protect G.S., which was
undoubtedly unpleasant.   The teacher who
had to instruct G.S. for the remainder of the year also was affected.  AR 69.
The Commission also found a substantial likelihood of
adverse effects.  Students who learned of
the misconduct would "likely lose their ability to respect and learn"
from Sorensen.  Other teachers would have
to deal with rumors about Sorensen and struggle to interact with him after
doing so.  AR 69.  It further is likely that they would have to
deal with parents who learned that a teacher had been reported behaving so
inappropriately.  AR 69.  It is reasonable to conclude that these
likely effects actually were felt at Golden Valley.  The rumors heard by G.S. about Sorensen
before she started in his class show that rumors of his misconduct did
circulate.  AR 70.  While calling a student “Princess” did not
have any likely adverse effect, there was a likelihood of adverse effects from
Sorensen’s misdemeanor convictions if students learned about them because they
teach disobedience to authority.  AR 70.
Sorensen argues that the Commission drew conclusions that both
were at variance with the ALJ and unsupported by the record.  The ALJ found only that Sorensen’s actions
adversely affected G.S when he showed her a video that made her uncomfortable.
AR 20. Yet, the Commission concluded that the same evidence “negatively
affected the community.” AR 69-70.  No
evidence exists of an impact on the community, and none can be manufactured by
conjecture.  Pet. Op. Br. at 6.
Sorensen argues that there must be some actual evidence to
support both the likelihood and degree of adversity on students and fellow
teachers.  Broney, supra, 184 Cal.App.4th at
474.   In Broney, A teacher wearing an ankle bracelet after being
convicted of a crime may have adversely impacted a teacher’s ability to teach
when (1) a co-worker knew of the conviction, and (2) students likely saw her
wearing the ankle monitor.  Id. at 477.  Thus, there was
(1) evidence of conduct that could impact students and did impact fellow
teacher, and (2) a clear assessment of degree of impact that the conduct would
have.   Reply at 5.
The court agrees with the Commission’s opposition (Opp. at
14) that the Commission was entitled under Broney to consider likely
impacts as well as actual impacts.  The
video is something that Golden Valley students, teachers, and parents likely would
hear about, and the rumors G.S. did hear about Sorensen before she started in
his class show that rumors pass easily at the school.  
Sorensen adds that the Commission’s conclusion that his
traffic violations in 1996 created an adverse effect on the students at Golden
Valley is unsupported because Golden Valley did not even know about the
convictions when he was employed. AR 70. 
This factor should not be expanded to include any impact on the
community.  The Commission’s conclusion
that a 25-year-old traffic violations that
no one knew about could have harmed students and teachers is
ridiculous.  Pet. Op. Br. at 6; Reply at
5-6.
The court agrees that the misdemeanor convictions have no
bearing on this Morrison factor; the Commission’s finding of a
likelihood of adverse effects if students learned about them is pure
speculation.
 
b. Proximity or
Remoteness of the Conduct 
The Commission noted that Sorensen’s misconduct at Golden
Valley occurred during the 2018–2019 and 2019–2020 school years and the period
of three years from the misconduct is not considered remote for purposes of
this Morrison factor.  AR 70. 
The Commission acknowledged that Sorensen’s misdemeanor convictions were
remote and carried little weight.  AR 71.
Sorensen argues that, while the Commission conceded that the
1996 traffic misdemeanors carry little weight, it still included them in every Morrison factor.  The misdemeanors for driving without a
license and failure to appear in court were expunged under Penal Code 1203.4a (AR
53) and the Commission’s reliance on expunged misdemeanors violates Business
and Professions Code section 480(c)(“Notwithstanding any other provision of
this code, a person shall not be denied a license on the basis of any
conviction, or on the basis of the acts underlying the conviction, that has
been dismissed pursuant to Section 1203.4…of the Penal Code….)  The 1997 traffic misdemeanor convictions
should be given no weight.  Reply at 6.
Sorensen failed to argue that the misdemeanor convictions cannot
be considered in his opening brief, and apparently also failed to make this
argument to the ALJ.  This issue is
waived.  Regency, supra, 31
Cal.App.4th at 1333.  The misdemeanor
convictions were never a significant part of the Commission’s analysis anyway.
 
c. Type of
Teaching Certificate Held 
The Commission found that Sorensen held a Single Subject
Teaching Credential that authorized him to teach students up to grade 12. 
Although he did not teach elementary or middle school students, that
credential allows him to do so.  Broney
held that the impressionable nature of elementary school students, and their
need for role models, weighs in favor of finding unfitness to teach.  184 Cal.App.4th at 477.  Even though high school students may not be
as impressionable, the damage is significant when an authority figure and role
model asks a student to perform a sexual dance and shows her an inappropriate
video.  AR 71. 
The Commission also found that referring to a female student as "Princess"
and Sorensen’s misdemeanor convictions do not set a good example, even for this
age group.  AR 71.
The court agrees with Sorensen (Pet. Op. Br. at 6-7) that the
Commission misapplied Broney, supra, 184 Cal. App. 4th at 473.  In Broney, the court valued this factor
when considering whether an elementary school teacher wearing an ankle monitor
should be suspended because of the “the impressionable nature of elementary
school students, and their need for appropriate adult role models.” AR 71.  The Commission suggests that Sorensen could in theory teach elementary
students, but disregards the evidence.  Sorensen taught high school students only and
never taught elementary students. AR 71. The Commission must rule on the facts
and this factor should be given no weight.
The Commission’s opposition argues that, although Broney
involved elementary school students, that does not take away from recognition
of the impressionable nature of the students at or below 12th
grade.  Placement of Sorensen in a
position of authority over impressionable and vulnerable teenage students
creates a concern that he is unable to create a safe learning environment for
the minors entrusted to him.  Opp. at 14-15.
This argument – that all students are vulnerable – differs
from that relied on in the Commission’s decision, which was that Sorensen could
possibly teach vulnerable elementary students. 
Moreover, Sorensen is correct that the Commission overlooks the context
of the incident in which he asked G.S. to organize a dance for the high school baseball
team’s yearly banquet.  RT Vol. III pp. 167,
169.  There is nothing to suggest that he
would take similar action with elementary school students.  See Reply at 6.  Finally, the conclusion that Sorensen asked
G.S. to perform a sexual dance is subject to criticism.  See post.
 
d. Extenuating or
Aggravating Circumstances
An “aggravating factor” is defined in section 80300(b) as “an
event or circumstance which demonstrates that a greater degree of adverse
action for an act of unprofessional misconduct is needed to adequately protect
the public, schoolchildren, or the profession.” AR 71-72.
The Commission found that Sorensen committed multiple acts
of wrongdoing that demonstrate a pattern of misconduct.  AR 72. 
Each act of misconduct resulted from his failure to exercise proper
judgment and proper boundaries.   AR
72.  He regularly misused class time,
behaved in an overly familiar fashion, and contacted G.S. outside class.  His decision to organize a sexual dance for
the baseball team and to show an inappropriate video was the culmination of a
pattern of poor judgment.  AR 27.  The misdemeanor convictions demonstrate that his
poor judgment is a pattern and not a recent lapse of judgment.  AR 72.
The misconduct significantly harmed G.S., a student entrusted in his care, and
significantly harmed the educational system and violated the trust placed in Sorensen
as a teacher when he singled G.S. out for
focused attention, asked her to organize a sexual dance for the baseball team
and showed G.S. an inappropriate
video.  AR
73.  The misconduct negatively affected G.S.'s education and impacted the educational
system and public trust.  AR 72.
Further, Sorensen demonstrated indifference to his conduct
when he denied asking G.S. to organize a
sexual dance or showing her an inappropriate video.  AR 73.  Sorensen lacked candor when he admitted
asking G.S. personal questions and to
perform a dance but claimed he did not notice when she transferred out of his
class mid-year.  AR 73.  He
did not testify that he recognized any impact of his actions on his
students.  AR 73.
With the exception of his lack of remorse, the court agrees
with Sorensen (Pet. Op. Br. at 7) that these are not aggravating factors.  Rather, his misuse of class time, personal
interactions with students, and contacting G.S. outside of class time are simply
the circumstances of misconduct that singularly would not even be the subject
of discipline.  The fact that they show a
pattern is not an aggravating circumstance, it is the misconduct.  Sorensen’s traffic violations from 1996 (when
he was 18 years old) are not evidence of a pattern of poor judgment
either.  As Sorensen argues, the
misdemeanor convictions have no impact on his fitness to teach in light of his
20 years of teaching.  Pet. Op. Br. at
7-8.[4]
The Commission also erred in not considering an important
mitigating circumstance.  The decision repeatedly
concludes that Sorensen asked G.S. to organize a sexual dance and showed her an
inappropriate sexual video.  In reaching
this conclusion, the Commission relied solely on G.S.’s testimony that the video
was highly inappropriate and “egregious” and apparently never saw the video itself.  AR. 76. 
Sorensen argues that the Commission fails to cite anything
in the record which accurately characterizes the contents of the video.  Sorensen testified that the video was a
baseball skit played to the song “Hey, Batter, Batter” from the Disney channel,
either “Glee” or “High School Musical.”  RT
Vol. III, p. 155.  The video is on
YouTube and Sorensen offered to show it to the ALH, who declined to watch it.  RT Vol. III, p. 157. Thus, the Commission
based its conclusion to revoke Sorensen’s credentials in major part based on
evidence that neither the ALJ nor the Commission ever saw.  Pet. Op. Br. at 7.
This case has been presented to the court as a matter in
which Sorensen is guilty of unprofessional conduct based in part on the video involving
“twerking” and “stripper moves” which made G.S. uncomfortable.  AR 58. 
 He also was found guilty of
immoral acts and acts of moral turpitude based solely on showing of the video.  AR 64, 67. 
Yet, no one saw this video except G.S. 
While G.S. was credible, her subjective discomfort at viewing it may not
have been objectively reasonable.  As
Supreme Court Justice Stewart Potter famously said about obscenity: “I’ll know
it when I see it.”  The court strongly
believes that the ALJ and Commission should not have taken G.S.’s word that the
video was highly inappropriate.  Sorensen
remains guilty of the charges, but the Commission’s failure to verify that the
video was the “sexual dance” with “stripper” movements as described by the
Commission (AR 72) is a compelling mitigating factor.
The Commission’s opposition notes that its decision states: "If
[Sorensen’s] request had been innocent, he would not have made such a request
of a child."  AR 62.  Sorensen’s
conduct demonstrates aggravating circumstances surrounding the conduct "which
demonstrates that a greater degree of adverse action for an act of
unprofessional misconduct is needed to adequately protect the public,
schoolchildren, or the profession." 
AR 73.  Opp. at 16.
It is true that Sorensen tried to hide the request from
G.S.’s dance supervisor, and that fact indicates that it was
inappropriate.  That does not mean,
however, that he tried to hide the video. 
He showed G.S. the video after suggesting that they keep the
request between themselves.  Nor does it
mean that the video was a sexual dance as opposed to part of a request that he
knew he should not be making.  This fact
does not undermine mitigating fact that no one saw the video.
 
e. Likelihood of Recurrence
The Commission found that Sorensen did not express any
remorse and instead claimed that the charges against him were due to
retaliation by a disgruntled student and former assistant coach.  AR 74. Sorensen’s
failure to "fully appreciate the nature and consequences of his actions,
[creates] an elevated likelihood of recurrence exists."   AR 74.
Sorensen argues that the Commission was wrong as a matter of
law to consider his lack of remorse as a factor supporting likelihood of
recurrence.  The word “remorse” is
nowhere mentioned in Morrison
as an appropriate measure of likelihood of recurrence.  Nor should it be.  The accused has the right to defend his
conduct in any manner, including expressing his belief in his own innocence.
This is supported not only by logic, but by precedent.  Maltaman
v. State Bar, (1987) 43 Cal. 3d 924, 958 (lack of remorse is not an
aggravating factor when based upon an honest belief in innocence (citing Calaway
v. State Bar, (1986) 41 Cal.3d 743, 747).  To mandate that Sorensen show remorse would
necessarily impact his ability to defend himself.  This is doubly so when the litigant is
self-represented.  The Commission used
the wrong legal basis for this factor. 
Pet. Op. Br. at 8.
The court agrees with the Commission’s opposition that the remorse
of a credential holder is a mitigating factor "which demonstrates that the
public, schoolchildren and the profession would be adequately protected by a
more lenient degree of adverse action or no adverse action whatsoever…."  5 CCR §80300(m)(5).  Conversely, a lack of remorse shows that the
accused has not learned from his actions and is prone to recurrence of his
misconduct.  See Opp. at 17.
Sorensen replies that 5 CCR section 80300(m)(5) only refers
to “spontaneously demonstrating remorse at the time of the misconduct.”  He was never questioned at the time of any
incident or at trial on this issue and no record of lack of remorse near the time
of any incident was ever part of the record. 
Reply at 8-9.  The short answer is
that 5 CCR section 80300(m)(5) applies only by analogy.  As a matter of logic and law, lack of remorse
may bear on willingness to repeat misconduct.
 
f. Praiseworthiness
or Blameworthiness of Motive
The Commission found that Sorensen alone is to blame for his
failure to maintain proper boundaries with his students, especially G.S., and his commitment of criminal misdemeanors.  AR 72.
The Commission and the parties initially fail to address the
proper issue.  Sorensen argues that the
Commission’s statement avoids its responsibility to consider the totality of
the circumstances and should not be considered. 
Pet. Op. Br. at 8.  The Commission
responds that Sorensen fails to identify what additional review is required and
that no one else is to blame for Sorensen’s misconduct.  Opp. at 16.
In reply, Sorensen finally
reaches the correct point.  Reply at
6.  Morrison requires an
assessment of “the praiseworthiness or blameworthiness of the motives resulting in the conduct.”  Morrison,
supra, 1 Cal.3d at 229. Nowhere does the Commission explain why Sorensen’s
motives are praiseworthy
or blameworthy. The relevant factor is his motivation for asking G.S. to
organize a “feminine dance” and showing her the dance video, which was to teach
the freshmen baseball team a dance to perform for the varsity baseball
team.  The Commission did not consider the
proper factor, which may work in his favor because it did not occur for a
selfish purpose.
 
g. Extent to Which
Discipline May Chill Constitutional Rights of the Teacher or Other Teachers
The Commission found that "the outcome of this case
will have no chilling effect on credentialed teachers exercising their
constitutional rights."  AR 74.
Sorensen argues that the right to practice one’s profession
is deemed a fundamental right by the courts.  Bixby, supra, 4 Cal. 3d at
144.  A great protection is needed where
“a professional license has been revoked.” Id. at 145. The
Commission impeded upon his constitutional rights by looking up old
infractions. Teachers have no real right to challenge an accusation when the
Commission’s conclusions are arbitrary, argumentative, and not based on facts
in the record.  Pet. Op. Br. at 9.
The Commission’s opposition correctly states that Sorensen does
not state what rights were impacted.  Opp.
at 17.  Only in reply does Sorensen
suggest that he was deprived of his right to pursue his profession of over
20-years through a process that was fundamentally unfair.  In June of 2020, Hart School District asked
the Commission to initiate an investigation to revoke Sorensen’s teaching
credential long after he no longer worked there, and only after it was
threatened with a lawsuit for wrongful termination in May of 2020.  AR 161-64. 
The Commission did the school district’s bidding by drumming up
Sorensen’s old traffic violations over 20 years old and using the manufactured
November 4, 2019 “Reported Concerns” document as a basis for these
proceedings.  If the Commission’s decision
were to stand, it would erode the due process rights of teachers.  Reply at 9-10.
This argument, made for the first time in reply, essentially
is that Sorensen has a due process right not to be charged falsely.  That is not a right addressed by this Morrison
factor, which concerns the exercise of constitutional rights as part of
the charged misconduct.
Perhaps for this reason, Sorensen also argues that the
Commission’s decision condemns him for calling students royal titles
sarcastically, including “Princess.” AR 53.  
He argues that discipline for using this term when it is not linked to
any negative impact on a student chills the First Amendment rights of teachers to
speak freely and openly.  Reply at 10.  Again, this argument is made for the first
time in reply.  Moreover, the Commission
did not significantly rely on Sorensen’s reference to a female student as "Princess";
it only stated that the Princess reference and the misdemeanor convictions do
not set a good example.  AR 71.
 
h. Publicity  
The Commission found that notoriety from misconduct can
impair future on-campus relationships, citing San Diego Unified School
District, (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1454, 1463.  The Commission found no evidence of publicity
that would have affected his relationships at Monterey or the charter
school.  AR 75.
Sorensen concurs and concludes that there is no concern that
this factor would leave Petitioner unfit to teach.  Pet. Op. Br. at 9.
The Commission’s opposition argues that Sorensen’s failure
to discuss his misconduct with a future employer should not lessen the
Commission's concern about his fitness to teach.  On the contrary, it further demonstrates that
he does not take responsibility for his conduct that has harmed students and
the community.  Opp. at 18.  This is a non-sequitur.   The fact remains that there has been no
publicity which could have a wider impact outside Golden Valley.  
 
3. The Penalty
The Commission concluded, based on the Morrison
factors, that Sorensen is unfit to teach. 
It acknowledged that many allegations were unproven, but the evidence
demonstrated an alarming pattern of lack of boundaries and poor judgment that
harmed a student as well as a great likelihood of harming others.  AR 75. 
Sorensen’s response was a self-serving denial and assertion that he was
being retaliated against as a baseball coach. 
AR 75.  His lack of remorse and his favorable letters
of support and performance reviews do not alleviate this concern, particularly
when he was not upfront with his employers or recommenders about the
allegations of misconduct he faces in this case.  Therefore, revocation was necessary to
protect the public.  AR 76.  
There are serious reasons to doubt the Commission’s decision,
which is full of conclusions and not many facts.  The Commission admits that many allegations
were unproved, and those that were proved were mostly based on generalities and
almost totally on G.S.’s testimony.  The
Commission accepted G.S.’s testimony that Sorensen would approach students in
class multiple times in the same period, he asked a student to get him lunch
during class time, and he asked a student to go check with players to see what
they were bringing as potluck.  AR
58.  The Commission concluded that
Sorensen had committed unprofessional conduct by approaching students in class
to discuss personal matters, which interfered with education time.  AR 62. 
This behavior evidenced overfamiliarity with students and failed to
maintain professional boundaries with students. 
AR 62.  
Although they were proved, the Commission could not seriously
conclude that these allegations justify revocation of Sorensen’s right to
teach.  Nor did the Commission believe
that the misdemeanor convictions or using the term “Princess” had a strong
bearing on the revocation issue.  AR 71.
This leaves the Commission’s conclusions about Sorensen’s request
for G.S. to organize a dance for the baseball team and showing her a video
involving “twerking” and “stripper moves” which made G.S. uncomfortable.  AR 58. 
G.S. testified credibly and was corroborated by her prior consistent
statements whereas Sorensen’s testimony about G.S. as a run of the mill student
was not credible given that he admitted asking her to coordinate a dance for
the baseball team.  AR 58-59.  Most seriously, when G.S. tried to redirect
him by asking that he speak with the dance supervisor, he attempted to ensure
her secrecy by telling her the matter should stay between them and the
supervisor did not need to know about it. 
He escalated this “wildly inappropriate interaction” by showing her a
video which G.S. stated involved “twerking” and “stripper moves” which made
G.S. uncomfortable and made it necessary for her to transfer classes
mid-year.  AR 63.
There is much that is not known about this video, including
its contents, whether G.S. is correct that it involved stripper moves and
twerking, whether G.S. is naive or inordinately sensitive, and whether the
video is objectively a sexual video.  If
not, the Commission would be left with an incident in which Sorensen tried to
get G.S. to organize dancing for the baseball team and hid that fact from the
dance supervisor.  Should Sorensen’s
credentials be revoked on that basis, or for the totality of evidence stated by
the court?  The ALJ thought not, and only
recommended a public reprimand.  In light
of the unknown, the Commission’s decision to revoke is dubious.
Nonetheless, the court may not overturn a penalty unless
there has been a manifest abuse of discretion (Lake, supra, 47 Cal.App.3d at 228), and cannot
substitute its discretion for that of the agency on the degree of
punishment.  Nightingale, supra, 7 Cal.3d at 515.  Most
important, the policy importance of a properly considered video is a
matter within the expertise of the Commission in determining penalty questions.
 See Cadilla, supra, 26 Cal.App.3d at 961. 
The case will be
remanded to the Commission to take further action with respect to the Morrison
analysis that properly considers the issues.
 
F. Conclusion
The Petition for writ of mandate is granted.  A writ shall issue directing the Commission
to set aside its decision to revoke Sorensen’s credential and reconsider the
discipline in a manner that lies within its discretion.  
Petitioner’s counsel is ordered to prepare a writ and proposed
judgment, serve them on the Commission’s counsel for approval as to form, wait
ten days after service for any objections, meet and confer if there are
objections, and then submit the proposed judgment along with a declaration
stating the existence/non-existence of any unresolved objections.  An OSC re: judgment is set for July 25, 2024
at 9:30 a.m.


