  Case Number:  19STCV39485    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Walther Medina, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV39485




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Montebello Unified School District and Anthony Martinez,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: September 6, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
alternative, Motions for Summary Adjudication
Moving Party: Defendant/Cross-Defendant Montebello
Unified School District Responding Party: Plaintiff Walther Medina and
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Anthony Martinez
 
T/R:     MUSD’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OF
PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT IS DENIED.
 
MUSD’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
OF THE FIRST, SECOND, FIFTH, SIXTH AND SEVENTH CAUSES OF ACTION IS GRANTED.
 
MUSD’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
OF THE EIGHTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS DENIED.
 
MUSD’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OF
THE CROSS-COMPLAINT IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and reply.
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 16, 2021, Plaintiff Walther
Medina filed the operative second amended complaint against Defendants
Montebello Unified School District (“MUSD”) and Anthony Martinez, asserting
causes of action for (1) violation of Ralph Act; (2) sexual battery; (3) gender
violence; (4) violation of Unruh; (5) violation of Bane Act; (6) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (7) negligence; and (8) violation of
Education Code. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Martinez, MUSD
Superintendent, sexually assaulted Plaintiff and sought a sexual relationship
with Plaintiff in exchange for money and education through MUSD. In the SAC,
Plaintiff alleges Martinez was also the Chief of Police of the school district.
 
On August 25, 2023, Martinez filed a
cross-complaint against MUSD for indemnity.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties'
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Trial judges are required “to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) Once the defendant has met that
burden, “the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Id.)  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial
responsive evidence.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)
 
A. Vicarious Liability
 
Defendant MUSD moves for summary
judgment of the second amended complaint on the ground that MUSD is not
vicariously liable for Martinez’ torts. MUSD contends that it cannot be held
liable for Martinez’ sexual misconduct as it is not in the scope of his employment.

 
The general rule is that where an
employee commits acts of sexual misconduct during the course of his work, such
acts are outside the scope of his employment, and no vicarious liability
attaches. (See, e.g., Maria D. v. Westec Residential Sec., Inc. (2000)
85 Cal.App.4th 125, 146-147; Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Mem’l Hosp.
(1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 301; Farmers Ins. Group v. County of Santa Clara
(1995) 11 Cal.4th 992, 1006-1007.) There are limited exceptions to this general
rule when the perpetrator is in a position of power, and it is reasonably
foreseeable that an abuse of the power may occur. (See e.g. Mary M. v. City
of Los Angeles (1991) 54 Cal.3d 202.)
 
MUSD presents evidence showing that much
of Plaintiff and Defendant Martinez’ relationship occurred outside the scope of
Martinez’ employment, having met in private and taken place in private. MUSD
also argues that regardless of the extent to which the relationship hinged on
Martinez’ status as superintendent, the alleged acts of sexual battery and
harassment are not within the scope of employment as a matter of law. The Court
agrees.
 
California Courts have carved extremely
limited circumstances under which an employer may be vicariously liable for an
employee’s intentional torts. In Mary M., supra, the Supreme Court
allowed a Plaintiff to recover for sexual battery against the employer of the
police officer perpetrator. The Court reasoned, “[i]n view of the considerable
power and authority that police officers possess, it is neither startling nor
unexpected that on occasion an officer will misuse that authority by engaging
in assaultive conduct. The precise circumstances of the assault need not be
anticipated, so long as the risk is one that is reasonably foreseeable.
Sexual assaults by police officers are fortunately uncommon; nevertheless, the
risk of such tortious conduct is broadly incidental to the enterprise of law
enforcement, and thus liability for such acts may appropriately be imposed on
the employing public entity.” (Mary M., supra 54 Cal.3d at 217-218.)
 
Plaintiff has not provided any
authority applying the reasoning of Mary M. to facts analogous to the
facts here. Plaintiff presents evidence showing Martinez acted as “Chief of
Police” for the MUSD police department in some way but does not have evidence
showing Martinez used this status to detain Plaintiff or to do something else
traditionally done by law enforcement. Nor does Plaintiff present evidence
showing MUSD knew of or ratified Martinez’ alleged behavior.
 
As MUSD cannot be held vicariously
liable for Martinez’ alleged behavior under Code § 815.2, there is no statutory
liability against MUSD as a public entity for Plaintiff’s common law claims of
sexual battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress or negligence. And
MUSD cannot be liable for Plaintiff’s claims under the Bane or Ralph Act (the
claims for Gender Violence and violation Unruh were dismissed against MUSD
following demurrer) if MUSD cannot be vicariously liable for the alleged
assault itself. 
 
MUSD’s motion for summary adjudication
as to the first, second, fifth, sixth and seventh causes of action is GRANTED.
 
B. Education Code § 220
 
Education Code § 220 prohibits
educational institutions that receive or benefit from state funds from
subjecting any person to discrimination on the basis of sex. To establish a
cause of action for violation of Education Code § 220, Plaintiff must prove
that MUSD had actual knowledge of Martinez’ actions, had an opportunity to
correct those actions, and failed to do so. (See Donovan v. Poway Unif. Sch.
Dist. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 567, 605.)
 
MUSD, as an institution, may be
directly liable under Education Code § 220. Plaintiff presents evidence showing
Martinez used his position as superintendent to induce Plaintiff into a
relationship with Martinez, then subjected him to sexual harassment, ultimately
forcing him to stop his education with MUSD. Plaintiff also presents evidence
showing Martinez was the person in charge of Title IX compliance (the federal equivalent to Education Code § 220). Under this theory of liability,
MUSD, through Martinez, had knowledge of Martinez’ actions and did not remedy
them. Unlike the common law and other statutory claims, this cause of action
does not appear to require Plaintiff to prove that Martinez’ actions were
“within the scope of employment” in order to hold MUSD liable for Martinez’
actions. 
 
The motion for summary adjudication of
the eighth cause of action is DENIED.
 
C. Cross-Complaint for Indemnity
 
MUSD moves for summary judgment on
Martinez’ cross-complaint for indemnity on the ground that the alleged assaults
and harassment are not within the scope of employment. In opposition, Martinez
maintains that these aspects of the complaint are untrue and that the
relationship Martinez’ developed with Plaintiff was completely within the scope
of his employment. Specifically, Martinez represents that as superintendent,
Martinez was tasked with community outreach and development and that Martinez
and Plaintiff’s relationship centered around his status as a school employee
and Plaintiff’s status as student. 
 
Public employees may seek reimbursement
for defense costs for conduct that occurred within the scope of employment
under Gov. Code § 996.4. Courts have held that an employee may be entitled to
indemnification under facts analogous to those at hand if the underlying
allegations of sexual misconduct did not actually occur and the employee was
otherwise acting within the scope of employment. In Daza v. Los Angeles
Community College Dist. (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 260, a guidance counselor
sought reimbursement for defense costs after a student accused the counselor of
sexual misconduct while acting as the student’s counselor. The student and
college settled. The Court held that the counselor could introduce evidence
that the misconduct did not occur and seek reimbursement under § 996.4, notwithstanding
the settlement.
 
Here, Martinez has established a
triable issue of fact as to whether the underlying allegations of assault and
harassment occurred. The motion for summary judgment of the cross-complaint is
DENIED.




Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Walther Medina, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV39485




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Montebello Unified School District and Anthony Martinez,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: September 6, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
alternative, Motions for Summary Adjudication
Moving Party: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Anthony
Martinez
Responding Party: Plaintiff Walther Medina 
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT MARTINEZ’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT IS DENIED.
 
MARTINEZ’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION OF THE FOURTH, FIFTH, SEVENTH AND EIGHTH CAUSES OF ACTION IS
GRANTED.
 
MARTINEZ’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION OF THE REMAINING CAUSES OF ACTION IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 16, 2021, Plaintiff Walther
Medina filed the operative second amended complaint against Defendants
Montebello Unified School District (“MUSD”) and Anthony Martinez, asserting
causes of action for (1) violation of Ralph Act; (2) sexual battery; (3) gender
violence; (4) violation of Unruh; (5) violation of Bane Act; (6) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (7) negligence; and (8) violation of
Education Code. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Martinez, MUSD
Superintendent, sexually assaulted Plaintiff and sought a sexual relationship
with Plaintiff in exchange for money and education through MUSD. In the SAC,
Plaintiff alleges Martinez was also the Chief of Police of the school district.
 
On August 25, 2023, Martinez filed a
cross-complaint against MUSD for indemnity.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties'
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Trial judges are required “to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) Once the defendant has met that
burden, “the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Id.)  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial
responsive evidence.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)
 
A. Ralph Act and Gender Violence
 
To plead a claim for violation of
section 51.7, a plaintiff must allege (1) the defendant threatened or committed
violent acts against the plaintiff; (2) the defendant was motivated by his
perception of plaintiff’s protected characteristic; (3) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (4) the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the
plaintiff’s harm. (Austin B. v. Escondido Union School Dist. (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 860, 880-81.) California Civil Code §
52.4(c) provides two definitions of “gender violence”: (1) “One or more acts
that would constitute a criminal offense under state law that has as an element
the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the person
or property of another, committed at least in part based on the gender of the
victim, whether or not those acts have resulted in criminal complaints,
charges, prosecution, or conviction;” and (2) “A physical intrusion or physical
invasion of a sexual nature under coercive conditions, whether or not those
acts have resulted in criminal complaints, charges, prosecution, or
conviction.”
 
Martinez asserts that Plaintiff’s
claims for violation of the Ralph Act and for Gender Violence fail because
Martinez did not threaten or commit an act of violence against Plaintiff on the
basis of Plaintiff’s sex or sexual orientation. In opposition, Plaintiff
presents evidence showing Martinez touched Plaintiff’s genitals without
permission and harassed Plaintiff to expose his genitals. This is sufficient to
establish a triable issue of fact as to whether Martinez committed an act of
violence motivated by Plaintiff’s sex and/or sexual orientation. 
 
Defendant Martinez’ motion for summary
judgment is DENIED. Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of the first
and third causes of action is DENIED.
 
B. Unruh Act
 
Martinez asserts that Plaintiff cannot
establish a cause of action under the Unruh Act because public school districts
and Martinez himself are not “business establishments” under the Act. The Court
agrees. (See Brennon B. v. Superior Court (2022) 13 Cal.5th 662.)
 
Defendant Martinez’ motion for summary
adjudication of the fourth cause of action is GRANTED.
 
C. Bane Act
 
A claim for violation of the Bane Act
can be brought by an individual against a private person, where that person
interferes with the Plaintiff’s legal rights by threat, intimidation, or
coercion. (Civ. Code § 52.1(a), (b).)
 
Martinez contends that the claim for
violation of the Bane Act fails because Plaintiff cannot establish an
interference with a legal right. In opposition and in the operative complaint,
Plaintiff does not specify legal rights with which Martinez interfered. This
claim cannot be established.
 
Defendant Martinez’ motion for summary
adjudication of the fifth cause of action is GRANTED.
 
D. Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
 
The elements of an intentional
infliction of emotional distress cause of action are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe
emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy
the element of extreme and outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at 780 (quoting Trerice
v. Blue Cross of California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883).)
 
Martinez argues that Plaintiff cannot
maintain a cause of action for IIED on the ground that he has not experienced
severe emotional distress. Martinez presents evidence showing Plaintiff has not
been formally diagnosed with any mental or physical illness and has a healthy
home and personal life. In opposition, Plaintiff represents that he has
suffered severe emotional distress that has manifested in digestion issues,
PTSD, and depression. This is sufficient to create a triable issue of fact as
to severe emotional distress.
 
The motion for summary adjudication of
the sixth cause of action is DENIED.
 
E. Negligence
 
Martinez asserts that the claim for
negligence fails because Plaintiff cannot establish Martinez owed a duty of
care to Plaintiff. It is unclear from the operative complaint and Plaintiff’s
opposing papers what facts Plaintiff believes establish the tort of negligence
against Martinez. Plaintiff has not shown a triable issue of fact as to
negligence.
 
The motion for summary adjudication of
the seventh cause of action is GRANTED.
 
F. Education Code § 220
 
Education Code § 220 prohibits
educational institutions that receive or benefit from state funds from
subjecting any person to discrimination on the basis of sex. Martinez argues
that individuals cannot be liable under this statute, only the institution itself.
The Court agrees. (See Donovan v. Poway Unified
School Dist. (2008) 167 Cal. App. 4th 562, 584 fn. 3)
 
The motion for summary adjudication of the eighth cause of action for
violation of Education Code §
220 is GRANTED.
 
G. Sexual Battery
 
Martinez does not explicitly address
the second cause of action for sexual battery. As Plaintiff has presented evidence
purportedly showing Martinez touched Plaintiff’s genitals without permission,
Plaintiff has created a triable issue of fact as to sexual battery.
 
The motion for summary adjudication of
the second cause of action is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 