 Case Number:  22STCV09355    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Nadia Kamel Salem,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
22STCV09355




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Adnan Mohamed
  Aljojo, Amwest Funding Corp., and DOES 1 through 25, inclusive,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: September
6, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
Motion to Expunge Lis
Pendens
Moving Party: Defendant Adnan
Aljojo
Responding Party: Plaintiff Nadia
Kamel Salem
 
T/R:     THE MOTION TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS IS
DENIED. 
 
DEFENDANT’S REQUEST
FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES IS DENIED. 
 
PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST
FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES IS GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $6,650.00. 
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit
on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the
hearing. 
 
            The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 21, 2022, Plaintiff Nadia Kamel Salem filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Adnan Mohamed Aljojo; and Amwest
Funding Corp., for cancellation of written instrument by fraud in factum and
non-delivery. 
 
On July 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Lis Pendens. Plaintiff’s
earlier lis pendens had been vacated because Plaintiff failed to comply with
certain rules. Defendant Aljojo now moves for an order expunging the lis
pendens. 
            
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
 
Defendant Aljojo’s requests for judicial notice are GRANTED pursuant to
Evidence Code Sections 452, subdivision (d) and 453, as to the existence of the
documents, but not as to the truth of the matters in them.
 
ANALYSIS
 
When a motion to expunge a lis pendens is filed, the burden is on
the opposing party to show that the complaint contains allegations of a
real-property claim, and to show the probable validity of the claim, based on a
preponderance of evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 405.32, 405.31, 405.30; Howard
S. Wright Construction Co. v. Superior Court (2003) 106 Cal. App. 4th 314,
319.)  “[T]he court shall order that the notice be expunged if the court
finds that the claimant has not established by a preponderance of the evidence
the probable validity of the real property claim. The court shall not order an
undertaking to be given as a condition of expunging the notice if the court
finds the claimant has not established the probable validity of the real
property claim.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.32.) 
 
A.    Motion to Expunge Lis
Pendens
 
Defendant Aljojo
moves to expunge the lis pendens recorded by Plaintiff on July 9, 2024,
concerning 600 N. Plymouth Blvd/5421 Clinton Street, Los Angeles, CA 90004.
Aljojo contends Plaintiff cannot show the probable validity of her real
property claim, and that Plaintiff failed to comply with the service and filing
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure § 405.22. Aljojo contends Plaintiff’s
claim is barred by the statute of limitations because the purported fraudulent
transfer of the Property by Plaintiff to Aljojo occurred in January 2016 and
Plaintiff knew or suspected the “fraud” in 2017. Aljojo also asserts that the
2017 eviction proceeding he filed against Plaintiff’s son (Aljojo’s brother)
put Plaintiff on notice five years before filing this action. Aljojo argues
that title to the Property is in his name, which is prima facie evidence
of his title. Likewise, Aljojo contends in August 2017, Plaintiff provided two
videos admitting in Arabic that the property belongs to him.  And Aljojo argues that the U.S. Vice Consul
would have explained the nature and consequences of the document to be
notarized to Plaintiff. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff asserts that Aljojo’s deposition testimony demonstrates he forged
documents on her behalf without her knowledge or consent. Plaintiff submits
declarations from persons purporting to have witnessed Aljojo’s acts of fraud.
Plaintiff asserts that the Court previously adopted the five-year statute of
limitations period for cancellation of deed. Plaintiff points to the Court’s
denial of the motion for summary judgment, finding triable issues of material
fact concerning her delayed discovery. Plaintiff contends she was not aware of
the 2017 demand letter, nor of the existence of the deed transferring the
Property until 2022. And Plaintiff contends equitable estoppel bars the statute
of limitations defense because Aljojo coerced her into recording a video where
she made misleading statements that she did not fully understand. 
The Court finds that
the evidence presented by Plaintiff, including but not limited to Aljojo’s
deposition testimony, supporting declarations from other family members, and
Plaintiff’s own declaration, are sufficient to show by a preponderance of the
evidence the probable validity of her real property claim. 
 
The proof of service
attached to the Notice of Lis Pendens indicates it was served on all parties on
July 8, 2024. 
 
Aljojo’s Motion to
Expunge Lis Pendens is DENIED. 
 
B. Request for
Attorney’s Fees 
 
“The court shall
direct that the party prevailing on any motion under this chapter be awarded
the reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of making or opposing the motion
unless the court finds that the other party acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of attorney’s
fees and costs unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.38.)
 
Plaintiff seeks
$6,650.00 in attorney fees, for (1) 11.5 hours reviewing the motion, preparing
the opposition and supporting papers and (2) an anticipated 2.5 hours reviewing
the reply and preparing for and attending the hearing, at an hourly rate of $475.00
per hour. These are reasonable. Aljojo has not shown he was substantially
justified in bringing this motion; nor has Aljojo shown any other reason that
imposing attorney’s fees would be unjust.
 
Defendant’s request
for attorney’s fees is DENIED. Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees is
GRANTED in the amount of $6,650.00. 


 