 Case Number:  23PSCV03194    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Patricia
Nagle v. Storm Haven, Inc., et al. 
Motion
for Order to Produce Records Pursuant to Deposition Subpoena 
TENTATIVE
RULING
The Court DENIES the motion for order to produce records pursuant
to deposition subpoena. The motion is denied without prejudice to Plaintiff
serving another subpoena after the Defendants have been served and the hold
period expired. 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND
This is a wrongful death and elder abuse action. On October 16,
2023, plaintiff Patricia Nagle (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants
Storm Haven, Inc., Harvienia Williams, Ian Sebastian Williams, Lee Frances
Porter (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of
action for wrongful death and civil elder abuse and neglect. 
On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for order to produce
records pursuant to deposition subpoena against non-party San Gabriel/Pomona
Regional Center (Regional Center). On January 22, 2024, Regional Center opposed
the motion. No reply was filed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
If a subpoena requires the attendance of
a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of
an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion
reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's
own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make
an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)  
All information and records obtained in the course of
providing intake, assessment, and services… to persons with developmental
disabilities shall be confidential. Information and records obtained in the
course of providing similar services to either voluntary or involuntary
recipients before 1969 shall also be confidential.
Information and records shall be disclosed only in any of the following cases: …
(f) To the courts, as necessary to the administration of justice. 
(Welf. & Inst. Code §
4514, subd. (f).) 
PRELIMINARY
ISSUES
            A motion
to compel the production of documents at a deposition requires a separate
statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(5).) The Court notes
that Plaintiff did not file a separate statement with the motion. However, the
Court also notes that Regional Center did not raise this issue in its
opposition to the motion. Accordingly, the Court will still consider
Plaintiff’s motion, but admonishes Plaintiff to comply with the requirements of
the California Rules of Court going forward. 
DISCUSSION
Meet and Confer
Although
a meet-and-confer declaration is not required for a motion to compel compliance
with a subpoena, the Court appreciates Plaintiff’s efforts to meet and confer
before bringing this motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1; Shebby Decl., ¶¶
9-11, Ex. D.) 
Analysis
Plaintiff
seeks to compel non-party Regional Center to comply with a deposition subpoena
served on November 8, 2023. Plaintiff seeks to do so under Welfare and
Institutions Code section 4514, subdivision (f). Plaintiff contends that since the
decedent, Deborah Nagle (the “Decedent”), is deceased, the interests of her
privacy intended by the protections of section 4514 are substantially
diminished, or at least outweighed in favor of disclosure. Plaintiff contends
that disclosure in this case would enable the fair administration of justice. 
In
opposition, Regional Center indicates that Welfare and Institutions Code
section 4514, subdivision (f) would be the only possible exception here, and
that a court order would be required for it to produce the requested records.
Regional Center contends that, among other things, although the Decedent has
died, the privacy interests protected under section 4514 survive death, as
evidenced by subdivision (p) of section 4514, which even limits disclosure in
instances of murder. (Welf. & Inst. Code § 4515, subd. (p).) 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s motion to be well-taken. Plaintiff is
the mother of the Decedent who is the subject of the records sought. Plaintiff
has filed a wrongful death action against Defendants and seeks records from the
Regional Center regarding its investigation into Decedent’s death. Any interest
the Decedent may have had in maintaining her privacy is certainly outweighed by
her mother’s interest in investigating the facts surrounding her death and the
disclosure of such information promotes the administration of justice. The
evidence presented further supports the disclosure of Regional Center’s records
as it pertains to the Decedent. The May 11, 2023 letter from Jaime Anabalon on
behalf of Regional Center to the Decedent’s sister, Laura Herman, tends to show
that Defendant Ian Williams, who worked for Regional Center at the time of the
incident, caused or contributed to the Decedent’s death. (See Shebby Decl., Ex.
C.) Regional Center’s disclosure per the November 8, 2023 subpoena would likely
promote the interests of justice in determining fault with respect to
Decedent’s death. (See Welf. & Inst. Code, § 4515, subd. (f).) 
Moreover, the Court does not find subdivision (p) of Welfare and
Institutions Code section 4514 to be a clear indication that the Decedent’s
privacy interests survive death. Subdivision (p) is one of the numerated
exceptions to the confidentiality protections of section 4514 and it
specifically permits disclosure to law enforcement agencies when there is
probable cause that the developmentally disabled person was murdered. (Welf.
& Inst. Code § 4514, subd. (p)(1).) If anything, this weighs in support of
disclosure in the event of death. Additionally, the Court reads Regional
Center’s opposition not really as an objection to the production of the
requested records, but rather as an agreement to produce provided there is a
court order directing it to do so. 
However, the Court takes judicial notice of its own records and
finds that no defendants have been served with the Summons and Complaint in
this action, as no proofs of service have been filed with the Court. The Civil
Discovery Act precludes Plaintiff from serving a deposition notice until 20
days after "the service of the summons on, or appearance by, any defendant.”
(See Civ. Proc. § 2025.210(b)(2).) The Court finds that such hold does apply to
a deposition subpoena seeking business records from a non-party. (See Cal.
Shellfish v. United Shellfish Co. (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 16, 25; see also
Naser v. Lakeridge Athletic Club (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 571, 578 (“We agree
that obtaining business records through a deposition subpoena is a ‘deposition’
within the plain meaning of the Civil Discovery Act.”); Unzipped Apparel,
LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, 131 (“under the plain meaning
rule, the Act contemplates that discovery conducted by way of a business
records subpoena is a ‘deposition’.”) 
As the Court stated in Cal. Shellfish: “Allowing a
plaintiff to initiate discovery by deposition subpoena pursuant to section
2020, subdivision (d), before serving any defendant with the summons and
complaint, and without notice of the deposition to any defendant, or any other
party in the action, is fraught with the danger for abuse recognized by our
Supreme Court years ago. ‘If a party were allowed to compel an independent
witness to give his deposition, all without notice to the opposing party, a
situation not contemplated by the discovery statutes would result. For then a
party might resort to all manner of discovery without adequate protection to
his opponent, so long as he intended to forego any formal introduction of the
material at time of trial. This would present an intolerable situation.’ (
Lund v. Superior Court (1964) 61 Cal. 2d 698, 711 [39 Cal. Rptr. 891, 394
P.2d 707].) A calculating litigant might conclude that it could benefit from
the opportunity to access information it might not otherwise have if an
adversary were on notice of the litigation and able to raise valid objections.”
(Cal. Shellfish, supra, 56 Cal.App.4th at 23-24.) 
This risk of abuse is illustrated here by the fact that the
defendants are not represented. Only the nonparty witness’ interest is represented.
However, “[a] witness who is not a party to the litigation does not have the
same incentive as an adversarial party to raise valid objections to a discovery
request”, and since no defendant was served with notice of the deposition
subpoena served on the Regional Center, defendants cannot avail themselves of
the right to seek a protective order. (Cal. Shellfish, supra, 56
Cal.App.4th at 24. 
Since it appears that no defendant has been served with the
Summons and Complaint, Plaintiff cannot yet serve the deposition subpoena on
the Regional Center. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion for order to
produce records pursuant to the deposition subpoena. 
CONCLUSION
The Court DENIES the motion for order to produce records pursuant
to deposition subpoena. The motion is denied without prejudice to Plaintiff
serving another subpoena after the Defendants have been served and the hold
period expired. 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.