  Case Number:  22STCV22185    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendant
Marathon HVAC Service, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further Response to Demands for Inspection
and Destructive Testing is GRANTED, with the condition that Defendant is to pay
all the costs of such testing. No sanctions are awarded.
 
Defendant
to provide notice. 
 
I.         
MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER
A party may demand
the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of “documents, tangible things,
land or other property, and electronically stored information in the
possession, custody, or control of any other party to the action.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.010, subd. (a).) The
responding party must respond to the production demand either by complying, by
representing that the party lacks the ability to comply, or by objecting to the
demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210.) The demanding party may move for
an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that (1) a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete, (2) a
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or
(3) an objection in the response is without merit or too general. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(a).) “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand,” and “[t]he motion shall
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b).) 
 
A motion to compel
a further response to an inspection demand must set forth specific facts
showing “good cause” justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1); Kirkland
v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) Unless there is a
legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney work product, that burden is
met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance. (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th
443, 444.) Once the moving party demonstrates good cause for the discovery, the
burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully
respond to the inspection demand.  (Coy v Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d
210, 220.) 
 
Defendant Marathon HVAC Services Inc.
(Defendant) moves for an order compelling further responses to Demands for
Inspection No. 17–28. These inspection demands sought access to Plaintiff John
N. Drooyan’s (Plaintiff) condominium (No. 17) to conduct destructive testing at
various points in Plaintiff’s dwelling. The inspection demands contemplate
removal of a fan-coil access panel in the master bedroom walk-in closet, the
removal of drywall in the ceiling and wall of the same closet for the inspection
of piping therein, the removal of drywall around windows and exterior doors for
signs of water intrusion, the removal of wall and ceiling drywall to inspect
fire sprinkler heads and piping, the disconnection of kitchen appliances and
potentially the removal of drywall to inspect for water damage or its source,
the disconnection of Plaintiff’s bathroom plumbing fixtures and the removal of drywall
to inspect for water damage, and an inspection of the “remainder of interior of
unit” for the same. (Motion Exh. A.) These requests state that the destructive
testing (DT) crew is to restore any inspected areas “to pre-testing condition”
after the inspection is concluded, but not all requests call for DT of
Plaintiff’s dwelling. Request No. 20 calls for DT of a detached piece of copper
piping located in Plaintiff’s closet, while Request No. 21 calls for a
photo-inspection of the “condensate drains of the HVAC unit.” (Ibid.)
Requests No. 22 and 23 likewise call for a mere “water test” in the condensate
pan, to see where water in the pan goes, and photo-documentation thereof. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff responded to these requests with objections, and did not allow the
inspection sought to take place. (Ortega-Smith Decl. ¶¶ 4–10.)
 
Defendant supports the motion with the
declaration of its counsel, Teresa Ortega-Smith, who states that Defendant has
no other means to investigate Plaintiff’s claims than those specified in the
requests, and that further inspection of the area is required to evaluate the
condition of the unit and determine both the cause and the amount of
Plaintiff’s damages. (Ortega-Smith Decl. ¶¶ 15–19.)
 
Plaintiff contends that no destructive
testing is needed or useful in this matter, because the pipe-burst that is the
subject of this action occurred in July 2019 and was fully remediated by six
named vendors in November of that year. (Drooyan Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff
contends that the inspections sought are thus unlikely to uncover relevant
information, and further represent a burdensome intrusion upon his privacy.
(Opposition at pp. 7–8.)
A court
may order destructive testing to take place, provided the party that seeks
destructive discovery bears the costs thereof. (San Diego Unified Port Dist. v.
Douglas E. Barnhart, Inc. (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1400, 1404.)
Defendant has shown good cause
for the discovery sought here. Plaintiff in interrogatories has claimed damages
resulting from a burst HVAC pipe and remediation efforts for his hardwood
floors on the first and second story of his unit, mold treatments, new walls,
new bathroom and kitchen cabinets and countertops, and other matters.
(Opposition Exh. 1, Interrogatory No. 7.1.) Defendant may seek to conduct
testing upon these areas to evaluate Plaintiff’s alleged cause of damages and
the damages themselves. Although Plaintiff claims that the damages have been
remediated, this assertion does not foreclose the possibility that further
inspection will uncover useful information. Damage to Plaintiff’s privacy and
property is adequately safeguarded by the nature of the requests, which include
as their element a restoration of Plaintiff’s property to pre-testing
condition, and the requirement that Defendant bear all costs of the testing. (San
Diego Unified Port Dist., supra, 95 Cal.app.4th at
p.1404.) 
An exception, however, shall be
made for Demand No. 28, which identifies no particular aspect or area of
Plaintiff’s property to be inspected, but states broadly that Defendant will
“[i]nspect remainder of interior of unit for locations of water damage allegedly
caused by HVAC fan coil leak, including all first-floor areas,” and further
states that Defendant may mark out areas of the drywall and ceiling to remove
and inspect potential water damage and leak pathways. (Motion Exh. A.) This
request is overly broad and would permit potentially destructive testing of the
entirety of the interior of Plaintiff’s unit, irrespective of Plaintiff’s
allegations of particular damage.
 
Accordingly, the motion to
compel further is GRANTED as to Inspection Demands No. 17–27, and DENIED as to
Demand No. 28. Defendant is to bear the costs of testing.
 
II.       SANCTIONS
Statute provides that the court shall impose sanctions upon
a party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response
to interrogatories, requests for production of documents, or requests for
admission, absent substantial justification otherwise. (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.300, subd. (d); 2031.310, subd. (h); 2033.290, subd. (d).)
 
Defendant seeks $2,260.00 in
sanctions, representing apparently 10.47 hours of attorney work at $210 per
hour plus a $60 filing fee. (Ortega-Smith Decl. ¶ 23.) No sanctions are
awarded, as Plaintiff opposed the motion with substantial justification.