 Case Number:  23AHCV00221    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



YVETTE CORRELL, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
HELEN
   ROSS, et al.,
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00221
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES AND DEEM
  ADMITTED; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April 8,
   2024



 
On January 13,
 2023, plaintiff Yvette Correll (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against defendants Helen Ross  (“Ross”) and Lotusan LLC (“Lotusan”)
(collectively, “Defendants”). Plaintiff asserts causes of action for: (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of implied warranty of habitability, (3) breach
of implied warranty of quiet enjoyment, (4) negligence, (5) nuisance, (6)
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (7) constructive
eviction, and (8) failure to return deposit. 
On October
 27, 2023, Plaintiff served Form Interrogatories (Set One),
Special Interrogatories (Set One), Request for Production of Documents (Set
One), and Request for Admissions (Set One) on Defendants.
Despite being given two 3-week extensions, Defendants did not serve discovery
responses by the agreed-upon due date of January 3, 2024. (Aziz Decl., ¶ 4.) On
January 11, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to meet and confer with defense
counsel regarding the status of the discovery responses but defense counsel did
not respond. Therefore, Plaintiff filed these motions on February 1, 2024. 
          Compel
Responses
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, 2031.300; Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 403.) A party that fails to serve timely responses waives any objections
to the request, including ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney
work product. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).) 
Defendants admit that responses have
not been served. Nevertheless, Defendants oppose Plaintiffs’ motions on the
grounds that Ross is 80-years old and in poor health. Defendants also state
that the motions should be denied because it is possible that the insurance
company will be taking over the defense of the case soon. These are unpersuasive
arguments because the discovery requests were served almost 6 months ago and the
action has been pending for over a year. Furthermore, even if Ross is in poor
health (an assertion for which Defendants fail to provide any admissible evidence,
such as a sworn declaration from Ross herself), there is no explanation for why
the corporate defendant, Lotusan, was unable to fulfill its discovery
obligations in the last 6 months or why defense counsel did not respond to
Plaintiff’s counsel’s attempts to meet and confer. 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motions are
GRANTED and Defendants are ordered to serve verified responses
without objections to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special
Interrogatories (Set One) and Requests for Production of Documents (Set One)
within 30 days of the date of this Order. 
Deem Admitted
Where a party fails to timely respond
to a request for admission, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The
court shall grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it
finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
Defendants did not serve substantially
compliant responses before the hearing. Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to deem
admitted is GRANTED. 
Monetary Sanctions
The Code of Civil Procedure provides
that the court shall impose a monetary sanction against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with
substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).) Where a party fails to
provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that
the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely
response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
Plaintiff requests sanctions in the
amount of $1,588.09 for three hours of attorney time at $500 per hour for each
motion. This amount includes 1 hour preparing the motion, 2 hours to draft a
reply brief and appear at the hearing, and $88.09 for costs associated with
filing the motion and reply.
First, Plaintiff should have filed 8
motions and paid 8 motion reservation fees, not 4. Accordingly, the Court
orders Plaintiff to pay an additional $246.60 in filing fees to the clerk and
file proof of payment with the Court. 
Second, the hourly rate billed by the
attorney for these motions is excessive given their relatively simple nature
which requires little legal analysis. A more reasonable hourly rate for
preparing these motions is $300. 
Therefore, the Court only imposes sanctions
against Defendants and counsel, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of
$2,998.96, consisting of 8 hours of attorney time at a reasonable rate of $300,
$493.20 in motion reservation fees, and $105.76 for e-filing fees. Sanctions
shall be paid no later than 20 days after Plaintiff files proof that the
additional motion reservation fees have been paid. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
Dated
this 8th
day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 