  Case Number:  22PSCV01384    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2023    Dept:  6 Motion to be Relieved as CounselTENTATIVE
RULINGThe Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is DENIED
without prejudice. Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five days. BACKGROUNDOn October 20, 2022,
Plaintiff Goldman Sachs Bank USA (Plaintiff) filed this action against
Defendant Rowena Larowa (Defendant) for common counts in connection with a loan.
 On July 18, 2023, Sam Dehbozorgi,
Esq. of The Fullman Firm, P.C., counsel for Defendant, filed a motion to be
relieved as counsel. The motion is unopposed. LEGAL STANDARDThe court has discretion to allow an attorney
to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted, provided that there is no
prejudice to the client, and it does not disrupt the orderly process of
justice. (See Ramirez v.
Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 403-407.) An application to be relieved
as counsel must be made on Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and
Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite forms must be
served “on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(d).) DISCUSSIONSam
Dehbozorgi, Esq. of The Fullman Firm, P.C. (Counsel), seeks to be relieved as
counsel for Defendant. Counsel contends there has been a breakdown of the
attorney-client relationship between Counsel and Defendant. (Dehbozorgi Decl.,
¶ 2.) Counsel has attempted to contact Defendant multiple times over the past
few months to no avail, and Defendant has refused to cooperate with litigation
obligations. (Dehbozorgi Decl., ¶ 2.) Grounds for permitting an attorney to withdraw
from representation include that the client’s conduct “renders it unreasonably
difficult for the lawyer to carry out the representation effectively[.]” (Cal.
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16, subd. (b)(4).) A breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship is also grounds for allowing the attorney to
withdraw. (Estate of Falco (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014.) Per
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subdivisions (a) and (e), Counsel has
provided the application, declaration, and proposed order on Judicial Counsel
forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053. However,
Counsel has failed to demonstrate adequate service of the motion on Defendant.
Counsel’s declaration does not provide any confirmation of Defendant’s address
being current, and instead has only declared that the motion was served on
Defendant via mail at Defendant’s last known address, return receipt requested.
(Dehbozorgi Decl., ¶ 3, subd. (b)(2)(a).) This is insufficient per Rule 3.1362,
subdivision (b)(2), of the California Rules of Court, which provides as
follows: As used in this rule, ‘current’
means that the address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the
motion to be relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the
client's last known address and was not returned or no
electronic delivery failure message was received is not, by itself,
sufficient to demonstrate that the address is current. If the service is by
mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b) applies. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (d) 2d paragraph.) Code
of Civil Procedure section 1011, subdivision (b)(3) further provides that: If upon a party,
service shall be made in the manner specifically provided in particular cases,
or, if no specific provision is made, service may be made by leaving the notice
or other paper at the party's residence with some person 18 years of
age or older…(3) If the party’s residence is
not known, any attempt of service pursuant to this subdivision may be
made by delivering the notice or papers to the clerk of the court, for that
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1011, subd. (b).) Accordingly, Counsel must serve the motion on
Defendant per Code of Civil Procedure section 1011, subdivision (b)(3). The Court further notes that neither the declaration
nor the proposed order provide any future hearing dates; plus, they incorrectly
indicate that no future hearing dates or trial date are set. Therefore, the Court will deny the motion without
prejudice. CONCLUSIONThe Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is DENIED
without prejudice. 























































































Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five days.Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary AdjudicationTENTATIVE  RULING Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment is  CONTINUED to October 19, 2023 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 6 of this Court.  Plaintiff’s supplemental brief and revised Separate Statement are to be filed  and served no later than October 5, 2023. Defendant may address the issues  raised in Plaintiff’s supplemental brief in conjunction with an opposition,  which will be due no later than October 12, 2023.   Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of  service of same within five days.   BACKGROUND On October 20, 2022,  Plaintiff Goldman Sachs Bank USA (Plaintiff) filed this action against  Defendant Rowena Larowa (Defendant) for common counts in connection with a loan.     On March 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed  a Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative for Summary Adjudication. Defendant  did not oppose the motion. On August 1, 2023, the Court continued the hearing  on the motion to August 24, 2023, in part due to Defendant’s failure to appear  at the hearing. After this action had been transferred to Department 6 in West  Covina, the hearing on the motion was continued again to September 19, 2023. Defendant  still did not oppose the motion.   PARTY’S  REQUESTS Plaintiff seeks summary judgment, or in the  alternative, summary adjudication in Plaintiff’s favor for its sole common  counts claim against Defendant.   LEGAL STANDARD The function of a motion for  summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an  opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to  enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v.  Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure  section 437c, subdivision (c), “requires the trial judge to grant summary  judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably  deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or  evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that  the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.  Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of  the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the  issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether  there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the  pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,  citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,  381-382.)   “A plaintiff or cross-complainant  has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of  action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling  the party to judgment on the cause of action.  Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts  to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more  material facts exists as to the  cause of action or a defense thereto. The defendant or cross-defendant shall  not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a  triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the  specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “[A] plaintiff bears the burden of  persuasion that ‘each element of’ the ‘cause of action’ in question has been  ‘proved,’ and hence that ‘there is no defense’ thereto.” (Aguilar, supra, 25  Cal.4th at p. 850, citing Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(1).)”   Courts “liberally construe the  evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts  concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,  Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)   DISCUSSION The Court notes that  the loan agreement at issue is governed by federal law and the laws of the  State of Utah. “This Agreement is entered into between you and us in the  State of Utah and the Loan is made in Utah. Except as provided in Section 12(b)  below, this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with  federal law and any applicable laws of the State of Utah without regard to  rules concerning conflicts of law or choice of law.” (Knudtson Decl., Ex. 1, ¶ 12(a).)  However, Plaintiff’s memorandum of points and authorities cites only California  law. (Motion, 3:11-4:25.) While it is unlikely the outcome will be any  different under federal or Utah law given the straightforward nature of the  subject dispute, the Court desires further briefing on this issue.   The Court also notes that while Plaintiff’s Separate Statement does  provide references to the evidentiary record, such references lack sufficient  specificity as required by Rule 3.1350, subdivision (d)(3) of the California  Rules of Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350, subd. (d)(3) [“The separate  statement must be in the two-column format specified in (h). The statement must  state in numerical sequence the undisputed material facts in the first column  followed by the evidence that establishes those undisputed facts in that same  column. Citation to the evidence in support of each material fact must  include reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.”] [italics  added]; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) Plaintiff’s Separate Statement  references entire exhibits and does not specify where the relied upon evidence  is located within the applicable exhibits.   Thus, the Court will  continue the hearing on this motion to permit the parties to provide further  briefing on the applicability of any federal law or the laws of the State of  Utah as it pertains to Plaintiff’s common counts claim, and for Plaintiff to  provide a revised Separate Statement that fully complies with Rule 3.1350,  subdivision (d)(3) of the California Rules of Court.    CONCLUSION Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment is CONTINUED  to October 19, 2023 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 6 of this Court. Plaintiff’s  supplemental brief and revised Separate Statement are to be filed and served no  later than October 5, 2023. Defendant may address the issues raised in  Plaintiff’s supplemental brief in conjunction with an opposition, which will be  due no later than October 12, 2023.   Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this  ruling and file proof of service of same within five days.