  Case Number:  19STCV20062    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JACOB
  REICH
                           
         vs.
 
MANSOUR
  HASHEM
 


 Case No.: 
  19STCV20062
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date: May 8, 2024



 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to appoint a receiver
is DENIED.
 
On June 7, 2019, Plaintiff Jacob Reich filed
a Complaint against Defendant Mansour Hashem. On September 1, 2020, Plaintiff
filed a second amended complaint (SAC) 
alleging: (1) breach of written contract; (2) money had and received; (3)
common counts; (4) open book account; (5) account stated; (6) failure to honor
checks; (7) fraud; (8) negligence; (9) unjust enrichment; (10) judiciary
foreclosure; and (11) reformation of contract. 
 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order appointing a receiver. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that a receiver should be appointed because:
 
1.     
 “Defendant had been collecting rent, pocketing
it without paying some secured creditors, thereby diminishes the equity and
jeopardizing the security.”
2.     
“Defendant has engaged in action
designed to frustrate the enforcement effort and in particular the Sheriff Levy
recorded on Set 1, 2023.” 
3.     
“No tenant has yet sent the Judgment
Creditor Jacob Reich, any of the rent ordered by the Court to be assigned,
leading to the only one possible conclusion, that Mansour Hashem is inciting
his tenants not to comply with the Court’s Order.”
4.     
“The ORAPs were turned by the
Defendants into a circus. Time again he failed to produce documents such as
documents showing payments to secure creditors such as Zur Giat”
 
(Motion, 2:
4-14.)
 
CCP section
708.620 states that “the Court may appoint a receiver to enforce the judgment
where the judgment creditor shows that, considering the interests of both the
judgment creditor and the judgment debtor, the appointment of a receiver is a
reasonable method to obtain the fair and orderly satisfaction of the judgment.”
(Conaway v. Conaway (1963), 218 Cal. App. 2d 427.) 
 
Receivers may be appointed where a writ
of execution does not reach certain property and other remedies are
inadequate.  (Comment to CCP § 708.620; Tucker v. Fontes (1945) 70
Cal.App.2d 768, 773; see also Ahart, Cal. Practice Guide: Enforcing Judgments
and Debts (The Rutter Group, June 2019 Update), § 6:1458; Cal. Judges
Benchbook: Civil Proceedings After Trial (CJER, Oct. 2019 Update) Supplemental
Enforcement Proceedings § 7.65.)   
 
After
review, the Court finds insufficient cause to appoint a receiver.
 
First,
Plaintiff’s arguments are based on either speculation or evidence introduced
without foundation. For example, Plaintiff contends that Defendant has been
pocketing rent without paying some secured creditors, but offers no admissible
evidence of this. Similarly, Plaintiff contends that Defendant has been
inciting his tenants not to comply with the Court’s Order, but offers nothing
beyond speculation to establish this. 
 
Second,
Plaintiff has not shown that any remedy short of a receiver is adequate to
reach the property in question. Plaintiff also has not shown good cause to
effect the remedies he seeks. For example, he seeks a receiver in part to evict
tenants from Defendant’s property who fail to comply with the Court order. The
Court finds absolutely no basis for such an extreme measure at this time.  
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to appoint a receiver is denied. 
 
 
It is
so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend
to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a
motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information, please contact the
court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 