 Case Number:  23STCV02710    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



GAL MOSHE
  FAIGEL, et al. 
  
         vs.
 
CALIFORNIA
  AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY aka 
MERCURY
  INSURANCE    

 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV02710
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 8, 2024




 
 
Defendant’s motion to compel responses from Plaintiff Gal Mose
Faigel to its Form Interrogatories is GRANTED. Defendant is sanctioned, jointly
and severally with counsel, $700.00.
 
Defendant’s motion to compel responses from Plaintiff Gal Mose
Faigel to its Special Interrogatories is GRANTED. Defendant is sanctioned,
jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00.
 
Defendant’s motion to compel responses from Plaintiff Gal Mose
Faigel to its RFPs is GRANTED. Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally
with counsel, $700.00.
 
Defendant’s motion to have its RFAs deemed admitted as to Plaintiff
Gal Mose Faigel is GRANTED. Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally with
counsel, $700.00.
 
 
            On 
2/3/2023, Plaintiffs Gal Moshe Faigel (Faigel) and Ronit Malmud (Malmud)
(collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit against California Automobile Insurance
Company aka Mercury Insurance, alleging: (1) breach of insurance contract; and
(2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
            Now, Defendant moves to compel
responses from Faigel to its Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special
Interrogatories (Set One), and Requests for Production (RFPs) (Set One), and to
have its Requests for Admission (RFAs) deemed admitted as to Faigel. Defendant
also seeks monetary sanctions in connection to these motions. 
 
Discussion

 
I.                  
Form
Interrogatories 
 
            On 7/24/2023, Defendant served
Plaintiff Faigel with Form Interrogatories. Despite granting Plaintiff an
extension to respond, to date, no response has been served.
 
            Plaintiff did not oppose this
motion, and thus has not set forth any substantial justification for the failure
to respond.
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion to compel responses to its Form Interrogatories is granted. Faigel is
sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $700 per motion. ($350/hr x 2
hr.) 
 
II.              
Special Interrogatories

 
            On 7/24/2023, Defendant served
Plaintiff Faigel with Special Interrogatories. Despite granting Plaintiff an
extension to respond, to date, no response has been served.
 
            Plaintiff did not oppose this
motion, and thus has not set forth any substantial justification for the
failure to respond.
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion to compel responses to its Special Interrogatories is granted. Faigel is
sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $700 per motion. ($350/hr x 2
hr.) 
 
III.           
RFPs

 
On 7/24/2023, Defendant served Plaintiff Faigel with RFPs. Despite
granting Plaintiff an extension to respond, to date, no response has been
served.
 
            Plaintiff did not oppose this
motion, and thus has not set forth any substantial justification for the
failure to respond.
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion to compel responses to its RFPs is granted. Faigel is sanctioned,
jointly and severally with counsel, $700 per motion. ($350/hr x 2 hr.) 
 
IV.           
RFAs

 
On 7/24/2023, Defendant served Plaintiff Faigel with RFAs. Despite
granting Plaintiff an extension to respond, to date, no response has been
served.
 
            Plaintiff did not oppose this
motion, and thus has not set forth any substantial justification for the failure
to respond.
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion to have it RFAs deemed admitted is granted. Faigel is sanctioned,
jointly and severally with counsel, $700 per motion. ($350/hr x 2 hr.) 
 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
May   , 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
  
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please
contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
            