 Case Number:  24STCV02234    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ABAYOMI SHAMBULIA 
  
        
  vs.
 
WESTLAKE
  SERVICES, LLC, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV02234  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: May 8, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The provisions barring the recovery of
punitive damages or injunctive relief, or the filing of administrative claims,
are severed from the agreement.
 
This action
is STAYED pending the completion of arbitration. 
 
            On
1/29/2024, Plaintiff Abayomi Shambulia (Plaintiff) filed suit against Westlake
Services, LLC, Hankey Investment Company, LP, and Hankey Finance Company, Inc.
(collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1) race discrimination; (2) sex/gender
discrimination; (3) race harassment; and (4) failure to prevent harassment and
discrimination. 
 
            On
3/4/2024, Defendant moved to compel arbitration and stay this action pending
the completion of arbitration proceedings. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Where the Court has determined that an agreement to
arbitrate a controversy exists, the Court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy …unless it determines that…  grounds exist for rescission of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support
rescission are fraud, duress, and unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The
Court may also decline to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion 
 
I.                  
Defendants’ Burden 
 
The party moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden
of proving [the] existence [of an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of
the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party
also bears the burden of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of
the arbitration agreement. (Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
 
A.   
Existing Agreement
 
Here,
Defendants submitted evidence that Plaintiff signed a dispute resolution
agreement (DRA) on 4/11/2017. (Feldmeth Decl., Exh. C). In opposition,
Plaintiff does not dispute that the signature is his. 
 
Defendants
also submitted evidence that Westlake periodically updates the DRA to comply
with changes in California employment law. Plaintiff signed revised agreements
in both April 2019 and August 2019. consistent with Westlake’s standard
procedure that all new policies are launched and pushed out to current
employees. Despite both DRAs containing opt-out provisions, Plaintiff did not
opt out of either the April 2019 or August 2019 DRA Policies. (Feldmeth Decl.,
Exh. F.) 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff contends that the April and August 2019 DRAs are not enforceable
because they were not signed as required by the 2017 DRA. Indeed, the 2017 DRA
provides: 
 
This
Agreement shall survive the employment relationship between the Company and the
Employee and shall apply to any Claim whether it arises or is asserted during
or after termination of the Employee's employment with the Company. This
Agreement can be modified or revoked only by a writing signed by both parties
that references this Agreement and specifically states an intent to modify or
revoke this Agreement.
 
(Exh. 5, § 5,
emphasis added.) 
 
“If an
employer has prescribed methods of policy modification and employee notice, it
is incumbent upon the employer to abide by those methods.” (Davis v.
Nordstrom, Inc. (9th Cir. 2014) 755 F.3d 1089, 1093, citing Ferguson v.
Countrywide Credit Indus., Inc. (9th Cir. 2002) 298 F.3d 778, 786 (holding
that the unilateral modification of an arbitration agreement was not effective
because the arbitration agreement between the parties stated it “can be
modified or revoked only by a writing signed by the Employee and an executive
officer of the Company that references this Agreement and specifically states
an intent to modify or revoke this Agreement."). Here, because the April and
August 2019 notices were not signed by Plaintiff, the Court agrees that only
enforceable DRA is the 2017 DRA.  
 
B.   
Covered Claims
 
There terms of the August 2017 DRA (the
operative DRA), provides in part:
 
1.      AGREEMENT
TO ARBITRATE AND CLASS ACTION WAIVER 
 
Employee
hereby agrees to submit to binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator all
disputes and claims arising out of submission of my employment application or
any and all disputes that may arise out of or already exist related to my
employment or relationship with Employer, whether during or after that
employment, including, but not limited to claims for wages or other
compensation due; claims for breach of any contract or covenant, express or
implied; tort claims; claims for discrimination, including but not limited to
discrimination based on race, sex, religion, national origin, age, marital
status, sexual orientation, handicap, disability or medical condition; claims
for benefits, except as excluded in the following paragraph; and claims for
violation of any federal, state or other governmental constitution, statute,
ordinance or regulation. I understand that this Agreement to Arbitrate applies
to claims that pre-exist or may pre-exist the date of this Agreement. The claim
will be submitted to binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator. I
understand and acknowledge that I am waiving my right to a jury trial
 
(Feldmeth Decl., Exh. F (emphasis in
original).)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff’s claims for race discrimination, sex/gender discrimination, race
harassment, and failure to prevent harassment and discrimination all arise from
the employment relationship of the parties.
 
Given that
Defendant has established by a preponderance of the evidence that an
arbitration agreement exists, and that Plaintiff’s claims are covered by that
agreement, the burden shifts to the Plaintiff to establish that the arbitration
clause should not be enforced. (Pinnacle, 55 Cal.4th at p. 236.) 
 
II.              
Plaintiff’s Burden  
 
The party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence any defense, such as unconscionability or duress. (Pinnacle, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 236.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff argues the arbitration agreement is invalid because it is
unconscionable.
 
“Unconscionability has both procedural
and substantive elements. Although both must appear for a court to invalidate a
contract or one of its individual terms, they need not be present in the same
degree: ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less
evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion
that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’”  (Roman
v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469. (Roman).) Where the degree of procedural unconscionability is low,
“the agreement will be enforceable unless the degree of substantive
unconscionability is high.” (Ajamian v.
CantorCO2e (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 796 (Ajamian).)
 
A.   
Procedural
Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff
argues that the arbitration agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it
is an adhesion contract. 
 
Where
pre-employment adhesion contracts are involved, a degree of procedural
unconscionability is always present. This is because, “the arbitration
agreement stands between the employee and necessary employment, and few
employees are in a position to refuse a job because of an arbitration
agreement.” (Little v. Auto Stiegler,
Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071 (Little).)  However, where “there is no other indication
of oppression or surprise, the degree of procedural unconscionability of an
adhesion agreement is low, and the agreement will be enforceable unless the
degree of substantive unconscionability is high.” (Ajamian, supra, 203 Cal.App.4th at p. 796.) 
 
Therefore,
while Plaintiff is correct that including the arbitration clause within a
contract of adhesion indicates a degree of procedural unconscionability, there
must be other indications of oppression or surprise to render the agreement
unenforceable. (Little, supra, 29
Cal.4th at p.1071; Ajamian, supra, 203
Cal.App.4th at p. 796.) 
 
B.   
Substantive
Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff
argues the Agreement is substantively unconscionable because the DRA: (1)
excludes punitive damages or injunctive relief as remedies that would be
available to Plaintiff; (2) is illusory and one-sided; and (3) it alters the
right to exhaust administrative remedies.
 
As to the
first contention, the Court agrees that the exclusion of punitive damages or
injunctive relief is unconscionable. (See Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services (2000) 24 Cal. 4th 83, 103-113, identifying one of the
minimum requirements of arbitration agreements is that is must provide for all
types of relief that would otherwise be available in a non-arbitration forum.) 
 
However, the
Court finds that this provision can be easily severed from the agreement. (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 124.) 
 
As for the
second contention, the Court does not find the agreement to be illusory or one-sided.
The claims not covered by the agreement include claims for workers
compensations and claims for unemployment benefits which would benefit the
employee. Given that the employer agrees to arbitrate all other claims, the
Court disagrees that this carve-out renders the arbitration agreement so
one-sided as to be substantively unconscionable. 
 
Finally, as
to the third contention, the 2017 DRA states that: “the Company and the
Employee agree that neither party shall initiate or prosecute any lawsuit or
administrative action which relates in any way to any Claim covered by this
Agreement.” Plaintiff argues “the inability to proceed with administrative
remedies prior to the commencement of arbitration precludes a Plaintiff’s
entitlement to attorneys’ fees under Cal. Gov. Code § 12965(b). Section
12965(b) provides that civil actions brought within the one-year deadline to
obtain a right-to-sue letter from the DFEH, a court may award reasonable
attorney’s fees to the prevailing plaintiff.” (Opp., 10: 19-23.) The Court also
strikes this provision from the arbitration agreement. 
 
“Where appropriate, courts
have discretion to sever or limit the application of unconscionable provisions
and enforce the remainder of an arbitration agreement under Civil Code section 1670.5, subdivision (a).” (Ramos,
supra, 28 Cal.App.5th at p. 1065.)
Circumstances in which severability can be appropriate include where the
unconscionability can be cured by striking the offending clause or clauses. (Id. at p. 1069.)
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
concludes that Plaintiff has failed to show any evidence of substantive
unconscionability, beyond the provisions limiting form of relief which have
been severed from the agreement. Therefore, while Plaintiff has demonstrated a
degree of procedural unconscionability, he has not demonstrated any degree of
substantive unconscionability. As a result, the Court finds that the
arbitration agreement is enforceable. (Ajamian,
supra, Cal.App.4th at p. 796.) 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May    ,
2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 