 Case Number:  BC505701    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Angel Warehouse, Inc., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
BC505701




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Meza Body Shop Supplies, Inc., et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: May 7, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
(2) Motions for Order Sale of Dwelling
Moving Party: Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor Angel
Warehouse, Inc.
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     THE APPLICATION FOR SALE OF THE FRIES
AVE PROPERTY IS GRANTED. 
 
THE APPLICATION FOR SALE OF THE RAVENNA
AVE PROPERTY IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received. 
 
A.           County Where
Application Must be Filed
 
CCP § 704.750(b) states in pertinent part: “If the
dwelling is located in a county other than the county where the judgment was
entered:
 
(1) The
judgment creditor shall apply to the superior court of the county
where the dwelling is located.”
 
The Properties are in Los Angeles
County. The applications were properly filed in this Court.
 
B.           CCP §
704.750(a) Requirements
 
CCP § 704.750(a) states:
 
“Promptly after a dwelling is levied upon (other than a dwelling
described in subdivision (b) of Section 704.740), the levying officer shall
serve notice on the judgment creditor that the levy has been made and that the
property will be released unless the judgment creditor complies with the
requirements of this section.  Service
shall be made personally or by mail. 
Within 20 days after service of the notice, the judgment creditor shall
apply to the court for an order for sale of the dwelling and shall file a copy
of the application with the levying officer. If the judgment creditor does not
file the copy of the application for an order for sale of the dwelling within
the allowed time, the levying officer shall release the dwelling.”


The Notice of Levy was recorded on January 29, 2024 on the properties
and mailed to counsel for Plaintiff on February 6, 2024. Plaintiff filed the
applications on February 14, 2024. The applications are timely under CCP § 704.750(a).
 
 
C.           CCP § 704.760
Requirements
 
CCP § 704.760 requires the judgment creditor's
application to contain all the following:
 
“(a) A
statement whether or not the records of the county tax assessor indicate that
there is a current homeowner's exemption or disabled veteran's exemption for
the dwelling and the person or persons who claimed any such exemption.
 
(b) A
statement, which may be based on information and belief, whether the dwelling
is a homestead and the amount of the homestead exemption, if any, and a
statement whether or not the records of the county recorder indicate that a
homestead declaration under Article 5 (commencing with Section 704.910) that
describes the dwelling has been recorded by the judgment debtor or the spouse
of the judgment debtor.
 
(c) A statement
of the amount of any liens or encumbrances on the dwelling, the name of each
person having a lien or encumbrance on the dwelling, and the address of such
person used by the county recorder for the return of the instrument creating
such person's lien or encumbrance after recording.”
 
Plaintiff provides the declarations of counsel Tappan Zee
for each property. These declarations comply with CCP § 704.760. There is no
record that the properties are under a homestead exemption.
 
D.           CCP § 704.770 Requirements
 
CCP § 704.770 states: 
 
“(a) Upon the
filing of the application by the judgment creditor, the court shall set a time
and place for hearing and order the judgment debtor to show cause why an order
for sale should not be made in accordance with the application.  The time set for hearing shall be not later
than 45 days after the application is filed or such later time as the court
orders upon a showing of good cause. 
 
(b) Not later
than 30 days before the time set for hearing, the judgment creditor shall do both
of the following:
 
(1) Serve on
the judgment debtor a copy of the order to show cause, a copy of the
application of the judgment creditor, and a copy of the notice of the hearing
in the form prescribed by the Judicial Council. 
Service shall be made personally or by mail.
 
(2) Personally
serve a copy of each document listed in paragraph (1) on an occupant of the
dwelling or, if there is no occupant present at the time service is attempted,
post a copy of each document in a conspicuous place at the dwelling.”  (Emphasis added.)
 
The Judgment Debtor and his wife were
served with these applications on February 24, 2024. The Court finds good cause
for this hearing to occur more than 45 days after the applications were filed. 
 
It is unclear if they are the occupants
of the dwellings. Plaintiff filed one proof of posting for the Fries Ave
property showing notice on February 15, 2024, but there is no proof of posting
for the Ravenna Ave Property. 
 
The application for sale of the Fries
Ave property is GRANTED. The application for sale of the Ravenna Ave property
is DENIED without prejudice.


 