  Case Number:  22STCV39957    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
22STCV39957




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: May 7, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Quash Service of Summons
Moving Party: Specially Appearing Defendant
Stylenquaza LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas and
Alma Delia Llamas
 
T/R:     SPECIALLY APPEARING DEFENDANT
STYLENQUAZA LLC’S MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT TO
NOTICE.  
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, reply, and supplemental briefing. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 13, 2023, Plaintiffs Rodolfo
Garcia-Rosas and Alma Delia Llamas filed the operative first amended complaint
against Defendants Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al., asserting causes of
action for (1) negligence; (2) strict liability – warning defect; (3) strict
liability – design defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied
warranties; and (6) loss of consortium. Plaintiff alleges he developed
silicosis and consequential injuries through his employment working with stone
products manufactured, distributed, and/or supplied by Defendants.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of
his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”  (CCP §
418.10(a)(1).)  “When a motion to quash is properly brought, the
burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish the facts of
jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.)
A non-resident
defendant may be subject to either general or specific jurisdiction. (See Elkman
v. National States Insurance Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1314.)  General jurisdiction exists when a defendant
is domiciled in the forum state or his activities there are substantial,
continuous, and systematic. (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2005)
130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796.) 
 
Specific
jurisdiction involves a 3-part test in California. California courts adopt the
same test as the test used by the court in Boschetto v. Hansing (9th
Cir. Cal. 2008) 539 F.3d 1011,1016: “ ‘(1) The nonresident defendant must do
some act or consummate some transaction with the forum or perform some act by
which he purposefully avails himself of the privilege of conducting activities
in the forum, thereby invoking the benefits and protections of its laws; (2)
the claim must be one which arises out of or results from the defendant's
forum-related activities; and (3) exercise of jurisdiction must be reasonable.’
Panavision International, L.P. v. Toeppen (9th Cir. 1998) 141 F.3d 1316,
1320 [applying California law].).” (Jewish Defense Organization, Inc. v.
Sup. Ct. of Los Angeles County (Rambam) (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054.)
 
Specially
Appearing Defendant Stylenquaza moves to quash service of summons on the
grounds that service was defective and that the Court does not have personal
jurisdiction over Defendant. Plaintiff has since re-served Defendant with
summons and complaint, making this aspect of the motion moot. There is no
dispute that the Court lacks general personal jurisdiction over Defendant, a TX
based company. The Court continued the hearing on this motion to allow jurisdictional
discovery.
 
Defendant
distributes quartz slabs supplied by a Vietnamese quartz manufacturer,
Vicostone JSC. Pursuant to a distribution agreement with Vicostone JSC,
Defendant services 24 states, not including California. Defendant represents
that it does not regularly do business in California but admits that it
directly distributed 22 slabs to California from 2018-2022 and has distributed
slabs to Defendant Pental Granite and Marble, LLC, who then distributes to
California. Defendant asserts that approximately 11 slabs distributed to Pental
have ended up in California. Defendant does not have its own website. Instead,
customers are directed to Vicostone JSC’s website which
lists California distributors of its product.
 
Defendant
asserts that these contacts are insufficient to establish purposeful availment,
and that they are not related to Plaintiff’s injuries. Plaintiff claims that he
was exposed to the same kind of stone Defendant distributes but provides no
evidence showing the stone came from Defendant. Plaintiff argues that he need
not show a direct link between Defendant’s slabs and the ones he was exposed to
because Defendant has purposefully marketed and distributed slabs to
California. 
 
Plaintiff has
failed to establish that his claims arise from or relate to Defendant’s
contacts with California. There is no direct evidence showing Plaintiff was
exposed to the slabs Defendant provided to California. Defendant has no
systematic contacts with California and does not advertise or market products
in California. Any slabs sent to California were out of the ordinary. The Court
lacks personal jurisdiction over Defendant.
 
Defendant’s
motion is GRANTED.
 
 
 
 
 