  Case Number:  24NNCV00499    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING DEFENDANTS MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS IN PART and
GRANTING IN PARTI.        INTRODUCTION
          This
case arises from an incident at 14549 Ryan Street, Sylmar, California, where
Plaintiff Sergio Quirarte allegedly sustained injuries after being impacted by
a goat that escaped from a corral maintained by Defendants Rigoberto Duran,
Patricia Soto, and Thibo Ranch (collectively, “Defendants”). 
Plaintiffs
Sergio Quirarte and Martha Elena Veloz (“Plaintiffs”) initiated this action on
March 26, 2024, against Defendants Rigoberto Duran, Patricia Soto, Claudia
Cota, Claudia Duran, Thibo Ranch, and Does 1 to 100, alleging (1) general
negligence, (2) premises liability, and (3) loss of consortium. 
On
August 10, 2024, Defendant Patricia Soto ("Defendant Soto") was
allegedly served at the Sylmar residence. On August 15, 2024, Defendant
Rigoberto Duran ("Defendant Duran") and Defendant Thibo Ranch were
served via substituted service.
On September 23, 2024,
Defendants filed a motion to quash service of summons. Plaintiff submitted an
opposition on October 14, 2024, and Defendants filed a reply to Plaintiff’s
opposition on October 21, 2024.
 
Moving Party’s Position
Defendants
prays for an order from the Court to quash Plaintiffs’ purported service of
summons and complaint under CCP §§ 418.10 (a)(1) and 415.20(b).
Defendants
contend that the service was improper and failed to comply with statutory
requirements, thereby violating fundamental due process. Defendants argue the
process server failed to properly notify the recipient of the nature and
content of documents being served, and instead falsely represented the service
as an Amazon delivery. 
Defendants
also contend that Plaintiffs failed to complete the subsequent mailing of the
summons and complaint. At the time of the attempted service, Plaintiffs had
relocated to Washington State.
 
Opposition
In
Opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant Patricia Soto was personally
served, meeting the requirements of valid service under the applicable
statutes. Plaintiff further contends that substituted service under California
Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20(b) was properly effectuated on
Defendants Rigoberto Duran and Thibo Ranch. According to Plaintiff, at the time
of service, Defendants were still residents of the address where service was
executed, thereby satisfying the statutory requirements for substituted
service. Plaintiff asserts that all procedural requirements under section
415.20(b) were met, rendering service on Defendants valid.
 
Reply
In
reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed to address the fundamental
issues raised in the Motion to Quash, specifically that the purported service
was both ineffective and deceptive. Moreover, Defendant Patricia Soto had
already relocated to Washington State at the time of the purported service and
was no longer residing at the Sylmar address. Defendants contend that this
address could not be considered a valid dwelling or usual place of abode for
purposes of service of process under California Code of Civil Procedure section
415.20(b) at the time service was effectuated. Therefore, Defendants maintain
that the attempted service does not meet the statutory requirements and must be
quashed.
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
          There are four methods for serving a summons within the
State of California: 
(1) personal service – Code
Civ. Proc. §415.10;
(2) substitute service – Code
Civ. Proc. §415.20;
(3) mail service – Code Civ.
Proc. §415.30;
(4) service by publication –
Code Civ. Proc. §415.50.
          Code Civ. Proc. §418.10(a)(1) provides that a defendant, on
or before the last day to plead, may file a motion to quash service of the
summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction.
          Code Civ. Proc. §415.20
(a) [applies only to entity defendants]
(b) If a copy of the summons
and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the
person to be served, as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90,
a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the
person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or
usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office
box, in the presence of a competent member of the household or a person
apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, at least 18
years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter
mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage
prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on
the 10th day after the mailing.
 
III.     ANALYSIS
Defendants move to quash service of summons under
Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10(a)(1) on the grounds that they were not
properly served. Defendants argue that Plaintiff's use of substituted service
failed to comply with the statutory requirements of CCP section 415.20(b) and
that personal service on Defendant Patricia Soto was deceptive and ineffective.
 
Personal
Service on Defendant Patricia Soto
Defendant Patricia Soto contends that personal
service was improper due to the deceptive tactics used by the process server.
According to Soto, the process server, disguised as an Amazon delivery driver,
misled her into accepting the summons and complaint, believing it was a routine
package delivery. Soto argues that she signed for the package without being
informed of the nature of the documents. Defendant further claims that the
proofs of service incorrectly identify the person served as "Patricia
Duran - Wife/Co-occupant" (Motion, p. 6) and that the process server never
confirmed her identity. 
Defendant Soto presents policy arguments suggesting
that if the documents had been left unopened for days, it could have caused
significant issues. However, this was not the case here, and the Court does not
rule on hypotheticals.
The Court finds that although the method of personal
service on Defendant Soto may be unconventional, it nevertheless complied with
the statutory requirements. Since Defendant Soto received and opened the
documents, Defendant’s motion to quash based on improper personal service is
DENIED.
 
Substitute
Service on Defendants Rigoberto Duran and Thibo Ranch
Defendants argue that pursuant to CCP section
415.20(b), Plaintiff was required to mail a copy of the summons and complaint
to the Sylmar address, but no such mail was received, as allegedly confirmed by
Lourdes Duran, a current resident of that address. (Motion, p. 7) Defendants
further argue that at the time of the attempted service, Patricia Soto and her
family, including Rigoberto Duran, were in the process of relocating to
Washington State. (Id.) Defendants assert that Soto was not a
"competent member of the household" under Code of Civil Procedure
section 415.20(b), as she was no longer residing at the Sylmar address. They
also argue that the Sylmar address was no longer Rigoberto Duran’s
"dwelling house" or "usual place of abode" at the time of
service, evidenced by Soto's Washington State ID and other supporting
documentation. (Motion p.7-8; Exh. A, C, D) Lastly, Defendants claim that
"Thibo Ranch" is not a legal entity capable of being served, and
therefore any attempt at service on it is inherently invalid.
Plaintiff argues that the substituted service on
Defendants Rigoberto Duran and Thibo Ranch was valid. (Opposition p.4)
Plaintiff asserts that the relevant consideration is where Defendants'
"dwelling house" or "usual place of abode" was at the time
of service, not where they may have relocated afterward. (Id.) Plaintiff
also contends that since Patricia Soto was properly served as an adult
co-occupant at the Sylmar residence, the substituted service on the other
Defendants was valid as well.
The Court finds that while Defendant Soto provided
evidence of her intent to relocate to Washington, including her Washington
State ID, there is insufficient evidence that Rigoberto Duran had also
relocated at the time of service. (see Exh. A) Although Defendants argue that
the entire family was in the process of relocating, the evidence submitted—such
as the children's enrollment in school and service cards dated in September
2024—does not conclusively demonstrate that Rigoberto Duran was no longer residing
at the Sylmar address at the time of substituted service on August 15, 2024.
The Court further finds that Defendants have not
provided sufficient evidence to show that the Sylmar residence was not
Rigoberto Duran’s "dwelling house" or "usual place of
abode" at the time of service. As such, the substituted service on
Defendant Duran is deemed valid.
Accordingly, the Court DENIES Defendants motion to
quash service of summons. As to Thibo Ranch, in the
opposition, Plaintiffs concede “[a]s THIBO RANCH appears to be a sole
proprietorship, service on its owner would be proper for effective service.
This is confirmed in Defendants' moving papers: ‘Thibo Ranch' is not a legal
entity, but rather a name used for permitting purposes related to Rigoberto
Duran's property.’"  Therefore, the
Court grants the motion to quash as to Thibo Ranch.  
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
           Accordingly,
Defendants Rigoberto Duran and Patricia Soto motion to quash service of summons
and complaint is DENIED.
          Defendant Thibo Ranch motion to quash service of summons
and complaint is GRANTED.
          Moving Party is to give notice.        Dated:  October 25, 2024       JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT  