 Case Number:  24NNCV01508    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATIONI.         INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff Zayda Cosby (“Plaintiff”)
commenced this action against Defendant Inter-Con Security Systems, Inc.
(“Defendant”) on May 10, 2024, alleging wrongful termination and whistleblower
retaliation.
On June 16, 2024, Defendant filed a
Motion to Compel Arbitration based on an arbitration agreement signed by
Plaintiff on April 11, 2013. Plaintiff filed her Opposition to Defendant’s
motion on October 14, 2024, arguing that the arbitration agreement is both
procedurally and substantively unconscionable. On October 18, 2024, Defendant
filed a Reply in response to Plaintiff’s Opposition.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
Code Civ. Proc. §1281 provides: “A
written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a
controversy thereafter existing is valid, enforceable, and irrevocable, save
upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.”
Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2 provides
that upon petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate and a party’s refusal to submit
to arbitration, the court shall order the parties to arbitrate the controversy
if it determines that an agreement exists, unless it determines that the right
to arbitrate has been waived, that grounds exist for revocation, or that a
party to the agreement is also party to a pending litigation arising out of the
same facts and there exists a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of fact or law.  In such a
situation, the court may (1) refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and
order intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action, (2) order
intervention or joinder as to all or only certain issues, (3) order arbitration
among the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the action pending
outcome of arbitration, or (4) stay arbitration pending outcome of the
litigation.
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1330 provides, “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in
addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written agreement
and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim,
or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the petition and
incorporated by reference.”
Written arbitration clauses in
contracts evidencing a transaction involving commerce are valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, except where grounds exist at law or in equity for revocation
of any contract. 9 U.S.C. §2. This is a reflection of a liberal policy favoring
arbitration and the principle that arbitration is a matter of contract. AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion
(2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.
The “involving” requirement is to
be interpreted broadly. Allied-Bruce
Terminix Companies v. Dobson (1995) 513 U.S. 265, 274.  
 
III.      ANALYSIS
            A. The
Existence of a Written Agreement to Arbitrate is Established
            Under both the Federal Arbitration
Act and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a
contract.  (Winter v. Window
Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008)
166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration,
the court must first determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate
the dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the
court in making this determination.  (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)  “With respect to the moving
party’s burden to provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the
contract to the court.”  (Baker
v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
Here, Defendant presents a signed copy of the arbitration agreement
(“the Agreement”) titled “Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate Claims.” (Johnson
Decl., Exh. A). This five-page agreement, signed by Plaintiff on April 11,
2013, and by John E. McOsker, Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel,
on behalf of Defendant, satisfies the requirement under California law that the
moving party provide evidence of an agreement to arbitrate. (Baker v.
Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
Plaintiff does not dispute that she signed the arbitration agreement on
April 11, 2013. Therefore, the Court finds that there is an existence of an
agreement to arbitrate. 
B. Applicability of the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA)
“A party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement has the burden
of showing FAA preemption.” (Lane v. Francis Capital Mgmt. LLC (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 676, 684.) California law provides that parties may expressly
designate that any arbitration proceeding should move forward under the FAA's
procedural provisions rather than under state procedural law. (Cronus
Investments, Inc. v. Concierge Services (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 376, 394). 
Otherwise, the FAA provides for enforcement of arbitration provisions in any
“‘contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce.’ (9 USC § 2.)”  (Allied-Bruce
Terminix Companies, Inc. v. Dobson¿(1995) 513 U.S. 265, 277.) 
Accordingly, “[t]he party asserting the FAA bears the burden to show it applies
by presenting evidence establishing the contract with the arbitration provision
has a substantial relationship to interstate commerce[.]” (Carbajal v.
CWPSC, Inc.¿(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 234,) Moreover, as noted above, the
California contract law applies to the validity of the arbitration
agreement.  (Winter, supra, 166 Cal.App.4th at p. 947.)
Here, the Agreement invokes the FAA. Specifically, it states
"the Federal Arbitration Act shall govern the interpretation, enforcement,
and all proceedings pursuant to this Agreement" (Johnson Decl., Exh. A)
Moreover, Defendant Inter-Con Security Systems, Inc. is engaged in interstate
commerce.  Defendant is a private security company that provides services
to both governmental and private entities across multiple states, including
Virginia, Ohio, Colorado, and California. Additionally, Defendant regularly orders
supplies and equipment from out-of-state vendors, which are shipped across
state lines to various security posts nationwide (Johnson Decl., ¶ 3). 
Furthermore, both parties signed the arbitration agreement,
which acknowledges that the FAA governs. Therefore, the FAA applies and will
preempt California law where any conflict arises. 
C. Enforceability of The Agreement
“Once such a document is presented to the court, the burden
shifts to the party opposing the motion to compel, who may present any
challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those
challenges.”  (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)    
“California courts analyze unconscionability as having a
procedural and a substantive element.”  (Kinney v. United Healthcare
Services, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1329.) “[B]oth elements must be
present before a contract or contract provision is rendered unenforceable on
grounds of unconscionability.”  (Id.) The doctrine of
unconscionability refers to “an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one
of the parties together with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to
the other party.” (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th
1109, 1133.) It consists of procedural and substantive components, “the former
focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter
on overly harsh or one-sided results.” (Ibid.) Although both components
of unconscionability must be present to invalidate an arbitration agreement,
they need not be present in the same degree. (Armendariz v. Found Health
Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.) “Essentially a sliding
scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of
the contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater
harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves. [Citations.]
In other words, the more substantively unconscionable the contract term, the
less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the
conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Ibid.) “The
party resisting arbitration bears the burden of proving unconscionability.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Dev. (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
247.) 
Procedural Unconscionability
“Procedural unconscionability concerns the manner in which
the contract was negotiated and the circumstances of the parties at that time.
It focuses on factors of oppression and surprise.”  (Id.) 
“Surprise differs from oppression. Surprise is when a prolix printed form
conceals the arbitration provision. Oppression, on the other hand, occurs when
there is a lack of negotiation and meaningful choice. The presence of surprise
or oppression requires higher scrutiny of the contract.”  (Torrecillas
v. Fitness International, LLC¿(2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 485, 493.) 
“Adhesion contracts are form contracts a party with superior
bargaining power offers on a take-it-or-leave-it basis.”  (Torrecillas,
supra, 52 Cal.App.5th at p.493.)  “Whether the agreement was or was
not a contract of adhesion is not the core question. Rather, from the
standpoint of determining whether there was procedural unconscionability, the
core issues are surprise and oppression.”  (Ibid.)  In the
absence of “surprise or other sharp practices”, Courts do not recognize that
“adhesive” arbitration agreements establish a high degree of procedural
unconscionability. (Baltazar v. Forever 21 Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237,
1246.) 
Plaintiff contends that the Agreement is procedurally
unconscionable for several reasons. First, Plaintiff contends that the
agreement was presented to her three years after she began her employment with
Defendant, and she was required to accept the agreement as a condition of her
continued employment. (Opposition pg. 3) Plaintiff asserts that this created a
“take-it-or-leave-it” scenario, where she had no negotiating power. (Opposition
pg. 4) Next, Plaintiff claims that Defendant failed to provide the arbitration
rules governing the agreement. (Id.) The agreement states that
arbitration would be administered by either the American Arbitration
Association (“AAA”) or Judicial Arbitration & Mediation Services
("JAMS"), but Plaintiff contends that the absence of these rules made
it difficult for her to fully understand or assess the terms of the
arbitration. (Id.)  Lastly, Plaintiff argues that significant
economic disparities between herself and Defendant, a multimillion-dollar
company, further exacerbated the unequal bargaining power. (Opposition pg. 5)
 
Failure to
Provide Arbitration Rules
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s failure to provide the
rules governing the arbitration agreement made it difficult to understand or
access the terms or arbitrability. Plaintiff contends that an absence of these
rules created uncertainty about the terms and condition and thus making the
Agreement procedurally unconscionable. In response, Defendant argues that the
arbitration rules of both AAA and JAMS are easily accessible online and that
the failure to attach the applicable rules does not constitute procedural
unconscionability. 
The Court notes that the failure to attach arbitration rules,
standing alone, is insufficient grounds to support a finding of
unconscionability. (Peng v. First Republic Bank (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th
1462, 1469-72.) In cases where the non-moving party was not provided with a
copy of the arbitration rules, the court must make a factual determination to
assess whether the non-moving party was prejudiced by the moving party’s failure
to attach the rules. (Id.) Here, Plaintiff has not demonstrated any
specific prejudice resulting from Defendant’s failure to provide the AAA or
JAMS rules. Moreover, the agreement clearly specifies that arbitration would be
governed by the AAA or JAMS rules, both of which are easily accessible online.
There is no indication that Defendant attempted to conceal the rules or
prejudice Plaintiff by not providing them directly with the agreement.
Therefore, this does not support a finding of procedural unconscionability.
 
Adhesion
Contract/Unequal Bargaining Power
In this instance, even if the Plaintiff’s assertions that the
Agreement was presented on a take it or leave it basis or that there was
unequal bargaining power is true, it only establishes at most a modest degree
of procedural unconscionability.  (Torrecillas, supra, 52
Cal.App.5th at p.493; Baltazar v. Forever 21 Inc., supra, 62
Cal.4th at p.1246.)  
In sum, the Court finds that the arbitration agreements have
at most a minimal degree of procedural unconscionability. However, “a finding
of procedural unconscionability does not mean that a contract will not be
enforced, but rather that courts will scrutinize the substantive terms of the
contract to ensure they are not manifestly unfair or one-sided.”  (Sanchez
v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 915.) 
 
Substantive Unconscionability
“Substantive unconscionability” focuses on the terms of the
agreement and whether those terms are “so one-sided as to ‘shock the
conscience.’”  (Kinney, 70 Cal.App.4th at p.1330.)  “Where a
party seeks to arbitrate nonwaivable statutory civil rights in the workplace,
such as the FEHA claims and wrongful termination claim that are involved here,
there are five minimum requirements for the lawful arbitration of such rights
pursuant to a mandatory employment arbitration agreement. Such an arbitration
agreement is lawful if it “(1) provides for neutral arbitrators, (2) provides
for more than minimal discovery, (3) requires a written award, (4) provides for
all of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5)
does not require employees to pay either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators'
fees or expenses as a condition of access to the arbitration forum. Thus, an
employee who is made to use arbitration as a condition of employment ‘effectively
may vindicate [his or her] statutory cause of action in the arbitral forum.’
[Citation.]” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc.
(2000) 24 Cal. 4th 83, 102.)  The Court finds the arbitration agreement
here satisfies all of these Armendariz factors. 
Plaintiff contends that the agreement is substantively
unconscionable for two primary reasons: (1) it does not provide for adequate
discovery, and (2) it attempts to impose federal procedural rules, effectively
removing the case to a federal forum.
Discovery
Limitation
“A limitation on discovery is an important way in which
arbitration can provide a simplified and streamlined procedure for the
resolution of disputes.  (Davis v. Kozak (2020) 53
Cal.App.5th 897, 910.)  “At the same time, ‘[a]dequate discovery is
indispensable for the vindication of statutory claims’ [citation], and ‘[t]he
denial of adequate discovery in arbitration proceedings leads to the de facto
frustration of’ statutory rights [citation].”  (Id.)  “In this
context, ‘adequate’ does not mean ‘unfettered.’”  (Id.)  “In
striking the appropriate balance between the desired simplicity of limited
discovery and an employee’s statutory rights, courts assess the amount of
default discovery permitted under the arbitration agreement, the standard for
obtaining additional discovery, and whether the plaintiffs have demonstrated
that the discovery limitations will prevent them from adequately arbitrating
their statutory claims.”  (Id. at 910-11.) 
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement fails to
provide for adequate discovery, which is one of the essential elements for the
lawful arbitration of statutory rights under Armendariz. Specifically,
Plaintiff points out that the Agreement states “The parties will have the right
to conduct civil discovery and bring motions, as provided by the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure” (Grimberg Decl. ¶3, Ex. A) Plaintiff contends that this
statement is misleading because the Agreement also imposes a discovery cap of
twenty written interrogatories and limits requests for production of documents
or things to a 20-day response period. Plaintiff argues that these restrictions
do not comply with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, which allow up to 25
written interrogatories and place no limit on the number of requests for
production of documents.
Additionally, Plaintiff contends that these limitations
create an unreasonably unfair advantage for the Defendant, who, as the
gatekeeper of all employee files and internal records, can control what
information is produced. 
In response, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s claims regarding
the discovery limitations are unfounded. Specifically, Defendant asserts that
when Plaintiff signed the agreement on April 11, 2013, Rule 33 of Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure limited written interrogatories to twenty, consistent with
the terms of the arbitration. (Reply pg. 7) The Federal Rules were amended in
2015, increasing the number of allowable interrogatories to twenty-five.
Therefore, Defendant contends there is nothing deceptive about the provision
and it was in line with the applicable rules at the time it was signed. (Reply
pg. 7)
The Court finds that Defendant’s assertion is incorrect. Rule
33 was amended in 1993 to limit the number of written interrogatories to 25 per
party, and this limitation was already in place at the time Plaintiff signed
the arbitration agreement in 2013. (see Notes of Advisory Committee on
1993 amendments) Therefore, the discovery limitation of twenty written
interrogatories in the agreement does not align with the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure as they existed in 2013.
However, the Court finds that while this discovery limitation
is more restrictive than the Federal Rules, it is not sufficient on its own to
render the entire arbitration agreement substantively unconscionable. 
Severability
Civil Code section 1670.5 provides that “[i]f the court as a matter of
law finds the contract or any clause of the contract to have been
unconscionable at the time it was made the court may refuse to enforce the
contract, or it may enforce the remainder of the contract without the
unconscionable clause, or it may so limit the application of any unconscionable
clause as to avoid any unconscionable result.”  (Civ. Code, § 1670.5(a).)
The strong preference is to sever unconscionable terms rather than preclude the
enforcement of arbitration agreement.  (Magno v. College Network, Inc.
(2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 277, 292.  
Here, the unconscionable discovery limitation of twenty written
interrogatories is severable. This is not a case where the agreement is
permeated with unconscionability resulting from multiple objectionable terms. (Abramson v. Juniper Networks, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 638, 666 [finding
substantive unconscionability where the arbitration provisions were “entirely
lacking in mutuality and basic fairness”].)
 The Court may sever the specific discovery limitations without
affecting the enforceability of the remainder of the agreement. As implied in Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83,
124-125, if there is a single provision that can be stricken to remove the
unconscionable element, that provision is severable. Therefore, the Court finds
that severing the discovery limitation is appropriate, and the remainder of the
arbitration agreement remains enforceable.
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
 IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Defendant’s
petition to compel arbitration is GRANTED.
            The action
is STAYED pending results of the arbitration.
            Defendant
is to give notice. 
 
Dated: October 25, 2024
 
 
 
                                                                                               JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT

                                                                           