  Case Number:  21SMCV00045    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 3, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21SMCV00045




MOTIONS


Motion for Leave to Amend & Supplement Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff H. Jewel Engstrom, individually and as trustee
  of the Engstrom Family Trust




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
            Plaintiff moves for leave to amend
the complaint to name additional defendants Plaintiff recently discovered were
involved with the project and to supplement the complaint to add allegations of
further damage caused by February 2024 mudslides and related to Defendant
Stella Nova LLC’s encumbrances on the 1400 Linda Flora Road property.  
 
            Plaintiff’s motion is
unopposed.    
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Amendments
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by
adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the
name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms,
enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”
 
            To wit, without notice to the other
party the Court has wide discretion to allow either party (i) to add or strike
the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in the name of a party or a
mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as
may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage
of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to
the other party, the Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend
pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1). Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.”
 
            Judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an
established policy in California since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter
(1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150,
155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) Moreover, “it is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing party did not
establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The court may grant leave to amend
the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter
Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely justified if the
motion is timely made and granting the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.) However, if the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at
¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not
grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or
prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails.
Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if
sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins
v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) “Prejudice exists where
the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical
evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. . . .
But the fact that the amendment involves a change in legal theory which would
make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of
prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil & Brown, supra, at
¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            “Even if some prejudice is shown,
the judge may still permit the amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is
authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be proper.’” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.) For example, the court
may cause the party seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in
preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del
Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural Requirements
 
            Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
            In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate
declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff seeks to amend the
Complaint to add Defendants that Plaintiff recently discovered in the course of
investigating the case were involved with the project, but whose involvement
was not a matter of public record, or in some instances, evidenced in writing,
and to supplement the allegations in the Complaint to include further damage
caused by additional mudslides in February 2024, and related to Defendant
Stella Nova LLC’s encumbrances on the 1400 Linda Flora Road property.
 
            Attached to the motion is a copy of
the proposed amended/supplemented pleadings, and the body of the motion states
what allegations are proposed to be added and deleted, by page, paragraph, and
line number.
 
            In support of the motion, Plaintiff
has provided the Declaration of Michael R. Sohigian, in compliance with Rule
3.1324(b).  With regard to when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, the declaration
provides:
 
37. The latest slides occurred in February, about
three months before the filing date of the Motion this Declaration supports.
The slides were unexpected, and Plaintiff then had to commence and pursue an
investigation of the facts surrounding those February events, to gather
evidence of causation and liability. In addition, while conducting that
investigation, Plaintiff had to gather facts and examine public records to
identify individuals and entities that were involved in the Project and
potentially liable for her damages, despite in many cases the absence of
documentation identifying them, describing their work, or tying them to the
1400 Linda Flora Project. This all took time and effort. 
 
(Sohigian
Decl. ¶ 37.)
 
            With regard to why the amendment was
not made sooner, the declaration explains that following the February 2024
mudslides, the parties were in negotiations to submit a stipulation to
amend/supplement the complaint and continue the trial and related dates,
opposing Baypost’s Motion for Summary Judgment (which was filed on March 1,
2024), and in communication with the Court regarding issues and confusion that
arose with the filing of the stipulation. 
(See Sohigian Decl. ¶¶ 38-49.)  As
such, Plaintiff has demonstrated there was no unreasonable delay in requesting
to amend/supplement the complaint.
 
            At the May 13, 2024 ex parte hearing
on Plaintiff’s request to shorten time on the instant motion, the Court
continued the trial to August 11, 2025, with all discovery and pre-trial motion
cut off dates extended in kind.  As such,
the Court finds that the newly-added Defendants will not be prejudiced by the
amended or supplemental complaint.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            For the reasons stated, the Court
grants Plaintiff’s unopposed motion for leave to amend and supplement the
complaint.  Plaintiff shall file and
serve the proposed amended/supplemental complaint on or before July 1, 2024, and
shall file the proofs of service.    
 
            The Court orders Plaintiff to
provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.
 
 
 
 
DATED:  June 3, 2024                                   ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court