 Case Number:  23SMCV01319    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 3, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01319




MOTION


Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Austin Sherman and GEM Botanicals L.L.C.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Cheryl Baker



 
MOTIONS
 
This case stems from a dispute over real property.  Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Cheryl Baker,
Successor Trustee of the Albert Leon Family Trust dated September 3, 1997 as
amended and restated (“Plaintiff” or “Baker”) owns two residential real
properties that Defendant and Cross-Complainant Austin Sherman (“Sherman”)
occupies.  (First Amended Complaint ¶¶
7-9.)  
 
Baker brought suit for public and private nuisance, waste, and breach
of contract, alleging Defendant is improperly running a commercial cannabis
business from the two residential properties. 
(See First Amended Complaint.)  
 
Sherman cross-complained, alleging four causes of action for (1)
intentional interference with an expected inheritance; (2) breach of the
covenant of quiet enjoyment; (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress;
and (4) violation of Civil Code section 789.3. 

 
The Court sustained Baker’s demurrer to Sherman’s second cause of
action, leaving the first, third, and fourth causes of action intact.  (See Minute Order, Feb. 5, 2024.)  
 
Defendants Sherman and GEM Botanicals L.L.C. (“GEM”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) move to strike Plaintiff’s request for permanent injunctive
relief asserted in the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendants
reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     MEET
AND CONFER
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires:  “Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date
the responsive pleading is due.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)  “The
demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a declaration stating
either” the means by which the parties met and conferred, or that the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer
request.  (Id., subd.
(a)(3).)  
 
Here,
although Sherman has provided a declaration in support of the Motion to Strike,
the contents of that declaration do not address Defendants’ meet and confer
obligations.  Moreover, Defendants do not
address this or Plaintiff’s other procedural argument in the reply brief.
 
Notwithstanding
Defendants’ failure to comply with their meet and confer obligations, the Court
does not believe further meet and confer efforts would be fruitful or an
efficient use of the litigants’ or the Court’s time.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading,
may serve and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1), emphasis added; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(b).)  On a motion to strike, the court may: (1)
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading;
or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the
court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42
Cal.2d 767, 782.)  
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s request for permanent injunctive
relief on the grounds that Plaintiff is currently in possession of both
properties at issue.
 
Plaintiff’s operative first amended complaint was filed and served electronically
and by mail on August 3, 2023, making Defendants’ deadline to move to strike no
later than September 7, 2023 (assuming service by mail.)  Yet, Defendants did not file the instant motion
to strike until May 9, 2024.  As such,
the Court finds the motion to strike to be untimely.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies Defendant’s motion to strike as untimely.  
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
 
DATED:  June 3, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior CourtTENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June
  3, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01319




MOTION


Motion
  to Stay




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Austin Sherman and GEM Botanicals L.L.C.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  and Cross-Defendant Cheryl Baker



 
MOTION
 
This case stems from a dispute over real property.  Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Cheryl Baker,
Successor Trustee of the Albert Leon Family Trust dated September 3, 1997 as
amended and restated (“Plaintiff” or “Baker”) owns two residential real
properties that Defendant and Cross-Complainant Austin Sherman (“Sherman”)
occupies.  (First Amended Complaint ¶¶
7-9.)  
 
Baker brought suit for public and private nuisance, waste, and breach
of contract, alleging Defendant is improperly running a commercial cannabis
business from the two residential properties. 
(See First Amended Complaint.)  
 
Sherman cross-complained, alleging four causes of action for (1)
intentional interference with an expected inheritance; (2) breach of the
covenant of quiet enjoyment; (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress;
and (4) violation of Civil Code section 789.3. 

 
The Court sustained Baker’s demurrer to Sherman’s second cause of
action, leaving the first, third, and fourth causes of action intact.  (See Minute Order, Feb. 5, 2024.)  
 
Defendants Sherman and GEM Botanicals L.L.C. (“GEM”) (together,
“Defendants”) move for a discretionary stay of this action, pending the
resolution of a probate action, 22STPB00427. 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendants reply.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants request judicial notice
of the “Preliminary Joint Trial Statement” filed in 22STPB00427.  
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
However, “while courts are free to take judicial notice of the existence
of each document in a court file, including the truth of results reached, they
may not take judicial notice of the truth of hearsay statements in decisions
and court files.  Courts may not take
judicial notice of allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation
reports in court records because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute
and therefore require formal proof.”  (Lockley
v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Because the fact that Sherman
and Baker filed a joint statement or made certain representations to the
probate court are not relevant to this motion, Defendants clearly submit the
joint statement so the Court will take judicial notice of the truth of the
hearsay statements and matters asserted therein.  As such, the Court denies Defendants’ request
and declines to take judicial notice of the joint statement filed in the
probate action.
 
ANALYSIS
 
The court has inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests of
justice and to promote judicial efficiency. (Freiberg v. City of Mission
Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.)  Trial judges have inherent powers to manage
and fashion procedures to control litigation to ensure the orderly
administration of justice. (Cottle v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th
1367, 1376-1379.)
 
“When an action is brought in a court of this state involving the same
parties and the same subject matter as an action already pending in a court of
another jurisdiction, a stay of the California proceedings is not a matter of
right, but within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Farmland Irrigation
Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208, 215.) “In exercising its discretion
the court should consider the importance of discouraging multiple litigation
designed solely to harass an adverse party, and of avoiding unseemly conflicts
with the courts of other jurisdictions.” (Ibid.) “It should also
consider whether the rights of the parties can best be determined by the court
of the other jurisdiction because of the nature of the subject matter, the
availability of witnesses, or the stage to which the proceedings in the other
court have already advanced.” (Ibid.)
 
This is Sherman’s second motion to stay this action pending the
resolution of the probate action.  Sherman,
who is the beneficiary of a trust for which Plaintiff is the successor trustee,
has requested in connection with the probate matter that Plaintiff be removed
as trustee for unauthorized acts.  In the
first motion to stay, Sherman argued that if he is successful at removing
Plaintiff as the successor trustee, Plaintiff will lose standing to bring this
case, and Sherman will suffer irreparable damage having to defend this action
in the meantime.     The
Court denied Plaintiff’s first motion to stay on July 7, 2023, on the grounds
that (1) the issues underlying Plaintiff’s causes of action for nuisance,
waste, and breach of lease terms are distinct from the issue of whether
Plaintiff should remain trustee; (2) Sherman articulated no irreparable damage
outside of predictable litigation costs; and (3) even if Plaintiff were removed
as trustee in the Probate Case, the successor trustee would succeed to all the
rights, duties, and responsibilities of the predecessor.  (Minute Order, Jul. 7, 2023.)  
 
Defendants contend “This motion is based on new facts” pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1008.
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008, subdivision (a), “[w]hen an application for an order has been
made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or
granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within
10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order
and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make an
application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the
matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order.  The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)  Where
the statutory requirements are met, reconsideration should be granted; upon
reconsideration, however, the court may simply reaffirm its original
order.  (Corns v. Miller (1986)
181 Cal.App.3d 195, 202.)  
 
The moving party on a motion for
reconsideration “must provide not only new evidence but also a satisfactory
explanation for the failure to produce that evidence at an earlier time[.]” (Mink
v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342, internal quotations
& citations omitted; see New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 206, 221 [on a motion for reconsideration, a party must present
new or different facts, circumstances, or law, which the moving party “could
not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced” in connection with
the original hearing].)
 
Defendants did not file the instant motion to stay until May 7, 2024, ten
months after Plaintiff provided Defendants notice of the Court’s July 7, 2023
Order denying the first motion to stay. 
As such, Defendants’ motion for reconsideration under Section 1008,
premised on “new facts” is untimely.
 
To the extent Defendants have filed a new motion to stay, not under Section
1008, but rather based on subsequent developments that warrant a stay, the
Court still denies Defendants’ request.  Defendants’
“new facts” are that Defendants subsequently filed a cross-complaint against
Plaintiff, alleging the same misconduct upon which Sherman relies in support of
his argument for Plaintiff’s removal as trustee in the probate matter and
therefore “nearly identical factual issues” are to be decided in both this and
the probate case.  As discussed above,
because the Court denies Defendants’ request for judicial notice, Defendants
have not provided a factual basis to support their request.
 
In any event, the legal implications of Defendants’ cross-claims are
distinct from Sherman’s request that Plaintiff be removed as trustee in the
probate matter.  To the extent an
identical factual issue is litigated in one matter, the doctrine of collateral
estoppel should adequately protect the parties and the Court from duplicative
adjudication.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court denies
Defendants’ motion for reconsideration/motion to stay.  
 
            Defendants shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.   
 
 
 
DATED: June 3, 2024                                                                        ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court