  Case Number:  23STCP03371    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  82 Joel W. Hay Ph.D.                                                     Case No. 23STCP03371
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
December 11, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
The
University of Southern                                     Department:
82                                     
  
California,
et al.                                                        Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
                        
 
[Tentative] Order Granting Motion to Tax
Costs
  
INTRODUCTION 
 
Petitioner Joel W. Hay, Ph.D.
(“Petitioner”), who is approximately 72 years old, was a tenured professor at
the University of Southern California (“USC”) who was terminated after making
numerous racist and abusive comments to students and colleagues.  Petitioner did not dispute that he made such
comments, most of which were in writing. 
Nor did Petitioner dispute that he violated an order not to contact USC
students, faculty, and staff while the investigation was ongoing, which led to
a charge of retaliation.  Instead,
Petitioner argues that USC deprived him of due process; USC abused its
discretion in terminating him; and the disciplinary proceedings stemmed from
his views on COVID-19, which were protected by tenure.  Following a hearing, the court denied the
petition for writ of mandate.  
 
USC filed a memorandum of costs
seeking $21,924.60, which $19,895 in costs for “preparing the administrative
record.”  Specifically, USC sought reimbursement
for “42.2 hours of attorney time billed at $400 and 6.7 hours of attorney time
billed at $450 per hour.”  Petitioner
filed a motion to tax costs, challenging this amount, arguing that it should be
reduced to $2,372.50.  Respondents oppose
the motion, which is granted.  The court
reduces the cost to $11,015.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“[T]he award of
costs to a prevailing applicant in a mandamus proceeding normally lies within
the discretion of the court under Code of Civil Procedure section 1095.”  (Tripp v. Swoap (1976) 17 Cal.3d 671,
680, overruled on other grounds by Frink v. Prod (1982) 31 Cal.3d 166,
180.)  “If the expense of preparing all
or any part of the [administrative] record has been borne by the prevailing
party, the expense shall be taxable as costs.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(a); see also Code Civ. Proc. §
1094.6(c).)  “[L]abor costs for attorneys
and paralegals to prepare the administrative record are recoverable as expenses
under [Section 1094.5].”  (No Toxic
Air, Inc. v. Lehigh Southwest Cement Co. (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1136, 1142.)
To be recoverable, the labor costs must be “reasonably and necessarily incurred
for preparation of the administrative record.” 
(The Otay Ranch, L.P. v. County of San Diego (2014) 230
Cal.App.4th 60, 70.)  
 
“If the items
appearing in a cost bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the
party seeking to tax costs to show that they were not reasonable or
necessary.”  (Ladas v. California
State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774.)  “On the other hand, if the items are properly
objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party
claiming them as costs.”  (Ibid.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Respondents submit
a declaration of attorney Puneet Sandhu, a partner with the law firm Pazzani
& Sandhu LLP, which represented Respondents in this action.  Sandhu declares that Petitioner’s counsel
requested that Respondents produce the “complete” administrative record; that
the record consists of the investigation file, sanctioning decision,
Petitioner’s appeal, documents related to the dismissal hearing,
correspondence, and relevant policies; and that the record is 4,745 pages in
length, including 1,901 pages of emails and attachments.  (Sandhu Decl. ¶¶ 2-5.)  Sandhu summarizes the process by which
counsel prepared and redacted the record (Id. ¶¶ 6-11) and also
authenticates billing records reflecting the time billed by Sandhu and Christina
Koehl, an associate at Pazzani & Sandhu LLP, in preparing and redacting the
record.  (Id. ¶ 8, Exh. E.)
 
            Petitioner has not objected to
Respondents’ use of two attorneys to prepare and redact the administrative
record or to the hourly rates charged by those attorneys ($450/hour for Ms. Sandhu
and $400/hour for Ms. Koehl.)  Based on this court’s knowledge and familiarity with the legal market, as
well as the experience, skill, and reputation of the attorneys requesting fees,
the difficulty or complexity of the litigation to which that skill was applied,
and the declaration of Sandhu, the court finds that the requested hourly rates
are reasonable.  (See 569 East County Boulevard LLC v. Backcountry
Against the Dump, Inc., (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 426, 437.)  Further, as a general matter, it was
reasonable and necessary for Respondents to use attorneys to identify the
custodians of records and iterative search terms, supervise the e-discovery
team, review the resulting records for inclusion in the administrative record,
and oversee the redactions of witness names and other information.[1]  (See Sandhu Decl. ¶¶ 6-11.)  These tasks required a close familiarity with
the facts of this case and the underlying administrative proceedings.  In such circumstances, it was appropriate for
attorneys to be involved in the preparation of the record.  (See Otay Ranch, supra, 230
Cal.App.4th at 65.)  
 
            The issue is whether Respondents
reasonably and necessarily spent 48.9 hours of attorney time, at attorney
rates, preparing and redacting the record. 
(See Sandhu Decl. ¶ 9 and Exh. E.)  Specifically, associate Koehl “spent 42.2
hours preparing search terms and custodians, reviewing the resulting records,
and preparing them for production.”  (Id.
¶ 9.)  Koehl also spent substantial
time drafting and reviewing a detailed, eight-page index of the administrative
record.  (Id. Exh. D, E.)  Koehl also reviewed redactions made by an
automatic redaction tool and revised the redactions as necessary.  (Id. ¶ 11.)  Partner Sandhu incurred the remaining 6.7
hours “preparing search terms and custodians; overseeing the review process;
consulting on the automatic redactions of student and witness names, email
addresses, and phone numbers; and reviewing the administrative record and index
for accuracy and completeness.”  (Id. ¶
10.)  Sandhu seeks to justify these
hours, stating in part:
 
Working with the e-discovery team, we then refined the
search terms to attempt to narrow down the number of documents for review. With
this additional effort, we narrowed the collection down to 2,753 records for
review. USC’s counsel had to review these records to ensure they were related
to the investigation and dismissal proceeding in this case and to determine
whether the search terms used identified all relevant correspondence. In my
experience as an attorney conducting electronic document review myself and
overseeing document review projects such as this one, a document reviewer can
cover anywhere from 20-40 documents per hour depending on their length and
complexity. Thus, on average, a review of 2,753 records reasonably could take
anywhere from 70 to 138 hours to complete.
 
(Id. ¶
7.)  Sandhu’s estimate that a document
review could cover only 20 to 40 documents per hour does not support the
request for nearly $20,000 in labor costs to prepare the record in this case.  Respondents do not show, with evidence, that
the document review and preparation in this case reasonably and necessarily required
48.9 hours of attorney time.
 
            Petitioner
contends that the cost should be reduced to $2,372.50, which amounts to fifty
cents for each page of the record.  (Mot.
2.)  Petitioner does not provide any
evidence, such as a declaration from counsel, proving that $2,372.50 is the
reasonable labor cost for preparation of the record at issue, which included
supervising the e-discovery team, preparing of an index, and performing numerous
redactions, among other tasks. 
Petitioner also has not filed a reply addressing the Sandhu declaration
and exhibits.  
 
The court is familiar
with the administrative record from the trial on the writ petition, including
the redactions that were made to witness names. 
Notably, Respondents used an automatic redaction tool to perform many of
the redactions.  (See Sandhu Decl. ¶
11.)  While counsel needed to review the
redactions for accuracy, and make some corrections, Sandhu’s declaration and
the attached billing records do not show that substantial hours were required
for that redaction process.  (See Ibid.
and Exh.  E.)  The court finds that the automated redaction
process along with the other tasks, including reviewing the records and drafting
an index, do not justify labor costs of close to $20,000 for the administrative
record at issue.  
 
Based on the
court’s familiarity with the administrative record and the evidence for this
motion, the court finds that Respondents reasonably and necessarily spent 20
hours (instead of 42.2 hours) of associate time.  This is commensurate with what the court
would expect for an administrative record of this nature, which was 4,745 pages and included redactions.  The court finds that Ms. Sandhu’s time of 6.7
hours was reasonable given that she apparently performed a supervisory
role.    
 


 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER  
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Petitioner’s motion to tax costs is
granted.
 
            2.         The court finds that 20 hours at a rate
of $400 per hour was reasonable and necessary to prepare the administrative
record (for a total of $8,000).  The
court also finds that 6.7 hours at a rate of $450 per hour was reasonable and
necessary to prepare the administrative record (for a total of $3,015).  
 
            3.         Based upon the foregoing, the court
taxes Item Number 16 of the memorandum of costs from $19,895 to $11,015.  The court orders the parties to file a
stipulation and proposed order to correct any obvious mathematical errors.  
 
            4.         Petitioner’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED 
 
 
Dated: December 11,
2024                                         ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


