 Case Number:  24STCP03350    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  82 John
Doe,                                                                   Case No. 24STCP03350
 
v.                                                                     Hearing:
December 11, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                     
 Meera Ratnesar, et al.                                        Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
                                    
 
[Tentative] Order Granting Petition to Compel Arbitration

  
INTRODUCTION

 
            Petitioner
John Doe (“Petitioner”) filed this petition against Dr. Meera Ratnesar and the
Curtis School (collectively, “Respondents”) seeking a writ of mandate or, in
the alternative, a writ of prohibition to stop his expulsion from the Curtis
School.  Petitioner, who is ten years
old, was expelled after sending an email to his classmate and friend.  Previously, the court stayed the expulsion
because Respondents provided no evidence suggesting that Petitioner intended
his email to be threatening or harassing. 
To the contrary, the record established that the two boys are friends;
the email was not a genuine threat; and the two boys remained friends after
this email exchange.  It is undisputed
that Petitioner has no history of threats or violence against his friend or
anyone else.  Now, Respondents petition
to compel arbitration of this dispute pursuant to an arbitration clause in the
enrollment agreement.  Petitioner opposes
the petition to compel arbitration, which is granted.  
             
BACKGROUND

 
            Petitioner is a fifth-grade elementary school
student at the Curtis School.  (Petition
for Writ of Mandate (“Pet.”) ¶ 1.)  Petitioner has been enrolled at the Curtis School since
the 2021/2022 school year.  (Petrie Decl.
Exh. A-D.)  Each year, including for the
current 2024/2025 school year, Petitioner’s parents executed an enrollment agreement
with the Curtis School.  (Id. ¶ 11
and Exh. D; Parent Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.)  The enrollment
agreement includes an arbitration provision that states, in pertinent part:
 
Binding Arbitration: To the extent permitted by law, any
legal and actionable controversy or claim arising under or relating to this
Enrollment Agreement or its breach, including any dispute relating to Student’s
enrollment, education, activities, and disciplinary actions at School and
Student's departure from School, and the determination of the scope and
applicability of this arbitration agreement, shall be settled solely by final
and binding arbitration pursuant to the FAA before a single neutral arbitrator
chosen from a JAMS panel of arbitrators in Los Angeles County, California in
accordance with the JAMS comprehensive arbitration rules & procedures then
in effect. SCHOOL AND PARENTS (“Parties”) HEREBY KNOWINGLY AND INTENTIONALLY
WAIVE ANY RIGHT THEY MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO TRIAL BY JURY OR COURT OF SUCH
CLAIMS OR DISPUTES.
 
(Petrie Decl. Exh. D.)  
On
or about October 1, 2024, Petitioner was expelled for allegedly violating a school
policy against threats and harassment/cyber-bullying.  (See Pet. ¶ 20.)[1]  On October 17, 2024, Petitioner filed this
action for a writ of mandate “commanding Respondents to refrain from taking
adverse administrative action against Petitioner.”  (Id. Prayer ¶ 1.)  Petitioner
contends that Respondents’ expulsion decision was arbitrary and capricious, and
that he was not afforded a fair administrative procedure.  (Id. ¶¶ 11-30.)  On October 24, 2024, the court granted
Petitioner’s ex parte application and ordered the expulsion stayed pending
trial on the merits.  Now, Respondents
petition to compel arbitration in this matter. 
  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            “On
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the
agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall
order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it
determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the
petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for rescission of the
agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2; see
also Code Civ. Proc. § 1290.2.)
 
“Sections
1281.2 and 1290.2 create a summary proceeding for resolving
petitions to compel arbitration.  The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party opposing the
petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense. The trial court sits as the trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and
any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.”  (Ruiz v. Moss Bros.
Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Existence
of an Agreement to Arbitrate 
 
Respondents have proven the
existence of an agreement to arbitrate between Petitioner’s parents and the
Curtis School.  (Petrie Decl. Exh.
A-D.)  Further, Petitioner’s parents’
agreement to the terms of the Enrollment Agreement is sufficient to bind
Petitioner, a minor.  (See Bigler v.
Harker School (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 727, 739-741.)  Petitioner does not argue otherwise.  Finally, Respondent Ratnesar may enforce the
arbitration agreement as a third-party beneficiary, who has been sued in her
official capacity as Head of School.  (See
Dryer v. Los Angeles Rams (1985) 40 Cal.3d 406, 418.)
 


 
B.        Enforceability
of the Arbitration Agreement 
 
Petitioner states that
“this court, not the arbitrator, should determine whether the provision is
enforceable – it is not.”  (Oppo.
4:26-27.)  This court decides questions
of enforceability because there is not clear and unmistakable evidence that the
parties intended to delegate that issue to the arbitrator.  (See Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P.
(2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 781-782 and Petrie Decl. Exh. A-D.)  However, Petitioner does not develop any
serious argument concerning the enforceability of the arbitration
agreement.  Rather, he briefly alludes to
procedural safeguards he contends are required in arbitration agreements
generally, but without any analysis of the arbitration provision at issue.  (Oppo. 6-7.) 
Petitioner has not met his burden to prove that the arbitration agreement
is unenforceable for any reason.  Accordingly,
the court need not analyze the issue further. 
(See Nelson v. Avondale HOA (2009) 172
Cal.App.4th 857, 862-863 [“When an appellant fails to raise a point, or asserts
it but fails to support it with reasoned argument and citations to authority,
we treat the point as waived.”].)  
 
Nor could Petitioner
successfully challenge the enforceability of the arbitration agreement.  “California law, like federal law, favors
enforcement of valid arbitration agreements.” 
(Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, 97.)  
 
In deciding whether to enforce an arbitration agreement,
California courts examine whether its terms are both procedurally and
substantively unconscionable. Procedural unconscionability focuses on
oppression or unfair surprise; substantive unconscionability focuses on overly
harsh or one-sided terms.  The two
factors are interrelated and are to be balanced in determining the
enforceability of an arbitration provision.  Essentially, a sliding scale
is invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the
contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater
harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.  
 
(Dotson v. Amgen, Inc. (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 975, 980 [citations and internal quotation marks
omitted].)  
 
Here, Petitioner’s parents
voluntarily and knowingly consented to the arbitration provision each time they
signed the Enrollment Agreement at the start of the school year, including for
the 2024/2025 school year.  (Petrie Decl. Exh. A-D; Parent Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.)  Petitioner cannot claim unfair surprise.  The arbitration provision is relatively short,
is clearly written and unambiguous, and is not buried in a lengthy contract.  That the JAMS rules are not physically
attached to the arbitration agreement does not, standing alone, establish
procedural unconscionability.  Petitioner
does not argue, or show, that the JAMS rule contain any unexpected provisions
that limit the scope of his claims or the relief available.  (See Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1246; Peng v. First Republic Bank (2013) 219
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1472 [party’s “failure to attach the AAA rules, standing
alone, is insufficient grounds to support a finding of procedural
unconscionability”].)  Petitioner’s
parent declares that “we were not able to markup or make changes” and “[i]f we
had refused to sign the Enrollment Agreement, Petitioner would have been denied
enrollment.”  (Parent Decl. ¶¶ 2-4.)  However, Petitioner does not present evidence
that his parents attempted to negotiate the arbitration provision and were
denied the opportunity to do so.  Further,
this is not an employment contract or other relationship in which Petitioner’s
parents “did not have an authentic informed choice to reject the arbitration
clause.”  (Haydon v. Elegance at
Dublin (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 1280, 1289.) 
The court finds that there is only a low degree of procedural
unconscionability, if any at all, because the JAMS rules were not attached to
the agreement.  
 
Because procedural unconscionability is low, under the
sliding scale approach, a high degree of substantive unconscionability is
required to invalidate the agreement.  “Substantive
unconscionability arises when a contract imposes unduly harsh or one-sided
results…. Mutuality is the paramount consideration.”  (Haydon, supra, 97 Cal.App.5th at 1289.)  Here, the language of the arbitration
agreement is simple, straightforward, and balanced. It provides that all claims
related to Petitioner’s enrollment, education, activities, and disciplinary
actions and departure from the School should be submitted to arbitration. It
further provides that the School will pay for any costs unique to arbitration.
(Petrie Decl., Exh. D.)  The JAMS rules,
which are incorporated in the agreement, provide for a neutral arbitrator,
allow for sufficient discovery, do not limit available remedies, and do not
impose costs or fees that would deter Petitioner from pursuing his claim.  (See Sank Decl. Exh. 2 and Reply
5-6.)  Petitioner has not developed any
argument to the contrary.  (See Oppo.
6-7; Nelson, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at 862-863.)  
 
In sum, the court finds that there is only a low degree
of procedural unconscionability, if any at all. 
The court has not found any substantive unconscionability and Petitioner
has not shown any.  Accordingly, unconscionability
does not provide grounds to invalidate the arbitration agreement.  
 
Petitioner has not proven any other grounds for
rescission of the arbitration agreement, including waiver.  (See Oppo. 3:7-12 and Reply 2, fn. 1.)  In their opposition to the ex parte application
for a stay, Respondents gave notice that they intended to file a petition to
compel arbitration, and then timely did so. (Opposition to Petitioner’s Ex
Parte Application, fn. 1.)  It was
not inconsistent with Respondents’ right to arbitrate to file an opposition to
the ex parte application.  (See
Saint Agnes Med. Ctr. V. PacifiCare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1201.)  
 
C.        Arbitrability of Petitioner’s Claims
 
As the party opposing arbitration, Petitioner has the
burden to “demonstrate that [the] arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to
require arbitration of the dispute.” (Bigler v. Harker School (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 727, 738.)  “In light of
California’s strong public policy in favor of arbitration, broad contractual
provisions for arbitration are to be liberally construed.  Doubts as to whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in
favor of sending the parties to arbitration.” 
(Ibid. [internal citations and quotation marks omitted].)  “[A]n order to arbitrate a particular
grievance should not be denied unless it may be said with positive assurance
that the arbitration clause is not susceptible of an interpretation that covers
the asserted dispute.”  (Dryer v. Los Angeles Rams (1985) 40 Cal.3d 406,
418.)
 
Here, the arbitration provision applies to “any legal and actionable
controversy or claim arising under or relating to this Enrollment Agreement or
its breach, including any dispute relating to Student’s
enrollment, education, activities, and disciplinary actions at
School and Student's departure from School….”  (Petrie Decl. Exh. D [emphasis added].)  The petition is exactly such a claim.  The petition seeks to challenge a
disciplinary action taken by the Curtis School that resulted in Petitioner’s
expulsion, or “departure,” from the school. (Pet. ¶¶ 23, 25, 28.)  Accordingly, Petitioner’s claims are
arbitrable.  
 
Contrary to Petitioner’s
assertion, the arbitrator can issue effective relief.  (See Oppo.
5-6.)  “Arbitrators have broad discretion in fashioning a remedy for
the injustice which is found to have occurred.” 
(Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. v. Intel Corp. (1994) 9 Cal.4th
362, 389.)  The JAMS’ Comprehensive Arbitration Rules &
Procedures, which are incorporated in the arbitration clause, state that the
arbitrator “may grant any remedy or relief that is just and
equitable and within the scope of the Parties’ Agreement, including
but not limited to, specific performance of a contract or any other
equitable or legal remedy.”  (Sank Decl. Exh. 2 [emphasis added].)  Nothing in the JAMS’ rules prevents an
arbitrator from issuing a writ of mandate, which is in equitable remedy.  (See California Assn. for Health Services
at Home v. State Dept. of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696, 705 [mandamus
is an “equitable remedy”].)  Further, the
arbitrator will have the power under the parties’ agreement and JAMS rules to
issue injunctive relief, which is also an equitable remedy and can function
similarly to a writ of mandate.  (Sank
Decl. Exh. 2; see Venice Town Council, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1996)
47 Cal.App.4th 1547, 1563, fn. 9.) 
Finally, to the extent Petitioner contends that a court order is
required to enforce a writ of mandate, Code of Civil Procedure sections 1285,
1286, and 1287.4 provide a mechanism for the court to confirm any arbitration
award and enter a judgment that may be enforced.[2]  
 
Petitioner points out that article VI, section 10 of the
California Constitution confers original jurisdiction on the Supreme Court,
courts of appeal, and superior courts “in proceedings for extraordinary relief
in the nature of mandamus, certiorari, and prohibition.”  (Oppo. 5.) 
Although true, the point is irrelevant. 
Article VI, section 10 does not state that arbitrators cannot issue a
writ of mandate or similar equitable remedy. 
Petitioner has not cited any authority suggesting that an arbitrator may
not issue an equitable remedy if he or she is permitted to do so by the
parties’ arbitration agreement and the applicable arbitration rules.  In fact, case law establishes that
arbitrators have broad discretion to fashion the appropriate remedy.  (See Advanced
Micro Devices, supra, 9 Cal.4th at
389; see also Cohen v. TNP 2008 Participating Notes Program,
LLC (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 840, 871 [“an
arbitrator generally does not exceed his or her powers when imposing a
particular remedy if the remedy bears a rational relationship to the underlying
claim or breach, even if the remedy could not have been awarded by a jury or
court”].)  
 
Petitioner states that “statutory claims may be subject
to arbitration only if the arbitration agreement clearly and unmistakably
encompasses such claims and ensures procedural safeguards that allow claimants
to fully vindicate their statutory rights.” 
(Oppo. 5-6, citing Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113-14; Iskanian v. CLS
Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 374; and Carmax
Auto Superstores California LLC v. Hernandez (C.D. Cal. 2015) 94 F.Supp.3d
1078, 1099.)  
 
The case law Petitioner cites did not hold that statutory
claims may only be subject to arbitration if the arbitration agreement clearly
and unmistakably encompasses such claims. 
Rather, these cases hold that an agreement to arbitrate claims cannot be
used as a vehicle to waive statutory claims and rights.  (See Armendariz, supra, at 101, Carmax
Auto, supra, at 1099.)  Here,
Petitioner does not argue or show that enforcing the arbitration agreement
would cause Petitioner to waive any statutory rights or claims.  To the contrary, Petitioner could raise claims
concerning of the fairness of the expulsion in the arbitration. Further, as
argued in reply, the petition is based on Code of Civil Procedure sections 1085
and 1102, which are procedural statutes that do not create any new statutory
rights similar to the Fair Employment and Housing Act and the Labor Code
provisions at issue in Iskanian, Armendariz, and Carmax.  (Reply 4.) 
Although these cases state that certain procedural safeguards must be
provided, such as a neutral arbitrator and discovery, the arbitration provision
in this case does provide for such safeguards, as discussed above.  (See Sank Decl. Exh. 2 and Reply
5-6.)  
 
Finally, Petitioner argues that public policy weighs
against compelling arbitration because: (1) “judicial oversight is essential
for procedural fairness”; and (2) “transparency is essential to ensure
accountability and prevent potential misconduct.”  (Oppo. 7.) 
Petitioner’s arguments are meritless. 
“Under section 1281.2, the court shall order a matter to
arbitration if it determines that there is an agreement to arbitrate and (1)
the agreement has not been waived or (2) the agreement has not been
revoked.”  (Cinel v. Barna (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 1383, 1389 [emphasis added].) 
As discussed above, Petitioner has not proven that the arbitration
agreement was waived or should be revoked. 
Accordingly, the arbitration agreement must be enforced.  Further, “the
law favors agreements for arbitration of disputes.”  (Ibid.)  Petitioner can raise his arguments concerning
the fairness of the investigation or procedures used to expel him in the
arbitration.  Since Petitioner is
litigating this case with a pseudonym, his concerns about transparency are
unfounded.  Arbitration would
better protect Petitioner’s and nonparty student’s privacy interests since the
proceedings are not necessarily public.  In any event, Petitioner may file a petition in court
to confirm any arbitration award issued in his favor.  Thus, enforcing the arbitration agreement
need not result in a loss of transparency. 

 
D.        Respondents’ Request for Stay
 
Respondents request that the court stay this action until
the arbitration concludes.  
 
If a
court of competent jurisdiction … has ordered arbitration of a controversy
which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of
this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon
motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until
such earlier time as the court specifies.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4(a).)  Because the court has ordered arbitration of
Petitioner’s claims, a stay of this action is required.  
The stay of the trial court proceedings
pursuant to section 1281.4(a) is intended to maintain the status quo,
which necessarily includes the stay of the expulsion order.  Therefore, the court finds that the stay of
Petitioner’s expulsion shall remain in place until the court confirms any
arbitration award in Respondents’ favor. 

 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         Respondents’
petition to compel arbitration is granted.
 
            2.         The
petition for writ of mandate is stayed.
 
            3.         The
court issues an order to show cause why this case should not be dismissed with
prejudice following arbitration.  The OSC
hearing shall be held on June 25, 2025, at 9:30 a.m.  The parties shall file a joint status report
on or before June 13, 2025.  The court
provides notice: If Petitioner’s counsel does not appear at the hearing, absent
good cause, the court will dismiss this case with prejudice.
 
            4.         The
court’s clerk shall provide notice.
 
 
IT
IS SO ORDERED
 
 
Dated:  December 11, 2024                                        ____________________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
 


