 Case Number:  24STCP01483    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  82 Jose R. Gomez,                                                          Case No. 24STCP01483
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
December 11, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
The
Personnel Commission of the                           Department:
82                                    
        
Los
Angeles Unified School District, et al.             Judge: Stephen I. Goorvitch            
 
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Petition for
Writ of Mandate
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
             Petitioner Jose Gomez (“Petitioner”) was a Permanent
Class B Commercial Truck Driver with the Los Angeles Unified School District
(the “District” or “LAUSD”).  On July 8,
2021, Petitioner was driving his LAUSD truck and turned right on a green
light.  He struck an elderly  pedestrian crossing the street—who was crossing
with the light in the crosswalk—causing serious injury that required
hospitalization for a broken clavicle and fractured ribs.  This was not Petitioner’s first accident.  On October 22, 2018, Petitioner struck a
parked vehicle while he was attempting to back up into a school driveway.  Exactly two years later, on October 22, 2020,
Petitioner hit a red, four-foot post when reversing a District truck in a
parking lot.  Petitioner admitted that all
three accidents were preventable. 
 
            The
District suspended and terminated Gomez. 
Petitioner timely appealed, and a hearing officer found that the
District’s decision to terminate Petitioner was just cause.  The Los Angeles Unified School District
Personnel Commission (the “Personnel Commission”) reviewed the hearing
officer’s findings and recommendations and voted to grant Petitioner’s appeal
but did not issue a written decision or findings of fact supporting that
decision.  The District then moved for
reconsideration of the Personnel Commission’s tentative decision, following
which the Personnel Commission voted to deny the appeal and sustain
Petitioner’s termination.  Afterwards, the
Personnel Commission issued a written decision upholding Petitioner’s
termination.    
 
            Petitioner
filed the instant petition for writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.5 and raises two issues.  First,
Petitioner argues that the Commission exceeded its jurisdiction when it
“reconsidered” its decision to grant the appeal.  Second, Petitioner argues that the decision
to impose termination was an abuse of discretion.  The District filed an opposition on both
issues; the Personnel Commission filed an opposition addressing only the first
issue.  
 
The court denies the petition.  Because the Personnel Commission had not made
a “final and conclusive” decision to grant Petitioner’s appeal, the Personnel
Commission was free to reconsider its tentative decision.  Moreover, there is sufficient evidence to
support the finding that Petitioner was at fault for the accident.  It is not an abuse of discretion to terminate
a driver who hits a pedestrian crossing in a crosswalk with the light and puts
her in the hospital, especially when he had two prior accidents that were
preventable.  

BACKGROUND
 
            A.        The Accident 
 
On July 8, 2021, Petitioner was
driving his LAUSD truck when he struck a pedestrian at the corner of Military
Avenue and National Boulevard.  As a
result of the accident, the pedestrian suffered serious injuries and was hospitalized
with a broken clavicle and fractured ribs. 
Two police officers of the Los Angeles Police Department (the “LAPD”)
investigated the accident and determined that Petitioner struck the pedestrian
while she was in a crosswalk legally crossing the street with the light.  The District’s investigator agreed with the
police officers’ determination and found that the accident was
preventable.  (See AR 656-661, 693-697,
720-736, 781, 885.)  Petitioner signed a
form in which he agreed with the District’s determination that the accident was
preventable.  (AR 365, 716,
734-736.)  On November 3, 2021,
Petitioner was issued a Notice of Unsatisfactory Service for the incident
occurring on July 8, 2021.  (AR
965.)  
 
In the prior three years, Petitioner
had been involved in two other preventable accidents while driving an LAUSD truck.  On October 22, 2018, Petitioner struck a
parked vehicle while he was attempting to back up into a school driveway.  (AR 246, 790.)  Exactly two years later, on October 22, 2020,
Petitioner hit a four-foot post when reversing a District truck in a parking
lot.  (AR 213, 736-737.)  No one was injured in these two prior accidents.  However, the District’s investigators found
that these two prior accidents were preventable.  (AR 736-737, 789-793, 380, 399.)  Petitioner signed forms in which he agreed
with the District’s determinations that the accidents were preventable.  (AR 380, 399.)  The District issued a Notice of Unsatisfactory
Service for the October 2020 accident, with no suspension or other disciplinary
action.  (AR 382-383.)
 
B.        The
Hearing Officer’s Decision 
 
On January 25, 2022, after a Skelly
meeting with Petitioner, the District served on Petitioner a Dismissal from
Service based on charges that Petitioner was inattentive, derelict in his duty,
and failed to safely operate his assigned LAUSD vehicle when he struck the
pedestrian in a crosswalk who was crossing with the light.  (AR 961-965.) 
Petitioner timely appealed his dismissal and an evidentiary hearing was
held before a hearing officer.  (AR 870,
967.)  
 
            On
April 10, 2023, the hearing officer issued a proposed decision finding: (1) It
was more likely than not that Petitioner was a fault for the accident of July
8, 2021; (2) Petitioner’s misconduct “warranted bypassing progressive discipline;”
and (3) There was “just cause” to terminate Petitioner’s employment.  (AR 886.) 
Accordingly, the hearing officer recommended that the Personnel Commission
sustain the District’s decision to terminate Petitioner’s employment.  (Ibid.)  The hearing officer also found, however, that
Petitioner had been a “valuable employee” and therefore “strongly encourage[d]
the District to recognize that [Petitioner] can be a valuable employee in a
different role and to offer Gomez a job in a non-driving position.”  (AR 886.)
 


 
            C.        Proceedings Before the Personnel
Commission
 
            The
Personnel Commission considered Petitioner’s appeal and the hearing officer’s
recommendation at its meeting on October 19, 2023.  (AR 1187.)  The Personnel Commission voted at the meeting
to grant Petitioner’s appeal.  (Ibid.)  However, the Personnel Commission did not
issue a written decision or findings of fact as required by Commission Rule 904(P).
 (See Request for Judicial Notice
(“RJN”) Exh. A.)  
 
            On
November 8, 2023, the District moved for reconsideration of the decision to
grant Petitioner’s appeal.  (AR 1001-1003.)  Petitioner responded to the motion for
reconsideration in a written opposition filed on or about December 5, 2023.  (AR 899, 1004-1184.)[1]
 
            At
its meeting on February 8, 2024, the Personnel Commission reconsidered its
decision.  Commissioner Paller noted that
the Commission “had not issued a final written order in this case [and]
therefore, he would not characterize it as a reconsideration.”  (AR 1203.)  The Commission then voted 3-0 to deny the
appeal and sustain Petitioner’s discharge.  (Ibid.)  On February 8, 2024, the Commission issued
Written Decision No. 0720 in which it adopted the hearing officer’s proposed
decision and sustained Petitioner’s discharge. (AR 860-861.)  This writ petition followed.
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are whether the
respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial,
and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b).)
 
Because the termination
of Petitioner’s employment concerns a fundamental vested right, the court
exercises its independent judgment on the administrative findings.  (See Wences
v. City of Los Angeles (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 305, 314; Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal.3d 130,
143.)  Under the independent judgment
test, “the trial court not only examines the administrative record for errors
of law, but also exercises its independent judgment upon the evidence disclosed
in a limited trial de novo.”  (Bixby
v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130, 143.) 
The court may draw its own reasonable inferences from the evidence and
make its determinations as to the credibility of witnesses.  (Morrison
v. Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles Board of Commissioners
(2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.)  “In
exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong
presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the
party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing
the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the
evidence.”  (Fukuda v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817.)
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES 
 
            Petitioner
requests judicial notice of one exhibit, which are excerpts of Personnel
Commission Rules 501, 503, 514, 901, 902, 903, and 904.  The request is not opposed.  The court grants the request under Evidence
Code section 452(b).
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        The Personnel Commission
Acted Within its Jurisdiction 
 
Petitioner first argues that the Personnel Commission exceeded
its jurisdiction when it “reconsidered” its original decision to grant
Petitioner’s appeal and then voted to deny the appeal.  Whereas courts may reconsider any decision on
their own motion, an administrative agency acting in an adjudicatory capacity
does not necessarily have that authority. 
An administrative agency acting in an adjudicatory capacity may not reconsider
or reopen a final and conclusive decision unless authorized by statute or
regulation.  (See Gutierrez v. Board
of Retirement of Los Angeles County Employees Retirement Ass’n (1998) 62
Cal.App.4th 745, 749, fn. 3.)  
 
In Heap v. City of Los Angeles (1936) 6 Cal.2d 405, the
California Supreme Court applied this rule to a decision of the Los Angeles
City Board of Civil Service Commissioners to sustain the discharge of a civil
service employee.  The City’s charter
provided that the Board’s decision must be “in writing” and that “the order of
said board with respect to such removal, discharge or suspension shall be
forthwith certified to the appointing board or officer, and shall be final and
conclusive.”  (Id. at 407.)  The record on appeal showed that the Board
made “findings” and entered a “resolution” to sustain the discharge.  (Id. at 406-407.)  The Court held that the Board lacked
jurisdiction to vacate its findings and make a new order to overturn the
employee’s discharge.  The Court reasoned
as follows:
 
The
jurisdiction of the commission is a special and limited one. The required
procedure was followed, and the question of appellant’s discharge was
determined by the commission when it adopted the first resolution. Its action
sustaining his discharge was “final and conclusive.”  It had no
jurisdiction to retry the question and make a different finding at a later
time.  The charter gives no such grant of
power, and it may not be implied.
 
(Heap, supra, 6 Cal.2d at 407 [internal citations
omitted].)
 
            This
precedent does not benefit Petitioner because the Personnel Commission never
made a “final and conclusive” decision to grant his appeal.  Personnel Commission rule 904(P), which is
titled “Decision,” provides as follows: 
 
The
Commission shall render a decision within a reasonable time after the hearing
or investigation. The decision shall be filed by the Commission as a public
record and given or mailed simultaneously to each party within ten days of the
filing thereof. The decision shall be in writing and shall contain
findings of fact and order of the Commission affirming disciplinary or
resignation action or sustaining the appeal. If the appeal is
sustained, the Commission shall order the reinstatement of the appellant and
may order payment of all or part of appellant's full compensation from the date
of suspension, demotion, dismissal, or resignation. In addition, the Commission
may direct such other actions as it may find necessary to effect a just
settlement of the appeal. The decision of the Commission shall be
effective at the time specified and shall be binding upon the governing board.
 
(RJN Exh. A at p. 25 of 26 [emphasis added].)
 
            In sum, the
Personnel Commission’s vote to grant Petitioner’s appeal did not become “final
and conclusive” unless the Personnel Commission issued a written decision containing
“findings of fact” and the “order of the Commission.”  This vote was akin to a tentative decision,
and the Personnel Commission retained jurisdiction to reach a different
decision until it issued its final written decision, which occurred on February
8, 2024.    
 
            Petitioner cites
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6(b), which states: “If there is no
provision for reconsideration of the decision, or for a written decision or
written findings supporting the decision, the decision is final on the date it
is announced.”  (Petitioner’s Opening
Brief at 6:14-16.)  Petitioner’s reliance
on section 1094.6(b) is misplaced.  Per
section 1094.6(a), this section governs judicial review of any decision of a
local agency “other than a school district . . . or of any commission, board,
officer or agent thereof . . . .”  Because
Petitioner seeks review of a decision by the Los Angeles Unified School
District and its Personnel Commission, this section is not applicable to this
case.  Regardless, section 1094.6(b)
applies only if there is “no provision . . . for a written decision or written
findings supporting the decision . . . .” 
As discussed, the Personnel Commission has such a rule, which governs
instead of section 1094.6(b).      
 
            Petitioner
argues that the District did not serve the motion for reconsideration on
Petitioner’s counsel.  (OB 7.)  The Personnel Commission provided a copy to
Petitioner’s counsel on November 15, 2023, and invited Petitioner to respond by
December 11, 2023.  (AR 898-899.)  Petitioner
filed a written opposition or about December 5, 2023.  (AR 899, 1004-1184.)  Accordingly, there was no prejudice, and
Petitioner waived any defect in the notice by opposing the motion on the
merits.  
             
            Petitioner
argues that “no
procedures exist for the Personnel Commission to reconsider a decision” and that
the Commission did not serve its final February 8, 2024, decision “within ten
days of the filing,” as required by Rule 904(P).  (OB 7-8.) 
Neither argument supports Petitioner’s position.  Because the Commission did not issue a final
decision at the original meeting, it had jurisdiction to change its tentative
decision, as discussed.  Thus, the
continued proceedings on the appeal through February 8, 2024, were not a
“reconsideration” and did not require reconsideration procedures.  Although the Personnel Commission did not email
its final decision, dated February 8, 2024, until April 1, 2024 (AR 862), Petitioner
does not show any prejudice from the delayed service.  Further, Petitioner does not cite any
authority that this procedural defect has any bearing on the validity of the
decision.  
 
            Based on the foregoing, the Personnel
Commission acted within its jurisdiction when it issued a written decision and
findings denying Petitioner’s appeal on February 8, 2024.  In light of this conclusion, the court need
not reach the Personnel Commission’s alternative argument that reconsideration
was authorized pursuant to Guilbert v. Regents of University of California
(1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 233, 243.  (See Commission
Oppo. 7-8.)
 
A.             
The Commission’s Fact Findings Are Supported by
the Weight of the Evidence 
 
In this
administrative writ proceeding, Petitioner bears the burden of proof to
demonstrate, by citation to the administrative record, that the weight of the
evidence does not support the administrative findings.  (Strumsky
v. San Diego County Employees Retirement Assn. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 28, 32; Steele v. Los Angeles County Civil Service Commission (1958) 166
Cal.App.2d 129, 137.)  Significantly, Petitioner “must identify (with
citations to the record) the factual findings made by the board that he or she
is challenging and demonstrate (with citations to the record) why those factual
findings were against the weight of the evidence.”  (Shenouda
v. Veterinary Medical Bd. (2018)
27 Cal.App.5th 500, 513.) A reviewing court “will not act as counsel for
either party to an appeal and will not assume the task of initiating and
prosecuting a search of the record for any purpose of discovering errors not
pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v.
Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 740, 742.) 
“When an appellant fails to raise a point, or asserts it but fails to
support it with reasoned argument and citations to authority, we treat the
point as waived.”  (Nelson v. Avondale
HOA (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 857, 862-863.)
 
Here, Petitioner’s
arguments pertain to the Commission’s jurisdiction to deny his appeal on
February 8, 2024, and the propriety of the penalty.  Petitioner has not identified any factual
findings that he challenges or argued that there is insufficient evidence to
support any specific fact finding.  Accordingly,
Petitioner has forfeited any argument that the Commission’s fact findings are
not supported by the weight of the evidence.
 
Nor could
Petitioner successfully challenge the Commission’s fact findings.  Exercising its independent judgment on the
record, the court finds that the weight of the evidence, including the
testimonies of two LAPD police officers and the District’s investigator, supports
the Commission’s finding that Petitioner was at fault for the July 8, 2021,
accident, which caused serious injuries to a pedestrian.  (AR 882-884; see e.g. 871, 693-697, 656-661, 720-736.)  Indeed, Petitioner signed a form in which he
agreed with the District’s determination that the accident was
preventable.  (AR 365, 716, 734-736.)  Although Petitioner argued below that the
pedestrian may have been “contributorily negligent” (AR 873), he does not make
that argument in his writ briefing. 
Further, exercising its independent judgment, the court finds that the
weight of the evidence supports the Commission’s findings that Petitioner
struck the pedestrian while she was lawfully crossing the street in a crosswalk
and that being struck by the heavy vehicle pushed her back and caused her to
fall several feet from the point of impact. 
(AR 883; see e.g. AR 650-654, 687-688, 725 [testimony of LAPD
officers and the District’s investigator]; AR 221-231 [photos of truck]; AR
334-341 [police report]; AR 349-352 [District investigation report].)  Petitioner has not cited any persuasive evidence
in the record that the pedestrian was partially at fault for the accident.  
 
The weight of the evidence supports the Commission’s fact
findings that Petitioner was at fault for the accident, which was preventable
and which caused serious injuries to a pedestrian.  Based on these findings, Commission properly
concluded that Petitioner committed misconduct as alleged in the Statement of
Charges, including “inattention to or dereliction of duty” (Commission Rule
902(A)(4)) and “any other failure of good conduct tending to injure public
service” (Commission Rule 902(A)(4)).[2]
 
B.             
The Penalty Was Not a Manifest Abuse of
Discretion 
 
Petitioner also challenges his termination, arguing that it
reflects a manifest abuse of discretion.
 
[T]he propriety of a penalty imposed by an
administrative agency is a matter vested in the discretion of the agency and
its decision may not be disturbed unless there has been a manifest abuse of
discretion.  In reviewing the penalty
imposed by an administrative body which is duly constituted to announce and
enforce such penalties, neither a trial court nor an appellate court is free to
substitute its own discretion as to the matter; nor can the reviewing court interfere
with the imposition of a penalty by an administrative tribunal because in the
court's own evaluation of the circumstances the penalty appears to be too harsh.  Such interference, in the light of the
foregoing authorities, will only be sanctioned when there is an arbitrary,
capricious or patently abusive exercise of discretion.
 
(Cadilla v.
Board of Medical Examiners (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 961, 966 [internal
citations, alterations, and quotation marks omitted].)  In
considering whether an abuse of discretion occurred, the “overriding
consideration . . . is the extent to which the employee’s conduct resulted in,
or if repeated is likely to result in, harm to the public service.  Other relevant factors include the
circumstances surrounding the misconduct and the likelihood of its
recurrence.”  (Skelly v. State Personnel Bd. (1975) 15 Cal.3d 194, 218 [internal citations, alterations, and
quotation marks omitted].)  
 
Petitioner argues
that the Commission did not follow the District’s progressive discipline policy
and, therefore, abused its discretion in
terminating his employment.  Petitioner
asserts that, under the progressive discipline policy, his “appropriate
punishment should have been an Interim Performance Evaluation issued by the
supervisor due to the fact that this was only Gomez’s second preventable
accident within a twenty-four-month period.” 
(OB 8-9.)  Petitioner 


 
relies on a District policy titled “Prevention of Accidents,” which
outlines a series of progressive discipline for a driver involved in
preventable accidents.  (AR 201.)  The policy states:
 
1.         After the employee’s first preventable
accident, the first-line supervisor will try to assist the drive to correct the
causes leading to the accident and possible future accidents.  This meeting will be documented by the
supervisor and the papers placed in the employee’s Transportation Branch
personnel file.
 
2.         If a second preventable accident occurs
within a twelve-month period, an interim Performance Evaluation form will be
issued by the supervisor.
 
3.         If a third preventable accident occurs
within a fifteen-month period, a Notice of Unsatisfactory Service will be
issued with a recommendation for a disciplinary suspension.
 
4.         If a fourth preventable accident occurs
within a twenty-four month period, a Notice of Unsatisfactory Service will be
issued with a recommendation for suspension, demolition, or dismissal from
service.
 
(Ibid.)  Contrary to
Petitioner’s argument, this policy does not require four accidents within a
24-month period in order to terminate an employee.  As the hearing officer observed, there is an
important caveat to the policy:
 
The action taken for the initial, second or third
accidents will depend on the seriousness of the accident and the conditions
leading to and arising from the accidents. 
For example, a rear-end collision or other serious accident indicating
serious driver error or neglect would probably result in action being commenced
with number 3 or 4 above.
 
(AR 201.)  This provision shows that the District has
discretion to bypass the usual progressive discipline, even for a first
preventable accident, depending on the “seriousness” of the accident.  
 
            In this case, Petitioner’s accident
was sufficient to support a decision to terminate his employment.  The Personnel Commission adopted the
following finding made by the hearing officer: 
 
I find that the July 8, 2021, accident was as serious,
if not more serious, than a rear-end collision. A truck driver striking a
pedestrian within a crosswalk indicates ‘serious driver error,’ and the
consequences of the accident were severe: a pedestrian hospitalized with
fractured ribs and a broken clavicle. Put differently, the ‘Prevention of
Accidents’ document put Gomez on clear notice that a serious preventable
accident like the one that occurred on July 8, 2021 could lead to his dismissal.
. . .  [T]he seriousness of the July 8,
2021 accident warrants discharge . . . . 

 
(AR 885.)  
 
Petitioner has not
shown a manifest abuse of discretion in this penalty decision.  It is undisputed that the accident was
preventable and resulted in serious injuries to the pedestrian, who was
hospitalized.  Petitioner’s negligent
driving exposed the District to potential legal liability.  (See e.g. AR 1187 [the pedestrian
filed a lawsuit against the District seeking damages exceeding
$1,000,000].)  Petitioner had also been
involved in a non-serious but preventable accident in October 2020, less than a
year before the accident on July 8, 2021. 
It was reasonable for the Personnel Commission to bypass the usual
progressive discipline and conclude that discharge was the appropriate penalty
based upon the seriousness of the accident and the victim’s injuries, Petitioner’s
culpability and prior driving record; and the fact that Petitioner’s negligence
subjected the District to financial liability. 
That the Commission could have imposed a lesser penalty does not prove
an abuse of discretion.  “If reasonable
minds may differ with regard to the appropriate disciplinary action, there is
no abuse of discretion.” (County of Los
Angeles v. Civil Service Commission (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 620, 634.)  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER  
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The petition for writ of mandate is denied.
 
            2.         The parties shall meet-and-confer and
lodge a proposed judgment forthwith.
 
            3.         The court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED
 
 
Dated: December 11,
2024                                         ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


