 Case Number:  22STCV09437    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  31 DEPT:   31 OSC DATE:  02/28/2024 CASE NAME/NUMBER:  22STCV09437 SHEENA PAHOYO HERNANDEZ vs SHLOMO KESHET REQUEST FOR COURT JUDGMENT AGAINST [DEFAULTING PARTY]:  SHLOMO KESHET RECOMMENDATION:  Deny for reasons below.    TENTATIVE  Plaintiff Sheena Pahoyo Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Shlomo Keshet and Does 1 to 50 for injuries arising from a dog bite. Plaintiff has properly dismissed all unnamed Doe defendants.  This is Plaintiff’s third request for default judgment. The request for default judgment filed on January 17, 2024 is DENIED for the following reasons:  Plaintiff seeks $100,000 in general damages against Shlomo Keshet. For the third time now, Plaintiff must substantiate her claim for damages. A defaulting defendant admits only the well pled facts concerning liability, not damages; however, Plaintiff must still introduce admissible prima facie evidence of damages. (Johnson v. Stanhiser (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 357, 361.)  Even if Plaintiff is only seeking general damages, the Court will not award an unsupported request for $100,000 for pain and suffering. Plaintiff’s first request for court judgment did not properly authenticate the medical records, and the second request omitted records entirely. Now, on the third request, Plaintiff once more fails to provide any documentation of her injury claim despite the Court’s prior instructions.   Lastly, aside from failing to provide any authenticated records, Plaintiff fails to provide her own declaration whatsoever on this attempt. Plaintiff only provides the declaration of her counsel, Stephanie Sanchez. This is the third time the Court has stated that Plaintiff’s attorney was not a percipient witness to the incident, nor did counsel incur damages to have the requisite personal knowledge to be able to attest to Plaintiff’s injuries arising from the incident.   This is the third time that the Court has identified these same defects, which Plaintiff, through counsel, has failed to correct. Plaintiff’s counsel has failed to show cause why sanctions should not be imposed for failure to comply with the Court’s prior orders and for failure to prosecute. Accordingly, the Court hereby imposes against Plaintiff’s counsel monetary sanctions of $1,000 payable within 30 days.  No later than _________, Plaintiff is to submit a new default judgment package correcting these defects. Plaintiff is on notice that if the next application for default judgment suffers from the same defects, the failure to either submit a new package and/or cure the defects will result in dismissal of the action.  