  Case Number:  23STCV24047    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  MAPLE SOLOMON, et al.,Plaintiffs, vs.ANGELENO HOMES, LLC, et al.,Defendants.   Case No.:  23STCV24047 Hearing Date:  June 12, 2024      [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  DEMURRER FILED BY DEFENDANT MELINNA RIVERA; DEMURRER FILED BY DEFENDANTS CREST CAPITAL, LLC AND ANGELENO HOMES, LLCRivera’s demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the cause of action for fraud.Rivera’s demurrer is OVERRULED as to the remaining causes of action.The demurrer filed by Defendants Crest Capital and Angeleno Homes is SUSTAINED as to the causes of action for fraud and to quiet title.The demurrer filed by Defendants Crest Capital and Angeleno Homes is OVERRULED as to the remaining causes of action.Plaintiffs should be prepared to discuss the issue of leave to amend at the hearing on this matter.Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for fraud, declaratory relief, cancellation of instrument, and quiet title. Plaintiffs Maple Solomon and Keith Tatum allege that they are residents and true owners of a home located in Los Angeles, California. On November 17, 2022, Plaintiff Tatum discovered that someone at the property was cleaning rubbish and doing other chores. When he questioned the individual why he was there, the person stated the property had been transferred to Defendants Angeleno Homes, LLC (Angeleno Homes) and National Default Servicing Corporation. Plaintiffs never authorized the sale or transfer of the property to anyone and never executed any instrument to sell or transfer the property.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On October 3, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint.On October 30, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint adding Defendant Melinna Rivera as a defendant in this action.On December 28, 2023, Defendant Rivera filed this demurrer. The demurrer is unopposed.On February 21, 2024, Defendants Angeleno Homes, LLC and Crest Capital, LLC filed their demurrer to the FAC. The demurrer is also unopposed.DISCUSSION I. Rivera’s DemurrerRivera demurs to the FAC on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to support a cause of action against her.Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 (internal citations omitted).)Meet and ConferA party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.41(a).) “The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.41(a)(2).) A failure to meet and confer does not constitute grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections 430.41 (a)(4).)Here, Rivera fails to provide evidence that she met and conferred with Plaintiff prior to filing this demurrer. However, failure to meet and confer is not grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer.DiscussionRivera demurs to the FAC on the grounds that it fails to plead facts sufficient to support a cause of action against her.1. First Cause of Action – FraudA claim for fraud must plead all of the following elements: (1) misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. (Odorizzi v. Bloomfield School Dist. (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 123, 128; Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1332.)   Here, the FAC alleges that Plaintiffs are the joint owners of a property located at 107 W. 66th Street, Los Angeles, California 90003. (FAC ¶¶1, 7.) On November 17, 2022 Plaintiff Tatum learned there was someone at the subject property cleaning up rubbish and doing other chores. (FAC ¶14.) The person represented that he was a new owner or that he was working for the new owner. (Id.) Plaintiff informed the person he was the real owner and that the property had not been sold. (Id.) Plaintiff learned that a deed had been recorded transferring the property to one of the Defendants. (Id.) Plaintiff never executed any instrument selling or transferring title. (FAC ¶16.) The FAC also includes grant deeds showing Plaintiffs owned the property in 2012, transferred the property to Defendant Angeleno Homes, LLC in 2022, Angeleno Homes transferred the property to Crest Capital LLC (Crest Capital) in 2022, and Crest Capital transferred the property to Rivera in 2023. (FAC Exhibits.)The facts as alleged are insufficient to support a cause of action for fraud. Although the FAC alleges there was a misrepresentation because Defendants’ agent represented the property had been conveyed to Defendants, the FAC does not contain any facts that Defendants knew the misrepresentation was false, intended to induce reliance, or that Plaintiffs relied on this misrepresentation to their detriment. Because the FAC does not plead facts which support each element of fraud, the demurrer is sustained on this ground. 2. Second Cause of Action – Declaratory ReliefA demurrer is generally not an appropriate means to test the merits of a declaratory relief action unless the issues are solely ones of law. (Arroyo v. Regents of University of California (1975) 48 Cal.App.3d 793, 797.) “A demurrer is not the appropriate vehicle to challenge a portion of a cause of action demanding an improper remedy.” (Caliber Bodyworks, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 365, 384-85; see PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682-83 (“A demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of action.”).) “The appropriate procedural device for challenging a portion of a cause of action seeking an improper remedy is a motion to strike.” (Caliber Bodyworks, Inc., supra, 134 Cal.App.4th at 385.) Here, Rivera demurs to Plaintiffs’ demand for declaratory relief. Because Rivera challenges a remedy and not a cause of action, the demurrer is overruled. 3. Third Cause of Action – Cancellation of InstrumentCivil Code section 3412 provides that “[a] written instrument, in respect to which there is a reasonable apprehension that if left outstanding it may cause serious injury to a person against whom it is void or voidable, may, upon his application, be so adjudged, and ordered to be delivered up or canceled.” “To prevail on a claim to cancel an instrument, a plaintiff must prove (1) the instrument is void or voidable due to, for example, fraud; and (2) there is a reasonable apprehension of serious injury including pecuniary loss or the prejudicial alteration of one’s position.” (U.S. Bank National Association v. Naifeh (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 767, 778.) “A deed is void if the grantor's signature is forged or if the grantor is unaware of the nature of what he or she is signing.” (Schiavon v. Arnaudo Brothers (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 374, 378, citing Erickson v. Bohne (1955) 130 Cal.App.2d 553, 556.) “A void deed passes no title, and cannot be made the foundation of a good title even under the equitable doctrine of bona fide purchase. (Erickson at p. 556.)Here, the FAC states that Plaintiffs did not authorize the sale of the subject property. (FAC ¶15.) Plaintiffs also provide the disputed grant deed showing the property was transferred from Plaintiffs to Angeleno Homes. (FAC Exhibits.) It is reasonable to infer from these facts that the grant deed transferring title to Angeleno Homes was forged. Therefore, the FAC alleges sufficient facts to show that the grant deed was void and that the subsequent deeds were void because they passed no title. It is also reasonable to infer from the FAC that Plaintiffs would suffer serious injury because they would lose title to the property. Therefore, the FAC alleges facts sufficient to support a cause of action for cancellation of instruments.The demurrer is overruled on this ground. 4. Fourth Cause of Action – Quiet Title“A quiet title action is a statutory action that seeks to declare the rights of the parties in realty. (Civ. Code, section 760.020;¿Western Aggregates, Inc. v. County of Yuba¿(2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 278, 305, 130 Cal.Rptr.2d 436.) “’”The object of the action is to finally settle and determine, as between the parties, all conflicting claims to the property in controversy, and to decree to each such interest or estate therein as he may be entitled to.”’” (Western Aggregates, supra, at p. 305, 130 Cal.Rptr.2d 436.)To maintain an action for quiet title, a plaintiff must allege:  “(a) A description of the property that is the subject of the action.  In the case of tangible personal property, the description shall include its usual location. In the case of real property, the description shall include both its legal description and its street address or common designation, if any.  (b) The title of the plaintiff as to which a determination under this chapter is sought and the basis of the title. If the title is based upon adverse possession, the complaint shall allege the specific facts constituting the adverse possession.  (c) The adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against which a determination is sought.  (d) The date as of which the determination is sought. If the determination is sought as of a date other than the date the complaint is filed, the complaint shall include a statement of the reasons why a determination as of that date is sought.  (e) A prayer for the determination of the title of the plaintiff against the adverse claims.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 761.020.) Here, the FAC contains the information required by section 761.020 because Plaintiffs attached the grant deeds describing the property’s location, the street address, and the property’s legal description. Additionally, the grant deeds show Plaintiffs held title to the property beginning in 2012. Defendants each have adverse claims against Plaintiff’s interest in the property because there are three grant deeds transferring the property from Plaintiffs to Angeleno Homes, from Angeleno Homes to Crest Capital, and from Crest Capital to Rivera. Plaintiffs seek to quiet title as of the date of the filing of their Complaint. (FAC ¶12.) Finally, the FAC contains a prayer for determination of Plaintiffs’ title against the adverse claims. (FAC ¶¶8-11.) Because the FAC contains all of the allegations required to support a quiet title action, the demurrer is overruled as to this cause of action.5. Leave to AmendThe burden is on Plaintiffs to show in what manner the complaint may be amended and how the amendment would change the legal effect of his pleading. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335.) Here, Plaintiffs did not oppose the demurrer and therefore failed to address the issue of leave to amend. Plaintiffs must be prepared to discuss this issue at the hearing on this matter.II. Demurrer filed by Angeleno Homes and Crest CapitalMovants Angeleno Homes and Crest Capital demur to the FAC on the grounds that (1) the Complaint if uncertain and (2) the Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.Meet and ConferMovants’ counsel testifies that the phone number on the caption page of Plaintiffs’ FAC belongs to a person named Danny White, who is not an attorney and holds himself out as a representative of Plaintiffs. (Heller Decl., ¶4.) After making multiple attempts to meet and confer with Plaintiffs, White informed Movants’ counsel that Plaintiffs were unable to meet and confer. (Id., ¶¶14-15.) Movants demur to the FAC on the grounds that it is uncertain and fails to plead facts sufficient to support a cause of action against them.Discussion1. UncertaintyMovants first argue that the Complaint is uncertain.“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) “A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her.” (Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group) § 7:85 (emphasis in original).) “The objection of uncertainty does not go to the failure to allege sufficient facts.” (Brea v. McGlashan (1934) 3 Cal.App.2d 454, 459.) “It goes to the doubt as to what the pleader means by the facts alleged.” (Id.) “Such a demurrer should not be sustained where the allegations of the complaint are sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues which he is to meet.” (People v. Lim (1941) 18 Cal.2d 872, 882.)  Here, as discussed above, the FAC states Plaintiffs’ property without their authorization. The FAC includes deeds which show the subject property was transferred to Angeleno Homes, LLC, which transferred the property to Crest Capital, LLC, which transferred the property to Rivera. Because the FAC alleges the property was transferred without Plaintiffs’ authorization, the FAC is not so bad that Movants cannot determine the issues they are to meet.2. First Cause of Action – FraudMovants demur to the fraud cause of action on the grounds that the FAC fails to state Movants made a misrepresentation, specific facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means a representation was tendered, whether Movants knew the representations were false, or whether Plaintiffs relied on the representations. Movants’ demurrer is sustained for the same reasons as in Rivera’s demurrer. Although the FAC does contain allegations that Defendants’ agent represented the property had been conveyed to one of the defendants, the FAC does not contain any facts that Defendants knew the misrepresentation was false, intended to induce reliance, or that Plaintiffs relied on this misrepresentation to their detriment. 3. Second Cause of Action – Declaratory ReliefAs discussed above, declaratory relief is a remedy and may not be disposed of via demurrer. Therefore, the demurrer is overruled as to the demand for declaratory relief.4. Third Cause of Action – Cancellation of InstrumentMovants next demur to the cause of action for cancellation of instrument.Movants first argue that the FAC fails to state why the unspecified instrument is void. Movants argue that because the fraud cause of action fails, Plaintiffs fail to allege that any of the three deeds attached to the FAC are invalid. As discussed above, the FAC states Plaintiffs did not authorize the sale of the subject property to Angeleno Homes, meaning Plaintiffs allege the signature on the grant deed conveying the property to Angeleno Homes is forged. This fact is sufficient to state that the grant deed is void because a deed is void if the grantor’s signature is void. Movants also argue the FAC fails to identify the specific instrument Plaintiffs seek to cancel. A demurrer must dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) Here, the FAC does not state which grant deed Plaintiffs seek to cancel. However, because the cause of action survives as to at least one of the grant deeds, the deed conveying the property from Plaintiffs to Angeleno Homes, the demurrer fails to dispose of an entire cause of action. Movants next argue that this cause of action is duplicative of the cause of action to quiet title. Movants cite Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. v. Pyle (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 513, 523, which states that a quiet title cause of action and cancellation of instrument “based on the same facts, it is said that the cancellation claim is incidental to the claim to quiet title such that the action asserts only one claim.” However, Deutsche Bank involved a motion for summary judgment. While a plaintiff may not ultimately obtain double recovery, she may allege recovery through alternative, and even contradictory, causes of action at the pleadings stage. (Gherman v. Colburn (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 544, 565 [“A plaintiff may plead cumulative or inconsistent causes of action”].) Here, at the pleadings stage, Plaintiffs are not required to elect which cause of action by which they might ultimately recover. The demurrer is overruled as to this cause of action.5. Fourth Cause of Action – Quiet TitleMovants demur to the cause of action to quiet title. Movants first argue that the cause of action fails because the FAC fails to allege a cause of action for fraud. However, as discussed above, the FAC does allege that the signature on the grant deed transferring the subject property to Angeleno Homes is forged, rendering the deed voidable. Thus, the FAC states facts sufficient to show Plaintiffs hold title to the subject property. The demurrer is overruled on this ground.Movants next argue that because the date as of which determination is sought is the date the Complaint was filed, Movants no longer have adverse interests in the subject property. In a quiet title action, the trial court’s judgment adjudicates title as of the date of the complaint. (Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. v. McGurk (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 201, 213.) The court does not take evidence of every act which affected title up until the moment of judgment. (Id.) Here, Plaintiff seeks to determine title as of October 3, 2023, four months after Crest Capital, LLC had already conveyed the property to Rivera. (FAC Exhibits.) Because Movants had already conveyed their interests in the subject property to Rivera at that point, Movants do not have an adverse interest in the subject property. Therefore, the FAC fails to state facts which support an element of a cause of action to quiet title. The demurrer is sustained as to this cause of action.6. Leave to AmendAs with Rivera’s demurrer, Plaintiffs should be prepared to discuss the issue of leave to amend at the hearing on this matter.DATED: June 12, 2024__________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court