..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22STCV34781
Plaintiff's Name: John W. Sandoval
Defendant's Name: General Motors LLC
People-Names: John W. Sandoval, Thomas D. Long
Company-Names: General Motors LLC
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: October 31, 2022, February 27, 2023, April 24, 2023, June 5, 2023, January 25, 2024
Events: Purchase of defective vehicle, Request for Production of Documents, Motion to Compel Further Responses, Failure to comply with electronic filing requirements
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to compel Defendant to provide further responses to requests for production of documents
Facts: Plaintiff purchased a defective vehicle from Defendant, but Defendant's responses to the request for production of documents were deemed insufficient
Disputes: Plaintiff claims Defendant failed to provide sufficient responses to the request for production of documents
Acts: Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further responses, Defendant objected, and the Court has made a tentative ruling
Agreements: Defendant agreed to produce certain documents
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure, California Rules of Court, General Order No. 2019-GEN-014-00
Case Citations: Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a); (b); (b)(1)
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles:
  - Judge: Hon. Thomas D. Long
  - Plaintiff: John W. Sandoval
  - Defendant: General Motors LLC
Significant Statements:
  - "Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration makes clear that they did not attempt to follow Department 48’s procedures for a joint statement."
  - "Defendant agreed to produce certain documents, but the motion contains no argument."
```

And here is the English-text summary:

This is a tentative ruling by Judge Thomas D. Long in case 22STCV34781, filed by plaintiff John W. Sandoval against defendant General Motors LLC. The case arises from the purchase of a defective vehicle by the plaintiff. The plaintiff filed a motion to compel further responses to requests for production of documents, which the defendant objected to. The court has found that the defendant's responses were insufficient and has granted the motion in part. The court has ordered the defendant to provide verified, supplemental responses within 30 days. The request for sanctions is denied. The motion is granted in part, as the defendant must produce the documents it agreed to produce.
