 Case Number:  22STCV34781    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOHN W. SANDOVAL, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV34781
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 25, 2024



 
On October 31, 2022, Plaintiff
John W. Sandoval filed this action against Defendant General Motors LLC arising
from Plaintiff’s purchase of an allegedly defective vehicle.
On
February 27, 2023, Plaintiff served Request for Production of Documents on Defendant.  (Yashar Decl. ¶ 2.)  On April 24, 2023, Defendant served responses,
which Plaintiff deemed insufficient.  (Yashar
Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)  After attempting to meet and
confer (see Yashar Decl. ¶¶ 4-5), Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further responses
on June 5, 2023.
FILING DEFICIENCIES
Under
the Court’s First Amended General Order for electronic filing, “[e]lectronic documents
must be electronically filed in PDF, text searchable format when technologically
feasible without impairment of the document’s image.” (General Order No. 2019-GEN-014-00,
at ¶ 6(a).)  The table of contents and all
attachments, including exhibits, must be bookmarked.  (General Order No. 2019-GEN-014-00, at ¶¶ 6(b)-(d);
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(f)(4).) 
Plaintiff’s filings do not comply with these requirements.
Additionally,
for a motion to compel further, Plaintiff must meet and confer with Defendant and
file a Separate Statement or follow the Court’s alternative method of outlining
the disputes.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (b); California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b).)  This Department requires the parties to follow
the procedures outlined in Exhibit A of Department 48’s Courtroom Information (available
on the Court’s website) and file a joint statement.  Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration makes clear
that they did not attempt to follow Department 48’s procedures for a joint statement.
If
Plaintiff continues to electronically file noncompliant documents, the Court may
strike the filings or issue sanctions.
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
A
party may move to compel a further response to a demand for production of documents
if the demanding party deems that the statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete; the representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,
or evasive; or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  The motion must set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)
Plaintiff
seeks further responses to RFP Nos. 13, 14, 15, 16, 34, and 35.
RFP
No. 13 requests all documents identifying Defendant’s repurchases of other vehicles
of the same make and model that contained the same alleged defects.  RFP No. 14 requests all documents related to similar
complaints about defects by owners of those vehicles, and RFP No. 16 requests all
documents showing the number of owners with complaints.  RFP No. 15 requests all documents in which owners
of similar vehicles reported the same defects. 
Defendant’s objections are overruled. 
These documents are relevant to the defects and repairs alleged by Plaintiff,
Defendant’s knowledge thereof, and Defendant’s willful failure to repair or repurchase
the vehicle.  The motion is GRANTED.
RFP
Nos. 34 and 35 requests all documents related to technical service bulletins and
recalls issued for the same vehicle.  For
RFP No. 34, Defendant agreed to produce “a list of technical service bulletins (‘TSBs’)
and information service bulletins (‘ISBs’) for vehicles of the same year, make and
model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. After it has produced a list of TSBs and ISBs, GM
will – at Plaintiff’s request – search for and produce, if located, copies of a
reasonable number of TSBs and ISBs, if any, that Plaintiff has identified as relevant
to the conditions alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint.”  For RFP No. 35, Defendant agreed to produce copies
of bulletins for every field action, including any recalls, it issued for Plaintiff’s
vehicle, as identified in the Global Warranty History Report.  It is not clear what else Plaintiff wants or why
he believes this is insufficient.  The motion
contains no argument.  In the Joint Statement,
Plaintiff sets forth boilerplate law and no specific argument.  The motion is GRANTED IN PART: Defendant must
produce the documents that it agreed to produce.
CONCLUSION
The
motion is GRANTED IN PART as set forth above. 
Defendant is ordered to provide verified, supplemental responses within 30
days.
The
request for sanctions is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 25th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 