  Case Number:  20STCV45494    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



WC INSURANCE AGENCY, LLC, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
JAMES S. BEKHOR INSURANCE SERVICES, INC.,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV45494
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL
  FURTHER RESPONSES
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 25, 2024



 
Plaintiffs
WC Insurance Agency LLC, Omni Safe Insurance Agency LLC, and Joshua Sawicki served
various discovery requests on Defendants James S. Bekhor Insurance Services Inc.
and JSB Holdings LLC.  (See Mankey Decl. ¶
6 & Exs. 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15, 16, 18.)  The parties granted each other extensions to respond
and to file discovery motions.  (See Mankey
Decl. ¶¶ 7-8, 15; id., Ex. 25 at pp. 4-5.)
On
December 1, 2023, Plaintiff Joshua Sawicki filed a motion to compel further responses
to discovery and for sanctions of at least $18,860.00.
On
January 16, 2023, Defendants filed an objection to the motion.
A.        The
Motion’s Memorandum Complies with This Department’s Procedures.
Defendants
object to Plaintiff’s failure to serve the memorandum of points and authorities
until January 12, 2024.  (Objections at p.
2.)
A
party moving to compel further responses must file a Separate Statement or follow
the Court’s alternative method of outlining the disputes.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b), 2031.310,
subd. (b); California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b).)  This Department requires the parties to meet and
confer on the substantive issues before filing a joint statement, following the
procedures outlined in Exhibit A of Department 48’s Courtroom Information (available
on the court’s website).  This Department
also specifies: “After the Joint Stipulation is filed, each party may file a supplemental
memorandum of law not later than ten days before the hearing date.  A supplemental memorandum may not exceed five
pages in length.  No other separate memorandum
of points and authorities may be filed by either party in connection with the motion.”
Plaintiff’s
motion complies with these procedures.  However,
for the reasons set forth below, that is the extent of the motion’s compliance.
B.        The
Motion Does Not Comply with Electronic Filing Requirements.
Defendants
object to the “improper, confusing, difficult to navigate” form of the motion, which
“seeks to compel further responses to up to approximately 16 different discovery
requests, which are not electronically bookmarked, as required.”  (Objections at p. 2.)
Under
the Court’s First Amended General Order for electronic filing, the table of contents
and all attachments, including exhibits, must be bookmarked.  (General Order No. 2019-GEN-014-00, at ¶¶ 6(b)-(d);
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(f)(4).) 
Plaintiff’s motion contains no bookmarks, which is particularly troublesome
for a 168-page Joint Statement with 11 different sections.
If
Plaintiff continues to electronically file noncompliant documents, the Court may
strike the filings or issue sanctions.
C.        Plaintiff Did Not Provide Proper Notice
of His Request for Sanctions.
“A
request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party,
and attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction
sought.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.)
The
Notice of Motion states that “Plaintiff Joshua Sawicki will, and hereby does, move
this Court for an [order] to compel Defendants’ Further Responses To Discovery and
Production of Documents and for Sanctions.” 
Plaintiff did not identify the specific parties against whom sanctions are
sought, the type of sanction sought, or the amount of monetary sanctions.
It
was not until Plaintiff’s January 12, 2024 supplemental memorandum’s Introduction
section that Plaintiff requested that Defendants “pay monetary sanctions of at least
$18,860.00” and “be prohibited from introducing or entering into evidence in this
case any documents that Defendants themselves have not produced to date and testimony
or other evidence of the subject matters of the interrogatories to which they did
not provide timely substantive responses.” 
Defendants did not have notice of the type or amount of sanctions before
that.
D.        The Motion Improperly Seeks Further Responses to Eleven Discovery
Requests.
Plaintiff
seeks further responses to (1) Special Interrogatories to James S. Bekhor Insurance
Services, Inc. (Set 1); (2) Form Interrogatories to James S. Bekhor Insurance Services,
Inc. (Set 1); (3) Supplemental Interrogatories to James S. Bekhor Insurance Services,
Inc.; (4) Special Interrogatories to JSB Holdings, LLC; (5) Form Interrogatories
to JSB Holdings, LLC (Set 1); (6) Supplemental Interrogatories to JSB Holdings,
LLC; (7) Requests for Production of Documents James S. Bekhor Insurance Services,
Inc.; (8) Supplemental Request For Production of Documents to James S. Bekhor Insurance
Services, Inc. D/B/A Active Insurance; (9) Requests for Production of Documents
to JSB Holdings, LLC Request For Production No. 1; (10) Supplemental Request for
Production of Documents to JSB Holdings, LLC; and (11) Depositions.
As
Defendants note, “[o]rdinarily, separate motions are brought for each discovery
request.”  (Objections at p. 2.)  The result of Plaintiff’s failure to separate
the issues is a 168-page Joint Statement. 
Notably, this lengthy Joint Statement contains only Plaintiff’s position,
with no contribution by Defendants.  Had Defendants
provided their positions, the Joint Statement would easily exceed 200 pages.  Combined with Plaintiff’s failure to electronically
bookmark the sections, this lengthy, improperly combined motion would be entirely
unmanageable.
E.        The Motion is Brought By Only One Plaintiff, But It Seeks Discovery
Responses to Requests Propounded by Other Plaintiffs.
The
Notice of Motion, Joint Statement, and supporting memorandum state that they are
being brought by only Plaintiff Joshua Sawicki. 
However, some of the requests were propounded by a different defendant.  (See Mankey Decl. ¶ 6 & Exs. 2, 5, 6, 9, 10,
12, 13, 15, 16, 18.)
Plaintiff
WC Insurance Agency, LLC d/b/a BMP Insurance propounded (1) Special Interrogatories
to Defendant James S. Bekhor Insurance Services, Inc. D/B/A Active Insurance, Set
One; (2) Special Interrogatories to Defendant JSB Holdings, LLC, Set One; (3) Requests
for Production of Documents for James S. Bekhor Insurance Services, Inc. D/B/A Active
Insurance, Set One; (4) Requests for Production of Documents for JSB Holdings, LLC,
Set One; (5) Requests for Admission to James S. Bekhor Insurance Services, Inc.
D/B/A Active Insurance, Set One; and (6) Requests for Admission to JSB Holdings,
LLC, Set One.  (Mankey Decl., Exs. 2, 6, 10,
13, 16, 18.)
Plaintiff
Joshua Sawicki cannot compel further responses to these requests.
F.         The Motion is Untimely and Must Be Denied.
In
the absence of a written agreement between the parties, a motion to compel further
responses to RFPs, interrogatories, and RFAs must be filed within 45 days after
the insufficient response.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.300, subd. (c), 2031.310, subd. (c), 2033.290, subd. (c).)  This deadline is jurisdictional and “renders the
court without authority to rule on motions to compel other than to deny them.”  (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th
1403, 1409-1410.)
On
October 18, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendants’ counsel to confirm the
parties’ current deadlines and proposed new deadlines.  (Mankey Decl., Ex. 26 at pp. 1-2.)  Included in the chart was a timeline for meeting
and conferring about the discovery issues, Defendants’ additions to the Joint Statement,
and Plaintiff’s deadline to file a motion to compel further responses.  Plaintiff stated a current deadline of October
24, 2023 for “File and serve Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses and Production
of Documents,” and a proposed new deadline of November 6, 2023.
On
October 20, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendants’ counsel to confirm their
phone discussion the day before.  (Mankey
Decl., Ex. 26 at p. 1.)  Plaintiff’s counsel
confirmed: “Your clients agree to provide substantive responses to discovery and
responsive documents by November 6, 2023, in order to eliminate the need for a discovery
motion (which is currently scheduled for hearing on Nov. 28, 2023).”  The remainder of the email confirmed the dates
for depositions and Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication.
Plaintiff
did not file a motion on November 6, 2023, and there is no evidence of a later written
agreement between the parties to extend the filing deadline.
On
November 16, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel informed Defendants’ counsel that “we will
be filing the attached motion on Monday, November 20, given the continued failure
of the Defendants to satisfy their discovery obligations despite our efforts to
meet and confer,” and requested any of Defendants’ arguments for the Joint Statement
by the end of November 17.  (Mankey Decl.,
Ex. 25 at pp. 1-2.)  Defendants’ counsel replied
that he was out of town and would get back to her on Sunday.  Plaintiff’s counsel replied that she would “wait
until December 1 to file the motion to compel and will include your arguments if
you get them to me by noon on November 30.” 
There is no evidence of a response or agreement by Defendants to extend the
filing deadline to December 1, 2023.
This
motion was filed on December 1, 2023—long after Defendants’ 2022 responses, and
after the parties’ last written and agreed-upon motion deadline of November 6, 2023.  This Court has no jurisdiction to rule on the
merits of the motion.
The
motion to compel further is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 25th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 