 Case Number:  23STCP04206    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



J.G. WENTWORTH ORIGINATIONS,
  LLC, 
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
 
JESSE BIAS,
 
                        Respondent.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCP04206
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING HEARING ON PETITION
  FOR APPROVAL OF TRANSFER OF STRUCTURED SETTLEMENT PAYMENT RIGHTS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 25, 2024



 
On November 15, 2023, Petitioner
J.G. Wentworth Originations, LLC filed this petition for approval of transfer of
structured settlement payment rights.  The
petition seeks transfer of certain structured settlement payment rights held by
Jesse Bias (“Payee”) under a settlement in connection with a personal injury claim.  (Petition at p. 2, ¶ 3; see Bias Decl. ¶ 6.)  If approved, Payee will transfer to Petitioner
58 monthly payments of $518.43 each, beginning on December 1, 2023 and ending on
September 1, 2028.  (Petition at p. 2, ¶ 4.)  In exchange, Petitioner will pay Payee $18,129.67.  (Petition at p. 4.)
A
direct or indirect transfer of structured settlement payment rights is not effective
unless the transfer has been approved in a final court order based on certain express
written findings by the Court.  (Ins. Code,
§ 10139.5, subd. (a).)
A.        The Transfer Is In the Best Interest of
the Payee.
The
transfer must be in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare
and support of the payee’s dependents.  (Ins.
Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(1).)  When determining
whether the transfer is fair, reasonable, and in the payee’s best interests, the
Court must consider the totality of the circumstances, including but not limited
to: (1) the reasonable preference and desire of the payee to complete the proposed
transaction, taking into account the payee’s age, mental capacity, legal knowledge,
and apparent maturity level; (2) the stated purpose of the transfer; (3) the payee’s
financial and economic situation; (4) the terms of the transaction, including whether
the payee is transferring monthly or lump sum payments or all or a portion of his
or her future payments; (5) whether, when the settlement was completed, the future
periodic payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to
pay for the future medical care and treatment of the payee relating to injuries
sustained by the payee in the incident that was the subject of the settlement and
whether the payee still needs those future payments to pay for that future care
and treatment; (6) whether, when the settlement was completed, the future periodic
payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to provide
for the necessary living expenses of the payee and whether the payee still needs
the future structured settlement payments to pay for future necessary living expenses;
(7) whether the payee is, at the time of the proposed transfer, likely to require
future medical care and treatment for the injuries that the payee sustained in connection
with the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether the payee lacks
other resources, including insurance, sufficient to cover those future medical expenses;
(8) whether the payee has other means of income or support, aside from the structured
settlement payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer, sufficient to
meet the payee’s future financial obligations for maintenance and support of the
payee’s dependents, specifically including, but not limited to, the payee’s child
support obligations, if any; (9) whether the financial terms of the transaction,
including the discount rate applied to determine the amount to be paid to the payee,
the expenses and costs of the transaction for both the payee and the transferee,
the size of the transaction, the available financial alternatives to the payee to
achieve the payee’s stated objectives, are fair and reasonable; (10) whether the
payee completed previous transactions involving the payee’s structured settlement
payments and the timing and size of the previous transactions and whether the payee
was satisfied with any previous transaction; (11) whether the transferee attempted
previous transactions involving the payee’s structured settlement payments that
were denied, or that were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits,
within the past five years; (12) whether, to the best of the transferee’s knowledge
after making inquiry with the payee, the payee has attempted structured settlement
payment transfer transactions with another person or entity, other than the transferee,
that were denied, or which were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the
merits, within the past five years; (13) whether the payee, or his or her family
or dependents, are in or are facing a hardship situation; (14) whether the payee
received independent legal or financial advice regarding the transaction; and (15)
any other factors or facts that the payee, the transferee, or any other interested
party calls to the attention of the reviewing court or that the court determines
should be considered in reviewing the transfer. 
(Ins. Code., § 10139.5, subd. (b).)
Payee
is a single 51-year-old with court-ordered child support obligations for one 14-year-old
child.  (Bias Decl. ¶ 8.)  Payee is experiencing a financial hardship: after
having an inspector come by his house, it was made clear that the plumbing should
be replaced to prevent mold and further damage to the house.  (Bias Decl. ¶ 11.)  Payee will use the money received from the proposed
transfer to make necessary home repairs, especially the plumbing.  (Bias Decl. ¶ 11.)
The
original settlement was not intended to pay for future medical care or necessary
living expenses.  (Bias Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.)  Payee complete a previous transaction involving
this structured settlement, transferring monthly payments of $420.00 each, beginning
on March 1, 2020 through and including September 1, 2028 in exchange for $25,282.83.  (Bias Decl. ¶ 9.)  If this transfer is approved, there will be no
future payments remaining from the structured settlement.  (See Petition, Ex. C.)  Payee has not completed or attempted any other
previous transactions.  (Bias Decl. ¶ 10.)  Payee is employed and earns $5,500.00 per month.  (Bias Decl. ¶ 8.)
Payee
acknowledges that he was advised of his right to seek independent counsel and financial
advice, and he knowingly waived that right. 
(Bias Decl. ¶ 12.)  Payee understands
the terms of the transfer agreement and does not want to exercise his right to cancel
the agreement.  (Bias Decl. ¶ 13.)
Under
the terms of this transaction, Payee will transfer 58 monthly payments of $518.43
each, beginning on December 1, 2023 and ending on September 1, 2028, and he will
pay no expenses.  (Petition, Ex. A, ¶¶ 2(B),
10.)  The transfer and payment of $
18,129.67
was calculated using a discount rate of 24.99%. 
(Petition, Ex. A, ¶ 10.) 
Considering
all the factors, the Court finds that the transfer is in Payee’s best interest.
B.        Payee Knowingly Waived His Right to Receive
Independent Professional Advice.
The
payee must be advised in writing by the transferee to seek independent professional
advice regarding the transfer and either receive that advice or knowingly waive,
in writing, the opportunity to receive the advice.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(2).)
The
Transfer Agreement advises that Payee may receive independent legal and financial
advice, but Payee knowingly waived the right. 
(Petition, Exs. A, E; Bias Decl. ¶ 12.)
Accordingly,
the Court finds that this requirement is satisfied.
C.        Payee Received the Required Disclosure
Form.
The
transferee must provide the payee with a disclosure form that complies with Insurance
Code section 10136.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5,
subd. (a)(3).)  The disclosure form must contain
specific text, and the transferee must provide the disclosure form at least ten
days before the payee executes a transfer agreement.  (Ins. Code, § 10136, subd. (b).)
The
disclosure form here contains the required text and form.  (Petition, Ex. B.)  Payee received and read the disclosure form at
least ten days before signing the transfer agreement.  (See Petition, Exs. A-B.)
Accordingly,
the Court finds that this requirement is satisfied.
D.        The Transfer Agreement Complies With Statutory
Requirements.
The
transfer agreement must comply with Insurance Code sections 10136 and 10138.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(3).)
The
transfer agreement contains the required text and form.  (Petition, Ex. A.)  Additionally, the transfer agreement does not
contain any provision (1) waiving the seller’s right to sue or waiving his jurisdiction
or standing to sue; (2) requiring the seller to indemnify the buyer or to pay the
buyer’s costs of defense; (3) waiving benefits or rights conferred by law with respect
to garnishment of wages; (4) providing that the contract is confidential or proprietary,
belonging to the buyer; (5) in which the seller stipulates to a confession of judgment;
(6) requiring the seller to pay the buyer’s attorney’s fees and costs if the purchase
agreement is not completed; (7) requiring the seller to pay any tax liability arising
under the federal tax laws, other than the seller’s own tax liability that results
from the transfer; (8) providing for brokerage fees incurred in the contract to
be deducted from the purchase price disclosed; (9) providing for forum selection
and jurisdiction to be in a court outside of California for any action arising under
the contract, if the seller is domiciled in California at the time he signs the
transfer agreement; (10) providing for controlling law to be other than California
law in any action arising under the contract, if the seller is domiciled in California
at the time he signs the transfer agreement; (11) providing the buyer with a security
interest or collateral interest in any structured settlement payment rights that
exceed the actual dollar amount of the structured settlement payment rights being
transferred; or (12) creating a “buyer’s first right of refusal” to purchase any
remaining structured payment rights that the payee may desire to sell in the future.  (Ins. Code, § 10138, subd. (a).)
Accordingly,
the Court finds that the transfer agreement complies with Insurance Code sections
10136 and 10138.
E.        The Petition Does Not Comply With All
Notice Requirements.
The
transferee must comply with the notification requirements of subdivision (f)(2).  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(3).)  A notice of proposed transfer and petition must
be filed and served no later than 20 days before the hearing and must include: (1)
a copy of the transferee’s current petition and any other prior petition; (2) a
copy of the proposed transfer agreement and disclosure form required by section
10139.5, subdivision (a)(3); (3) a listing of each of the payee’s dependents and
their ages; (4) a copy of the disclosure required in section 10136, subdivision
(b); (5) a copy of the annuity contract, any qualified assignment agreement, and
underlying structured settlement agreement, if available; (6) proof of service showing
compliance with the notification requirements; (7) notification that any interested
party is entitled to support, oppose, or otherwise respond to the transferee’s petition
by submitting written comments to the court or by participating in the hearing;
(8) notification of the time and place of the hearing and notification of the manner
in which and the time by which written responses to the petition must be filed;
and (9) notice to the payee’s attorney of record at the time the structured settlement
was created, if payee entered into the structured settlement at issue within five
years prior to the date of the transfer agreement.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (f)(2).)
Petitioner’s
notice and petition generally comply with these requirements.  Petitioner filed a proof of service on November
20, 2023.  The petition includes a copy of
the transfer agreement (Petition, Ex. A) and disclosure form (id., Ex. B),
along with most other required information.
The
petition does not include a copy of the prior petition, the annuity contract, any
qualified assignment agreement, and underlying structured settlement agreement.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subds. (f)(2)(A), (f)(2)(E)-(G).)
Petitioner
provides a single-page letter from Pacific Life Insurance Company, dated January
27, 2020, in response to a request for verification of benefits for Contract No.
27546-31640 AN.  (Petition, Ex. C.)  Pacific Life states that Payee “is receiving a
benefit under the above referenced contract as follows: [¶] $938.43 payable monthly
beginning October 1, 2018 for 120 payments guaranteed.”  This letter is dated 10 days after approval of
Payee’s prior transfer in Case No. 19BBCP00480 and does not reflect accurate remaining
benefits as of this hearing on January 25, 2024.
Additionally,
the Pacific Life letter states, in bold: “Periodic payments cannot be ACCELERATED,
DEFERRED, INCREASED, DECREASED or CASH SURRENDERED and may not be ANTICIPATED, SOLD,
ASSIGNED OR ENCUMBERED.”  (Petition, Ex.
C.)  From this, it appears that the petition
should be denied assuming the referenced terms are enforceable.  However, the Court will continue the hearing so
Petitioner can provide the actual annuity contract with its precise terms and
can address whether or not the terms preventing assignment are
enforceable.  
Due
to this lack of information, the Court cannot verify the annuity contract and propriety
of the proposed transfer of future payments.
F.         The Petition Does Not Contravene Any
Applicable Statute or Order.
The
transfer must not contravene any applicable statute or the order of any court or
other government authority.  (Ins. Code, §
10139.5, subd. (a)(4).)
The
transfer generally complies with statutory requirements, and there is no evidence
that it contravenes the order of any court or other government authority.
Accordingly,
the Court finds that this requirement is satisfied.
G.        Payee Declares His Understanding of the
Terms.
The
payee must understand the terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set
forth in the disclosure statement, and the right to cancel the transfer agreement.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(5)-(6).)
Payee
declares that he understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including the
terms set forth in the disclosure statement. 
(Bias Decl. ¶ 13.)  Additionally, Payee
signed the Transfer Agreement directly under a statement advising him of his right
to cancel the agreement.  (Petition, Ex. A.)
The
Court therefore finds that this requirement is satisfied.
CONCLUSION
The
hearing is CONTINUED to ______________ at 8:30 a.m. so Petitioner may file and serve
an amended notice and amended petition that includes the missing information identified
in Section E above.  Service of the amended
notice and amended petition must comply with the requirements of Insurance Code
section 10139.5, subdivision (f).
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 25th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 