  Case Number:  22PSCV00259    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  6 Plaintiff  Newage Garden Grove LLC (Sheraton)’s Request for Entry of Default Judgment Defendant: JBS Group US, Inc., a Delaware corporation fka JBS  Group, Inc.  TENTATIVE RULING GRANTED in the reduced amount of  $36,509.57.  BACKGROUND              This  is a breach of contract case. On March 17, 2022, Plaintiff Newage Garden Grove  LLC (Sheraton) (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendant JBS  Group US, Inc., a Delaware corporation fka JBS Group, Inc. (Defendant),  alleging causes of action for breach of contract and common counts. Default was  entered against Defendant on July 18, 2023. On September 7, 2023, Plaintiff  submitted a default judgment package.            LEGAL  STANDARD Code of  Civil Procedure section 585 permits entry of a default judgment after a party  has failed to timely respond or appear. (Code Civ. Proc., § 585.) A party  seeking judgment on the default by the court must file a Request for Court  Judgment, and: (1) a brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other  admissible evidence in support of the judgment requested; (3) interest computations  as necessary; (4) a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form  of judgment; (6) a dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought  or an application for separate judgment under Code of Civil Procedure section  579, supported by a showing of grounds for each judgment; (7) exhibits as  necessary; and (8) a request for attorneys’ fees if allowed by statute or by  the agreement of the parties. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1800.)   ANALYSIS Plaintiff seeks  default judgment against Defendants in the total amount of $37,694.72,  including $26,505.14 in damages, $9,113.43 in interest, $1,185.15 in attorney’s  fees, and $891.00 in costs. The Court finds Plaintiff’s default judgment  package is supported by sufficient evidence, except for attorney’s fees. Civil  Code section 1717, subdivision (a) provides that, “[i]n any action on a contract, where the  contract specifically provides that attorney's fees and costs, which are  incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the  parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing on the  contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or  not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's fees in addition to other costs.” (Civ. Code § 1717, subd.  (a).) The contract upon which this action is based contains no attorney’s fees  clause, (see generally Lam Decl., Ex. A), nor has Plaintiff provided any  evidence of a contract containing an attorney’s fees clause, (see generally  Hettena Decl. re: Account for Entry of Default Judgment and Brief Summary of  Case Pursuant to CRC 3.1800., ¶ 9.)  Moreover, Civil Code section 1717.5,  which involves attorney’s fees with respect to common counts claims, further  provides that no attorney’s fees are available where there is a written  contract that does not provide for attorney’s fees. (Civ. Code § 1717.5, subd.  (a) [“If there is a written agreement between the parties signed by the person  to be charged, the fees provided by this section may not be imposed unless that  agreement contains a statement that the prevailing party in any action between  the parties is entitled to the fees provided by this section.”]) As noted  above, the contract upon which this action is based is in writing but contains  no attorney’s fees clause. (See generally Lam Decl., Ex. A) Therefore, Plaintiff  is not entitled to recover attorney’s fees.  The Court otherwise finds the default  judgment request to be adequately supported by the evidence and properly  calculated. Therefore, the Court will GRANT Plaintiff’s request for default  judgment, minus the request for attorney’s fees, for a total of $36,509.57. CONCLUSION              Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff's request for entry of default judgment is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $36, 509.57.              Plaintiff to submit revised Proposed Judgment.