 Case Number:  21STCV22182    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


June
  3, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV22182




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Patricia Warnock
(2)
  Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Patrice Chapman




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Patricia Warnock and Patrice
  Chapman’s Counsel




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiffs
Patricia Warnock and Patrice Chapman’s (Plaintiffs)
counsel of record, Emmanuel Nwabuzor (Counsel), moves to be relieved as counsel
for Plaintiffs. Counsel contends relief is necessary because there has been a
breakdown in attorney-client communication. 
 
            No
opposition has been filed for this motion. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To be granted relief as counsel, counsel must comply with California
Rules of Court (CRC) 3.1362. Even where grounds for termination exist,
attorneys seeking to withdraw must comply with the procedures set forth in
California Rule of Professional Conduct (CRPC) 3.700 and are subject to
discipline for failure to do so. CRPC 3.700(B) lists various grounds for
mandatory withdrawal. 
 
An attorney's right to terminate the attorney-client relationship and
withdraw from a case is not absolute. (See Vann v. Shilleh (1975) 54
Cal.App.3d 192, 197; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.) The
decision whether to grant or deny an application for withdrawal is within the
court's discretion, and it does not abuse that discretion by denying the
application on the ground that the attorney's withdrawal would work injustice
upon a third party. (Hodcarriers, Bldg. and Common Laborers Local Union No.
89 v. Miller (1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 391.)
 
The rules have been liberally construed to protect clients. (Vann
v. Shilleh, supra, 54 Cal.App.3d 192.) An attorney, either with client's
consent or court's approval, may withdraw from a case when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to client's interests; however, an
attorney “shall not withdraw from employment until the member has taken
reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the
client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment
of other counsel, complying with rule 3-700(D), and complying with applicable
laws and rules.” (CRPC 3.700(A)(2).) A lawyer violates his or her ethical
mandate by abandoning a client (Pineda v. State Bar (1989) 49 Cal.3d
753, 758 759), or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby prejudicing
the client’s case. (CRPC 3.700(A)(2); Vann v. Shilleh, supra.)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051 and
MC-052. Counsel states the instant motions are filed for the following reasons:
“There is a breakdown in communication between Plaintiff and counsel. The
Plaintiff by her conduct has rendered it unreasonably difficult for counsel to
carry out the prosecution of her claim effectively. To continue to represent
Plaintiff in this matter will bring about undue financial hardship to counsel.
Further, continuing to represent Plaintiff may cause counsel to violate some
professional responsibility (counsel is amenable to discussing this matter in
camera).” (MC-052.) 
 
            Counsel has not provided proper
notice of these motions because they contain the incorrect address of the court
and incorrect judicial officer. The proof of service does not reflect service
of the moving papers on Plaintiffs by mail. In addition, Patricia Warnock did
not receive notice of the motion to relieved as counsel for Patrice Chapman,
and vice versa. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d) [the moving papers “must
be served on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case”].)
 
            Counsel also has not completed and filed a
copy of the proposed order on form MC-053 as required.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).)
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the motion to relieve counsel
without prejudice.  
 
Counsel shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file
proofs of service of such. 
 
 
 
 
 