 Case Number:  22STCV15011    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


June
  3, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV15011




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel an Independent Medical Examination of Plaintiff




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Target Corporation  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Camille
  Denise Michael 



 
 
MOTION
 
            On May 5, 2022, Plaintiff Camille Denise
Michael (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Target
Corporation (“Defendant”) based on an alleged slip and fall at a Target store.  
 
             Defendant now moves to compel an additional
medical examination of Plaintiff with Dr. Kenneth Jung, M.D. Plaintiff opposes
and Defendant replies. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On April 5, 2024, the Court granted
in part Defendant’s ex parte application to continue trial in order to have
this motion heard. Trial and all discovery and pre-trial motion cut off dates
were continued to July 30, 2024. (Min. Order, 4/5/24.) 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in
which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may
demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following
conditions are satisfied: (1) The examination does not include any diagnostic
test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. (2) The
examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the
examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿¿¿ 
 
“If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
“The court
shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427
[“the good cause which must be shown should be such that will satisfy an
impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without abuse of the
inherent rights of the adversary”].) A showing of good cause generally requires
“that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the
inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  And “[a] party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.”  (Id. at p.
839.)   
 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. §2032.020(a).)¿ This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.¿ (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ Often, a party's pleadings
put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a
plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from
defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”¿
(See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the
plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former
employer.)¿ Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the
injuries and damages alleged.¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of R. Derek Classen states the following: “On February
2, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel Jonathan Meislin and I met and conferred regarding
Defendant's request for a second IME. Plaintiffs continued rhetoric is that
Defendant is only entitled to one IME unless it obtains permission from the
Court, and that Dr. Rose's examination of her upper extremities should be
sufficient since Plaintiffs "primary injuries" involve her upper
extremities.” (Classen Decl. ¶ 3.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement
is met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff claims injuries to her wrists, feet, and ankles. (Classen
Decl. ¶ 2.) On March 6, 2024, Plaintiff attended an examination with Dr.
Nicholas Rose which concentrated on her wrists. Defendant seeks a second
examination with Kenneth Jung, M.D., an orthopedic surgeon who specializes in
the foot and ankle, to focus on Plaintiff’s ankle injuries. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues this examination is unnecessary and
harassing. Plaintiff also argues Defendant was dilatory in bringing this motion,
the motion is procedurally defective because it lacks a separate statement, and
the original notice of examination failed to specify the scope of the
examination. Plaintiff contends there is no good cause to allow examination of
her ankles since that information originates from a mediation and thus, is
confidential. 
 
In reply, Defendant points to Plaintiff’s discovery responses where
she claims injuries to her ankles. (Classen Decl., Exh. F, SROG # 24.)
Defendant also argues it was not dilatory since it brought this motion shortly
after learning that Plaintiff was contemplating surgeries for her ankles.
(Reply, 3.) 
 
            Based on the information provided,
the Court finds good cause to allow leave for a second physical examination limited
to Plaintiff’s ankles. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
Motion to Compel an Independent Medical Examination of Plaintiff is GRANTED.
Plaintiff shall appear for an examination limited to Plaintiff’s ankles at a
mutually convenient date and time within 20 days.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 