 Case Number:  22STCV26809    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


June
  3, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV26809




MOTIONS


Motion
  for Appointment of Successor in Interest 




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiff
  William David Martinez 




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiff William David Martinez (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 377.31, appointing Betty Darlen
Martinez, Plaintiff’s mother, as the deceased Plaintiff’s successor in
interest. No opposition has been filed.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 377.31 provides that the decedent’s personal representative or, if
none, the decedent’s successor in interest may continue a decedent’s pending
action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30; see Adams v. Superior Court (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 71, 78-79.) A successor in interest is the beneficiary of the
decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of
action or to a particular item of the property that is the subject of the cause
of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Section 377.33 provides that the court
in which an action is continued may make any order concerning parties that is
appropriate to ensure proper administration of justice, including the
appointment of the decedent’s successor in interest as a special administrator
or guardian ad litem.  
 
Section 377.32 provides that a
person who seeks to commence or continue such an action as the decedent’s
successor in interest must file an affidavit or declaration providing certain
information, including the decedent’s name, date and place of decedent’s death,
and statements regarding whether the estate has been administered and that the
affiant or declarant is the successor in interest on decedent’s claim. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 377.32(a).) A certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate
must also be attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Id., §
377.32(c).)
 
            The complaint was filed on August
18, 2022. Plaintiff passed away on November 13, 2023. The Court finds that Betty
Darlen Martinez has filed a declaration, under penalty of perjury, that she is Plaintiff’s
successor in interest to Plaintiff’s interest in this action. (Martinez Decl. ¶
4.) No other person has a superior right to be substituted in this action and
no proceeding is pending for the administration of Plaintiff’s estate. (Id.
¶ 3, 5.)
 
However, the declaration does not state the place of Plaintiff’s death
and does not provide exhibit A, purporting to be Plaintiff’s death certificate.[1]
(See Martinez Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
Therefore, the motion to appoint will be conditionally granted upon
the filing of an amended declaration correcting the defects. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court conditionally grants the motion for Appointment
of Successor in Interest.
 
Moving Party shall give notice of the Court’s orders, and file a proof
of service of such.
 
 


