  Case Number:  19STCV24447    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                            Tuesday, March 5, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 14   



 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Steven
Oppenheimer, et al. v. Public Storage, Inc., et al. 
19STCV24447
1.      Petitioner Steven Oppenheimer’s Petition to Approve
Compromise of Pending Action of Minor (Aiden Oppenheimer)
2.      Petitioner Steven Oppenheimer’s Petition to Approve
Compromise of Pending Action of Minor (Ashton Oppenheimer)
3.      Petitioner Steven Oppenheimer’s Petition to Approve
Compromise of Pending Action of Minor (Avery Oppenheimer) 
     
TENTATIVE RULING
        
            Petitioner’s Petitions
to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of Minor[s] are granted.   
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on
July 12, 2019, and the First Amended Complaint was filed on July 14, 2020.
Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiff Avery Oppenheimer suffered
brain injuries when Defendant Maria Acosta, in the course and scope of her
employment with Public Storage, drove a cart on a driveway/walkway at an unsafe
speed and struck him. 
 
            On June 29, 2022, the Court denied
Defendant/Cross Defendant Centinela Storage Associates’ (“CSA”) motion to
compel independent medical examination and motion to compel arbitration and
stay this matter pending arbitration. On July 1, 2022, CSA filed its notice of
appeal. On July 13, 2022, CSA filed its Notice of Automatic Stay Pending Appeal
pursuant to CCP § 916(a). On September 6, 2022, Defendant/Cross Defendant
Centinela Storage Associates’ Motion to Stay Entire Proceedings Pending Appeal was
granted. 
 
            On September 6, 2023, Plaintiffs’
Motion to Partially Lift Stay was denied. On November 27, 2023, the California
Court of Appeals issued a remittitur affirming Judge Hill’s order to deny
Defendant CSA’s motion to compel arbitration. On February 21, 2024, the
California Supreme Court denied CSA’s petition for review.
 
Petitions to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of
Minor
 
A claim by or against a minor may be settled through
compromise only with the approval of the court. 
A petition for approval must be presented to the court by the minor’s
guardian.  CCP § 372; Probate Code Secs.
2500-2507; 3413-3605.
 
            The court should consider the
following factors: the circumstances of the accident, particularly the facts
bearing on the payor’s liability and the minor’s damages; the amount of the
proposed settlement; the method of payment; the nature of the injury and the
minor’s current medical status (the petition should include a recent medical
report); and the amount of attorney’s fees being requested.  Before the hearing, the court should make a
preliminary determination of whether the proposed settlement and the method of
payment appear reasonable in relation to the potential liability and the nature
and extent of injuries.  It is especially
important to determine whether the minor’s condition is permanent, and whether
it is stable or likely to worsen.  The
court should also make a preliminary determination as to whether the costs,
expenses, and attorneys’ fees appear reasonable.
 
            Based on the decisions of the
California Court of Appeals and California Supreme Court as noted above, the
Court lifts the stay that is currently entered in this action. Thus, the Court
now has jurisdiction to review the petitions and enter the orders requested by Petitioner.

 
            The
Court has reviewed the petitions for compromise of pending action. The Court
determines that the petitions are reasonable as to the settlement amounts and
as to the delineated costs. The Court finds that the settlement is in the best
interests of the minors. The proposed petitions for compromise of the pending
action and the proposed disposition of the proceeds of the settlement funds are
hereby approved.
 
            As
it has previously, CSA filed an opposition to the petitions. First, CSA fails
to establish that it has standing to step in and act as a de facto guardian of
the minors and insert CSA’s opinions as to what it believes is in the best
interests of the minors. CSA argues that it has standing because the settlement
agreement is subject to a finding of good faith. “[W]hile the motion for
approval of the minor's compromise is pending, the settlement agreement is
voidable only at the election of the minor or his guardian.” Pearson v.
Superior Court (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1337. 
 
            Certainly,
the statutory scheme outlined in CCP § 372 lacks any mention of a right by non-settling
Defendant to interject unsolicited thoughts into a hearing on a minor’s
compromise petition and to provide potentially self-serving opinions as to what
it believes is in the best interest of the minor.  It is the guardian who is tasked with that
responsibility, and it is for the Court to determine whether the compromise
petitions are in the best interests of the minors and the settlement terms
should be approved.  Further, as to the
instant petitions, it is not the Court’s role to make decisions concerning conflicts
between co-defendants regarding respective liabilities, which is essentially
what CSA’s opposition seeks to do.  CSA’s
arguments regarding collusion and lack of good faith read more like an
opposition to a motion for determination of good faith settlement which is not
before this Court. 
 
            “[A]
defendant and/or its carrier has no right to object to the petition. The
purpose of section 372 is to protect the minor involved in litigation by adding
an extra layer of scrutiny to the settlement of the minor's claims. This
statute is a “shield” to protect the interests of a minor. It was not enacted
to be a “sword” for a defendant and/or its insurance carrier”  Pearson v. Superior Court (2012) 202
Cal.App.4th 1333, 1339.
 
            Thus, for the foregoing reasons, Petitioner’s Petitions to Approve Compromise
of Pending Action of Minor[s] are granted.  
 
Petitioner is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 