

Hearing Date:             January
29, 2024
Case Name:                Ngo
v. Nadlan 3100 Bellevue LLC
Case No.:                    21STCV28706
Matter:                        Motion
to Consolidate
Moving Party:             Defendants
Nadlan 3100 Bellevue LLC and R&E Management

Responding Party:      None


Tentative Ruling:      The Motion to Consolidate is denied. 

 
BACKGROUND
 
This is habitability
action. The Complaint alleges substandard conditions at an apartment complex
located at 3100 Bellevue Avenue, Los Angeles, CA. 
 
On March 2,
2023, Plaintiff Chelsea Ngo filed a notice of related cases seeking to relate
this action with case number 21STCV29022 (Brittany Ingram v. Nadlan 3100
Bellevue, LLC, et al.), and with case number 21STCV43157 (Brittany
D’Amico, et al. v. Nadlan 3100 Bellevue, LLC, et al). On September 1, 2023,
the Court ordered these cases not related. 
 
Now, Defendants Nadlan 3100
Bellevue LLC and R&E Management (Defendants) seek to consolidate this
action with those same cases. No opposition was filed. 
 
The motion to consolidate is
denied. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Defendants seek to consolidate
these three cases on the grounds that they involve common questions of law and
fact. Further, Defendants are the same in all three matters, and therefore all
of the same property managers, maintenance personnel, and other witnesses
regarding the conditions if the property will be nearly identical in all the matters.
Lastly, consolidating these three cases will avoid unnecessary costs and delay
and avoid the potential of inconsistent judgments. 
 
The trial court has discretion to consolidate
actions involving common questions of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §1048.)
The purpose of consolidation is “to promote trial convenience and economy by
avoiding duplication of procedure, particularly in the proof of issues common
to both actions.” (Estate of Baker (1982) 131
Cal.App.3d 471, 485.)   
 
Consolidation is appropriate when the actions
involve common questions of law or fact and to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).) In deciding whether to grant a
motion to consolidate, the court should weigh whether the common issues
predominate over the individual issues and whether any risks of jury confusion
or prejudice to the parties outweighs the reduction in time and expense that
would result from consolidation. (Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon Shield Claimants
Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 979.)¿ 

 
As noted above, the Court previously found
these cases were not related. The complaints contain overlapping claims that
are based on the same nucleus of facts: the physical conditions of the
building, and landlord Defendant’s alleged failure to properly maintain the
habitability of the building and comply with the law.
 
However, each case involves a different tenant
and different units. The defects in each unit are separate from each other, may
have different causes, and may have occurred over different periods of time.
Further, the evidentiary showing for each party to demonstrate the cause of
their injury and their damages will be separate and distinct.
 
Thus, the motion to consolidate must be denied
for these substantive reasons.
 
Further, the Court’s finding that the cases
are not related effectively precludes an order granting a motion to consolidate,
pursuant to Superior Court of Los Angeles County (LASC), Local Rule 3.3,
subdivision (g). 
 
Local Rule 3.3(g) sets forth the procedural
requirements for motions to consolidate applicable to the instant case; it
states, in relevant part: 
 
“Cases may not be
consolidated unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate
two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in
different departments, have been related into a single department, or if the
cases were already assigned to that department.”
 
As these cases are not in the same department
and have not been ordered related, the motion to consolidate is also denied for
these procedural reasons.  
 
 Accordingly, the motion to consolidate is
denied. 