

 
Background
 
 From 2011 to 2017,
Paul Wassgren (Wassgren) was a partner at Fox Rothschild LLP (Fox). In May
2017, he joined DLA Piper LLP (DLA). (Compl., ¶¶ 8, 12.) When Wassgren joined
DLA, he brought EquiAlt with him as a client. (Compl., at p. 1.)[1]

 
To raise capital to fund its business, EquiAlt created six
investment funds. The first four were “debenture” funds; these four funds were
created by Wassgren while he was a partner at Fox. They are called EquiAlt
Fund, LLC (Fund 1), EquiAlt Fund II, LLC (Fund 2), EquiAlt Fund III, LLC (Fund
3), and EA SIP, LLC (Fund 4). The fifth and sixth funds—the EquiAlt Qualified
Opportunity Zone Fund, LP (QOZ Fund) and EquiAlt Secured Income Portfolio REIT,
Inc. (REIT Fund)—were “equity” funds and were created while Wassgren worked at
DLA. (Compl., ¶¶ 6–7.) All these funds (referred to as, “Investment Funds” or
“Funds”), along with the Receiver, are the named Plaintiffs in this action. EquiAlt
managed and controlled each fund. 
 
On February 11, 2020, the SEC sued EquiAlt, Brian Davison
and Barry Rybicki, Funds 1– 4, and a number of “Relief Defendants” in the U.S.
District Court for the Middle District of Florida. (Compl., p. 1, ¶ 55) The SEC
alleged EquiAlt operated Funds 1–4 in violation of Regulation D exemptions for
unregistered securities, including by exceeding the allowed number of
unaccredited investors, paying commissions to unregistered sales agents, and
using general solicitations to advertise.
 
On February 14, 2020, the Receivership court granted the
SEC’s request for a TRO and appointed Plaintiff Burton Wiand as receiver over
EquiAlt, Funds 1–4, and the Relief Defendants. (Compl., p. 1, ¶ 15.) On July 1, 2020, the Receivership
court authorized the Receiver to retain counsel to “pursue claims against law
firms that provided services to EquiAlt and the Funds . . ..” (Compl., p. 1.) On
August 17, 2020, the Receivership court expanded the scope of the receivership
to encompass the QOZ and the REIT Funds. (Compl., p. 1.)
 
            The Complaint here is brought by the
Receiver and the Funds against Wassgren, Fox Rothschild, and DLA Piper. It alleges
causes of action for (1.) breach of fiduciary duty, (2.) negligence, (3.) aiding
and abetting fraud, and (4.) breach of fiduciary duty. The Complaint alleges
damages in excess of $100,000,000. (Compl., ¶ 54.) 
 
            On or about March 23, 2022, Defendants
entered into a settlement with Plaintiff Burton W. Wiand, in his capacity as
Court-appointed Receiver for EquiAlt Fund, LLC, EquiAlt Fund II, LLC, EquiAlt
Fund III, LLC, EZ SIP, LLC, EquiAlt Qualified Opportunity Zone Fund, LP, and
EquiAlt Secured Income Portfolio REIT, Inc. (Plaintiffs) and investors Richard
Gleinn, Phyllis Gleinn, Cary Toone, John Celli, Maria Celli, Eva Meier, Georgia
Murphy, Steven J. Rubinstein and Tracey F. Rubinstein, as trustees for the
Rubinstein Family Living Trust dated 6/25/2010, Lisa Gioia1, as trustee for the
Greenberg Family Trust, Bruce R. Hannen and Geraldine Mary Hannen, Robert
Cobleigh, and Rory O’Neal, Marcia O’Neal, and Sean O’Neal, as trustee for the
O’Neal Family Trust dated 4/6/2004 (collectively, Investors).
 
            The Settlement Agreement provides
that Defendant Fox will pay twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000) of
the settlement payment amount and Defendant DLA will pay twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000)
of the settlement payment amount. The Settlement Agreement
depends upon, among other things, the Court’s approval of the Motion for Good
Faith Settlement.
 
On November 2, 2023, Defendants moved for a good faith
settlement with respect to a Settlement Agreement. The motion is unopposed. 
 
            The Motion for Good Faith Settlement
is granted.
 
Legal Standard
 
            “A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).) 
            In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488 (Tech-Bilt),
our Supreme Court explained that in making a good faith settlement
determination, a trial court should “inquire, among other things, whether the
amount of the settlement is within the reasonable range of the settling
tortfeasor's proportional share of comparative liability for the plaintiff's
injuries.” (Id. at p. 499.) “The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (d).)
“In the
context of section 877.6, ‘[t]he trial court is given broad discretion in
deciding whether a settlement is in “good faith” for purposes of section 877.6,
and its decision may be reversed only upon a showing of abuse of discretion.’ ”
(Cahill v. San Diego Gas & Electric Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939,
957.) 
Discussion
 
            Defendants request the Court find
its settlement with Plaintiffs in the amount of $44,000,000 was made in good
faith based on its position that the Settlement Agreement meets all the
relevant Tech-Bilt factors.
 
            Acknowledging that there
is no precise method to determine whether parties entered into a good faith
settlement, the Supreme Court in Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde Assoc. (1985) 38
Cal.3d 488 provided guidelines for
determining whether a settlement is made in good faith.
(38 Cal.3d at 495.) Rather, the court must strike a balance between the public
policy favoring settlements and the competing policy favoring equitable
allocation of costs between tortfeasors. (Id. at pp. 498-99.) To
accomplish this, the Tech-Bilt Court provided the following factors for
determining whether a proposed settlement is based on good faith: (1) a rough
approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settling defendant’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) allocation of
settlement amounts among plaintiffs; (4) recognition that a settlor should pay
less in settlement than it would if it were found liable after trial; (5)
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of the settling defendant; and
(6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of non-settling defendants. (Id. at 499-500.) The burden of
proof in asserting that a settlement lacked good faith falls upon the party
making the assertion and it must show that “the settlement is so far ‘out of
the ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the
equitable objectives of [Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6].” (Ibid.) 
 
            Here, the parties to the settlement
are Plaintiff and the Investors, on the one hand, and Defendants/Applicants
Paul R. Wassgren, Fox Rothschild LLP (Fox), and DLA Piper LLP (DLA), on the
other hand. Under the Settlement Agreement, Defendants will pay the sum of $44,000,000.00,
which is approximately 44% of the recoverable damages based on the damages
asserted in the Complaint. (Compl., ¶ 54.) Therefore, the Settlement Amount is
within the ballpark of Defendants’ possible share of liability, with the understanding
that, under Tech-Bilt, a party should not be required to pay more in a
settlement than if found liable at trial.
 
            Further, Defendants assert that this
settlement was reached in good faith as an arm’s length transaction, as
evidenced by findings in the SEC v. Brian Davison et al., No.
8:20-cv-00325-MSS-AEP. (Ex. A [Settlement Agreement, Exs. 7-8].) 
 
            Finally, under Code of Civil
Procedure section 877.6, “the party asserting the lack of good faith shall have
the burden of proof on that issue.” In the absence of any opposition to this
motion, this burden has not been met. 
            
Accordingly, the Court finds that the settlement was made in
good faith and in compliance with the Tech-Bilt factors.  
 
Conclusion
 
The Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is
granted.


