  Case Number:  22AHCV00192    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PAULINE YIP, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
EASTERN
   HORIZON, LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)


CASE NO.:  22AHCV00192
   (Consolidated w/ 23STCV18152
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT/CROSS-COMPLAINANT EASTERN HORIZON, LLC’S MOTION TO
   COMPEL PLAINTIFF PAULINE YIP’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES,
   SET TWO 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 11,
  2024




 


)


 



 
          Defendant/cross-complainant
Eastern Horizon, LLC (“Eastern Horizon”) moves for an order compelling
plaintiff Pauline Yip (“Yip”) to serve further responses to Special
Interrogatories (Set Two) Nos. 12 through 14, which ask Yip to state her gross
annual income for the years 2020, 2021, and 2022.  
Eastern Horizon also seeks sanctions in the amount of $2,885
against Yip and her counsel of record, while Yip seeks sanctions in the amount
of $1,600 against Eastern Horizon and its counsel of record. 
Yip objected to these requests on the
grounds that: (1) they were overbroad, burdensome and oppressive by improperly
including her attorneys in the definition of “You”, (2) it would be an undue
burden and expense to comply with the requests, (3) the requests are irrelevant
and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence,
(4) the requests are invasive of her (and her attorneys’) privacy, and (5) the
request violates Civil Code section 3295. 
In her opposition brief, Yip maintains
her objection on the grounds of privacy and argues that her gross income is not
directly relevant to the issue of whether she was ready to repurchase the
property at issue in this case, located at 37 Twiggs, Irvine, CA 92620 (the
“Property”). She argues that her gross income for 3 years is not relevant
because she secured financing to purchase the Property in 2021. She also claims
that she already produced her pre-approval letters and that Eastern Horizon may
depose those loan brokers in order to inquire about her ability to obtain
financing. 
As the party asserting a privacy right must:
(1) establish a legally protected privacy interest, (2) an objectively
reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and (3) a
threatened intrusion that is serious.” (County of Los Angeles v. Superior
Court (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 621, 629 [citing Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th , 35-37.) The requesting party then raises
whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests the disclosure
serves and the court “must then balance these competing considerations.”
The Court cannot conclude that
requiring Yip to disclose her gross income from the years 2020 to 2022 is a
“serious” intrusion, especially when balanced with the fact that Yip’s claims are
based on her ability to repurchase the Property. The Court contrasts the
limited information sought by these special interrogatories with Eastern
Horizon’s document request which sought all records relating to Yip’s bank
accounts, which the Court ruled was overbroad. Although Yip argues that
providing her net or disposable income would be more narrowly tailored method
of proving or disproving her ability to repurchase the Property, her gross
income is not necessarily overbroad. In fact, if Yip wished to disclose her net
or disposable income, Eastern Horizon would have grounds to inquire further
into particular transactions in order to ascertain the facts underlying that
figure. Also, even if Yip has already produced pre-approval letters, her gross
income for that 3-year period is probative of the facts underlying her ability
to secure those pre-approvals (and therefore, tests the likelihood that
financing was truly available). In any event, the Court observes that Yip’s
gross income was likely already disclosed to lenders which undercuts her claim
that there is a serious intrusion to her right to privacy. 
Last, Yip’s suggestion that Eastern
Horizon expend significant resources to depose her potential loan brokers to
inquire about their basis for issuing pre-approvals is not a practical solution
when Yip could provide the same information she gave them to use in response to
a special interrogatory. 
Accordingly, Eastern Horizon’s motion
to compel further responses is GRANTED and Yip is ordered to serve verified
responses, without objections, to Eastern Horizon’s Special Interrogatories 12
to 14 within 10 days of the date of this Order. 
Both parties’ requests for sanctions
are DENIED. 
 
Dated
this 11th
day of July, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 