 Case Number:  22AHCV01061    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARIO GARCIA, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
JOANNA
   ESQUIVEL, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV01061
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT MENTAL EXAMINATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 11,
  2024




 


)


 



 
Defendants Joanna Esquivel, Juan Molina,
and Maria De Jesus Meza Hernandez (“Defendants”) seek leave to conduct a mental
examination of plaintiff Mario Garcia (“Plaintiff”) pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2032.310, et seq. 
A mental examination shall be performed
only by a licensed physician, or by a licensed clinical psychologist who holds
a doctoral degree in psychology and has had at least five years of postgraduate
experience in the diagnosis of emotional and mental disorders. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (c)(1).) “The only statutorily authorized
justification for ordering a mental examination is that the ‘mental condition’
of the examinee is ‘in controversy.’” (Doyle
v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1878, 1886.) In the absence of an
allegation that plaintiff has any current mental injury as a result of
defendant’s alleged conduct, her present mental condition is not directly
relevant. (Ibid.) 
Here, Defendants wish to have Dr. Emer Gharibian,
a clinical psychologist, examine Plaintiff and determine the nature and extent
of Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. Plaintiff stated in response to form
interrogatories that he suffers from depression, stress, suicidal thoughts, pain,
difficulty sleeping, and a walking disability. Therefore, it appears that his
mental condition is at issue. 
However, “[a]n order granting a
physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may
perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests
and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (d).) “The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and
procedures’–fully and in detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 249, 260 Neither Defendants’ motion nor their proposed order list
any test and procedures by name. Instead, Defendant’s notice of motion and
proposed order broadly state that diagnostic testing and procedures which are “deemed
necessary” will be performed and will include the “same types of tests,
questions, and procedures conducted by Plaintiff’s treating physicians.” This general
categorization of potential exams does not allow the Court to craft an order
which comports with the statutory requirements governing mental examinations.
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
Dated
this 11th
day of July, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 