  Case Number:  23GDCV00280    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 09/26/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 23GDCV00280
Trial Date: 10/21/2024
Case Name: JOHN KIM, an individual; v. 4511 EAST PCH LLC., a California Limited
Liability Company; 4738 ROSEBANK LLC., a California Limited Liability Company;
BYUNG NO REE, an individual; JUNG HWA REE, an individual; BYUNG NO REE, as
Trustee to the 2004 BYUNG NO REE and JUNG HWA REE REVOCABLE TRUST; JUNG HWA
REE, as TRUSTEE TO THE 2004 BYUNG NO REE and JUNG HWA REE REVOCABLE TRUST; and
DOES 1-100, inclusive
[TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT]
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendants,
BYUG NO REE and JUNG HWA REE, As Trustees of the 2004 BYUNG NO REE AND JUNG HWA
REE REVOCABLE TRUST, will, and do hereby, move for an order granting them leave
to file a compulsory cross-complaint, a copy of which his attached hereto as
Exhibit “A”. The motion will be, and is, made upon the grounds that: such leave
is being sought in good faith; the cross-complaint is a compulsory
cross-complaint; such leave is necessary to ensure that the claims between the
parties are determined in a single action so as to avoid a multiplicity of
judicial proceedings; and because otherwise defendants will be deprived of the
opportunity to have the claims asserted in the Cross-complaint to be determined
on its merits.
The motion will be, and is based on, this notice of
motion, the attached declaration, the attached memorandum of points and
authorities, all of the papers and records on file in this action, and upon
such other and further oral and documentary evidence as may be presented at the
hearing.”
(Def. Mot. p. 1-2.)
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff,
John Kim, filed a Complaint on 2/9/2023 alleging thirteen causes of action for:
(1) Violation of California Civil Code § 1942.4, (2) Tortious Breach of the
Warranty of Habitability, (3) Private Nuisance, (4) Business and Professions
Code § 17200, et seq., (5) Negligence, (6) Breach of Covenant of Quiet
Enjoyment, (7) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (8) Negligence Per
Se, (9) Intentional Influence to Vacate, (10) Intentional Misrepresentation,
(11) Termination of Estate, Civil Code § 789.3, (12) Forcible Entry/Forcible
Detainer, and (13) Retaliatory Eviction, Civil Code § 1942.5.
Trial is currently set in this action for 10/21/2024.
Moving Defendants filed the instant motion for leave
to file a compulsory cross-complaint on 7/30/2024.
//
//
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Moving Party: Defendants, Byung No Ree and Jung Hwa
Ree, As Trustees of the 2004 Byung No Ree and Jung Hwa Ree Revocable Trust
(Movants)
Responding Party: No Opposition by any parties
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion

Opposition Papers: No Opposition papers

Reply Papers: No Reply papers
Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Yes/No – The moving
papers were served electronically via email to two different people. 
Jacob O. Partiyeli was
served at the email address of jacob@jacobfights.com. And Anthony
Castillon-Mendoza was served at the email address of Scott.stratman@farmersinsurance.com.

Jacob O. Partiyeli is
listed on eCourt as Plaintiff, John Kim’s, attorney. The email address listed
on eCourt for Partiyeli matches the email address listed on the proof of
service for the moving papers.
Based on the Answer
filed on 7/14/2023, it appears as if the same firm is representing all
Defendants named in the Complaint. The Defendants named in the Complaint are: (1)
4511 East PCH LLC., a California Limited Liability Company, (2) 4738 Rosebank
LLC., a California Limited Liability Company, (3) Byung No Ree, and individual,
(4) Jung Hwa Ree, an individual, (5) Byung No Ree, as Trustee to the 2004 Byung
No Ree and Jung Hwa Ree Revocable Trust, (6) Jung Hwa Ree, as Trustee to the
2004 Byung No Ree and Jung Hwa Ree Revocable Trust, and  (7) DOES 1-100 inclusive
Based on the “Notice
of Change of Firm Name And Service Of Process Email Address” that was filed on
eCourt on 5/2/2024, the Defendants’ attorney (Law Offices of Scott C Stratman)
indicated that the electronic service address for service of process for
notices, pleadings, discovery, and documents changed to
la.legal@farmersinsurance.com. Moving papers were served to Anthony
Castillon-Mendoza at the email address of Scott.stratman@farmersinsurance.com.
Not only is Scott.stratman@farmersinsurance.com not the service address noted
on the 5/2/2024 “Notice Of Change Of Firm Name And Service Of Process Email
Address”, but it is also not the email address listed on eCourt for Anthony
Castillon-Mendoza. Further, the “Notice of Change of Handling Attorney” filed
on eCourt on 5/9/2024 reiterates that the electronic service address of process
for notices, pleadings, discovery, and documents is
la.legal@farmersinsurance.com for Anthony Castillon-Mendoza of Law Offices of
Scott C Stratman.
Counsel
for Movants, Byung No Ree and Jung Hwa Ree, as Trustees of the 2004 Byung No
Ree and Jung Hwa Ree Revocable Trust, are to address this service issue at the
hearing.
LEGAL STANDARD LEAVE TO FILE COMPULSORY
CROSS-COMPLAINT
Code
of Civil Procedure section 426.10 et seq. sets forth California’s
“compulsory cross-complaint" statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10 et
seq. [titled “Compulsory Cross-Complaints"].) Therein, Code of
Civil Procedure section 426.30 provides, “if a party against whom a complaint
has been filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related
cause of action which (at the time of serving his answer to the complaint) he
has against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any other action
assert against the plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.” (Ibid.)
 Related cause of action means “a cause of action which arises out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the
cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (CCP § 426.10(c).)
In the event a party fails to file a compulsory
cross-complaint concurrently with his or her answer, CCP § 426.50 provides the
following available remedies:
A party who fails
to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this article, whether
through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to
the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert
such cause at any time during the course of the action. The court, after notice
to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the
parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert
such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.
 
(CCP § 426.50)
 
“A policy of liberal construction of
section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial
court. A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the
action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated
where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as oversight, inadvertence,
neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion
unless accompanied by bad faith.” (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990)
217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.)


ANALYSIS
Moving
Defendants (Movants), Byung No Ree and Jung Hwa Ree, as Trustees of the 2004
Byung No Ree and Jung Hwa Ree Revocable Trust, seek leave to file a compulsory
cross-complaint. Movants’ counsel (H.G. Long) indicates that Movants continue
to also be represented by the attorneys who were retained by Long’s clients’
insurance carriers. Long notes that the issue of a cross-complaint never arose
in relation to the scope of their representation, and that Long’s office was
recently associated in as attorneys of record for Movants for the purpose of
pursing Long’s clients’ affirmative claims against Plaintiff.
 
Long’s declaration states that the
proposed cross-complaint arises out of the same agreement and tenancy that is
the subject of the Complaint; therefore, Long argues the cross-complaint is a
compulsory cross-complaint.
 
Long argues that the cross-complaint was
not filed earlier because the attorneys representing Movants were retained by
an insurance carrier for the purpose of defending against the claims of
Plaintiff and not for the purpose of asserting affirmative claims by Defendants
against Plaintiff. Movants argue they have now retained a private attorney and
law firm to represent them in relation to the proposed cross-complaint.
 
Movants argue that this motion should be
granted because: (1) they would be permanently deprived of any opportunity to
present their claims for unpaid rent, (2) leave is not being sought for any
ulterior purpose, (3) and there has been no bad faith of any kind on behalf of
Movants.
 
Movants argue that in the alternative – if
this cross-complaint is viewed as permissive, and not compulsory – under
428.50(c), motion for leave to file a permissive cross-complaint should be
granted because they would have to file a separate action and then relate the
cases and seek to consolidate them, which they argue would achieve the same
effect of simply granting leave to amend to file a cross-complaint.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
The
Court will hear argument. 
 
The Court will hear argument about the
service issues described above in its “Procedural Analysis” section.
 
The Court tentatively plans to grant the
instant motion because there was no opposition filed by the Plaintiff, and
there does not appear to be any bad faith on behalf of the Movants.
 
If the Court were to grant this motion,
Movants should be clear as to whom the parties are that are filing the
cross-complaint when/if they file a cross-complaint. In the Complaint, as to
the Ree parties, there appear to be four different parties – (1) Byung No Ree,
an individual, (2) Jung Hwa Ree, an individual, (3) Byung No Ree, as Trustee to
the 2004 Byung No Ree and Jung Hwa Ree Revocable Trust, and (4) Jung Hwa Ree,
as Trustee to the 2004 Byung No Ree and Jung Hwa Ree Revocable Trust. However,
as to Movants’ motion and the proposed cross-complaint, it is unclear how many
parties are part of the proposed cross-complaint because Movants simply stated
– Byung No Ree and Jung Hwa Ree, as Trustees of the 2004 Byung No Ree and Jung
Hwa Ree Revocable Trust. It is unclear if the motion and proposed
cross-complaint is a single party or multiple parties. Further, there is no
mention of Defendants 4511 East PCH LLC, nor 4738 Rosebank LLC; therefore, it
appears as if those two parties are not involved in the proposed
cross-complaint.
 
If the Court grants this motion, Movant(s)
are ordered to file the cross-complaint within 10 days.
 
The Court calls to the parties’ attention
that the current trial date is scheduled for 10/21/2024, which is less than one
month away from the current hearing date of this motion (9/26/2024).