  Case Number:  22SMCV00454    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  I The ex parte is GRANTED.  The deposition will go forward on 1/23/24 and
continue from day to day (court days only) until completed.  Defendant should be judicious as to any
objections it makes to the topics or to the production, although the court is
not ordering that no objections be made. 
However, if the objections are in bad faith, the court may infer that
the reason is because the evidence would defeat the summary judgment
motion.  Such an inference could itself
be sufficient to deny the motion.
The court is aware of defendant’s strong showing of a lack
of diligence by plaintiff.  Plaintiff
seems to have sat on its hands until the last moment and is now complaining
that there is not enough time.  That is
and was a risk that plaintiff took willingly. 
And, while the court is not thrilled with the objection to the typo in
the deposition date (which seems petty and does not serve defendant well), the
fact remains that plaintiff did nothing for a very long time and suddenly
claims it is behind the proverbial eight-ball. 
But having said that, the law here favors plaintiff.  The court recognized in its demurrer ruling
that defendant had some strong arguments, but that those arguments could not be
tested on demurrer.  Defendant is now
raising those arguments on summary judgment. 
The court has not started to work up the summary judgment motion, so the
court cannot (and does not) comment on the motion’s actual strength.  But what the court does know is that if the
motion is granted, defendant will want a clean win so that plaintiff’s only
avenue of attack on appeal is based on the merits; not one that also has a
procedural issue.  And the law states
that if plaintiff can make a showing that additional discovery could provide
the evidence needed to defeat the motion, it is error to deny a
continuance.  Here, plaintiff’s diligence
showing is very weak and the showing on what plaintiff is likely to get from
the PMK is more hope than anything else. 
But even so, the court will give plaintiff their shot at the evidence.  If the evidence is there and the motion is
therefore defeated, then justice was done; plaintiff will have its trial.  If the evidence is not there and the motion
is granted, then all parties can have the comfort that plaintiff was given its
chance and the motion was properly granted. 
The cost of five weeks, which is the extent to which the court will
continue the hearing, seems a relatively small price to pay to ensure that the
motion is properly decided based on the actual facts.  In the construction industry, there is a
saying: “measure twice; cut once.”  The
theory is that it is worth taking extra time early to make sure that the work
is done right.  That seems to apply here.
The MSJ hearing will therefore be continued for
approximately five weeks, which is still be well before the trial date.  The court reminds defense counsel that
speaking objections are not permitted and that instructions not to answer
should be limited to situations where a privilege would otherwise be
waived.  The court is hoping for a clean
deposition.  Once it is over, the
proverbial chips will fall where they may.