 Case Number:  22SMCV00521    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  I This is here for a motion to compel and a motion for a
protective order—really two sides of the same coin.  Essentially, defendant seeks to depose a
third party, Benico, and also to have Benico produce documents at the
deposition.  Benico is a person who did
work for plaintiff.  Defendant subpoenaed
Benico (and there is no issue regarding service) but plaintiff objects to the
deposition.  Defendant seeks to compel
the deposition and plaintiff seeks a protective order limiting it.
At the heart of the dispute is the effect of the order
relating this case to another case.  This
is an insurance bad faith case, but it is related to a case involving the
underlying claim.  That is relevant
because Benico was already deposed in the related case.  To be more specific, after the cases were
related, a notice of Benico was deposed was served on all parties, including
Mercury, and the deposition went forward. 
Mercury elected not to attend the deposition.  That deposition concluded.
When Mercury sought to depose Benico again, plaintiff sought
to limit the deposition’s scope to prevent re-asking questions already
asked.  According to plaintiff, Mercury’s
counsel refused even to review the transcript to try and streamline the
deposition but instead insisted that the prior deposition was a non-event so
far as the instant deposition is concerned. 
According to Mercury, while the cases were related when the prior
deposition occurred, that is of no moment. 
Benico was deposed regarding the other case, and Mercury contends it had
no obligation to attend and indeed no right to attend.  According to Mercury, until and unless the
cases are actually consolidated (and they have not been consolidated), the fact
that they are related is interesting but irrelevant.
The court disagrees. 
To be sure, there is a difference between relating cases and
consolidating them.  Consolidated cases
are tried together and are viewed essentially as one and the same.  A related case order is not so robust.  One purpose of relating cases is to avoid
judge-shopping; that is, where a judge is presiding over one case, a party
cannot get another judge by filing a related case and hoping that the random
assignment system will provide a new jurist. 
But the point of relating the cases is more than that.  It is also to streamline the process and make
the litigation more efficient.  It is not
merely to have the cases in the same department.  To enhance the efficiency of the litigation,
many pre-trial discovery matters work for all related cases.  Generally, discovery is cross-admissible,
subject to the normal rules of evidence. 
Another major advantage of relating cases is to reduce the number of
depositions.  Where the plaintiff, for
example, needs to be deposed, the plaintiff can be deposed once for all of the
related cases rather than multiple times on the same subject.  Similarly, document requests can be
propounded once, not multiple times. 
Mercury here seems to argue that the related case order has no substance
or meaning other than to transfer the later-filed case to this department.  The court does not see it that way.  Mercury should have taken advantage of the
prior deposition and attended.  Mercury
could have, at least in the court’s view, inquired then and there of Benico as
to the subjects it wants to ask about now.
All of that said, there is remarkably little authority on
the effect of relating cases.  Mercury
cites not a single case, and the statute to which it cites is the statute on
consolidated cases.  To be fair,
plaintiff does not cite to a case on point either.
At bottom, though, plaintiff does not seek to bar the
deposition; plaintiff only seeks to stop duplicative questioning.  The court is unpersuaded by defendant’s
position.  Having elected not to appear
at Benico’s prior deposition or participate in it, defendant at least arguably
waived the right to depose Benico now. 
The court will not go so far, but the court does generally agree with
plaintiff that the purpose of relating cases is not only to prevent judge
shopping but also to enhance judicial efficiency.  The deposition may go forward, but the court
agrees that it ought to be limited in length to 4 hours and should not be
redundant of questions asked at the prior deposition.  That is not to say that Mercury cannot follow
up on answers given at that deposition, but this is not going to be a re-hash
of the prior deposition.  (For that
reason, the court cannot agree with plaintiff’s proposed order, which
essentially limits the deposition to nothing.)
The requests for sanctions are DENIED.  Mercury would be well advised not to come
back and ask for more time or move to compel unless there is a true privilege
issue or it can show that it was very efficient with the use of its time.  Plaintiff would be well advised not to engage
in speaking objections or attempting to run out the clock.  Generally, the court would advise plaintiff
to give Mercury its four hours without attempting to limit the deposition
unduly so long as Mercury is not abusing things or invading a privilege.  Counsel for Mercury will order the prior
transcript (at Mercury’s expense from the court reporter) if it has not already
done so and will read it carefully so as to avoid unnecessary repetition.  And so that all parties understand the court,
the court expects the parties to work these things out cooperatively and the
court does not expect to see them back on this deposition.  The court is aware that there is some
question as to Benico’s scope as an expert. 
Mercury can ask him percipient questions and ask his opinions about what
he actually perceived including conclusions drawn therefrom.  That is not intruding on privilege or work
product.  However, when one starts moving
into hypotheticals or opinions Benico reached not based on percipient
observations as a regular witness, there could be some expert problems.  The court would urge the parties (strongly)
to avoid litigating over this issue. 
Expert discovery is coming quickly given the July trial date.  It is better to work this out than litigate
the issue unnecessarily.  For now, the
court will not go beyond what it has just said as a guide for the parties but
not as a formal ruling.