 Case Number:  23SMCV02244    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to compel is GRANTED.  The request for sanctions is GRANTED in the
amount of $4725 as against plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel jointly and
severally, payable within 30 days.  
 
This is a motion to compel plaintiff’s deposition.  Defendant has attempted diligently to take
the deposition but plaintiff has done nothing but put up roadblocks.  Defendant wanted an early deposition date,
but plaintiff provided none.  Defendant
set a date unilaterally, but plaintiff objected and stated that he was too busy
to do a deposition until four months later—and six months after defendant first
started trying to take the deposition. 
Even so, defendant agreed to a date plaintiff suggested—September
19.  Two days before the deposition,
counsel called to make sure that the deposition was going forward, but
plaintiff did not confirm.  Defense
counsel sent a link for the deposition, but plaintiff never appeared and
neither did counsel.
 
This has gone on long enough.  The motion is granted.  No later than noon on Tuesday November 26,
2024, plaintiff’s counsel will email to defense counsel three business days not
sooner than December 9 and not later than December 27.  No later than midnight on Wednesday November
27, 2024, defendant will choose a deposition date.  The date will be a weekday that is not a
holiday, and will not be one of the three dates plaintiff’s counsel gave if
plaintiff provided timely dates.  The
deposition will go forward on that date and will continue from day to day until
completed, weekends, holidays, and plaintiff’s three dates excluded.  The deposition will be in person or remote,
at defendant’s choosing.  If in person,
it will be at defense counsel’s office. 
The deposition will begin at 9 am each day, will recess for 45 minutes
for lunch, and otherwise continue without interruption other than two 15 minute
breaks—one in the morning and one in the afternoon.  It will end each day at 5:30.  (The court is not, by this order, ruling that
the presumptive time limit does not apply; the court makes no comment on that
one way or the other.  That said, the
court reads the time limit as excluding any time that plaintiff’s counsel is on
the record or any colloquy.)  The court
believes that plaintiff has waived any hardship or convenience objections.  The parties may change the foregoing rules
and procedures by written agreement without the need for an order of the court.
 
Both counsel would be well advised to put the war to one
side and act professionally.  While the
court has seen no evidence that defense counsel has been a problem, that does
not mean that there are not enough slings and arrows on both sides to go around
were the court to do a deep dive.  The
parties do not want the court to have to take that dive.