 Case Number:  22STCV01353    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 12, 2022, Plaintiff Anthony Sykes (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Elmer Aguilar (“Aguilar”), Lamar Adams (“Adams”), and Does
1-10 for negligence, negligent entrustment and, negligence per se. 
On
February 28, 2024, Adams filed an answer. 
On
March 5, 2024, Adams filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Aguilar and
Roes 1-10 for indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. 
On March 20, 2024, the Court dismissed Aguilar without
prejudice from Plaintiff's complaint. 
On
June 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to vacate dismissal to be heard on July
8, 2024. 
Trial
is currently set for March 11, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to vacate Aguilar’s dismissal under the mandatory provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b),
provides in part: 
“Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. However, this
section shall not lengthen the time within which an action shall be brought to
trial pursuant to Section 583.310.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
On
March 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a proof of service showing substituted service
of the summon and complaint on Aguilar on March 28, 2023. 
On
July 12, 2023, the Court set an order to show cause re: failure to file entry
of Aguilar’s default for October 16, 2023. 
On
July 18, 2023, Plaintiff requested entry of Aguilar’s default but the clerk
rejected the request, noting that Plaintiff had not filed a proof of service of
a statement of damages on Aguilar. 
On
October 16, 2023, the Court continued the order to show cause to January 23,
2024 because Plaintiff’s counsel stated the parties were trying to settle the
matter and needed a continuance. 
On
October 31, 2023, Plaintiff submitted another request for Aguilar’s default but the
clerk rejected the request, again citing the lack of proof of service of the
statement of damages. 
Plaintiff’s
counsel failed to appear at the continued order to show cause hearing on
January 23, 2024.  The Court issued an
order advising Plaintiff’s counsel that the Court might exercise its discretion
to dismiss the action based on Plaintiff's failure to prosecute the case, failure
to bring case to trial within two years, and failure to enter default.  The Court set an order to show cause re:
dismissal for failure to prosecute and enter default for March 20, 2024 with any declarations to be filed at least five court days before the hearing. 
Plaintiff
did not obtain Aguilar’s default and did not file a declaration before the
March 20, 2024 order to show cause hearing. 
The Court dismissed Plaintiff’s claims against Aguilar without
prejudice. 
In
his motion to vacate the dismissal, Plaintiff argues the dismissal resulted
from his counsel’s mistake and inadvertence in failing to inform the Court that
Plaintiff had served the lawsuit on Aguilar. 
(Motion p. 4.)  Plaintiff misunderstands
the Court’s reason for dismissing Plaintiff’s claims against Aguilar.  On March 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed the proof
of service of the summons and complaint on Aguilar.[1]  Therefore, service of the summons and
complaint was not an issue. 
Instead,
the Court dismissed the case because Plaintiff’s failure to obtain Aguilar’s
default delayed Plaintiff’s prosecution of the case.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.110(g) [“If
a responsive pleading is not served within the time limits specified in this
rule and no extension of time has been granted, the plaintiff must file a
request for entry of default within 10 days after the time for service has
elapsed”]; see Code Civ. Proc., § 583.410.) 
Despite the clerk’s repeated instruction to file proof of service of a
statement of damages – a prerequisite to entry of default in a personal injury case – Plaintiff never
submitted a proof of service on Aguilar of a statement of damages.
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Anthony Sykes’s motion to vacate the March 20, 2024
order dismissing the case. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 


