 Case Number:  22STCV32047    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 30, 2022, Plaintiff Nicholas Johnson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Dawn Renaye Murray-Santos, Mike Santos,
Maggie Frederick, and Does 1-20 for motor vehicle negligence and negligence per
se.  The prayer included a request for
punitive damages on the second cause of action for negligence per se. 
On
November 16, 2023, the Court dismissed the “Second Cause of Action For Prayer
for Punitive Damages” with prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
Also
on November 16, 2023, Defendants Dawn Renaye Murray-Santos and Mike Santos (“Santos Defendants”) filed an answer. 
On
June 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to add a claim for punitive
damages, to be heard on July 5, 2024. 
The Court continued the hearing to July 8, 2024.  On June 24, 2024, the Santos Defendants filed
an objection and opposition.  On June 28,
2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
On
June 11, 2024, the Santos Defendants filed a motion to continue the trial and
related dates, to be heard on July 8, 2024. On June 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition. On July 1, 2024, the Santos Defendants filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 24, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court for leave to add a claim for punitive damages. 
The
Santos Defendants asks the Court (1) to deny Plaintiff’s request for leave to
add a claim for punitive damages and (2) to continue the trial and related
dates. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the Santos Defendants’ motion to continue the trial and
related dates. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to amend complaint         
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.  [Citations.]’ ”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“[I]t
is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:656, p. 6-193 (Cal.
Practice Guide).) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
B.   Motion to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date;         
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 
C.      Motion to continue or reopen discovery 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides: 
“(a) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any
party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings
on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or
before the 15th day, before the date initially set for the trial of the action. 
“(b) Except as provided in Section 2024.050, a
continuance or postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen
discovery proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020.) 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On motion of any party, the court may grant leave
to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery
heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new
trial date has been set. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(b) In exercising its discretion to grant or deny
this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the
leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party
seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons
that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard
earlier. 
“(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or
hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the
date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in
prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any
date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen
discovery, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges that on or about December 20, 2021, Defendants negligently owned,
leased, controlled, entrusted, managed, maintained, drove, and operated their automobile
in violation of the Vehicle Code, causing it to collide with the motor vehicle
Plaintiff was driving, injuring Plaintiff and damaging his motor vehicle. 
B.   Plaintiff’s motion for leave to add a punitive damage
claim 
On
November 16, 2023, at Plaintiff’s request, the Court dismissed Plaintiff’s request
for punitive damages with prejudice. 
Plaintiff now asks for leave to add the punitive damage claim back to
the complaint, arguing the previous dismissal of the punitive damage claim –
which Plaintiff requested – was “improper.” 
Plaintiff also contends that discovery has revealed facts supporting a
punitive damage claim. 
In
opposition, the Santos Defendants argue that Plaintiff was required to move
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), for relief from the
November 16, 2023 dismissal but did not file a motion before the statutory
deadline.  The Santos Defendants also
argue that Plaintiff’s dismissal of the punitive claim constituted a retraxit,
preventing reinstatement of the claim. 
          The Santos Defendants have not shown that they will be
prejudiced by Plaintiff’s requested amendment.  (See Kittredge, supra, 213
Cal.App.3d at p. 1048.)  Moreover, the
Court does not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend.  After the Court grants leave to amend, the Santos Defendants will have the opportunity to attack the validity of the amended pleading.  (See Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶
6:644, pp. 6-189 to 6-190.) 
          The Court grants the motion. 
C.   The Santos Defendants’ motion to continue the trial and
related dates 
The
Santos Defendants ask the Court to continue the trial and related dates because
discovery has not been completed and for other reasons. 
In
response, Plaintiff argues (among other things) the Santos Defendants did
not provide the statutory notice required for their motion.   Under Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1005, subdivision (b), and 1010.6, subdivision (a)(3)(B),
the Santos Defendants were required to serve their motion by June 10, 2024 (18
court days before the July 8, 2024 hearing). 
The Santos Defendants electronically served the motion on June 11, 2024. 
The
Santos Defendants do not respond to this argument.  The Court denies the motion for lack of
proper notice. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Nicholas Johnson’s
motion for leave to amend the complaint to add a punitive damage claim.  Plaintiff Nicholas Johnson shall file and
serve a first amended complaint within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
The
Court DENIES the motion to continue the trial and related dates filed by
Defendants Dawn Renaye Murray-Santos and
Mike Santos. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.