Plaintiff Consumers County Mutual Insurance Company seeks to amend the judgment in this matter against Final Touch Collision Center by adding West Hollywood Collision Center (“WHCC”) and WEHO Collision Center (“WEHO”) as successor corporations.“Modification of a judgment may . . . be proper under the ‘successor corporation’ theory. (McClellan, supra, 89 Cal.App.4th at pp. 753, 754–756, 107 Cal.Rptr.2d 702, italics omitted.) According to that theory, when a corporation sells or transfers all of its assets to another corporation constituting its mere continuation, the latter is also liable for the former's debts and liabilities. (Id. at p. 754, fn. 4, 107 Cal.Rptr.2d 702, quoting Ray v. Alad Corp. (1977) 19 Cal.3d 22, 29, 136 Cal.Rptr. 574, 560 P.2d 3.) Generally, California decisions holding that a corporation acquiring the assets of another corporation is the latter's mere continuation and therefore liable for its debts have imposed such liability only upon a showing of one or both of the following factual elements: (1) no adequate consideration was given for the predecessor corporation's assets and made available for meeting the claims of its unsecured creditors; (2) one or more persons were officers, directors, or stockholders of both corporations. [Citations.]  (McClellan, supra, 89 Cal.App.4th at p. 754, fn. 4, 107 Cal.Rptr.2d 702, quoting Ray, supra, 19 Cal.3d at p. 29, 136 Cal.Rptr. 574, 560 P.2d 3.)”  (Wolf Metals Inc. v. Rand Pacific Sales, Inc. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 698, 704-705 (internal quotes omitted).) WHCC did not file an opposition.  Additionally, WHCC has defaulted in related case no. 20STCV30935.  A party that has defaulted admits the allegations of the Complaint.  (See, e.g., Morehouse v. Wanzo (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 846, 853.)  In 20STCV30935, it was alleged that WHCC was an alter ego of Final Touch.  Therefore, WHCC will be added to the judgment in this case as a successor or alter ego of Final Touch.With respect to WEHO, it primarily argues that it is not a successor of Final Touch because all of Final Touch’s assets were wiped out in a foreclosure stemming from an unpaid promissory note relating to $750,000 loaned from a certain Artur Sarkisyants.   WEHO also contends it never received any assets from Final Touch and that any commonalities in its body shop business are non-removal fixtures of the leased premises, rather than actual assets.  WEHO has failed to submit admissible evidence with its Opposition.  All of the documents relating to the supposed foreclosure are attached to the declaration of counsel, who does not apparently have personal knowledge of these documents.  Employees of Final Touch should have authenticated and provided a foundation for these documents.  In any case, the Court has serious doubts about the validity of any such foreclosure.  As the Court previously stated, “the subject foreclosure agreement was purportedly signed by Rodolfo Hernandez, who testified he never signed any agreement on behalf of the judgment debtor.”  Hernandez, Final Touch’s CEO and CFO, also testified that he did not know whether Final Touch ever sold or transferred its assets, which is quite interesting.  He also stated that he didn’t know whether Final Touch ever received a loan, that he couldn’t “recall” if Final Touch ever dissolved, that he did not know if Final Touch ever winded up its business, and that he did not know if there was ever a foreclosure at all. On top of this, Plaintiff has presented the following evidence and points, which the Opposition fails to rebut with admissible evidence: all three entities perform(ed) the same business in the same location;it’s not apparent that any of the entities formally winded down their business;WHCC did not make any payment to Final Touch for assets and WEHO did not make any such payment to WHCC;“Onnik [Kazanchian] was at least the manager of Final Touch and WHCC. He was also initially listed as CEO, CFO, and Secretary of WEHO. Onnik received payments from all three entities. Onnik’s wife and sister also received payments which he could not explain”;  “Arsen, Onnik’s brother, was listed as Final Touch’s ‘incorporator,’ and initial CEO, CFO, and Secretary. Arsen was also involved in WHCC and received payments from the successor entity”;“Hovhannes, Onnik’s and Arsen’s cousin, was employed by Final Touch in some capacity, and was the purported owner, CEO, CFO, and Secretary of WHCC”;the three entities used the same type of repair bills;“WHCC somehow worked simultaneously out of the Business Premises at the same time as Final Touch, until Final Touch lost its license and stopped using that name. Then, WEHO somehow worked simultaneously out of the Business Premises alongside WHCC, until WHCC lost its license and stopped using that name”;“Final touch made significant payments to Arsen and Onnik during its final months before WHCC was formed. Final Touch’s assets were also commingled with the personal assets of these individuals by paying for non-corporate expenses, such as medications, Coachella tickets, $1,000 steak dinners, and loans and insurance premiums for personal vehicles”;“WEHO and WHCC made payments to one another and endorsed checks from one entity’s work to the other”; and all three entities hold insured vehicles for ransom until exorbitant and unjustified fees are tendered by Plaintiff.   Based on all of this and the lack of evidence provided with the Opposition, the Court finds that Plaintiff has carried its burden to show that WHCC and WEHO should be added to the judgment as successors of Final Touch. The Motion is granted.  The objections are sustained.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 