 Case Number:  23VECV05630    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  W SHLOMO COHEN
vs FORD MOTOR COMPANY, et al.
 
Demurrer to
plaintiffs’ first amended complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        June
10, 2024                                     Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV05630
 
Moving Party:            Defendants Ford Motor Company 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Shlomo Cohen 
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Reeti Patel Decl. ¶3.)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action which arises
from the purchase of a 2019 Ford 150. On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint against Defendants Ford Motor Company and Vista Ford Lincoln for
(1) Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2; (2) Violation of
Subdivision (b) of Civil Code Section 1793.2; (3) Violation of Subdivision (a)(3)
of Civil Code Section 1793.2; (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of
Merchantability; (5) Negligent Repair; and 
(6) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. Plaintiff alleges their vehicle
had a transmission defect, which Defendant knew about and concealed. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant
Ford Motor Company’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is
OVERRULED.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
Ford Motor Company demurs to the First Amended Complaint filed by Plaintiff
Shlomo Cohen on the grounds that Plaintiff cannot state his fifth cause of
action for fraudulent inducement – concealment against Ford as a matter of law
because the claim still fails to plead essential elements to state the claim
and is barred by the economic loss rule as Plaintiff failed to correct any of
the pleading deficiencies in his initial Complaint. 
 
The elements
of a claim for fraudulent concealment are: “(1) concealment or suppression of a
material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose that fact to the
plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally
concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact
and would not have acted as he or she did if she had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damages as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick v. Healthcare
Partners Medical Group, Inc.¿(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.) As it is a
species of fraud and deceit, such claim must be plead with specificity. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645 (specificity means pleading
the who, where, when, what, and how).) But this rule for fraud by concealment,
unlike fraud by an affirmative misrepresentation, must be applied differently
in the case of non-disclosure because it is difficult to allege “who” or “how”
or “by what means” something was not disclosed or “when” or “where” a statement
was not made. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Imp. System & Planning
Ass’n, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  Because of the nature
of such fraud and the fact such facts supporting concealment are more likely to
be known by defendant, less particularity is required.  (Id.)
 
Defendant
first argues Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment cause of action fails to state
a claim against Defendant on the grounds Plaintiff fails to plead the defect
Ford allegedly concealed or a duty to disclose. 
 
The court disagrees.
The complaint sufficiently alleges Plaintiff presented the subject vehicle to
Defendant’s authorized repair facility with complaints of jerking into and out
of gears, Defendant knew that vehicles equipped with the same 10-speed
transmission also suffered from jerking, shuddering, and/or juddering, and
failed to disclose this fact to Plaintiff at the time of the sale. Moreover, “[t]here
are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute
actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with
the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts
not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.’” (LiMandri v.
Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336 (citation omitted).) Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged Ford’s exclusive knowledge of the jerking into and out of
gears, which was not known to Plaintiff at the time of purchase. 
 
Lastly,
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s claim is barred by the economic loss rule. As this
court has noted several times in actions involving Ford, the question of
whether fraudulent concealment cases are barred by the economic loss rule is
still open and the question has yet to be addressed by the California Supreme
Court. As such, the court finds Plaintiff’s allegations are not barred by
the economic loss rule under current case law. If Dhital is reversed
while this action is pending, Ford Motor may revisit the issue. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED. 