  Case Number:  22VECV02335    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  W IRON INVESTMENTS, LLC, v. EAU DI NIL MARKETING &
EVENTS, INC., et al.
 
APPLICATION FOR pro hac vice
 
Date of Hearing:        June
10, 2024                        Trial Date:       None set.  
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV02335 
 
Moving Party:            Counsel
for Cross-Defendant Intel Americas, Inc. 
Responding Party:     None.

 
BACKGROUND
 
On
December 15, 2022, Plaintiff Iron Investments LLC filed a complaint against
Defendants Eau Di Nil Marketing & Events, Inc., 19/544, LLC, and Landra P.
Deloach for breach of contract and negligence. Plaintiff alleges Defendants
negligently caused a fire that damaged the structure and its contents in excess
of $500,000.00. 
 
On
March 14, 2023, Eau Di Nil Marketing & Events, Inc. and Landra P. Deloach
filed a cross-complaint against Intel Americas, Inc., BenQ America Corp.,
Newegg, Inc., and Dealking, Inc. for equitable indemnity, contribution, express
indemnity, and declaratory relief. 19/544, LLC also filed a cross-complaint
against Intel Americas, Inc., BenQ America Corp, Newegg, Inc., and Dealking,
Inc. for equitable indemnity, contribution, express indemnity, and declaratory
relief on April 19, 2023. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling: GRANT 
 
Amy Edwards, Esq. submits an
application for admission pro hac vice as counsel for Cross-Defendant
Intel Americas, Inc. alongside Michelle Rosales of Stoel
Rives LLP. 
 
Ms.
Edwards is a member of the Washington State Bar, Oregon State Bar, U.S. District
Court for the District of Oregon, U.S. District Court for the Western District
of Washington, and U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Pursuant to
California Rules of Court 9.40, an application for appearance pro hac vice must be served on all
parties who have appeared in the case and on the State Bar of California at its
San Francisco Office. Additionally, the application must state:
 
(1)  
The applicant's residence and office
address;
(2)  
The courts to which the applicant has
been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3)  
That the applicant is a member in good
standing in those courts;
(4)  
That the applicant is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court;
(5)  
The title of court and cause in which
the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in
this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and
whether or not it was granted; and
(6)  
The name, address, and telephone number
of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.
 
Ms. Edwards has fulfilled these
requirements. (See Edwards Decl. ¶¶1-9.) Ms. Rosales also provides proof of
payment to the State Bar. (Rosales Decl., Exh. 1.)    
 
The application for pro hac vice is
GRANTED. 
 
 