  Case Number:  23STCV07274    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  49 Brittany A Jackson, et al. v. Hawkins Real Property Management, Inc., et al.DEMURRER TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendants Hawkins Real Property Management, LLC, erroneously sued as Hawkins Real Property Management, Inc.; and Todd Hawkins, an individual and trustee of the Todd Tr & Taylor Hawkins TrustsRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Brittany A. Jackson and Sylvia SheridanSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:  Plaintiff Brittany Jackson alleges she moved into the property at 1426 W 25th Street in Los Angeles, CA, to care for her ailing grandmother, Katie Mae Hawkins. On November 9, 2022, Hawkins passed away. Plaintiff Sylvia Sheridan is the daughter and successor in interest to decedent Hawkins. Plaintiff Jackson alleges she continued to pay rent after her grandmother’s death. On December 1, 2022, Defendant(s) Hawkins Real Property Management, LLC and/or Todd Hawkins allegedly changed the locks on the unit and removed Plaintiff’s belongings. Plaintiffs now bring causes of action for (1) Wrongful Eviction, (2) Tenant Harassment, (3) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (5) Conversion, and (6) Trespass to Chattels.Defendants now demurrer to each causes of action in the SAC. They also move to strike portions of the SAC seeking punitive damages. Plaintiffs opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Demurrer to the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action as to Plaintiff Estate and Plaintiff Sheridan only is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.Defendants’ Demurrer to the Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action as to all Plaintiffs is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend. Defendants’ Motion to Strike is DENIED.Moving parties are ordered to give notice.DISCUSSION:DemurrerI. Meet and ConferThe Declaration of Twiggy Alvarez, Counsel for Defendants, reflects that the parties met and conferred.II. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  III. AnalysisA. Demurrer to First, Second, and Third Causes of ActionDefendants argue the First, Second, and Third causes of action fail as to Plaintiff Estate and Plaintiff Sheridan because the two lack standing to assert the claims.In opposition, Plaintiffs concede that the “first, second, and third causes of action solely apply to Plaintiff Jackson,” and not the other Plaintiffs. (Opp. 4: 13.) Accordingly, Plaintiff’s First, Second, and Third Causes of Action are SUSTAINED as to Plaintiff Sheridan and Plaintiff Estate. The causes of action remain as to Plaintiff Jackson only.B. Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of ActionDefendants next argue the SAC is uncertain because the third through sixth causes of action do not state which Plaintiff(s) are asserting them, and because the SAC does not allege whether Plaintiff Sheridan was a tenant of the property at the time of Katie Mae Hawkins’ death. Because it is unclear which Plaintiffs are asserting these causes of action, the court agrees that the SAC is uncertain. Plaintiffs have asked for leave to submit a Third Amended Complaint to remedy this defect and have submitted a proposed TAC with the opposition. (See Young Decl. Exh. A.) Based on the proposed TAC, Plaintiffs Jackson and Sheridan will assert the Fourth Cause of Action for IIED, and all Plaintiffs (Jackson, Sheridan, and the Estate) will assert the Fifth (conversion) and Sixth (Trespass to chattels) causes of action. Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. C. Concluding PointsBecause the uncertainty issue is dispositive, the analysis may stop there. However, in an attempt to aid the parties and avoid further motion practice, the court briefly addresses Defendants’ other arguments made in the demurrer. Defendants argue that Plaintiff Sheridan cannot assert the IIED claim because she was not a lawful tenant of the property. However, even assuming (without deciding) Plaintiff was not a tenant, Defendants cite no authority suggesting that one must be a lawful tenant to assert an IIED claim. Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs cannot establish the elements of IIED. “A cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.  A defendant's conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. And the defendant's conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.’”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-51, quoting Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001) (internal citations omitted). “Liability for intentional infliction of emotional distress ‘ “does not extend to mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities.”  (Bock v. Hansen (2014) 225 Cal. App. 4th 215, 233.)  Severe emotional distress means “ ‘emotional distress of such substantial quality or enduring quality that no reasonable [person] in civilized society should be expected to endure it.’”  (Id.)Plaintiffs should keep in mind that although a claim for IIED will generally present multiple questions of fact, a court may sustain a demurrer to the claim when “the facts alleged do not amount to outrageous conduct as a matter of law.” (Bock, supra, 225 Cal. App. 4th at 235.)  The process has been described as “more intuitive than analytical.”  (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 671–672.)Here, Plaintiffs allege that following the death of Katie Mae Hawkins, Defendants entered the property on December 1, 2022, and took property belonging to Hawkins and Plaintiff Jackson “and abandoned it in the street.” (SAC ¶ 36.) When Plaintiff Sheridan arrived at the property, she saw the belongings “strewn” about, and “witnessed a very painful, heartbreaking, and horrific sight as she saw all of her mother, Ms. Hawkins’, and Plaintiff JACKSON’S personal property being carried away or stolen by several unknown people.” (Id. ¶ 37.) Plaintiff Sheridan allegedly salvaged what she could and brought it back into the apartment. (Id. ¶ 38.) The next day, on December 2, 2022, Defendants allegedly entered the unit again and “took and abandoned all of Ms. Hawkins’ and Plaintiff JACKSON’S personal property outside on the sidewalk and street immediately in front of the Subject Property for a second time.” (Id. ¶ 39.) Considering these allegations, Plaintiffs Jackson and Sheridan have likely stated a claim for IIED for pleading purposes.Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs’ Fifth Cause of Action for conversion and Sixth Cause of Action for trespass to chattels fail because Defendants did not exercise control over the property—they merely moved it outside of the unit. “Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.) “Dubbed by Prosser the ‘little brother of conversion,’ the tort of trespass to chattels allows recovery for interferences with possession of personal property ‘not sufficiently important to be classed as conversion, and so to compel the defendant to pay the full value of the thing with which he has interfered.’” (Jamgotchian v. Slender (2009) 170 Cal. App. 4th 1384, 1400–01 [quoting Prosser & Keeton, Torts (5th ed.1984) § 14, pp. 85–86].)  “Though not amounting to conversion, the defendant's interference must, to be actionable, have caused some injury to the chattel or to the plaintiff's rights in it. Under California law, trespass to chattels ‘lies where an intentional interference with the possession of personal property has proximately caused injury.’” (Id. at 1401.)Here, though it is true that Defendants merely moved the property—and did not take it for their own use—this is a distinction without a deference. By moving Plaintiffs’ personal property during a dispute over Plaintiffs’ continued right to access the premises, Defendants exercised control over Plaintiff’s property. (See Plummer v. Day/Eisenberg, LLP (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 38, 50 [“any act of dominion wrongfully exerted over the personal property of another inconsistent with the owner’s rights thereto constitutes conversion.”].)  [FN 1] Therefore, the conversion and trespass to chattels claims are likely sufficiently pled.Motion to StrikeI. Legal StandardA motion to strike lies either (1) to strike any irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) to strike any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or order of court.  (CCP § 436.) II. AnalysisDefendants moves to strike Plaintiffs’ references to punitive damages in the SAC at ¶ 53, ¶ 54, ¶ 69, ¶ 75, ¶ 81, ¶ 84 and the Prayer for relief. (See Notice.) Defendants argue that Plaintiffs assert only “conclusory and blanket claims for punitive damages, without providing enough factual support for the same.” (Mtn. 7: 18-19.) Civil Code § 3294 provides that “[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” As defined in § 3294(c):(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (3) “Fraud” means that a defendant intentionally misrepresented or concealed a material fact and did so intended to harm a plaintiff.Here, as discussed more fully in the Ruling on the Demurrer to the SAC, this court finds Plaintiffs have alleged facts which—if true and proven at trial—could potentially support an award of punitive damages against the Defendants.As currently plead, Defendants allegedly forced Plaintiff Sheridan out of the property without notice and removed and ruined Plaintiff’s and the decedent’s personal property. This is sufficient to allege the requisite malice, oppression, or fraud to support punitive damages. (See Camenisch v. Superior Court (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1689, 1699 [noting Courts are given “broad discretion” when ruling on a motion to strike].)Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Strike is DENIED.Moving parties are ordered to give notice.  IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   May 15, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1- The court’s discussion on these points does not preclude another demurrer to the TAC if the allegations and law permit it. The court is hopeful, however, that with careful amendment and a thorough meet and confer, a fourth demurrer can be avoided.    Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.