 Case Number:  24BBCV00469    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
christopher
  vincent tate,
    
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
edward hal
  halmon ii, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.: 24BBCV00469
 
  Hearing Date: November 1, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to quash subpoenas for production of
  business records   



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations

Plaintiff
Christopher Vincent Tate (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on April 3, 2022, he was on
Defendants Edward Hal
Halmon II, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. dba Wal-Mart, and Wal-Mart Real Estate
Business Trust’s property located at 1301 N. Victory Pl. in Burbank.  He alleges that he slipped and fell as a
result of a dangerous condition on Defendants’ property, which consisted of
water accumulation in an aisle.  He
alleges that he slipped and fell on a liquid surface that came from a floor
cleaning device that was not properly mopped. 

The complaint,
filed February 27, 2024, alleges causes of action for: (1) premises liability; and (2) general
negligence. 
On July 26, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed without prejudice Defendant
Edward Hal Halmon II and Wal-Mart Real Estate Business Trust.  
B.     Motion
on Calendar 
On August 23,
2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash Defendant Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.’s
out-of-state subpoenas for production of business records. 
On October 21,
2024, Defendant filed opposition papers. 
On October 28,
2024, Plaintiff filed an untimely reply brief. 
DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiff
moves to quash the deposition subpoenas that Defendant Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
(“Defendant”) issued on: (1) Geico Indemnity Company c/o CT Corporation System;
(2) State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company c/o CSC-Lawyers
Incorporating Service; (3) Geico Indemnity Company c/o CT Corporation System;
(4) Geico Indemnity Company c/o CT Corporation System; (5) Allstate Insurance
Company c/o CT Corporation System; (6) StateFarm Mutual Automobile Insurance
Company c/o CSC-Lawyers Incorporating Service; (7) The Zurich Services
Corporation c/o CSC-Lawyers Incorporating Service; (8) Hartford Accident and
Indemnity Company c/o CT Corporation System; (9) Hartford Accident and
Indemnity Company c/o CT Corporation System; (10) StateFarm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company c/o CSC-Lawyers Incorporating Service; (11) American
International Group; (12) American International Group; (13) Liberty Mutual
Insurance Company c/o CSC Lawyers Incorporating Service; (14) Progressive Group
of Insurance Companies; (15) Allstate Insurance Company c/o CT Corporation
System; (16) Progressive Group of Insurance Companies; (17) Atlanta Medical
Center; (18) Chiropractic Center of Atlanta; (19) South Fulton Emergency
Physicians LLC; (20) Orthopedics of Atlanta; (21) Summit Urgent Care; (22)
Benchmark Rehab Partners; (23) Henry Family and Sports Chiropractic; (24)
Barczyk Chri-New Iberia; (25) Envision Imaging of Acadiana; (26) Family
Medicine of Tampa; (27) Summit Urgent Care; and (28) Peachtree Spine and Pain
Physicians.  
            Plaintiff
argues that on June 21, 2024 and July 30, 2024, defense counsel issued several
unlimited deposition subpoenas calling for the production of Plaintiff’s entire
medical history, without limitation as to scope of his personal injury claims
relevant to this action.  In meet and
confer conversations, Plaintiff’s counsel argued that the subpoenas should be
limited to injuries to his low back, right hand, right wrist, right elbow, left
leg, and left knee, which were the body parts that were put at issue as a
result of the subject incident.  Plaintiff
also argued that the subpoenas sought records from providers located outside of
California, making them invalid, and that Defendant should use an out-of-state
commission to obtain additional records. 
In response, Defendant agreed to limit the subpoenas to 10 years prior
to the incident only and agreed to provide an out-of-state commission for
records from providers located outside of California only when the subpoenaed
providers requested it. 
            The
subpoenas numbered 1-16 above seek any and all insurance records (including,
but not limited to, reports, correspondence, and memoranda) regarding
Plaintiff.  There is no limitation as to
date or scope.  Defendant has not
explained why insurance records without specification as to type of insurance
or as to date are relevant to this action. 
Thus, the subpoenas issued on the insurance companies will be limited to
5 years prior to the subject incident that occurred on April
3, 2022 to the present and will be limited only to the insurance policies
issued.  
            The
subpoenas numbered 17 to 28 seek medical records, billing records, and
radiology records of Plaintiff from April 1, 2012 (10 years prior the incident)
to the present regarding Plaintiff. 
Again, this is made without limitation as to the scope of the medical,
billing, and radiology records being sought. 

While a plaintiff is not obligated to
sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific physical, mental, or
emotional injury, “they may not withhold information which relates to any
physical or mental condition which they have put in issue by bringing this
lawsuit.”  (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 864; City & County of San Francisco v.
Superior Court (1951) 37 Cal.2d 227, 232.) 
A plaintiff suing for personal injuries waives the physician-patient
privilege to some extent, but this does not make discoverable all of a
plaintiff’s lifetime medical history.  (Britt, supra, 20 Cal.3d at 863-64.)    
While some of
Plaintiff’s prior medical history may be relevant to this action to determine
if Plaintiff had suffered from preexisting conditions or had issues or pain in
certain body parts prior to the subject incident, discovery of the entirety of
his medical, billing, radiology records without limitation as to scope or the
body parts that are alleged to be at issue in this action is overbroad.  However, the Court will accept the limitation
of 10 years prior to the subject incident to the present.  The Court will modify the medical, billing,
and radiology records sought to records regarding Plaintiff’s back, right upper
extremity, and left lower extremity.   
            Finally, with respect to subpoenas
issued on out-of-state providers, Defendant is ordered to comply with the
Uniform Interstate Depositions and Discovery Act.  It is not sufficient for Defendant to comply
with the Act only if requested by the subpoenaed party.  
            Plaintiff
requests $5,685 in sanctions against Defendant and its attorney of record.  The Court will award Plaintiff sanctions in
the total amount of $1,000 on this motion, plus $60 in filing fees.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Plaintiff
Christopher Vincent Tate’s motion to quash Defendant Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.’s
out-of-state subpoenas for production of business records is granted such that
the subpoenas issued on insurance companies shall be limited in scope to 5
years prior to the subject incident to the present and shall only require the
production of the insurance policies issued; and the subpoenas issued for
medical, billing, and radiology records shall be limited to 10 years prior to
the subject incident to the present, and be limited in scope to the body parts
Plaintiff claims are at issue in this action, which include Plaintiff’s back, right upper extremity, and left lower extremity. To the
extent that Defendant seeks to subpoena out-of-state providers, Defendant is
ordered to comply with the Uniform Interstate Depositions and Discovery Act, if
applicable. 
                Defendant and its counsel of record, jointly and severally, are ordered to
pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,060 to Plaintiff, by and through
counsel, within 20 days of notice of this order.
Plaintiff
shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
DATED:
November 1, 2024                                       ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court   