 Case Number:  22BBCV01180    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
javier mejia, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
los angeles
  county metropolitan transit authority,  
 
                        Defendant.


 
Case
  No.: 22BBCV01180
 
  Hearing Date:  November 1, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, for summary
  adjudication 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Javier Mejia (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that on February 26, 2022, he was a fare-paying passenger, boarded on Defendant
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transit Authority’s (“Defendant”) “orange line”
bus.  He alleges that as he was exiting
the bus at 5341 Lankershim Blvd. in North Hollywood, he slipped and fell on the
steps of the exit as a result of an unspecified liquid substance, causing him
to fall on his body and face.  
 The
complaint, filed December 12, 2022, alleges causes of action for: (1) public
entity liability (Gov’t Code, §§ 815.2, 815.4); and (2) dangerous condition of
public property (Gov’t Code, § 835.)     
B.    
Motion on Calendar
On July 18, 2024,
Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority filed a
motion for summary judgment.  On October
1, 2024, Defendant filed the supplemental declaration of Raja Singh.  In the alternative, Defendant moves for
summary adjudication on the following issues: 
·        
Issue 1: Is Plaintiff’s cause of action
for dangerous condition of public property precluded since Plaintiff is unable
to establish the existence of any dangerous condition of public property? 
·        
Issue 2: Is Plaintiff’s cause of action
for dangerous condition of public property precluded since Defendant did not
have actual or constructive notice of any alleged dangerous condition of public
property? 
On October 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
On October 25, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply brief. 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            With the
opposition papers, Plaintiff submitted evidentiary objections to Defendant’s
evidence.  To the extent that Plaintiff
objects to the evidence that the separate statement does not comply with the
CRC code, the Court recognizes that while Defendant’s separate statement does
not comply with the format of separate statements as required under CRC Rule
3.1350, this will not be aground to sustain the objections to the
evidence.  The objections to Plaintiff’s
Claims for Damages and the deposition transcript of Plaintiff are overruled. 
DISCUSSION 
            Defendant
moves for summary judgment or summary adjudication against Plaintiff, arguing
that Plaintiff has no evidence that the claimed dangerous condition existed, he
has admitted that he did not notice anything on the floor of the bus when he
entered nor did he witness anyone spilling anything on the floor during
transit, and Plaintiff lacks evidence that Defendant was on notice of any
dangerous condition.  
“A public entity is liable for
injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if (1) the property was
in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury; (2) the dangerous condition
caused the injury; (3) the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable
risk of the kind of injury which was incurred; and (4) that either (a) a
negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment created the condition, or (b) the public
entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition in time to
have taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition.” (Moncur v. City of
Los Angeles (1977)
68 Cal.App.3d 118, 123; Gov’t Code, § 835.)
            The following facts are
undisputed.  The alleged incident
occurred on February 26, 2022 around 2:10 p.m. 
(Def.’s Fact 1.)  The incident
occurred when the bus was stopped at the North Hollywood station stop.  (Def.’s Fact 2.)  Plaintiff sat in the back of the bus on route
to his destination in North Hollywood. 
(Def.’s Fact 3.)  When Plaintiff
first boarded the bus and walked towards his seat in the back, he did not
identify any hazards or spilt water cups on the floor.  (Def.’s Fact 4.)  Plaintiff testified that slipping on the
steps or platform caused his fall. 
(Def.’s Fact 5.)  Plaintiff
testified that he did not know what color the substance was on the floor
despite taking a picture of it.  (Def.’s
Fact 6.)  Plaintiff testified that he did
not see anything wrong with the step when he was exiting the bus.  (Def.’s Fact 7.)  Prior to exiting, Plaintiff observed
approximately 4 people leave the bus before him through the back exit.  (Def.’s Fact 9.)  Plaintiff did not know how long the alleged
liquid substance was on the floor or how it got there.  (Def.’s Fact 10.)  Plaintiff did not observe anybody spilling
liquid on the floor after getting on the bus but before the incident.  (Def.’s Fact 12.)  At the time of the deposition, Plaintiff did
not know if there was anything to indicate the cause of his fall within the
pictures he took on the day of the incident. 
(Def.’s Fact 13.)  On December 12,
2022, Plaintiff filed suit against Defendant alleging a dangerous condition of
public property.  
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff
cannot establish that a dangerous condition existed because he was only able to
produce one photograph of steps from the bus to support his claim.  (Mot., Ex. 4.)  Defendant argues, at most, this picture only
shows where the incident happened but does not illustrate a puddle of water or
any identifiable liquid.  Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has admitted in his deposition that he did not see any
hazardous issues, split water cups, or issues with the bus floor when he
boarded the bus; and that he did not notice any debris or water on the
floor.  
            Defendant also argues that
Plaintiff’s discovery responses are devoid of any showing that Defendant was on
notice of any alleged liquid substance because he lacked any pictures or videos
that show that his clothes were wet on the date of the incident, he testified
that there was no debris or water on the floor when he boarded the bus, and
there was no showing how long the liquid substance was on the floor or how long
it had been there.  Defendant also
provides the declaration of bus operator Raja Singh.  In his July 18, 2024 declaration, Mr. Singh
states that he was the bus operator at the time of the incident, he performed a
pre-shift inspection of the bus which consisted of walking around the exterior
and through the interior of the bus at the beginning of his shift to ensure
that there were no hazards or other notable items, and he did not receive a
complaint of a spill or liquid substance on the floor of the bus prior to
Plaintiff’s fall.  (7/18/24 Singh Decl.,
¶¶3-5.)  In his supplemental declaration,
he states that in preparation for his September 20, 2024 deposition, he
recalled that he relieved the previous bus operator on duty and only performed
an exterior inspection of the bus, but not an interior inspection of the bus;
he only performs an exterior and interior inspection when driving the bus out
of the yard.  (9/27/24 Singh Decl.,
¶¶4-6.)  
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that there are triable issues of material fact
regarding whether a dangerous condition existed.  He cites to his deposition testimony wherein
he testified that he did not know what the liquid substance was and whether it
was “piss,” but stated that it was all over his clothes, he got a cut on his
elbow which he asked the paramedics to clean (in the event it was urine), and
that the left side of his body and back, including his pants and shirt, were
wet from the liquid.  (Pl.’s Depo. at
pp.30-31, 125-126.)  Although he did not
see any hazards, debris, or water on the floor while he first boarded, he
stated generally that he had no particular recollection of the cleanliness of
the bus.  (Pl.’s Depo. at pp.26-27, 44.)  He testified that he did not see anything
wrong with the step when exiting the bus, but he knows the liquid caused his
fall, stating, “I don’t fall. I have pretty good legs and feet.”  (Pl.’s Depo. at p.33.)  Plaintiff testified that he did not know how
long the liquid was on the floor prior to the fall, how it got there, or how
much of it there was (but he estimated it was about 1-2 feet in size—enough to
cover his butt, shirt, left arm, left side, and arm).  (Pl.’s Depo. at pp.44, 45, 127, 131.)  He testified that he did not observe anyone
spilling a liquid after getting on the bus and before the incident.  (Pl.’s Depo. at p.70.)  He testified that he did not know if he had
facts to demonstrate how Defendant caused his fall, but that he was not there
to examine the bus or see if it had a harsh terrain and that he believed
Defendant contributed to his fall in the manner that they cared for the buses.  (Pl.’s Depo. at pp.77-78.)  Plaintiff also cites to the picture he took
of the bus stairs with the liquid.  (See
Opp. at Ex. A [colored photograph].)  Plaintiff
also provides the deposition testimony of Mr. Singh.  Mr. Singh testified that he inspected the
exterior of the bus but could not recall inspecting the interior of the
bus.  (Opp. at Ex. 3 [Singh Depo. at
p.13].)  He states that after Plaintiff
fell, he spoke with Plaintiff and walked to the back of the bus where he
observed liquid on the floor.  (Singh
Depo. at pp.22-24.)
            The Court finds that there are
triable issues of material fact that preclude the entry of summary judgment or
summary adjudication on the complaint.  In
the reply brief, Defendant now states that it does not dispute that there was
liquid on the floor or that Plaintiff slipped and fell, but argues that Plaintiff
cannot establish when a dangerous condition existed on the bus and whether
Defendant had constructive notice of the spill long enough for Defendant to
have noticed.  (Reply at p.3.)  According to the notice of the motion,
Defendant’s Issue No. 1 asked if Plaintiff’s cause of action for dangerous
condition of public property was precluded since Plaintiff is unable to
establish the existence of any dangerous condition of public property.  However, Defendant has now conceded this
point.  In addition, Plaintiff has shown by way of his deposition
testimony, the deposition testimony of bus operator Mr. Singh, and the
photograph of the bus aisle/steps that there was a liquid substance that
existed at the time of Plaintiff’s fall. 
Even if Plaintiff does not know the color of the liquid or how the
liquid got on the floor, Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of material fact
showing that liquid was on the bus floor and that he slipped and fell on the
liquid at the time of the subject incident. 
As such, the motion for summary adjudication is denied as to Issue No.
1.  
            Next, Plaintiff has raised a triable
issue of material fact regarding notice (Issue No. 2).  While Plaintiff testified that he did not
know how long the liquid was on the bus floor or how it got there, he also
testified that he was not looking for hazards on the bus.  In his deposition and declaration, Mr. Singh
stated that he did not perform an inspection of the interior of the bus when he
was relieved the prior bus driver.[1]  Thus, while Defendant’s employee did not have
actual notice of a dangerous condition, there are triable issues of material
fact regarding whether he had constructive notice of the condition—i.e.,
whether the “condition existed for such a period of time and was of such
an obvious nature that the public entity, in the exercise of due care, should
have discovered the condition and its dangerous character.”  (Gov’t Code, § 835.2(b); George v. City of
Los Angeles (1942) 51 Cal.App.3d 311, 315 [stating that it is question of
fact for the jury to determine whether the dangerous condition existed for a
sufficient length of time to constitute constructive notice and whether a
reasonable time to remedy the condition existed]; see also Ortega v. Kmart
Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1211 [“But in this case, the evidence of
defendant's failure to inspect the premises within a reasonable period of time
prior to the accident is indicative of defendant's negligence and creates a
reasonable inference that the dangerous condition existed long enough for it to
be discovered by the owner.”].)  The
motion is denied as to Issue No. 2 as well. 

            For these reasons, the Court finds that there are triable
issues of material fact, such that the motion for summary judgment or,
alternatively, for summary adjudication is denied.  
            Lastly, in the
opposition brief, Plaintiff
argues that the motion should be denied based on CCP § 437c(h) and (i) on the
ground that Defendant failed to produce essential and necessary evidence and
engaged in spoliation of evidence. 
Subsection (h) and (i) state: 
(h)
If it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential
to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented,
the court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be
obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just. …
(i)
If, after granting a continuance to allow specified additional discovery, the
court determines that the party seeking summary judgment has unreasonably
failed to allow the discovery to be conducted, the court shall grant a
continuance to permit the discovery to go forward or deny the motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication. …
(CCP § 437c(h), (i).)  Plaintiff argues that while Defendant’s
employee reported the incident to his supervisor on the day of the incident of
February 26, 2022 (Singh Depo. at pp.26-27), Defendant did not place a work
order request for the surveillance until almost 2 months later on April 20,
2022, at which time the video had already been deleted as surveillance is only
stored for a maximum of 30 days.  (Pl.’s
AMF 11-16.)  Plaintiff provides
Defendant’s work order for the surveillance video (Opp. at Ex. 5) and provides
Plaintiff’s counsel Igor Fradkin’s declaration. 
Mr. Fradkin states that on October 18, 2024, his office took the
deposition of Defendant’s PMK, the PMK produced the work order that was placed
on April 20, 2022, and Mr. Fradkin states that the PMK testified that the surveillance
cameras were working properly on the day of the incident but the work order
failed because the video had been deleted as surveillance is only stored for 30
days. (Fradkin Decl., ¶¶8-10.)  The Court
notes that a copy of the October 18, 2024 PMK’s deposition testimony was not
provided to support Mr. Fradkin’s statements. 
At this time, the Court will not make a determination on whether
spoliation of evidence occurred based on the evidence presented by Plaintiff in
opposition to the motion, nor will this be a ground upon which the motion is
denied.  Rather, as stated above, the
motion for summary judgment/adjudication is denied based on the triable issues
of material fact presented by Plaintiff in the opposition brief.   
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Defendant Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s motion for summary
judgment or, alternatively, for summary adjudication is denied.  
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED:  November 1, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


