 Case Number:  22STCV30065    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
1, 2024                               TRIAL
DATE:  July 8, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Cultivare Group LLC v. 640 South Lake Owner’s Association,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV30065
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
640 South Lake Owner’s Association
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            This
case concerns the purchase of a condominium unit for repair and profit.  On September 14, 2022, Plaintiff, Cultivare
Group LLC, filed a Complaint against Defendants, 640 South Lake Owner’s
Association (“South Lake”), Don Neill, Sonia Nayak, and Michael Finnegan, alleging
that the Defendants breached their fiduciary duty and the CC&Rs by failing
to timely process Plaintiff’s application to undertake renovations of the unit
and for failing to approve the installation of certain flooring in the unit.  Eventually, Plaintiff installed the floor
without approval and was sued by the owner of an adjoining unit for the floor
installation. The delay also caused Plaintiff to lose a prospective purchaser
and subsequently receive a lower purchase price.  
 
            On
June 5, 2023, Defendant South Lake served a deposition subpoena for the
production of business records (the “Subpoena”) on nonparty Cardinal Real
Estate, Inc. (“CRE”).  CRE was South
Lake’s prior management company.  The Subpoena
seeks production of South Lake’s own records which are responsive to some of
Plaintiff’s production requests.  CRE did
not respond to the Subpoena or South Lake’s meet and confer letter.
 
            On
September 25, 2023, South Lake filed this motion to compel CRE’s compliance
with the Subpoena.  South Lake seeks sanctions
against CRE.
 
            The
motion was heard on December 20, 2023. 
The court found there was no evidence that CRE had been personally
served with this motion.  As such, the
court continued the motion to allow South Lake to cure this procedural effect.
 
            The
court notes South Lake has filed proof of personal service of this motion on
CRE.  
 
            The
motion is unopposed.[1]
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
A party is entitled to obtain discovery regarding any
non-privileged matter that is relevant to the subject matter of the
action.  (Code of Civil Procedure § 2017.010.)  A party seeking discovery from a person
who is not a party to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition,
written deposition, or deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.) ¿¿¿If a subpoena requires the attendance
of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)¿“A
deposition subpoena that commands only the production of business records for
copying shall designate the business records to be produced either by
specifically describing each individual item or by reasonably particularizing
each category of item . . . .”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd. (a).)¿
¿ 
If the nonparty deponent is a natural person, any person
may serve the subpoena by personal delivery of a copy of it to that person.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (b)(1).)¿ Personal service of any
deposition subpoena is effective to require the personal attendance and
testimony of the nonparty deponent, if the subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c)(1).)¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
“A written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion
to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a
document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served
on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service
by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address
specified on the deposition record.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)
Monetary Sanctions 
In making an order pursuant to
motion made under¿subdivision (c) of Section 1987¿or under¿Section 1987.1, the
court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses
incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s
fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1987.2.) 
            If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿ 
III.       DISCUSSION
            
            South Lake properly served CRE with the subpoena and
notice of this motion.  CRE has not
responded nor filed opposition to this motion. 
Moreover, CRE seeks relevant information.  Accordingly, South Lake is entitled to an
order compelling CRE’s compliance with the subpoena.  
 
            Monetary
Sanctions
 
            South
Lake requests sanction against CRE.  Given
that the court has granted this motion, the court finds sanctions are
warranted.  Accordingly, sanctions are
imposed against CRE in the sum of $761.65, consisting of two hours at defense  counsel’s hourly rate and $61.65 in filing
fees.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The
unopposed motion is GRANTED.  Nonparty
Cardinal Real Estate, Inc. is ordered to provide documents responsive to the
subpoena within 15 days of this order.  
 
            The
unopposed request for sanctions is GRANTED. 
Nonparty Cardinal Real Estate, Inc. is ordered to pay sanctions in the
sum of $761.65 to Defendant 640 South Lake Owner’s Association, by and through
its counsel, within 30 days of this order.
 
            Moving
party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   February 1,
2024                                         




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
 


