 Case Number:  23STCV22374    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
1, 2024                               TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Khatchatur Berberian v. Walt Disney Pictures, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV22374
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Chester Carr, Sara Fredricks, and Scott Mohler
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Khatchatur
Berberian
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a Fair
Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) action. 
On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff, Khatchatur Berberian, filed a Complaint
against Defendants, Walt Disney Pictures, The Walt Disney Company, Disney
Worldwide Services, Inc., Chester Carr (“Carr”), Sara Fredericks,
(“Fredericks”), and Scott Mohler (“Mohler”). 
On November 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”), alleging causes of action for: 
 
1.     
Discrimination in Violation of the
FEHA
2.     
Hostile Work Environment Harassment
in Violation of the FEHA
3.     
Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA
4.     
Failure to Provide Reasonable
Accommodation in Violation of the FEHA
5.     
Failure to Engage in the Interactive
Process in Violation of FEHA
6.     
Failure to Prevent Discrimination,
Harassment, or Retaliation in Violation of FEHA
7.     
Breach of Express Oral Contract Not
to Terminate Employment Without Good Cause
8.     
Breach of Implied-in-Fact Contract
Not to Terminate Employment Without Good Cause
9.     
Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and
Retention
10. 
Whistleblower Retaliation (Labor
Code § 1102.5)
11. 
Wrongful Termination of Employment
in Violation of Public Policy
12. 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress.
 
The Second and Twelfth Causes of Action are asserted against
Carr, Fredericks, and Mohler.  
 
            As alleged
in the FAC, Plaintiff is Armenian and has disabilities.  He was hired by Walt Disney Pictures, The
Walt Disney Company, and Disney Worldwide Services, Inc., (collectively,
“Entity Defendants”) as a Mail Center Messenger in 1998.  In February 2014, Plaintiff’s work
environment worsened when Plaintiff began working with Carr.  Carr was a Supervisor.  Specifically, Plaintiff and Carr had a
physical altercation. During the altercation, Plaintiff experienced pain in his
abdomen and tingling in his arms.  Soon
after, Plaintiff visited the doctor for those symptoms and was diagnosed with
heart disease.  
 
Plaintiff reported the incident with Carr to
Fredericks.  Fredericks was Plaintiff’s
and Carr’s manager a Supervisor.  Fredericks
refused to address Plaintiff’s concerns. 
Plaintiff escalated the issue to Human Resources.  Ultimately, nothing was done to address the
altercation with Carr.  
 
            In April of
2014, Plaintiff underwent surgery for his heart condition and took a six month
leave to recover.  Plaintiff notified
Fredericks and Carr about taking medical leave. 
Upon his return, Mohler, a Department Lead, made fun of Plaintiff’s medical
leave.  Plaintiff also requested a
reasonable accommodation, including that he could not work in the same room as
Carr because of the severe stress and anxiety Plaintiff experienced because of
the hostile work environment created by Car. 
The request was supported by a doctor’s note.  However, Plaintiff was forced to continue
interacting with Carr and Carr continued to openly harass Plaintiff.  Plaintiff was later diagnosed with anxiety
and depression as a result of Carr’s mistreatment.  Further, Carr’s mistreatment of Plaintiff
continued throughout the remainder of Plaintiff’s employment, which included
discrimination against Plaintiff because of his racial and national origin.
 
            In March of
2020, Plaintiff was furloughed because of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Just before he was furloughed, Entity
Defendants hired two new employees.  They
were between the ages of 20 and 30 and not Armenian.  Plaintiff was over 40 years old.  The younger employees remained employed even
after Plaintiff was furloughed. 
Plaintiff’s employment was ultimately terminated on September 24, 2021. Plaintiff
was told his position had been eliminated yet younger, non-Armenian employees
who had the same title and position as Plaintiff did not lose their jobs.  Plaintiff complained about his termination
and reported feeling targeted throughout his employment.  Plaintiff was further told his lack of
knowledge of the job and his inability to work with Carr were the reasons for
his termination.  However, Plaintiff worked
the position for decades and knew the job well.  Plaintiff’s request not to work with Carr was
a reasonable accommodation supported by his doctor’s recommendation, which
Defendants failed to honor.  
 
            On December
26, 2023, Fredericks, Carr, and Mohler (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) filed
this Demurrer to the FAC, and concurrently filed a Motion to Strike allegations
of misconduct that occurred before September 19, 2021.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  Moving Defendants
replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER
            A demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and will be sustained only where
the pleading is defective on its face.¿ (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)¿
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿ We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed.¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Mitchell v. California Department of
Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged
in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].)
Allegations are to be liberally construed.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)¿ In
construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual
allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory
allegations.¿ (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)¿¿  
            A
demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause
of action asserted.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)¿“A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.”¿(Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.)¿¿¿ 
            Where the
complaint contains substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
will be overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to amend.¿ (Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)¿ Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment.¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden
is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Ibid.)¿
III.       JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Moving Defendants request judicial notice of the
following documents:
 
·        
Verified
Charge of Discrimination filed by Plaintiff with the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) and the California Department of Fair
Employment and Housing (“DFEH”) on November 18, 2016, Charge No.
480-2016-03070. (Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) 1.)
·        
DFEH
Notice to Complainant and Respondent and Notice to Complainant of Right to Sue
dated November 18, 2016, Charge No. 480-2016-03070.  (RJN 2.)
·        
EEOC’s
Dismissal and Notice of Rights, dated December 1, 2016, Charge No.
480-2016-03070. (RJN 3.)  
·        
Complaint
of Employment Discrimination filed on behalf of Plaintiff with the DFEH on
September 19, 2022, Case No. 202209-18285620. 
(RJN 4.)   
·        
DFEH
Notice of Case Closure and Right to Sue letter dated September 19, 2023, Case
No. 202209-18285620.  (RJN 5.)  
 
The unopposed requests are
GRANTED.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c).)
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
            Meet and Confer
 
            Defense counsel has complied with
the meet and confer requirement.  (See
Declaration of Marissa M. Franco, ¶ 3.)
 
            Analysis
 
Moving Defendants demur
to the Second and Twelfth Causes of Action based on the following grounds: (1)
the Second Cause of Action for Hostile Work Environment fails because there is
no conduct alleged against each moving defendant that occurred within the applicable
statutory period, (2) the Twelfth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (IIED) is time-barred, and (3) even if not time-barred, the
FAC fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for IIED.  
 
A.    
2nd Cause of Action for Hostile Work Environment
Harassment in Violation of FEHA
 
            Government Code section 12940,
subdivisions (a) and (j)(1) provide the basis for FEHA claims for
discrimination and harassment: “race, religious creed, color, national origin,
ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic
information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression,
age, sexual orientation, or veteran or military status . . .”  A hostile work environment is a recognized
form of harassment. To establish a hostile work environment, harassment must be
so severe or pervasive as to alter the conditions of the victim’s employment
and create an abusive working environment based on the protected
characteristic. (See Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1043.)  Harassment must be of a repeated, routine, or
generalized nature when the harassing conduct is not severe.  (See Lyle v. Warner Bros. Television
Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 283.)  Harassment that is occasional, isolated or
sporadic is insufficient.  (See id.)  “Whether
an environment is hostile or abusive can be determined only by looking at all
the circumstances. [Citation.] These may include the frequency of the
discriminatory conduct; its severity; whether it is physically threatening or
humiliating, or a mere offensive utterance; and whether it unreasonably
interferes with an employee’s work performance.  The effect on the employee’s psychological
well being is, of course, relevant to determining whether the plaintiff
actually found the environment abusive.  But
while psychological harm, like any other factor, may be taken into account, no
single factor is required.”  (Jones v.
Dep’t of Corr. & Rehab. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1378 [cleaned up].)
 
            The FAC alleges different conduct as
to each moving defendant.  As such
Fredericks, Carr, and Mohler are not similarly situated.  For this reason, the court considers the
allegations as to each individual defendant. 
 
            Fredericks
 
            The FAC makes two allegations
against Fredericks: (1) that in or around February of 2014, Plaintiff
complained to Fredericks about a physical altercation with Carr and Fredericks
did nothing (FAC, ¶ 15.b); and (2) that in or around 2018, Plaintiff complained
to Fredericks about Carr’s treatment of Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s suspicion
that Carr was stealing.  In response,
Fredericks dismissed Plaintiff’s concerns, accused Plaintiff of threatening Carr,
and a week later attempted to enforce a write-up against Plaintiff for
insubordination (FAC, ¶ 15.f).  
            
Fredericks argues the
foregoing allegations are insufficient to state a claim for hostile work
environment against her because, in relevant part, there are no allegations of
harassing or offensive comments or conduct by Fredericks regarding Plaintiff’s
age, disability, race, color, ancestry, or national origin.  A review of the FAC supports Fredericks’ argument.  There are no allegations establishing a nexus
between Fredericks 2014 and 2018 conduct and a protected characteristic.  Nor do the allegations describe conduct by
Fredericks that is severe or pervasive, or repeated, routine, or generalized in
nature.  
 
Plaintiff does not
specifically address these arguments. 
Instead, Plaintiff binds together all the alleged conduct—Fredericks,
Carr, and Mohler—to argue the allegations are sufficient to state a claim
against all defendants.  However, to
state a claim specifically against Fredericks, Plaintiff must allege Fredericks’
conduct that created the hostile environment and how that conduct is connected
to Plaintiff’s protected characteristic. 
Plaintiff does not accomplish this task.  Nor does Plaintiff’s sole allegation that he “was
subjected to harassing conduct through a hostile work environment, in whole or
in part on the bases of plaintiff’s age, disabilities, race, national origin,
ancestry, and/or other protected characteristics” direct a different
result.  The allegation is conclusory and
unsupported by any factual allegations.
 
Accordingly,
Fredericks’ demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.  Given the court’s ruling, the court does not
address Fredericks’ argument that the allegations are time-barred and the applicability
of the continuing violations doctrine. 
 
Carr
 
The FAC makes the
following allegations against Carr: (1) in or around February of 2014, Plaintiff
and Carr had a physical altercation wherein Carr shoved Plaintiff against the
wall and put his hands around Plaintiff’s head and blocked him from leaving the
area (FAC, ¶ 15.a); (2) on several occasions, Carr accused Plaintiff of not
doing his job correctly, such as not picking up packages and misplacing
packages, when Plaintiff was clearly not doing so (FAC, ¶ 15.d); at least twice
in early 2020, Carr went out of his way to be in Plaintiff’s space and stared
at Plaintiff and gave him dirty looks (Id.); Carr visited Plaintiff at
Plaintiff’s work area without warning and in violation of Plaintiff’s
accommodation (Id.); at least twice in 2020, Carr followed Plaintiff in
an intimidating manner while Plaintiff completed his job duties; (Id.); and,
that Carr’s conduct caused Plaintiff to feel as though Carr was targeting him
due to lodging complaints about Carr and requesting not to work with Carr (Id.).
 
Like Fredericks, Carr
demurs to the Second Cause of Action because there is no nexus between his
alleged conduct and Plaintiff’s protected characteristic.  The court agrees.  There is no factual allegations connecting
Carr’s conduct and Plaintiff’s protected characteristic.  Plaintiff does not specifically meet Carr’s
argument.  To state a claim specifically
against Carr, Plaintiff must allege which of Carr’s conduct
created the hostile environment and its connection to Plaintiff’s protected
characteristic.  Plaintiff does not accomplish
this task.  
 
Accordingly,
Carr’s demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.  Given the court’s ruling, the court does not
address Carr’s argument that the allegations are time-barred and the
applicability of the continuing violations doctrine.
 
Mohler
 
The FAC alleges
the following against Mohler: in of April of 2014, Mohler made fun of Plaintiff’s
medical leave and said, “Look who decided to show up to work after six months” (FAC,
¶ 15.c); Mohler constantly made comments about the stereotypes of Armenians
living in Glendale being, hairy, and speaking English with an accent (FAC, ¶ 15.g);
in April of 2019, Mohler questioned Plaintiff about requesting to take off work
on Armenian Genocide Remembrance Day and was dismissive in his tone (Id.);
Mohler asked Plaintiff why he was wearing a fluffy sweater when, without it, he
would be just as hairy (FAC, ¶ 15.h); and, after hearing comments Mohler made
to other employees regarding never wanting to hire another Armenian employee
again, Plaintiff reported the comments to Human Resources, which were ignored;
Mohler learned of Plaintiff’s complaints and thereafter made efforts to make
Plaintiff’s job harder, such as micromanaging Plaintiff and forcing Plaintiff
to do work outside of his job duties, such as moving equipment and furniture (Id.).

 
Mohler argues the
foregoing allegations are not sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the
condition of employment.  
 
However, as
correctly alleged in the FAC, “Pursuant to Government Code section 12923(b), a
single incident of harassing conduct is sufficient to create a hostile work
environment if the harassing conduct has unreasonably interfered with
plaintiff’s work performance or created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive
working environment.” (FAC, ¶ 31.)
 
Here, the FAC
alleges a nexus between Mohler’s conduct and Plaintiff’s race and national
origin.  Mohler made pointed comments
about Armenians toward Plaintiff.  On one
occasion, Plaintiff complained to Human Resources, Mohler learned of the
complaint, then made efforts to make Plaintiff’s job harder.  As alleged, Mohler’s conduct consisted of
more than one single incident.  Further,
Mohler’s conduct directly interfered with Plaintiff’s work performance and
created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment.  
 
Mohler further argues
that Plaintiff’s allegations are time-barred because there are no factual allegations
of Mohler’s conduct after 2019.  In
support, Mohler relies on RJN 4, which establishes Plaintiff filed a complaint
with DFEH on September 19, 2022.  Mohler
advances two arguments the foregoing: (1) Plaintiff cannot recover for any
alleged misconduct that occurred before September 19, 2019, and (2) Plaintiff
can only recover for alleged conduct between September 19, 2019 and September
19, 2022 (when Plaintiff was terminated). 

 
“A complaint
alleging a violation of Article 9.5 (commencing with Section 11135) of Chapter
1 of Part 1 shall not be filed pursuant to this article after the expiration of
three years from the date that the alleged unlawful practice occurred or
refusal to cooperate occurred.”  (Gov.
Code, § 12960, subd. (e)(3).)
 
            A
review of the FAC supports Mohler’s position. 
The FAC alleges that “Mohler continued to make discriminatory and
harassing comments toward Berberian regarding his race up until the furlough in
2020.”  (FAC, ¶ 15.h.)  This is the lone allegation of any conduct by
Mohler possibly occurring within the applicable period.  The FAC is otherwise vague as to time.  If the cause of action is based upon a statute,
such as the FEHA, the facts supporting each statutory requirement must be
specifically pled.  (Fisher v. San
Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 604.)  The FAC does not allege facts with sufficient
specificity and is therefore deficient.  


            Accordingly, Mohler’s demurrer to
the Second Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
B.    
12th Cause of Action for IIED
 
The elements of an
intentional infliction of emotional distress cause of action are: (1) extreme
and outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe
emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy
the element of extreme and outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at 780 (quoting Tererice
v. Blue Cross of California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883).)  
 
A personnel
management decision does not constitute extreme and outrageous conduct even if
it was improperly motivated by discrimination and retaliation. (See Janken
v. GM Hughes Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 79-80; see also Light
v. California Department of Parks and Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75,
101-02.) 
 
            Moving Defendants argue the FAC
does not state a claim for IIED because they are time-barred.  The court agrees.  As alleged, Fredericks’ misconduct is comprised
of two events that occurred in 2014 and 2018.[1] And as to Carr and Mohler,
the last of Carr’s and Mohler’s alleged misconduct occurred in 2020.   A
cause of action for IIED must be brought within 2 years.  (Code Civ Proc., § 335.1.)  Plaintiff did not file this action until
September 15, 2023.  The IIED claim is
time barred. 
 
            Plaintiff does not directly meet
this argument.  As before, Plaintiff
improperly joins  together all
allegations of misconduct regardless of the actor, including but not limited to
his alleged wrongful termination.  (See
FAC, ¶¶ 92-96.)  But Moving Defendants,
as employees of the Entity Defendants, cannot be held liable for terminating
Plaintiff’s employment.  Entity
Defendants, as the employers, would be potentially liable for Plaintiff’s wrongful
termination claim.  This further
demonstrates the deficiency of the FAC.
 
            Accordingly, Moving Defendants’
demurrer to the Twelfth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.  Given the basis of the court’s ruling, the
court does not address whether the continuing violations doctrine applies to
Plaintiff’s claims.
 
V.          CONCLUSION
            
The demurrer is SUSTAINED. 
Leave to amend is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to serve and file his Second Amended
Complaint within 30 days of this order.
 
Moving Defendants are to file and serve their responsive
pleading within 30 days of service of Plaintiff’s amended pleading. 
 
As the court has sustained the demurrer with leave to amend,
the motion to strike portions of the First Amended Complaint is MOOT. 
 
Moving Defendants to give notice.  
 
Dated:   February 1,
2024                                         




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


