 Case Number:  23STCV17244    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
1, 2024                               TRIAL DATE:  December 9, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         William Smith v. Thomas
Maclean, Jr., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV17244
 





















 
MOTION
FOR STAY OF PROCEEDINGS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Thomas Maclean, Jr., et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff William
Smith
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            This is a legal
malpractice action.  Plaintiff, William
Smith, retained Defendants, G. Thomas Maclean, Jr. and Maclean Chung Law Firm, to
obtain a determination from the probate court in the underlying action that
certain amendments to the Robert L. Townsend Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust
were invalid.  However, Defendants failed
to timely file a petition to determine the validity of the amendments.  As a result, the probate court granted summary
judgment to the party opposing plaintiff’s challenge to the validity of the
trust amendments.
 
            On February
8, 2023, Defendants filed a Notice of Appeal of the probate court’s order
granting summary judgment in the underlying case.
 
            On July 24,
2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendants for legal malpractice in
this court.  
 
            On October
18, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Substitution of Attorney indicating Defendants were
no longer representing Plaintiff in the underlying case, including the appeal.  
 
On January 2, 2024, Defendants filed this Motion to Stay
Action Pending Outcome of Related Underlying Appeal.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  Defendants replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            The court
has “the inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to
promote judicial efficiency.”  (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489; Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (a).)  The
California Supreme Court has recognized that “trial courts have inherent
authority to stay malpractice suits, holding them in abeyance pending
resolution of underlying litigation.”  (Adams
v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th 583, 593.)
 
III.      JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
            Defendants request judicial notice of five documents.  The unopposed request is GRANTED.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(2).)
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants move
for an order staying this action, arguing that if the Court of Appeal reverses
the probate court’s order granting summary judgment, Plaintiff will have an
opportunity to challenge the validity of the trust amendments.  As such, this legal malpractice action would
be rendered unnecessary.  At the very
least, the outcome of the appeal, whether favorable or unfavorable to
Plaintiff, will determine the amount of damages, if any, Plaintiff could
recover from Defendants.  
 
            Plaintiff
opposes on the sole ground that Defendants were dilatory in prosecuting the
underlying action and in pursuing the appeal. 
For this reason, Plaintiff contends a stay of this case awards Defendants
delay.
 
            The court
finds a stay of proceedings is the most proper and expedient use of
resources.  Plaintiff’s arguments regarding
delay are unsubstantiated and speculative. 
Moreover, Plaintiff fails to address the principal issue raised by
Defendants’ motion: the Court of Appeal’s pending decision is determinative of
Plaintiff’s damages, if any, in this action.  A stay will serve the interests of justice by
preventing potentially unnecessary litigation.
                        
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the motion to stay is GRANTED.  The court
sets a Status Conference re: Appeal for April 12, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   February 1,
2024                                




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 