  Case Number:  23STCV08473    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior Court of
California
County of Los
Angeles
Department 50
 




LAWRENCE ADAMS,

 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
NEUTRAL GROUND, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 23STCV08473




Hearing Date:


April 11, 2024




Hearing
  Time:   10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
 
DEMURRER TO
  FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT FOR DAMAGES
 




 
Background
On April 17, 2023,
Plaintiff Lawrence Adams (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Neutral Ground, Corey Sims (“Sims”), City of Los Angeles, and Los Angeles
Housing Department. The Complaint alleged causes of action for (1) abuse of
process, (2) “Civil Code § 1714(A) (Negligence and
Duty of Care)” (3) “Govt. Code § 814 (Breach of
Contract)” (4) “Govt. Code § 815.2 (Government
Entity Respondeat Superior Liability…)” (5) declaratory relief, (6) civil
conspiracy, (7) replevin, (8) breach of an express contract, (9) deceit based
on concealment, (10) conversion, (11) promissory fraud, (12) negligence, and
(13) promissory estoppel/detrimental reliance.[1] 

City of Los
Angeles (the “City”) demurred to each of the causes of action of the Complaint.
On November 27, 2023, the Court issued a minute order sustaining
the City’s demurrer to each of the causes of action of the Complaint, with
leave to amend.
On December 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”), alleging causes of action for (1) declaratory relief, (2) breach of
contract, (3) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
and (4) common counts-account stated. The first and fourth causes of action of
the FAC are alleged against the City. 
The City now
demurs to the first and fourth causes of action of the FAC. Plaintiff
opposes.  
Request for
Judicial Notice 
The Court grants the City’s request for
judicial notice. 
Discussion  
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    Allegations of the
FAC 
In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that on or about
November 18, 2005, Neutral Ground, Inc. was granted title to real property
known as 5972 S. Normandie Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90044 (herein, the “Normandie
Property”). (FAC, ¶ 7.) On or about June 12, 2012, Neutral Ground “conveyed
title to Corey Sims to the [Normandie Property]…” (FAC, ¶ 8.) “On or about
February 19, 2016 Corey Sims conveyed title to [Plaintiff] to the [Normandie Property]…”
(FAC, ¶ 9.) Plaintiff further alleges that “[o]n or about November 17, 2021 a
grant deed conveyed title to [Plaintiff] to the [Normandie Property]…” (FAC, ¶ 10.)

            Plaintiff alleges that “[d]ue to
certain building deficiencies the subject property was placed in the REAP
program with the City of Los Angeles Housing Department. All rent now would be
paid directly into a REAP Account and would not be disbursed back to the
landlord until the repairs were made and approved upon review by various
agencies of the City of Los Angeles.” (FAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges that “this
REAP money is his money as it was collected during his period of ownership.” (FAC,
¶ 16.) 
            Plaintiff further alleges that
“Neutral Ground and Sims and [Plaintiff] agreed to settle and resolve the
controversies between them as to the Normandie Property in exchange for a total
payment of $30,000 by Defendants Neutral Ground and execution of reconveyance
or deed revesting title in Sims as to the Normandie Property by [Plaintiff].” (FAC,
¶ 19.) Plaintiff alleges that he “is entitled to this money collected by REAP
because all parties signed the settlement agreement permitting and assenting to
[Plaintiff] receiving all back rent.” (FAC, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff alleges that “all
defendants are refusing to distribute these funds to Plaintiff Adams.” (FAC, ¶
22.) Plaintiff further alleges that he “seeks an injunctive order that the City
of Los Angeles REAP program office send the payment to his address and should
not be split up by any other party.” (FAC, ¶ 24.) 
C.    Fourth Cause of
Action for Common Counts – Account Stated 
In the fourth cause of action for common counts – account stated,
Plaintiff alleges that “certain REAP funds have been collected by the REAP
Program and…these funds are now in dispute as to [sic] its rightful owner is.”
(FAC, ¶ 46.) Plaintiff alleges that he “is entitled to all REAP funds and
Defendant Sims differs with this position.” (FAC, ¶ 47.) Plaintiff alleges that
“defendant owes Plaintiff these REAP funds from previous rent collected.” (FAC,
¶ 49.)
In the demurrer, the City argues, inter alia, that Plaintiff’s
“account stated cause of action…fails because he still has not alleged
compliance with California’s Tort Claims Act.” (Demurrer at p. 5:2-3.) As noted
in the Court’s November 27, 2023 minute order on the City’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s original Complaint, in State of California v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th
1234, 1239, the
California Supreme Court noted as follows:
 
“Under
[Government Code] section 911.2, ‘[a] claim
relating to a cause of action for death or for injury to person or to personal
property … shall be presented as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section 915) of this chapter not later than six months
after the accrual of the cause of action.’ Section
945.4 then provides that ‘no suit for money or damages
may be brought against a public entity on a cause of action for
which a claim is required to be presented in accordance with Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 900) and Chapter 2 (commencing
with Section 910) of Part 3 of this division until a written claim therefor
has been presented to the public entity and has been acted upon by the board,
or has been deemed to have been rejected by the board, in accordance with
Chapters 1 and  2 of Part 3 of this division.’…(Italics added.)
Thus, under these statutes, failure to timely present a claim for money or
damages to a public entity bars a plaintiff from filing a lawsuit against that
entity.” (Emphasis in original.) 
In State of
California v. Superior Court, the California
Supreme Court “conclude[d] that a plaintiff
must allege facts demonstrating or excusing compliance with the claim
presentation requirement. Otherwise, his complaint is subject to a general
demurrer for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.” (State of California v. Superior
Court, supra, 32
Cal.4th at p. 1243.) 
As noted by the City, Plaintiff’s FAC still does
not appear to allege facts demonstrating or excusing compliance with the claim presentation
requirement. In the opposition, Plaintiff does not appear to point to any
allegations in the FAC concerning Plaintiff’s compliance with the claim
presentation requirement. As noted by the City, Plaintiff’s opposition
does not argue that Plaintiff presented a government claim to the City. 
Rather, Plaintiff argues that “sufficient
basis exist [sic] in which Plaintiff has demonstrated sufficient facts to
excuse compliance with the claims presentation requirement.” (Opp’n at p. 3.)
Plaintiff argues that “between the original filing of the complaint back in
April of 2023 as well as Plaintiff prevailing in an ‘attachment hearing’ to
obtain a [sic] injunction against the distribution of funds [sic]. That this
was [sic] adjudicated by a [sic] impartial body who ruled that plaintiff did
have a legitimate gripe against the City of Los Angeles and its Housing
Department. And this was achieved without the City of Los Angeles or even the
Court at the time concerning the procedural issue of a claim form.” (Opp’n at
p. 3.) Plaintiff argues that “Defendants have tried to put up a shield that
this Demurrer and prior Compliant filed have no standing to move forward
because a claim form was not initially filed with the City of Los Angeles. Yet
given this action is nearly a year old and Plaintiff was successful in an [sic]
restraining order to prevent the distribution of funds, Plaintiff has
demonstrated sufficient evidence to justify the non-compliance with this
requirement.” (Opp’n at p. 1.) However, Plaintiff does not cite any legal
authority demonstrating that such circumstances excuse Plaintiff’s compliance
with the claim presentation requirement.[2]
As discussed, “a plaintiff must allege facts
demonstrating or excusing compliance with the claim presentation requirement.
Otherwise, his complaint is subject to a general demurrer for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (State of
California v. Superior Court, supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 1243.)[3]

The City also asserts that
“Plaintiff cannot allege an account stated common count against the City.”
(Demurrer at p. 6:12.) The City cites to Zinn v. Fred
R. Bright Co. (1969) 271
Cal.App.2d 597, 600, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he essential elements of an
account stated are: (1) previous transactions between the parties establishing
the relationship of debtor and creditor; (2) an agreement between the parties,
express or implied, on the amount due from the debtor to the creditor; (3) a
promise by the debtor, express or implied, to pay the amount due.” The City
asserts that Plaintiff’s “common counts-account stated” cause of action fails
because Plaintiff “has identified no agreement between him and the City
or any previous transactions demonstrating that the City owes [Plaintiff] any
amount of ‘debt.’” (Demurrer at p. 6:20-21.) In the opposition, Plaintiff
asserts that “this cause of action is appropriate the City owes the money to
the party who got the party out of REAP.” (Opp’n at p. 5.) But Plaintiff does not
appear to point to any allegations in the FAC demonstrating any “previous transactions between the parties establishing the
relationship of debtor and creditor,” or “an agreement between the parties,
express or implied, on the amount due from the debtor to the creditor.” (Zinn v. Fred R.
Bright Co., supra, 271
Cal.App.2d at p. 600.) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court
sustains the City’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action for common counts –
account stated.  
D.    First Cause of
Action for Declaratory Relief
The City also asserts that declaratory relief is not a proper cause of
action against the City. In the first cause of action for declaratory relief,
Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “a Settlement Agreement and General
Release Agreement was singed [sic] by Adams, Sims and Neutral Grounds which
included a signed addendum that [Plaintiff] was to collect all back rents from
the property, 5972 Normandie Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90044.” (FAC, ¶ 30.)
Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he City of Los Angeles seeks to pay all remaining
REAP fuds [sic] to Sims as well which is counter to this agreement.” (FAC, ¶
32.) Plaintiff alleges that he requests “a judicial declaration as to the issue
of damages, contribution and indemnification and who should get the REAP monies
held by the agency.” (FAC, ¶ 33.)  
The City asserts that “[d]eclaratory relief is not the appropriate
vehicle for judicial review of the administrative actions that [Plaintiff]
challenges—that is, the decision to place the Normandie Property in REAP and [the
Los Angeles Housing Department’s] actions with the REAP escrow account.”
(Demurrer at p. 5:21-23.) 
The City again cites to State v. Superior Court (1974) 12 Cal.3d 237,
249, where the California
Supreme Court found that “[i]t is settled that an action for declaratory relief is not
appropriate to review an administrative decision. Veta’s attempt in the
third cause of action to obtain review of the Commission’s denial of the permit
by means of declaratory relief is improper, and the demurrer should have been
sustained insofar as Veta alleged that it met the requirements for issuance of
the permit and that the Commission lacked jurisdiction to hear the appeal from
the decision of the regional commission.” (Internal citations omitted.) The
City also cites to Tri-County
Special Educ. Local Plan Area v. County of Tuolumne (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 563, 576, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he declaratory relief provisions do not
independently empower the courts to stop or interfere with administrative
proceedings by declaratory decree.” In the opposition, Plaintiff does not
address the foregoing legal authority.  
The City also assert that “[e]ven if
[Plaintiff] were not barred from proceeding based on the above, his declaratory
relief action fails as a matter of law.” (Demurrer at p. 6:4-5.) The City cites
to Los Angeles Municipal Code section 162.08, which
concerns “Termination of REAP,” and provides, inter alia, that “[a]ny
escrow funds remaining after the expenditures as provided herein, and upon City
Council removing the Property from REAP, shall be returned to the property
owner who owned the property at the time the City Council authorizes the
termination of the escrow account. The Department shall refund any remaining
escrow account balance to the property owner recorded with the Los Angeles
County Recorder’s Office.” (City’s RJN, Ex. A, Los
Angeles Mun. Code, § 162.08, subd. D.) 
The City asserts that here, Plaintiff “admits he was not the property
owner at the time the Normandie Property was released from REAP.” (Demurrer at
p. 6:9-10.) The City points to paragraph 23 of the FAC,
which alleges that “Plaintiff is no longer on title as due to the settlement
agreement entered into in December of 2022, he came off title as required by
the settlement terms and as a consequence he would not be on title on the day
of distribution.” (FAC, ¶ 23.) In the opposition, Plaintiff does not appear to
dispute that he admits in the Complaint that he was not the property owner at
the time the Normandie Property was released from REAP.         
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains
the City’s demurrer to the first cause of action for declaratory relief. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing,
the Court sustains the City’s demurrer to the first and fourth causes of action
of the FAC. 
As set forth above, the
Court sustained the City’s demurrer in its entirety as to the original
Complaint. In addition, Plaintiff has not demonstrated any way that he could
amend the first and fourth causes of action of the FAC to alleviate the issues
discussed above. Accordingly, the Court finds that
it is appropriate to sustain the instant demurrer without leave to amend. 
The Court orders the City to file and serve a proposed judgment of dismissal
within 30 days of the date of this order. (¿Donald v. Cafe Royale, Inc. (1990) 218
Cal.App.3d 168, 186 [“An
order sustaining a demurrer without leave to amend is not a final judgment; a
judgment of dismissal follows such an order as a matter of course.”]¿.)¿ 
The City is ordered to give notice of this
Order.
 
DATED:  April 11, 2024        
                        ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


