  Case Number:  23STCV15836    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JILL
  BELASCO 
 
         vs.
 
FOUNTAIN
  OF WELLBEING, INC, et al. 
  


 Case No.: 
  23STCV15836 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  February 21, 2024




 
Plaintiff’s
motion to quash is DENIED. 
 
            On
7/6/2023, Plaintiff Jill Belasco (Plaintiff) filed suit against Fountain of
Wellbeing, Inc., Romie Chaudhari, and Unite4, LLC, alleging: (1) failure to pay
wages; (2) waiting time penalties; (3) failure to reimburse business expenses,
and violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200. 
 
            On
11/7/2023, Plaintiff moved to quash Defendant Fountain of Wellbeing, Inc.’s
deposition subpoena for production of business records issued to David Belasco.

 
Factual Background 
 
            This
action pertains to a business dispute brought by the former CEO of a cannabis
company.
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant’s deposition subpoena must be quashed because the vast
majority of the documents sought from Plaintiff’s brother, David Belasco, are
protected by attorney-client privilege. 
 
            More
specifically, Plaintiff argues, “David Belasco is Plaintiff’s brother and he is
also an attorney and Plaintiff has sought his legal advice and counsel from
time to time over the years. Defendants know that Mr. Belasco is an attorney
and yet they seek to discover documents and communications that Mr. Belasco had
with Plaintiff while advising her in this matter. The documents and
communications sought are protected by attorney-client privilege.” (Motion, 2:
2-7.) 
 
            However,
in opposition, Defendant argue that the requests documents are not covered by
attorney-client privilege because Mr. Belasco was an “inactive” member of the
California Bar during the subject time, and Plaintiff has not shown that she
“reasonably believed” her brother was eligible to practice law or that she was
speaking with her brother in a “professional capacity” as required for her to
be deemed a client of Mr. Belasco.
 
            After
review, the Court agrees with Defendant. 
 
            First,
there is no dispute that from 2001 to mid-2023, Mr. Belasco was an “inactive”
member of the California bar. As such, under both State Bar rules and criminal
law, Mr. Belasco was unauthorized to practice law in any way. (See Rules
of the State Bar of California, Title 2, Rights and Responsibilities of
Members, Rule 2.30(B) & Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6126). Given that he
was not a lawyer under California evidence rules, communications with him are
not entitled to privilege protection. (See Cal. Evid. Code § 950.)
 
            Second,
Plaintiff has not submitted any evidence which could show that she was speaking
with her brother in a “professional capacity” as his client. Evidence Code Section 951 defines
"client" as a person who directly or through an authorized
representative, consults an attorney for the purpose of retaining the attorney
or securing legal advice from the attorney in a professional capacity. Plaintiff
also has not submitted evidence which could show she had a reasonable belief
that her brother was her attorney. 
 
            Third, Ms.
Belasco fails to support her claims of work-product privilege. Only attorneys
hold the privilege. Further, Ms. Belasco failed to produce a privilege log that
explains what is being withheld on the basis of that doctrine and why. Without
a privilege log, Plaintiff’s claim cannot be adequately assessed. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to quash is denied. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 