  Case Number:  21STCV21153    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  B farideh raubitschek V. County
of Los Angeles, et al.
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Date of Hearing:         July 19, 2024                          Trial
Date:       October 16, 2024
Department:                B                                             Case
No.:        21STCV21153
 
Moving Party:             Defendant County of Los Angeles
Responding
Party:      Plaintiffs
Farideh Raubitschek

 

BACKGROUND
            
Factual and Procedural
Background
            Farideh
Raubitschek (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on June 4, 2021 against the County of
Los Angeles (COLA or Defendant) for (1) premises liability and (2) negligence
after suffering a trip and fall on August 11, 2020. Plaintiff alleges that she
tripped and fell over a hole in the sidewalk located at or near 4600 Via
Marina, California 90292 (the Property) (Complaint, ¶13), a sidewalk that she
alleges is owned, maintained, and controlled by Defendant. (Complaint,
¶¶23-25.) The motion now before the Court is Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Judgment (the Motion). Plaintiff opposes the Motion, Defendant filed a reply.
 
Objections
            Concurrently
filed with their reply, Defendant filed an objection specifically to Exhibit 5
of the Declaration of Lisa Saperstein, which shows an image taken from Google
Maps of the alleged defect from November 2017 and November 2018. The objection
is sustained. 
 
Tentative Ruling
            The County of Los Angeles’ Motion
for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard
            The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP
Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
            “The function of the pleadings in a
motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function
of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable
issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12
Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
 
            As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
            Once the defendant has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Analysis
            Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
negligently failed to maintain the Property to allow a dangerous condition to
exist and injure Plaintiff. Defendants contend that (1) Defendant, and its
employees, did not create a dangerous condition, (2) that there was no actual
or constructive notice, and (3) Plaintiff cannot establish causation. The Court
agrees and grants the Motion.   
 
A.    Premises Liability
            “The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) “Premises
liability is grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right
to control and manage the premises.” (Kesner
v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158, quotation marks omitted.) “While
a landowner is not the insurer of a visitor's safety, a landowner must exercise
ordinary care by making reasonable inspections of the premises to ascertain
whether any dangerous conditions exist on the property.” (Jones v. Awad
(2019) 39 Cal.App.4th 1200, 1208.)
 
                               
i.           
Defendants did not create the dangerous condition
            The burden
is on Defendant to present facts that negate an essential element or establish
a defense. The first contention Defendant makes is that neither Defendant nor
its employees created a dangerous condition. The primary evidence put forth is
the Declaration of Loren Tiede (Tiede Decl.), who is currently employed by the
Los Angeles County Department of Public Works (LACDPW) as a Senior Civil
Engineer. Tiede has worked for LACDPW since 2007. In the Tiede Decl., Tiede
states that as part of the Defendant’s routine inspection on August 3, 2020, an
inspection occurred of the subject Property and no conditions were noted that
required repair. (Tiede Decl., ¶15.) The subject incident occurred on August
11, 2020. Additionally, Plaintiff in her own deposition attested to walking by
this alleged dangerous condition every morning without incident. (Declaration
of Kelly A. Ward, Esq., Exh. 2, pg. 18 lines 10-11 and pg. 22 lines 17-19.) 
            
            Plaintiff
in her opposition papers contends that just because no repairs were scheduled
does not equate to no repairs being needed. This may be true, however, in this
instance the Court is not persuaded. Principally because this argument ignores
the fact that an employee had inspected the Property prior to Plaintiff’s trip
and fall and observed no dangerous condition. And, as mentioned above,
Plaintiff walked this route several times before without incident. (Id.)
 
                             
ii.           
There
was no actual or constructive notice
            Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant knew or should have known that a dangerous condition
existed on its property. Although Plaintiff does not allege a violation of Gov.
Code §835, the statute states that if a government entity had constructive
notice of the dangerous condition, the entity may be held liable. As previously
stated, Defendant notes that an inspection of the Property eight days prior to
the trip and fall showed no dangerous condition nor a need for repair.
Countering this argument, Plaintiff provides a summary of a site inspection of
the Property conducted by Philip Rosecu, a Senior Forensic Engineer at Aperture
(formerly Wexco International). (Declaration of Philip L. Rosecu, Exh. A.) 
 
            The summary
provides photos and measurements of the alleged defect, noting that the hole is
1.5 inches at its deepest point, 5 inches long, and 4.5 inches wide (Id),
arguing that the defect was not trivial as Defendant contends. Plaintiff also
argues that whether the hole was trivial is for the jury to decide. The Court
disagrees. First, the summary was completed in April of 2021, several months
after the subject incident. Second, regarding whether the alleged defect is
trivial the Court is well within its
discretion to determine whether the defect is insignificant. (Caloroso v.
Hathaway, 122 Cal.App.4th 922, 928 […“there is no need for
expert opinion. It is well within the common knowledge of lay judges and jurors
just what type of a defect in a sidewalk is dangerous.”].) If the photos
Plaintiff provides are accurate, they show nothing outside the typical sidewalk
lay persons encounter daily. The Court deems that not only was there no actual
nor constructive notice, but that the alleged defect was trivial.      
            
                           
iii.           
Defendant has negated the element of
causation
            Finally, Defendant
demonstrates that causation is absent. In Plaintiff’s deposition, Plaintiff
gives conflicting statements. When asked what occurred after stepping to her
right to avoid pedestrians, Plaintiff states that she slipped and fell by stepping
on an uneven place on the sidewalk. However, when asked specifically what
happened as she stepped to the right, Plaintiff responds that she doesn’t know
what happened. (Declaration of Kelly A. Ward, Esq., Exh. 2, pg.
24 lines 8-22 and pg. 26 lines 11-14.) Here, it is unclear what caused
Plaintiff’s fall, and Plaintiff’s own testimony does nothing to support the
element of causation.  
 
 
 
CONCLUSION
            
Accordingly, the County of Los Angeles’ Motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED.
 
Moving party to give notice.