  Case Number:  22STCV11454    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 10-4-24 c/f 10-3-24
Case # 22STCV11454
Trial Date: 11-4-24 c/f 7-1-24
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, International Specialty
Insurance Services, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Matthew Garza
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiff Matthew S. Garza was a Major League Baseball
(MLB) pitcher for 12 years. Plaintiff’s career with a MLB team ended after the
2017 season, due to a pitching arm shoulder injury, which was not successfully
repaired following surgery well enough to return to MLB pitching form. 
 
Prior to the injury causing event, Plaintiff procured a
ten million disability insurance policy from defendant Certain Underwriters at
Lloyd’s of London Subscribing to the Policy (Lloyd’s). Plaintiff maintains the
policy was procured and submitted by defendant International Specialty
Insurance Services, Inc. (ISI), Nigro Karlin Segal & Feldstein, LLP and
NKSFB, LLC (collectively NKSFB). Defendants Paradigm - Gilbert Insurance Group,
LLC, and Gilbert Insurance Services, Inc. (Paradigm and Gilbert) assisted Plaintiff
in providing information in support of the application, though the application
admittedly omitted certain information at the time of submission. Following
submission of the claim to Lloyd’s, the claim was denied based at least in part
on the provision of an incomplete application. 
 
On Jul 1, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach of
Contract, Breach of Implied Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and Breach of
Duties as an Insurance Broker. The case was initially filed in Fresno County,
and transferred to Los Angeles County on April 5, 2022, following a successful
motion to change venue. Lloyd’s also previously filed a cross-complaint against
Paradigm and Gilbert for Fraud, Negligence, Negligent Misrepresentation, and
Comparative Fault/Contribution. 
 
On May 11, 2022, the case was reassigned from complex
court to Department 68, and independent calendar court. On July 26, 2022, the
court granted the motion to strike the cross-complaint with leave to amend.
Lloyd’s filed its first amended cross-complaint on August 11, 2022. On December
6, 2022, the court denied the motion to strike the first amended
cross-complaint. 
 
On December 21, 2022, the court granted Plaintiff leave
to file a first amended complaint. The amended pleading added in defendants
NKSFB and new causes of action. On the same date, the first amended complaint
for Breach of Contract (first and fourth causes of action), Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Breach of Duties as an Insurance
Brokers, Intentional Misrepresentation, Negligent Misrepresentation, and Breach
of Fiduciary Duties, was filed. 
 
On March 23, 2023, the court denied the motion to compel
arbitration. On March 29, 2203, the court overruled the demurrer to the first
amended complaint, and a motion for sanctions, both brought by Gilbert
Insurance Services. 
 
On December 14, 2023, the court granted the motion of
International Specialty Insurance Services, Inc. to interplead $133,624.68 in
funds with the court.
 
RULING: Denied.
Evidentiary Objections
Declaration of Matthew Ferraro: Overruled.
Separate Statement: Overruled/Not Relied Upon (Code Civ.
Proc., 437c, subd. (q).)
Declaration of Anna Novurzyan
·        
Number 5: Overruled.
·        
Number 6-13 (Gilbert Declaration): Sustained.
 
Supplemental Declaration of Anna Novurzyan: Sustained
(see below).
 
The items lodged with the court and identified as
exhibits to the Declaration of Richard Giller are not considered. Plaintiff
made no motion to seal, and the exhibits are otherwise not filed with the
court. 
 
Defendant International Specialty Insurance Services,
Inc. (ISI) brings a motion for summary judgment on the complaint of Plaintiff
Matthew Garza on grounds that ISI owed no duty of care as an insurance broker
to find a policy. ISI maintains co-defendant Gilbert was the identified broker
for the policy, and ISI only served as the agent for the underwriter. Plaintiff
in opposition maintains a duty of care exists regardless of the lack of
contractual privity based on dual agency doctrine establishes from the “long-term
special relationship” established with co-defendant Gilbert and clients of
Gilbert. ISI in reply reiterates its limited role as an agent for Lloyd’s
pursuant to the Binding Authority Agreement and obtaining the policy in
response to the request from Gilbert. ISI denies any sub-agency or dual agent
relationships. Any and all conduct in submitting the application was strictly
done on behalf of Lloyd’s. The reply also includes new evidence in the form of
deposition testimony from Simon Buckley and Peter Houliston PMQs for Certain
Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London. The deposition testimony addresses the
responsibility for presentation of medical records, and likelihood of policy
exclusions or even full denial of any policy if full records were presented. 
 
Supplemental argument and evidence in a reply introducing new documents and
declarations that improperly deprive a party of the opportunity to challenge
said late submitted information constitutes a basis for exclusion. (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1182-1183; Plenger v. Alza Corp. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 349, 362 (footnote 8); Weiss v. Chevron, U.S.A., Inc.
(1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1094, 1098; Weiss
v. Chevron, U.S.A., Inc. (1988) 204
Cal.App.3d 1094, 1098.) While an argument can be made as to Plaintiff’s familiarity
with the material presented in the supplemental declaration, the supplemental
declaration introduces new issues not previously addressed by Plaintiff and the
court, especially given the special setting of the hearing and impending trial
date. (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co., supra,
164 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1182-1183; Plenger
v. Alza Corp., supra, 11
Cal.App.4th 349, 362 (footnote 8); Weiss
v. Chevron, U.S.A., Inc., supra,
204 Cal.App.3d at p. 1098.) The court declines to invite further supplemental
briefing on this simply based on the conduct of counsel electing to present new
information after several months between the filing and hearing date of the
motion. The court therefore excludes the supplemental declaration of Novurzyan,
and all deposition testimony.
 
The pleadings
frame the issues for motions, “since it is those allegations to which
the motion must respond. (Citation.)” (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development,
Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d
367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v.
Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose
of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts
with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine
whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their
dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) 
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An
issue of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation, conjecture,
imagination or guesswork.”  (Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)
 
The “Insurance Broker” Defendants, Paradigm, Gilbert, and
ISI, are only named in the third cause of action for Breach of Duties in the
operative first amended complaint. Plaintiff alleges “Paradigm, Gilbert, and
ISI each held themselves out as having expertise in the specialized world of
disability insurance for professional athletes and, as such, owed an additional
duty to use reasonable care, diligence, and judgment in procuring the insurance
requested including the duty to accurately, timely and truthfully submit
information to Lloyd’s on Mr. Garza’s behalf.” [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 97.] 
 
Plaintiff specifically articulates several bases of the
purported breach, including: 
1) improperly allowing Mr. Garza to submit an incomplete
policy application to Lloyd’s; 
2) failing to ensure that Lloyd’s obtained all relevant
medical records during the underwriting process; 
3) failing to check publicly available information to ensure
that Mr. Garza’s injury history was fully and accurately reported to the
Insurers; 
4) failing to perform even a rudimentary search of the
Internet to confirm Mr. Garza’s prior injury history; 
5) failing to properly shepherd Mr. Garza’s claim through
the claims process; 
6) failing to prevent Lloyd’s from conducting improper post
claims underwriting in a transparent attempt to manufacture a basis to deny Mr.
Garza’s claim and rescind the Subject Policy; 
7) as to ISI only, despite agreeing in writing to take it
upon itself to secure “the team medicals [for Mr. Garza] ASAP” during the
procurement process in order to submit a complete and accurate policy
application, ISI failed to obtain any of Mr. Garza’s medical records and ISI
also failed to conduct any of its own investigation into Mr. Garza’s injury
history which, in turn, meant that ISI failed to take steps ensure that Mr.
Garza’s application was complete and accurate when it was submitted to Lloyd’s;
and 
8) as to Paradigm only, improperly advising Mr. Garza to
make certain alleged admissions regarding statements made in the initial and
the updated applications. Paradigm advised Mr. Garza that, by making these
alleged admissions, Lloyd’s would agree to pay his claim, instead Lloyd’s used
those alleged admissions to justify their rescission of the Policy and denial
of the claim. [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 98.]
 
The court examines the motion under the seven (7)
articulated claims, which includes the claim as to ISI only. ISI denies any
duty of care owed to Plaintiff due to the lack of any insurance agent
relationship with Plaintiff. ISI represents it solely acted as the agent for
Lloyd’s pursuant to a Binding Authority Agreement and denies the existence of
any dual agency relationship. Plaintiff maintains the circumstances imposed a
duty, which led to a dual agency or subagent relationship.
 
“[T]he Supreme Court has set forth the factors for
determining when a party to a transaction owes a duty to a third party. (Biakanja
v. Irving (1958) 49 Cal.2d 647, 320 P.2d 16 (Biakanja).) ... The
Supreme Court held that to sue for negligence, a plaintiff need not prove
privity of contract with the defendant. The court also announced the standard
for determining whether a duty of care is owed: ‘The determination whether in a
specific case the defendant will be held liable to a third person not in
privity is a matter of policy and involves the balancing of various factors,
among which are the extent to which the transaction was intended to affect the
plaintiff, the foreseeability of harm to him, the degree of certainty that the
plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the
defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the
defendant's conduct, and the policy of preventing future harm.’ (Id. at
p. 650, 320 P.2d 16.)” (Century Surety Co. v. Crosby Insurance, Inc. (2004)
124 Cal.App.4th 116, 128.)
 
“Under California law, a ‘dual agent’ theory requires that
the insurance agent act on behalf of the insured in some way beyond his or her
capacity as an agent for the insurer. An insurance agent cannot be a ‘dual
agent’ unless he or she is either an independent broker or has a long-term,
special relationship with the insured. (Good v. Prudential Ins. Co. of
America (N.D. Cal. 1998) 5 F.Supp.2d 804, 808.) “Generally, an
insurance agent acts only as the agent for the insured in procuring a policy of
insurance. (Citation.) An insurance broker may, however, act in a dual capacity,
in which he serves as the insured's broker in procuring insurance
but also acts as the insurer's agent by collecting the premium and delivering
the policy to the insured. (Citations.)” (Mark Tanner Constr. v. Hub
Internat. Ins. Servs. (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 574, 584.) “A
person acting as an insurance broker may, on behalf of an
insurance company, collect and transmit premium or return
premium and deliver policies and other documents evidencing insurance.
Performance of those functions shall not be construed for any purpose to mean
that the person is an insurance agent.” (Ins. Code, § 1732.) Proof of an agency
relationship may be established by ‘evidence of the acts of the parties and
their oral and written communications.’” (Magnecomp Corp. v. Athene Co. (1989)
209 Cal.App.3d 526, 536.)
 
The policy was procured on behalf of Plaintiff through the
request of the co-defendant business managers to co-defendant Gilbert, a retail
insurance broker, to procure the necessary policy. Gilbert authorized wholesale
broker ISI to procure a policy via Lloyd’s. [First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 94-97.] Garza
represents reliance on co-defendant NKSFB for the acquisition of the athlete
disability insurance policy. [Deposition of Anna Novruzyan, Ex. 1: Deposition
of Matthew Garza, 67:1-17, 373:9-18.] Garza admits to a lack of any knowledge
of, communication, or agreement with ISI. [372:3-373:1; Novruzyan Decl., Ex. 4:
Responses to Request for Admissions, numbers 11-13.] 
 
While the reliance on the financial management team and
ignorance of ISI by Plaintiff remains undisputed, the inquiry requires
consideration for the basis of any obligation to acquire the policy. ISI relies
on the inadmissible declaration of Dennis Gilbert to establish the relationship
between NKSFB and Garza, NKSFB utilizing Gilbert, and the request for acquisition
of the policy through ISI. ISI however also submits the undisputed requests for
admissions from ISI to Gilbert Insurance Services, Inc., whereby Gilbert admits
to undertaking responsibility for the acquisition of disability insurance on
behalf of Plaintiff via a request by NKSFB. [Novruzyan Decl., Ex. 2: Responses
to Request for Admissions, numbers 1-3.] Gilbert contacted ISI for placement of
the policy, and a policy was obtained from Lloyd’s. [Id., Numbers 6, 9.] The
Binding Authority Agreement apparently vests ISI with authority to bind the
insurer in order to facilitate business transactions in California and collect
potentially lucrative policy premiums.
 
ISI offers no challenge to Plaintiff’s reliance on an agent relationship
between Plaintiff and NKSFB, or any relationship between NKSFB and Gilbert for
retail insurance brokerage insurance services on behalf of NKSFB clients. ISI
also in no way denies or dispels directly undertaking responsibility for
acquiring the policy from Lloyd’s, as allowed under the Binding Authority
Agreement. [Declaration of Matthew Ferraro, Ex. A.] ISI depends on a finding of
a severance of any relationship or effectively imposed duty of care with
Plaintiff through reliance said terms of the Binding Authority Agreement. The
position requires a finding that ISI can successfully shield and deflect any and
all responsibility for submission of a correct and complete policy to Llloyd’s on
behalf of NKSFB and Gilbert for the benefit of Plaintiff. ISI denies any
evidence of a “dual agency” agreement, which would render ISI responsible. 
 
Both parties submit extensive out of state federal and state
authority to serve their own fact pattern, with no apparent effort to link the
rulings to California law. (United Capitol Ins. Co. v. Kapiloff (4th
Cir. 1998) 155 F.3d 488, 498; Passarello v. Lexington Ins. Co. (D.
Conn. 1990) 740 F.Supp. 933, 935-936; Bellmer v. Charter Sec. Life Ins. Co. (Ill.
App. Ct. 1982) 105 Ill.App.3d 234; Mets Donuts, Inc. v. Dairyland Ins. Co. (N.Y.
App. Div. 1990) 166 A.D.2d 508; Miller v. Mill Creek Homes, Inc. (Or.
Ct. App. 2004) 195 Or.App. 310.) On actual cited California law, the court
finds a number of inapposite cases relied upon by ISI. Adjuster liability in no
way relates to duties of a broker for procurement of the correct coverage and
proper submission of a complete application. (Sanchez v. Lindsey Morden
Claims Servs., Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 249, 254.) Plaintiff is not
seeking contract benefits from ISI, and instead alleges a separate and
independent basis of liability under broker negligence. (Iversen v. Superior
Court (1976) 57 Cal.App.3d 168, 171.) 
 
The court finds a lack of undisputed facts allowing a
conclusion as a matter of law dispelling any basis of duty on behalf of ISI.
Other than general referral to the Binding Authority Agreement, ISI lacks
sufficient address of the terms and obligations of the agreement, in context to
the factual basis of the underlying transaction. California authority unequivocally
imposes a potential duty of care regardless of contractual privity, where a
transaction clearly intended to benefit Plaintiff leads to potential denial of
benefits due to the parties responsible for the undertaking the transaction
failing to conduct basic review of the application and follow-up for
completeness of required medical records. (Biakanja v. Irving, supra,
49 Cal.2d 650.) 
 
ISI in reply offers no response to the law on this subject,
and instead focuses on the incomplete records as a basis of denial for the
policy. Again, the issue is broker breach of duty, not exclusions or post claim
policy denial. ISI lacks sufficient legal and factual support to deny
responsibility for the acceptance of an incomplete application and represented
issuance of the policy (as also required by the Binding Authority Agreement).
Gilbert expressly requested service from ISI to acquire this unique policy and
understood the the requirements for underwriting, again as assumed by the
delegation of Lloyd’s to allow ISI to accept policy applications. The court
therefore finds triable issues of material fact as to any basis of duty between
ISI and Plaintiff. [Deposition of Garza; Novruzyan Decl.; Ferraro Decl.]
 
The motion is DENIED.
 
Two motions for summary judgment remain on calendar for
October 10, 2024.  Trial set for November
4, 2024.
 
ISI to give notice.
 