  Case Number:  23STCV10150    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
2, 2024                                             TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Joseph Perry v. Reliant Life Shares, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV10150
 





















 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT



 
 
I.         FACTUAL
AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND 
 
            This is a
fraud action.  Reliant Life Shares, LLC (Reliant)
is in the business of life settlement investments.[1]  In 2016, Plaintiff Joseph Perry (Plaintiff or
Perry) heard a Reliant radio advertisement about life settlement investments
and contacted Reliant to learn more. 
Perry spoke with Reliant’s agent Stanley Thomas (Thomas) and soon after
invested $120,000 into life settlement investments with Reliant.  In 2019, despite being assured by Thomas that
Perry would likely not have to pay out-of-pocket premiums,[2]
Perry began having to pay premiums.  The
last communication Perry received Reliant was in July 2022.  Thereafter, Perry became concerned about the
legitimacy of his investment with Reliant.  
 
On December 14, 2022, the California Department of Financial
Protection and Innovation (DFPI) issued a Cease and Desist Order to Reliant and
its agents because of false statements and material omissions regarding the
performance, maturities, life expectancy projections, estimated payout periods,
and premium calls of the RLS investments. 
Perry learned of the Cease and Desist Order in late 2022-early 2023.  The misstatements and omissions cited by DFPI were
identical to or similar to those made to Perry. 
To date, Perry has not been repaid most of his principal and has had to
pay a substantial amount of premiums. 
Further, Perry has not received any interest, dividends, or return from most
of his RLS investments.
 
            On May 5,
2023, Plaintiff commenced this action against Reliant and Does 1-50 for (1)
fraud-intentional misrepresentation, (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3)
fraud-omissions, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, (5) professional negligence, and
(6) recission. 
 
            On April 4,
2024, and June 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed amendments to the Complaint naming Scott
Grady; PB Consulting, LLC; 18LS, LLC; PB Consulting #2, LLC; Sean Michaels;
Laforce Holdings, LLC; and Bank of Utah as Does 1-7, respectively.
 
Plaintiff now moves for leave to file the proposed First
Amended Complaint. 
 
            The motion
is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The court may, in its discretion and after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading, including adding or striking out the name of any party, or correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)¿ “Public policy dictates that leave to amend
be liberally granted.”¿ (Centex Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co.
(2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23, 32.)¿ “Although courts are bound to apply a policy
of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of
the proceedings, up to and including trial . . . this policy should be applied
only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party.’¿ [Citation].¿ A
different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice
to the opposing party’ is shown.¿ [Citation.]” ¿(Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)¿¿ 
¿ 
A motion to amend a pleading must include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and must state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations are
located. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a).)¿ The motion shall also be
accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment
is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 1.324(b).)¿¿ 
¿ 
In ruling on a motion for leave to amend the complaint, the
court does not consider the merits of the proposed amendment, because “the
preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and allow the parties to
test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or
other appropriate proceedings.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)¿ While the court may deny leave to amend
where the proposed amendment is insufficient to state a valid cause of action
or defense, such denial is most appropriate where the insufficiency cannot be
cured by further amendment—i.e., where the statute of limitations has expired
or the insufficiency is established by controlling caselaw. (California
casualty Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274,
280-281, disapproved on other grounds in Kransco v. American Empire Surplus
Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)¿¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Judicial
Notice
 
Plaintiff’s unopposed request for judicial notice is
GRANTED. 
 
B.    
Analysis
 
Plaintiff seeks leave to file the proposed first amended
complaint for the following reasons: (1) to add factual allegations pertaining
to the seven recently added DOE defendants; (2) to specify which causes of
action are asserted against each of the defendants; and (3) to specify the
alleged misconduct of the seven recently added DOE defendants.  (Steuer Decl., ¶ 2.)  The proposed first amended complaint also
adds factual allegations about events which occurred or were first discovered
after the complaint was filed, and allegations of false representations,
material omissions and breaches of duty that were first discovered after the
complaint was filed.  (Id.)
¿  
The motion complies with the requirements of California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1342(a). Further, because the motion is unopposed, the
court finds no prejudice will result if leave is granted to file the amended
complaint. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The unopposed Motion for Leave to file the First Amended
Complaint is GRANTED. The First Amended Complaint is deemed filed and served on
this date.  Plaintiff is directed to separately file the First Amended
Complaint within five court days of this order. 
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   October 2, 2024                                           




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




            


