 Case Number:  23STCV30260    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 2, 2024                                            TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Marquise D. Lewis,
et al. v. The Petersen Automotive Museum Foundation, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV30260
 





















 
DEFENDANT
PETERSEN MUSEUM FOUNDATION MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY OF PROCEEDINGS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Petersen Automotive Museum Foundation
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiffs Marquise
D. Lewis and Jo’nez Cain 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff Marquise D. Lewis (Lewis
or Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendant Petersen Automotive Museum
Foundation (Petersen) for (1) Unlawful Discrimination in Violation of Government
Code Section § 12900 et seq.; (2) Unlawful Termination in Violation of Public
Policy; and (3) Failure to Prevent Harassment and Discrimination, arising from
his employment as a security guard at the Petersen Automotive Museum.  Lewis also brings causes of action for (4)
Civil Battery, (5) Negligence, (6) Premises Liability, and (7) Breach of
Contract against Defendants Bistagne Brothers Body Shop, Inc.; Bistagne
Brothers Properties, LLC; Bistagne Brothers, LLC; Robert E. Bistagne; and
Charles A. Bistagne (collectively, the Bistagne Defendants).[1]  
Lewis was employed by Petersen to serve as a
security guard at the Petersen Automotive Museum (Petersen Museum).  Lewis signed an employment agreement.  The agreement contained an arbitration
agreement.  
Lewis’s allegations fall into two general categories.  First, Lewis, who identifies racially as
Black, alleges Petersen engaged in discriminatory and unequal treatment by (among
other things) consistently assigning him and other Black security guards at the
two most dangerous posts at the Petersen Museum.  This culminated with Lewis being shot while
on duty on December 11, 2021 (December 11 shooting).  
The second category relates to the December 11
shooting.  Lewis was working the graveyard
shift at the Petersen Museum parking lot for three private parties.  Bistagne Defendants hosted one of the parties.  Thomas P. Otis (Otis), an employee of the
Bistagne Defendants, attended the party with his partner.  They parked in the garage.  Later that night, Otis and his partner decided
to leave the party and attempted to leave the garage.  Both were inebriated.  Otis became belligerent when Lewis would not
allow them to leave the garage without paying for parking.  The incident escalated into a physical confrontation
between Lewis and Otis and Otis shooting Lewis with a handgun.  Plaintiff alleges Bistagne Defendants had a
duty to provide adequate security to protect all individuals at the Petersen
Museum the night of the party and a duty to inform the bartenders or caterers who
were serving alcohol at the party of Otis’s drunken and violent tendencies.   
On July 29, 2024, Petersen filed this Motion to
Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings.
On September 5, 2024, Bistagne Defendants filed a
joinder to Petersen’s motion.  
On September 18, 2024, Lewis filed an opposition to
Petersen’s motion and concurrently filed an opposition to Bistagne Defendants’ joinder.  Lewis filed an amended opposition on
September 19, 2024.[2]  
On September 24, 2024, Petersen and Bistagne
Defendants each filed replies.
II.        DISCUSSION
A.    Evidentiary
Objections
1.      Plaintiff’s
Objections
Plaintiff asserts six (6)
objections to the Declaration of Karen Locke.  
Objections 1-5 are OVERRULED.  Objection 6 is SUSTAINED for lack of
foundation.
2.     
Petersen’s Objections
Petersen asserts twenty-eight (28)
objections to the Declaration of Marquise D. Lewis and thirty-fourth (34)
objections to the Declaration of Carter M. Zinn.  
Declaration of Marquis Lewis: 
Objections 1-13; 17-19; 21-28:  OVERRULED 
Objections 14, 15: SUSTAINED: lack
of foundation, personal knowledge and speculation. 
Objection 16 is SUSTAINED: hearsay,
except where offered for effect on the listener and state of mind. 
Objection 20 is SUSTAINED (with
respect to the identification of the signature): lack of foundation and speculation
 Petersen also asserts a
general objection to Lewis’s declaration because it does not comply with Code
of Civil Procedure section 2015.5, which requires a declarant to “certify (or
declare) under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct”.  By contrast, Lewis’s statements are certified
“I declare under the penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of
California that the foregoing is true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.”  (See Lewis Decl.,
emphasis added.)  In support, Peterson
cites Bowden v. Robinson (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 705 (Bowden) in
which the court determined a declaration that used the phrase “to the best of
my knowledge” was inadmissible.  (Id. at pp. 719-720.)
 The court explained that the
phrase, “ ‘To the best of my knowledge’ indicates something less
than the ‘personal knowledge’ required under ... section 437c, and
implies that the declarant's statement is based on something similar to
information and belief.” (Ibid.) Subsequent cases have clarified
that the key inquiry is whether the phrase introduces an impermissible element
of uncertainty to the statements made in the declaration. For example, in Katelaris
v. County of Orange (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1211 (Katelaris),
the court explained that the phrase “to the best of my knowledge” did not
“somehow magically nullif[y] whatever statement follows it.” (Id. at
p. 1216.) Instead, the phrase may introduce an element of
uncertainty that, under some circumstances, could render the declaration
inadmissible under section 437c. (Ibid.) Likewise, in Pelayo v.
J.J. Lee Management Co., Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 484 (Pelayo),
the court concluded the declarant's use of the phrase “to the best of my
knowledge” did not suggest the information was not based on personal knowledge.
(Id. at p. 494.) Instead, the phrase “at most raised an issue about
the clarity and certitude of [the declarant's] memory, ... not its
admissibility.” (Ibid.)  
Hence,
the key inquiry is whether Lewis’s use of the phrase, “to my knowledge” in his
certification of his declaration introduced an impermissible level of
uncertainty. (Katelaris, 92 Cal.App.4th at p. 1216; Pelayo,
174 Cal.App.4th at p. 494.)  Lewis declared he had personal knowledge
of the facts he asserted and signed the document under penalty of perjury,
declaring  that the facts set forth were
true and correct.  As in Pelayo, the declaration asserted
facts that were within the scope of Lewis’s personal knowledge. (Pelayo,
supra, at p. 494.) Given this unqualified statement, the inclusion of the
phrase “to his knowledge” does not render Lewis’s declaration impermissibly
uncertain.
Declaration of Carter Zinn
The court declines to rule on the
objections because the court did not rely on Zinn’s Declaration in ruling on
the motion.   
B.    
Analysis
 
Petersen moves to compel arbitration and stay the
proceedings in this matter pursuant to an arbitration agreement.  Bistagne Defendants argue they may also compel
arbitration of Lewis’s claims despite being non-signatories to the arbitration
agreement based on equitable estoppel and third-party beneficiary theories.
 
In
opposition, Lewis argues the agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable because his
“signature” was obtained by fraud, and alternatively, he never consented to arbitrate
his claims.  As to Bistagne Defendants, Lewis disputes their standing to
compel arbitration.
 
Accordingly, there are two issues to be decided: (1)
whether there exists a valid agreement to arbitrate, and (2) if there is a
valid arbitration agreement, whether Bistagne Defendants may compel arbitration
as non-signatories to the agreement.   
 
1.     
Legal
Principles
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires the trial court to order
arbitration of a controversy “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy ... if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists.” On a motion to compel arbitration, the threshold question is whether
there is an agreement to arbitrate the dispute. (Trinity v. Life Ins.
Co. of North America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 1111, 1120 (Trinity).)
The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence an agreement to arbitrate a dispute exists. (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236; Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 394, 413 (Rosenthal).) To meet this burden, the moving
party must first produce “prima facie evidence of a written agreement to
arbitrate the controversy.” (Rosenthal, 14 Cal.4th at p. 413;
accord, Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) “ ‘If the moving party meets its initial
prima facie burden and the opposing party disputes the agreement, then ... the
opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the
authenticity of the agreement.” (Gamboa, 72 Cal.App.5th at p. 165.) “If
the opposing party produces such evidence, then ‘the moving party must
establish with admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the
parties.’ ” (Trinity, 78 Cal.App.5th at p. 1120.) “Despite the shifting
burden of production, ‘[t]he burden of proving the agreement by a preponderance
of the evidence remains with the moving party.’ ” (Ibid.)  
 
            The
trial court acts as the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits,
declarations, and other documentary evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2;
Provencio v. WMA Securities, Inc. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.) 
2.     
Petersen Has Produced Prima Facie Evidence of a
Written Agreement
Here, Petersen makes a prima facie
case for the existence of a valid arbitration agreement.  (See Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC
(2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543 (Bannister) [“The party seeking
arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the [motion or]
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the [opposing
party's] signature.”].)  Petersen
attaches a document entitled “Arbitration Agreement” (hereafter, the Agreement)
to the declaration its Human Resources Manager, Karen Locke (Locke).  (See Locke Decl., Ex. A.)  Locke states that the Agreement was presented
to Lewis as part of his initial on-boarding process with Petersen.  (Locke Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.)  The Agreement purportedly bears Lewis’s handwritten
name and is dated January 2, 2016.  (Locke
Decl., Ex. A.) 
Petersen meets its initial burden.  The burden shifts.
3.     
Lewis Sufficiently Challenges the Validity of the
Agreement
Lewis argues his signature was
obtained by fraud in the execution.  Mutual
consent is an essential contract element.  (Civ. Code, § 1550; Donovan v. RRL Corp.
(2001) 26 Cal. 4th 261, 270.) For a contract to be enforceable, the consent of
the parties to a contract must be free, mutual, and communicated by each to the
other.  (Civ. Code, § 1565; Sellers v.
JustAnswer LLC (2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 444, 460 [“If there is no evidence of
establishing a manifestation of assent to the “same thing” by both parties,
then there is no mutual consent to contract and no contract formation.”].)  Consent is not mutual unless the parties all
agree upon the same thing in the same sense.  (Civ. Code, § 1580.)  An apparent consent is not real or free when
obtained through fraud.  (Civ. Code, §
1567(3).)  “In the case of fraud in the
inception or execution of the contract, the fraud goes to the inception or
execution of the agreement, so that the promisor is deceived as to the nature
of his act, and actually does not know what he is signing, or does not intend
to enter into a contract at all, mutual assent is lacking, and [the contract]
is void.”  (Rosenthal, supra,
14 Cal.4th at p. 416, emphasis in original.)
Here, Lewis states that he reviewed
onboarding documents in the office of his then-new boss, head of Petersen
security, Ken Van Meter (Van Meter), on his first day of work.  (Lewis Decl., ¶ 4.)  Van Meter was present.  (Id.)  Lewis further states that, upon reading the
Agreement, he told Van Meter about his concerns with giving up his right to a
jury trial.  (Lewis Decl., ¶¶ 14-15.)  Lewis did not want to sign the Agreement and
asked Van Meter what could be done in the situation.  (Id., ¶ 15.)  In response, Van Meter said something to the
effect, “Don’t worry Marquise, I understand. Other people have said the same
thing. You do not need to sign the agreement if you don’t want to. All you need
to do is just spell out your name on the signature line, and all that will
indicate is that you received the document, but not that you are signing it.
Since you are just printing out your name, everyone will know you are not
signing it.”  (Id.)  Lewis states he was uncomfortable with the situation
but decided to print his name, as suggested by Van Meter, rather than risk
being branded a troublemaker.  (Id.,
¶ 16.)  Lewis reiterates he did not
intend to bind himself legally to the terms of the Agreement.  (Id., ¶ 17.)   
Petersen does not submit evidence to
refute Lewis’s account of the circumstances surrounding the signing of
the Agreement.  Instead, Petersen argues Lewis’s
assertion of fraud is unsupported by evidence and is akin to the assertions in Rosenthal,
supra, 14 Cal.4th 396.  In Rosenthal, the
defendant, a securities corporation, moved to compel arbitration on the grounds
that the plaintiffs had executed a client agreement containing an arbitration
clause. (Rosenthal, 14 Cal.4th at pp. 402-403.) In
opposition, the plaintiffs argued the arbitration agreement was unenforceable
because “ ‘there was fraud in the inception of the contract’ “ and submitted
declarations containing evidence that the defendant's representatives did not
tell them the client agreement contained an arbitration clause and assured them
that the client agreement was a mere formality needed to open an
account. (Id. at p. 403.) In reply, the
defendant's representatives offered declarations wherein they denied making the
allegedly fraudulent statements. (Id. at p. 404.) Without
holding an evidentiary hearing, the trial court denied the defendant's petition
to compel arbitration, concluding that the plaintiffs “ ‘presented sufficient
evidentiary support for their allegations of fraud in the inception of the
arbitration agreement.’ ” (Ibid.) 
The California Supreme Court granted review to resolve a different
question.  The High Court ultimately
concluded that the majority of the plaintiffs' declarations “did not present
legally sufficient evidence that they reasonably relied on fraudulent
representations as to the essential character of the client agreements they
signed[.]” (Rosenthal, 14 Cal.4th at p. 402.)  This was so because the statements “to the
effect the client agreements were merely a formality, or did not need to be
read, were insufficient, even in light of the parties’ relationship, to warrant
a finding of fraud in the inception of the agreements.” (Rosenthal, supra,
14 Cal.4th at pp. 426-427.) 
Rosenthal is
distinguishable.  Unlike Rosenthal,
Lewis submits evidence to show he printed his name to merely acknowledge
receipt of the Agreement pursuant to Van Meter’s instruction; Lewis states
unequivocally he never intended to be legally bound to the Agreement.  Petersen does not offer any evidence to the
contrary.  The court finds the Agreement
is not enforceable.  
 Accordingly, Peterson’s motion to compel is
DENIED.  Having so concluded there is no
valid agreement to arbitrate, Bistagne Defendants’ motion is likewise
DENIED.  The court need not and does not
address Lewis’s remaining arguments.
III.       CONCLUSION
 
            Peterson’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay of Proceedings is Denied. 
 
            Bistagne
Defendants’ Joinder to Peterson’s Motion is Denied.
            
Defendants are ordered to serve and file their Answers to
the Complaint within 15 days of the court’s order.
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   October 2, 2024                                           




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 


