 Case Number:  24STCV11277    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 2, 2024                                            TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Landon Hamilton, et
al. v. MVMNT, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV11277
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
MVMNT, Inc. dba Fitlab, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiffs Landon
Hamilton and Cameron Speck 
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
In
2011, Landon Hamilton (Hamilton) and Cameron Speck (Speck) (collectively,
Plaintiffs), founded a mobile fitness application called Fitplan.  In 2016,
Fitplan launched its fitness creator platform.  Within the first month of its launch, Fitplan
was a top grossing fitness application in the United States.  In 2021, MVMNT, Inc. (MVMNT) acquired Fitplan.
 The terms of the sale were memorialized
in an Arrangement Agreement.  Under the Arrangement
Agreement, Plaintiffs were entitled to the payment of sums certain and to
information about the updated organizational structure chart, subsidiary
details, ownership and control of subsidiaries, among other information.  The parties also entered into Option
Agreements for the exercise of stock options for MVMNT.  
 
In July 2023,
after MVMNT acquired Fitplan, Hamilton entered into a Consulting Agreement and
General Release (the Consulting Agreement) with FitPlan Technologies, Inc., a
wholly owned subsidiary of Fitplan.  The
Consulting Agreement has an arbitration clause. 
On May 6, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Complaint
against MVMNT dba Fitlab, Inc. for (1) Breach of Contract (Arrangement
Agreement); (2) Breach of Contract (Option Agreements); (3) Intentional
Misrepresentation; (4) Negligent Misrepresentation; and (5) Declaratory Relief.  Plaintiffs allege MVMNT breached the Arrangement
Agreement by failing to pay certain sums and providing certain information
required by the agreement.  Plaintiffs
also allege MVMNT breached the Option Agreements by ignoring Plaintiffs’
requests to exercise their options.  
            On July 24, 2024, MVMNT filed
this motion to compel arbitration of Hamilton’s claims and to stay the matter
as to Speck’s claims pending the outcome of arbitration.
Plaintiffs filed an opposition.  MVMNT replied.
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability.  (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.)  Under
both the FAA and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding
a contract.  (Winter v. Window
Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  The petitioner bears the burden of proving the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence,
the party opposing the petition then bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate that there
should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial court sits as a trier
of fact to reach a final determination on the issue.  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)  Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2, the court can compel parties to an arbitration
agreement to arbitrate their dispute.  
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            MVMNT moves
to compel arbitration of Hamilton’s claims pursuant to the arbitration clause
in the Consulting Agreement.  Further,
MVMNT seeks a stay of the matter as to Speck’s claims pending resolution of
arbitration.
 
            Plaintiffs
do not dispute there is an arbitration clause in the Consulting Agreement.  It is further undisputed Hamilton signed the
agreement.  Nonetheless, Plaintiffs oppose
arbitration for the following reasons: (1) MVMNT cannot compel arbitration
because it is not a signatory to the Consulting Agreement; (2) because Speck did
not sign the Consulting Agreement, arbitration of Hamilton’s claims would
create conflicting rulings of law; (3) the arbitration clause does not cover
Hamilton’s claims; and (4) the arbitration clause is unconscionable.  The court addresses each argument in turn.
 
A. MVMNT
may compel arbitration.
 
Plaintiffs argue MVMNT cannot compel arbitration because MVMNT
is not a party to the Consulting Agreement. 

 
MVMNT contends it may do so because, as an “affiliate” of
Fitplan Technologies, Inc. (FTI), a signatory to the agreement, MVMNT is a
third-party beneficiary.  
MVMNT’s contention has merit.  “There are exceptions to the general
rule that a nonsignatory to an agreement cannot be compelled to arbitrate and
cannot invoke an agreement to arbitrate, without being a party to the
arbitration agreement.” (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Ct. (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 1222, 1236-37.)  For
instance, a nonsignatory may compel arbitration as a third-party beneficiary to
the arbitration agreement. (Ronay Family Ltd. Partnership v. Tweed (2013)
216 Cal.App.4th 830, 838; see also Civ. Code, § 1559 (“A
contract, made expressly for the benefit of a third person, may be enforced by
him at any time before the parties thereto rescind it.”).]
Here, the arbitration clause
expressly covers “all claims regarding any aspect of [Hamilton]’s employment
and consulting with [Fitplan Technologies, Inc.] or any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates.”  (Consulting Agreement, §
18(k)(ii).)  “Covered claims also
include, but are not limited to, claims for: … breach of any contract or
covenant, express or implied[.]”  (Id.)
 MVMNT and Fitplan Technologies, Inc. are
affiliates because MVMNT is the parent company of FTI.  (See Collins v. BMW of North America, LLC (S.D.
Cal. Jan. 25, 2021) No. 20CV1635-GPC (AGS), 2021 WL 242938, at *3
[concluding BMW of North America was a third-party beneficiary an arbitration
agreement because it was the parent company of the signatory to the arbitration
agreement]; see also Iqbal v. Ziadeh (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1, 9-10 [Citing
Black’s Law Dictionary to define the word “affiliate” as “[a] corporation that
is related to another corporation by shareholdings or other means of control; a
subsidiary, parent, or sibling corporation.”].)  MVMNT, as the parent corporation of FTI has
standing to enforce the arbitration clause.
 
B.     The
arbitration clause covers Hamilton’s claims.  
 
Plaintiffs argue the arbitration clause covers a narrow class
of claims—specifically, those that arise from or relate to Hamilton’s
Consulting Agreement.  Not so.  As detailed above, the language of the
arbitration clause is broad.  It extends
to cover “all claims regarding any aspect of [Hamilton]’s
employment and consulting with [Fitplan Technologies, Inc.] or any of its
subsidiaries or affiliates.”  (Consulting
Agreement, § 18(k)(ii), emphasis added.)  “Covered claims also include, but are not
limited to, claims for: … breach of any contract or covenant,
express or implied; … personal, physical or emotional injury; fraud,
misrepresentation, defamation, and any other tort claims[.]”  (Id., emphasis added.)   
 
Here, Hamilton brings claims for breach of contract and
misrepresentation.  These claims are
expressly covered by the arbitration clause. 
Hamilton cannot avoid arbitration on these grounds.
 
C.     The FAA directs arbitration of Hamilton’s claims.
Hamilton and Speck assert identical
claims.  For this reason, Plaintiffs argue the court should exercise its discretion under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c) to deny the motion to
compel because there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue
of law or fact if Hamilton’s claims proceed in arbitration and Speck’s claims
remain is state court.    
“Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c) permits a trial court, under
specified circumstances, to stay arbitration pending the outcome of related
litigation.”  (Cronus Invs., Inc. v.
Concierge Servs. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 376, 380 (Cronus) (footnote
omitted).)  A trial court may also properly
deny a motion to compel arbitration where there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on common issues of law or fact if claims against some defendants
proceed in arbitration while claims against other defendants proceed in a court
action.  (Birl v. Heritage Care, LLC (2009)
172 Cal.App.4th 1313, 1321.)  In
instances where the arbitration clause provides it is to be construed and
enforced in accordance with the laws of California, the Federal Arbitration Act
(FAA) does not preempt Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision
(c).  (Cronus, supra, 35
Cal.4th at pp. 387, 394.)     
Here, the arbitration clause expressly provides that the
Consulting Agreement is to be enforceable under the FAA.  (Consulting Agreement, § 18(k)(v).)  In other words, the FAA and not California law
governs the enforcement of the arbitration clause.   The court therefore does not have discretion to
deny MVMNT’s motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2,
subdivision (c). 
 
D.   
The arbitration
clause is not unconscionable.
 
As the High Court noted in AT&T Mobility
LLC v. Concepcion
(2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339 (Concepcion), “the final phrase of § 2 [of the
FAA], however, permits arbitration agreements to be declared unenforceable
‘upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract.’  This saving clause permits agreements to arbitrate to be
invalidated by ‘generally applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress,
or unconscionability,’ but not by defenses that apply only to arbitration or
that derive their meaning from the fact that an agreement to arbitrate is at
issue.”  Thus, under the FAA, state courts may “decline to enforce
arbitration clauses on the basis of generally applicable contract defenses,
such as fraud, duress or unconscionability.”  (Erickson v. Aetna Health
Plans of California, Inc. (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 646, 650-651 [cleaned
up].)¿  
 
Plaintiffs raise the contractual
defense of unconscionability.¿ “The party resisting arbitration bears
the burden of proving unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 247 (Pinnacle
Museum).)  In general, the doctrine of
unconscionability refers to “an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one
of the parties together with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to
the other party.”¿ (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57
Cal.4th 1109, 1133 (Sonic) (cleaned up).)¿ In other words, the doctrine
consists of procedural and substantive components, “the former focusing on
oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly
harsh or one-sided results.” (Ibid.)¿¿ 
If unconscionable, the
arbitration agreement is not a valid contract and therefore is unenforceable ¿
(Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 83, 114 (Armendariz).)¿ Although both components of
unconscionability must be present to invalidate an arbitration agreement, they
need not be present in the same degree.¿ (Id.)¿ “ ‘Essentially a sliding
scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of
the contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater
harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.¿ In other
words, the more substantively unconscionable the contract term, the less
evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion
that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’ ”¿ (Ibid.)¿¿ 
1. Procedural Unconscionability¿¿ 
Procedural unconscionability
focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise. (Pinnacle Museum,
supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 247.)¿ “Oppression arises from an inequality of
bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and an absence of
meaningful choice….¿ Surprise involves the extent to which the terms of the
bargain are hidden in a ‘prolix printed form’ drafted by a party in a superior
bargaining position.”  (Davis v. TWC Dealer Group, Inc. (2019) 41
Cal.App.5th 662, 671.) 
A “contract of adhesion” creates
some amount of procedural unconscionability – the term signifies a standardized
contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining
strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to
the contract or reject it.¿ (Neal v. State Farm Ins. Cos. (1961) 188
Cal.App.2d 690, 694.)¿ In addition, a lack of effort to highlight the presence
of an arbitration provision, such as through bold lettering, larger font, or
capitalization, has been found to indicate procedural unconscionability.¿ (See
Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238.)¿¿However, when
there is no other indication of oppression other than the adhesive aspect of an
agreement, the degree of procedural unconscionability is low.¿ (Serpa v.
California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695,
704.)¿¿¿¿ 
“[T]he fact that the arbitration
agreement is an adhesion contract does not render it automatically
unenforceable as unconscionable.¿ Courts have consistently held that the
requirement to enter into an arbitration agreement is not a bar to its
enforcement.”¿ (Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 165, 179.) 
a. Adhesion Contract¿¿ 
Here, Plaintiffs argue the
agreement is procedurally unconscionable because Hamilton had limited time to
review and consider the Consulting Agreement; felt pressure to sign the agreement
to preserve his right to stock options that had a deadline, and that MVMNT was
delaying placing Plaintiffs in a “take it or leave it” position.  (See Opp., p. 7.)
The arguments are not well
taken.  Plaintiffs do not present any evidence
of an adhesion contract.  There is
no supporting declaration attesting to the foregoing points.  Indeed, Plaintiffs do
not present any evidence at all in opposition to MVMNT’s motion.  Moreover, the Consulting Agreement expressly
provides that Hamilton “acknowledges that the Company has advised [him]
to consult with independent legal counsel of [his] choosing prior to executing
this Agreement. [Hamilton] acknowledges that he has had the time and
opportunity to be represented by independent legal counsel during the
negotiation and execution of this Agreement, and that he has either been
represented to his satisfaction or has chosen not to be represented.” (Consulting
Agreement, § 18(i).)  The opposition does
not dispute Hamilton had the assistance of independent counsel during the
negotiation and execution of the Consulting Agreement.  The court is hard pressed to find a contract
of adhesion where, as here, the party opposing an arbitration agreement attested
to have time to review and the assistance of counsel (or at least had the
opportunity to engage independent counsel) during the negotiation and execution
of the agreement.  And even if the Consulting
Agreement were a contract of adhesion, the
requirement to enter into an arbitration agreement is not a bar to the
agreement’s enforcement.¿ (Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 165, 179.)  
            Plaintiffs
also argue the Consulting Agreement was a surprise to Hamilton because the
agreement is “entirely one sided and does not specify that Defendant also agrees to submit any claims it has pursuant to the
same arbitration requirements that Hamilton is allegedly bound by.” (Opp., p.
7.)  Not so.  The arbitration agreement is bilateral.  It includes claims for “breach of any duty
owed to [Hamilton] by the Company or to the Company by [Hamilton].” (Consulting
Agreement, § 18(k)(ii).)  And, it bears
repeating, any claim of surprise or confusion is undermined by the language of
the Consulting Agreement which attests that Hamilton had time to review the agreement
and had legal representation during its negotiation and execution.  (Consulting Agreement, § 18(i).)  Plaintiffs do not demonstrate the agreement
to arbitrate is procedurally unconscionable.
¿¿           2.  Substantive
Unconscionability                  ¿¿ 
Assessing substantive
unconscionability, courts generally focus on the terms of the agreement and
look for terms that are overly harsh or one-sided such that they shock the conscience.
(Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th
1267, 1281 (Nyulassy); see also Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015)
61 Cal.4th 899, 910-911 (clarifying various definitions—e.g., “shocks the
conscience,” “unduly oppressive,” “unreasonable favorable” mean same thing).)¿
The “paramount consideration” is mutuality of the obligation to arbitrate.¿ (Nyulassy,
120 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1281, 1287.)¿¿¿ 
“Substantively unconscionable
terms may take various forms, but may generally be described as unfairly
one-sided. One such form, as in Armendariz, is the arbitration
agreement’s lack of a modicum of bilaterality, wherein the employee’s claims
against the employer, but not the employer’s claims against the employee, are
subject to arbitration. [Citation.] Another kind of substantively unconscionable
provision occurs when the party imposing arbitration mandates a
post-arbitration proceeding, either judicial or arbitral, wholly or largely to
its benefit at the expense of the party on which the arbitration is imposed.
[Citation.] In determining unconscionability, our inquiry is into whether a
contract provision was unconscionable at the time it was made. [Citation.]”¿ (Sonic,
supra, 57 Cal.4th at pp. 1133-34 [cleaned up].)¿ “To state it
simply: it is substantively unconscionable to require a consumer to give up the
right to utilize the judicial system, while imposing arbitral forum fees that
are prohibitively high.”¿ (Id. at pp. 1144-45.)¿ 
Here, Plaintiffs argue (1) the
agreement is one-sided and (2) contains a waiver of unwaivable claims at
Section 5 of the Consulting Agreement which exposes the agreement to special
scrutiny.  (Opp., pp. 9-10.)  
First, as discussed above, the
arbitration agreement is not one-sided. 
It covers claims that FTI, or MVMNT (as an affiliate) may bring against Hamilton.

Second, Section 5 also states
that its provisions “do not release
claims that cannot be released as a matter of law.”  Thus, to the extent the Consulting Agreement encompasses
the waiver of unwaivable claims, the agreement expressly excepts such claims
from the waiver.
 
 In sum, Plaintiffs do not point to any terms of the
agreement that are “overly harsh”, “one-sided”, or that “shocks the
conscience.”¿ Plaintiff does not demonstrate a lack of mutuality as in Armendariz
“wherein the employee’s claims against the employer, but not the employer’s
claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration.”¿ (Armendariz, supra,
24 Cal.4th at p. 119.)¿ Nor is this a case where MVMNT, as the party imposing
arbitration, is requiring a post-arbitration proceeding, wholly or largely to MVMNT’s
benefit and at Hamilton’s expense.¿ (Little v. Auto Steigler, Inc.
29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071-72 .)¿  
            3.
Conclusion
Because both substantive and
procedural components must be present, Plaintiffs fail to demonstrate the
agreement is unconscionable.
E.     The
court will stay the proceedings.
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4 provides:¿¿ 
If a court of competent
jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a
controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending
before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is
pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the
action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order
to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.¿¿ 
¿¿           Here, the court will order this
action to arbitration.¿ Thus, MVMT’s motion to stay the action pending
arbitration is granted.¿¿¿ 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.  The
matter is stayed pending resolution of the arbitration proceedings.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   October 2, 2024                                           




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 