 Case Number:  23STCV21038    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative
Ruling
 
Judge
Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 2, 2024                                 TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Celeste M. Mulrooney v. Susan Florence
Scalzo
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV21038
 





















 
DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff/Mulrooeny
Celeste M. Mulrooney 
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Defendant/Scalzo Susan Florence Scalzo
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a breach of oral contract and partition action
for real property commonly known as 10350 Samoa Avenue, Tujunga, CA 91042 (the
Property).  On November 9, 2023, Plaintiff
 Celeste M. Mulrooney (Mulrooney) filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Defendant Susan Florence Scalzo
(Scalzo) for (1) Partition, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Fraud, (4) Common Counts,
and (5) Declaratory Relief.  The FAC is
verified.
 
As alleged in the FAC, Mulrooney
and Scalzo are sisters.  In July 2011, the
parties entered into an oral agreement to jointly purchase the Property.  Scalzo qualified for a lower interest rate on
the mortgage if Mulrooney was not included on title or mortgage.  As such, the parties mutually agreed that
only Scalzo’s name would be on the deed of title to the Property and on the
mortgage.  The parties also mutually
agreed that they were co-owners of the Property and agreed to pay jointly for
the maintenance of the property.  Mulrooney
paid half of the mortgage payment and property taxes, made improvements to the
Property, among other things, for over eleven years. 
 
In December 2012, the
parties’ sister, Ann Maria Spencer, came to live with the parties.  On October 27, 2022, Scalzo no longer wanted
Ann to live with the parties and asked Ann to leave.  Mulrooney protested Scalzo’s treatment of
Ann.  Soon after, on November 15, 2022, Scalzo
informed Mulrooney she was terminating the parties’ ownership agreement.  Mulrooney would have to vacate the premises. Mulrooney
and Ann vacated the Property on March 25, 2023. 

 
On March 22, 2024, Scalzo
filed a Cross-Complaint against Mulrooney. 
On April 23, 2024, Scalzo filed the First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC)
alleging the sole cause of action for intentional misrepresentation.  Scalzo seeks punitive damages.
 
            On May 31, 2025, Mulrooney filed this consolidated Demurrer
and Motion to Strike as to the FACC.
 
            Scalzo filed an opposition.  Mulrooney replied. 
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD FOR DEMURRER  
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿ When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.¿ (Nolte
v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)¿
“Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can
only refer to matters outside the pleading that are subject to judicial
notice.”¿ (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health Plan, Inc. (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)¿ 
 
III.      DISCUSSION

 
Mulrooney demurs to the FACC on four grounds: the sole
cause of action for intentional misrepresentation (1) fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, (2) is uncertain, vague, and
ambiguous because, the FACC does not indicate whether the contract is written,
oral, or implied by conduct, if the cause of action is based upon a breach of
contract; and (3) is barred by the statute of limitations.  The court addresses each argument in
turn.  
 
1.      The FACC is Insufficiently Pleaded
 
Scalzo claim for intentional misrepresentation is based on
the following factual allegations: 
 
Scalzo invited Mulrooney to live with her provided she
agreed to share expenses of the Property. Scalzo made the offer because Mulrooney
was her sister, was not a successful attorney, had an IRS tax lien levied
against her, did not have reliable income from her law practice, was not a good
money manager, and had bad credit. Mulrooney agreed to share expenses of the
Property, and she thereafter moved in with her sister.  Scalzo never agreed that Mulrooney’s expense
sharing would amount to, be considered, or be construed as Scalzo’s agreement
that Mulrooney, who contributed nothing to the purchase of the home, would have
any ownership interest in the Property.  Mulrooney
never claimed to have an ownership interest while she resided at the Property,
and the matter was not discussed between the parties.  (FACC, ¶ 8.)
 
Mulrooney informed Scalzo that she wanted to make partial
payments towards the Property’s mortgage directly to the mortgage lender so she
could use that expense as a tax deduction for an office she maintained at the
Property. Scalzo agreed to allow Mulrooney to make the partial payments
directly to the lender in order to assist Mulrooney because she is her sister
and Mulrooney had many financial problems. (FACC, ¶ 10.)
 
Scalzo argues that Mulrooney’s representation regarding
her reasons for wanting to make partial payments toward the Property’s mortgage
directly to the mortgage lender was false. Mulrooney knew it was false when she
made it, or she made the representation recklessly and without regard for its
truth. Mulrooney intended that Scalzo rely on her representation and Scalzo
reasonably relied on the representation. In truth, Mulrooney, a licensed
California attorney who had no ownership interest in the Property, intended to
use the fact that she made partial payments directly to the mortgage lender,
with Scalzo’s permission and consent, to falsely build a case that she had an
ownership interest in the Property. Scalzo learned of Mulrooney’s false
representation in 2023.  (FACC, ¶ 11.)
 
Scalzo argues the claim is insufficiently pleaded.  The court agrees.  “Fraud must be pleaded with specificity
rather than with ‘“‘general and conclusory allegations.’”’ (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The specificity requirement
means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the representations were made. (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)    
¿¿ 
¿“Causes of action for intentional and negligent
misrepresentation sound in fraud and, therefore, each element must be pleaded
with specificity. (Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016)
246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
To establish a claim for intentional misrepresentation,
the plaintiff must allege seven essential elements: (1) the defendant
represented to the plaintiff that an important fact was true; (2) that
representation was false; (3) the defendant knew that the representation was
false when the defendant made it, or the defendant made the representation
recklessly and without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant intended that
the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff reasonably relied
on the¿representation;¿(6) the plaintiff was harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's
reliance on the defendant's representation was a substantial factor in causing
that harm to the plaintiff.¿ (Manderville¿v. PCG & S Group, Inc.¿(2007)
146 Cal.App.4th 1486, 1498; CACI No. 1900.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
            Here, Scalzo
does not allege with sufficient specificity the facts and damages she suffered
from Mulrooney’s alleged misrepresentation. 
Indeed, Scalzo alleges that she was harmed without providing any additional
facts showing how she was harmed by the misrepresentation. (See FACC, ¶ 12.)  
 
            Accordingly,
the Demurrer is SUSTAINED.[1]
  Notwithstanding
the court’s ruling, the court addresses Mulrooney’s remaining arguments. 
 
2.      Uncertainty
 
Mulrooney next argues the FACC is uncertain, vague, and
ambiguous, because, if the cause of action is based upon a contract, the FACC
does not indicate whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct.  The argument lacks merit.  The FACC details a claim based on an oral
misrepresentation, not a contract.  There
is no requirement that a misrepresentation be connected to or founded on a
contract.  The FACC is not deficient for
lack of certainty.
 
3.  Statute of
Limitations
 
An action for fraud must be brought within three years.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 338(d).)  The cause of action in that case is not deemed
to have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts
constituting the fraud or mistake.  (Id.)  
            Scalzo alleges she learned of
Mulrooney’s intentional misrepresentation in 2023 when Mulrooney commenced this
action.  (See FACC ¶, 12.)
            Mulrooney argues the claim is
time-barred because there are no facts explaining the delay in discovery.  However, Scalzo alleges she never agreed to
Mulrooney obtaining an ownership in the Property.  (FACC, ¶ 8.) 
A fair reading of the allegations suggests Scalzo first learned
Mulrooney was claiming an ownership interest in the Property, based partly on making
payments to the mortgage lender, when Mulrooney filed this action in 2023.  Scalzo adequately alleges the delay in
discovering the fraud.  The court
sustains the demurrer on other grounds.
IV.        CONCLUSION
            Based on the foregoing, the demurrer to the FACC is SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend is GRANTED.  
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Susan Scalzo is ordered to file and serve the Second Amended Cross-Complaint
within 15 days of this order. 
 
The motion to strike is
MOOT.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   October 2, 2024                                           




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of the
  Superior Court 




 
            
 


