 Case Number:  23STCV15284    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ANDREW DONEGAN,
  et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
SAMUEL LUKE LLANERAS, et al.,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV15284
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR ORDER COMPELLING RESPONSE TO
  INTERROGATORIES, REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION; MOTION FOR ADMISSIONS BE DEEMED
  ADMITTED
 
Date: May 6, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:  Plaintiffs Andrew Donegan, DG LLC, and Travis
Scott
 
RESPONDING PARTY:  Defendants Samuel Luke Llaneras and Tharsys Da
Silva
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers. No opposition has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This is a breach of contract action. On June
30, 2023, Plaintiffs Andrew Donegan, DG LLC, and Travis Scott (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
filed this action against Defendants Samuel Luke Llaneras (“Llaneras”), Tharsys
Da Silva (“Da Silva”) (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1 to 100, alleging
causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of good faith and fair
dealing; (3) common counts; (4) conversion; (5) unjust enrichment; (6) fraud;
(7) fraudulent misrepresentation; and (8) declaratory judgment.
            
On
April 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant discovery motions. The motions are
unopposed. 
 
DISCUSSION
            Legal Standard
When a party fails to
serve a timely response to interrogatories, the party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives
any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id., §
2030.290, subd. (a).) “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd.
(c).)
 
When a party fails to serve a timely response to an inspection demand,
the party making the demand may move for an order compelling a response to the
inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) A party who fails
to provide a timely response waives any objection, including one based on
privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he
court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., §
2031.300, subd. (c).)
 
When a party fails to serve a timely response to a request for
admission, the party propounding the request for admission may move for an
order to deem the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any objection,
including one based on privilege or work product. (Id., § 2033.280,
subd. (a).) “The court shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to
whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the
hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with Section 
2033.220. It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction… on
the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Id., § 2033.280,
subd. (c).)
 
Analysis
Plaintiffs seek to compel responses from Llaneras in connection with Request
for Admissions, Set One, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One,
purportedly served on Llaneras on March 1, 2024. (DiRisio Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Exs.
5-6.) Plaintiffs also seek to compel responses from both Llaneras and Da Silva
for Form Interrogatories-General, Set One, also purportedly served on March 1,
2024. (DiRisio Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 7.) Plaintiffs contend they attempted to meet
and confer with Llaneras and Da Silva before bringing these motions, but to no
avail. (DiRisio Decl., ¶¶ 6-11, Exs. 8-12.)
 
The Court finds numerous deficiencies in Plaintiffs’ motion. First, there
are issues with the proofs of service. The proof of service for this motion
fails to provide the electronic service address at which Llaneras and Da Silva
were purportedly served. (Motion, p 24.) More seriously, the proofs of service
for the underlying Request for Admissions and Request for Production of
Documents also fail to specify the electronic service address at which they
were purportedly served. (DiRisio Decl., Exs. 5-6.) There is also no proof of
service at all attached to the Form Interrogatories. (DiRisio Decl., Ex. 7.) 
 
Without proper proofs of service, the Court is unable to determine
whether Plaintiffs properly served Llaneras and Da Silva. (See Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 1.21, subd. (b); see also Dill v. Bergquist (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1426, 1442 fn. 15 [properly executed proofs of service shows the
court that the plaintiff performed all acts necessary to effect service of
process on defendant].) Llaneras and Da Silva’s lack of opposition also tends
to weigh in favor of finding a lack of proper service here.
 
Second, Plaintiffs’ motion does not comply with the page limits of
Rule 3.1113, subdivision (d), which limits memorandums of points and
authorities for moving papers to 15 pages. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113,
subd. (d).) Memoranda that exceed their specified page limit are treated the
same as late-filed papers. (Id., subd. (g).) Plaintiffs’ memorandum of
points and authorities is 20 pages long, and is therefore effectively
late.  If the proofs of service were not
insufficient, this Court might have simply not considered the last five pages
of the motion; however, in that of that other deficiency, the Court will not
consider the motion at all.
 
Third, Plaintiffs improperly combined three discovery motions into
one. Each of these underlying discovery requests requires its own motion
hearing and the payment of a separate reservation fee; however, Plaintiffs only
reserved a hearing date for one motion. (Motion, pp. 25-26.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ discovery
motions.
 
The Court further DENIES Plaintiffs’ requests for monetary sanctions because
 they did not prevail on their motions
here. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c); Id., § 2031.300, subd.
(c); Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of this ruling.     
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 6th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



