 Case Number:  22STCV35314    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




jing du

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
amaxi nutrition products,
   inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV35314




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   25, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendants’
  demurrer to first amended complaint
(2)  
  defendants’
  motion to strike portions of first amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Andrew Khun,
Margaret Lau, and Amaxi Nutrition Products, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Plaintiffs Jing Du, Yu Bai, and Ye Qiu
(1)  
Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with the
demurrer and motion to strike. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court sustains plaintiffs Jing Du, Yu Bai, and Ye Qiu’s
evidentiary objections to the request for judicial notice filed in support of the
reply papers by defendants Andrew Khun, Margaret Lau, and Amaxi Nutrition
Products, Inc., on October 5, 2023, and therefore denies the request for
judicial notice.  (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013)
218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537 [“The general rule of motion practice . . . is that
new evidence is not permitted with reply papers”].) 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Jing Du (“Du”), Yu Bai (“Bai”), and Ye Qiu (“Qiu”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed the operative First Amended Complaint in this action on
March 24, 2023, against defendants Amaxi Nutrition Products, Inc., a suspended
California corporation, Amaxi Nutrition Products, Inc., a Wyoming corporation,
Amaxi Regional center, LLC, USA Milk Company, LLC, the heirs and devisees of
Macie Wang, deceased, Andrew Khun, Jonathan C.M. Lau, and Margaret Lau.  Plaintiffs allege four causes of action for
(1) fraud and deceit, (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3) breach of contract,
and (4) breach of contract. 
Defendants Andrew Khun (“Khun”), Margaret Lau (“Lau”), and Amaxi
Nutrition Products, Inc., a Wyoming Corporation (“Amaxi”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) now move the court for an order (1) sustaining their demurrer to
each cause of action alleged by Plaintiffs, and (2) striking from the First
Amended Complaint Plaintiffs’ prayers for attorney’s fees, and two allegations
set forth in paragraphs 13 and 37. 
DEMURRER
The court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to
the first cause of action for fraudulent misrepresentation because it states
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs have alleged,
with sufficient particularity, that (1) Khun, Lau, and Macie Wang (“Wang”)
created the entity defendants (i.e., including Amaxi) to further their plans to
defraud Plaintiffs; (2) Wang and, by extension, Defendants solicited each of
the Plaintiffs to provide investments for the entities, and successfully obtained
$1,545,000; (3) Wang promised Plaintiffs that they would receive either a full
return of their investment in Amaxi in five years, one or more parcels of real
estate of equal value, or ownership interest in the business, which statements
were false; (4) in reliance on those representations, (i) plaintiffs Du and Bai
agreed to go forward with the investment and provided to Wang and Defendants
$1,045,000, and (ii) plaintiff Qiu signed a subscription agreement with Amaxi
Regional and U.S. Milk Co. and paid to Wang and the other defendants $530,000;
and (6) Plaintiffs’ money was never returned. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); FAC ¶¶ 21-24, 26-27,
29-30, 38-40, 44; Apollo Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007)
158 Cal.App.4th 226, 242 [“‘ “courts should not . . . seek to absolve the
defendant from liability on highly technical requirements of form in
pleading.  Pleading facts in ordinary and
concise language is as permissible in fraud cases as in any others, and liberal
construction of the pleading is as much a duty of the court in these as in
other cases” ’”].)  
The court notes that, as Defendants argue in
their demurrer, Plaintiffs have not alleged that demurring Defendants made any
specific misrepresentations to them. 
However, Plaintiffs have alleged that Defendants were engaged in a
conspiracy with Wang “to induce Plaintiffs to provide funds to defendants so
they could use the funds for their own benefit and to the detriment of
Plaintiffs.”  (FAC ¶ 16.)  “To support a conspiracy claim, a plaintiff
must allege the following elements: ‘(1) the formation and operation of the
conspiracy, (2) wrongful conduct in furtherance of the conspiracy, and (3)
damages arising from the wrongful conduct.’” 
(AREI II Cases (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1022.)  “It is well settled that ‘ “[b]are”
allegations and “rank” conjecture do not suffice for civil conspiracy.’”  (Ibid.)  However, “[w]hile a complaint must contain
more than a bare allegation the defendants conspired, a complaint is sufficient
if it apprises the defendant of the ‘character and type of facts and
circumstances upon which she was relying to establish the conspiracy.’”  (Ibid.)  
As set forth above, Plaintiffs have alleged
that (1) Defendants each owned, operated, controlled, and were materially
aiding personnel in coordinating efforts to further the fraudulent schemes
against Plaintiffs, and (2) Khun and Lau, together with Wang and nonmoving
defendant Jonathan C.M. Lau, created the entity defendants, including Amaxi, to
further the fraudulent scheme.  (FAC
¶¶ 20-21.)  The court finds that
these allegations are sufficient to allege, for purposes of demurrer, that
Defendants were engaged in a civil conspiracy to commit fraud by alleging facts
showing that (1) Defendants, with Wang and Jonathan C.M. Lau, formed an
operation to defraud Plaintiffs, (2) Defendants were involved in coordinating
efforts to further the schemes, and (3) Plaintiffs were damaged by their
actions. 
            The
court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action for
negligent misrepresentation because it states facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since Plaintiffs have alleged, with sufficient particularity,
that (1) Defendants engaged in a civil conspiracy to make the misrepresentations
of material fact set forth above, (2) they had no reasonable grounds to believe
those representations were true, (3) they made the representations with the
intent to induce Plaintiffs’ reliance, and (4) Plaintiffs relied on those
statements and suffered resultant damages. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); FAC ¶¶ 20-21 [as to
conspiracy claim], 26-27, 29-30, 47, 49-50; Apollo Capital Fund, LLC, supra,
158 Cal.App.4th at p. 243; Borman v. Brown (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1048,
1060 [elements of claim for negligent misrepresentation].) 
            The
court sustains defendants Khun and Lau’s demurrer to plaintiff Du and Bai’s
third cause of action for breach of contract because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against those defendants since
Plaintiffs allege that the contract that is the subject of this cause of action
was entered into by and between plaintiffs Du and Bai, on the one hand, and
Wang and Amaxi Nutrition Products, Inc., a suspended California corporation, on
the other hand, and therefore have not alleged that defendants Khun and Lau
were parties to the subject contract. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); FAC ¶ 52; Miles v. Deutsche
Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402 [elements of breach
of contract cause of action].) 
The court overrules Amaxi’s demurrer to
plaintiff Du and Bai’s third cause of action for breach of contract because it
states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs allege
that (1) Du and Bai, entered into a contract with, inter alia, Amaxi
Nutrition Products, Inc., a suspended California corporation, and (2) Amaxi is
the successor-in-interest to Amaxi Nutrition Products, Inc., a suspended
California corporation, which was formed to continue the allegedly fraudulent
schemes.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e); FAC ¶¶ 52, 5, 22; Miles, supra, 236 Cal.App.4th
at p. 402.)  
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to
plaintiff Qiu’s fourth cause of action for breach of contract because it does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs
allege that the contract that is the subject of this cause of action was
entered into by and between plaintiff Qui, on the one hand, and Wang, Amaxi
Regional Center, LLC, and USA Milk Company, LLC, on the other hand, and
therefore have not alleged that Defendants were parties to the subject
contract.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); FAC ¶ 58; Miles, supra, 236
Cal.App.4th at p. 402.)  
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendants
move the court for an order striking the following from the First Amended
Complaint: (1) the prayer for attorney’s fees; (2) the allegation that
“Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and based thereon allege, that defendants
M. LAU, KHUN, and J. LAU are the successors-in-interest of decedent Macie
Wang,” as set forth in paragraph 13, and (3) the allegation that “KHUN also
acknowledged Plaintiffs’ investments in AMAXI NUTRITION, AMAXI REGIONAL and US
MILK CO., acknowledged that Plaintiffs were entitled to a refund of their
investment monies, and KHUN promised to Plaintiffs that he, through his
companies, including AMAXI NUTRITION WYO, would repay their investment monies,”
as set forth in paragraph 37.
The
court grants Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for attorney’s
fees because Plaintiffs have not pleaded facts establishing that a statute or
other contractual provision entitles them to request such relief.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) 
The
court denies Defendants’ motion to strike the allegations in paragraphs 13 and
37 as set forth above because Defendants have not shown that those allegations
are “irrelevant, false, or improper[,]” or that they are “not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436; PH
II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1683 [motions to
strike should not be used as “a procedural ‘line item veto’ for the civil
defendant”].) 
ORDER
            The
court overrules defendants Andrew Khun, Margaret Lau, and Amaxi Nutrition
Products, Inc., a Wyoming Corporation’s demurrer to plaintiffs Jing Du, Yu Bai,
and Ye Qiu’s first cause of action for fraud and deceit and second cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation. 
            The
court sustains defendants Andrew
Khun and Margaret Lau’s demurrer to plaintiffs Jing Du and Yu Bai’s third cause of action for breach of contract.
            The
court overrules Amaxi Nutrition Products, Inc., a Wyoming Corporation’s demurrer
to plaintiffs Jing Du and Yu Bai’s third cause of action for breach of contract. 
            The
court sustains defendants Andrew Khun, Margaret Lau, and Amaxi Nutrition
Products, Inc., a Wyoming Corporation’s demurrer to plaintiff Ye Qiu’s fourth
cause of action for breach of contract.
            The
court grants defendants Andrew Khun, Margaret Lau, and Amaxi Nutrition
Products, Inc., a Wyoming Corporation’s motion to strike plaintiffs Jing Du, Yu
Bai, and Ye Qiu’s prayer for attorney’s fees. 
            The
court denies all other relief requested in defendants Andrew Khun, Margaret
Lau, and Amaxi Nutrition Products, Inc., a Wyoming Corporation’s motion to
strike.
            The
court grants Plaintiffs Jing Du, Yu Bai, and Ye Qiu 20 days leave to file a
Second Amended Complaint that cures the defects set forth above.
            The
court orders defendants Andrew Khun, Margaret Lau, and Amaxi Nutrition
Products, Inc., a Wyoming Corporation to give notice of this ruling.

 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 25, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court