  Case Number:  21STCV10612    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




nancy del socorro diaz
   martinez

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
champion power equipment,
   inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV10612




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   25, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion regarding determination
  of applicable law
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Champion Power
Equipment, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Nancy del Socorro Diaz Martinez
Motion Regarding Determination of Applicable Law
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant Champion Power Equipment, Inc.’s request
for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code,
§ 452, subd. (c).) 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Champion Power Equipment, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves the court
for an order determining that Texas law shall govern and apply to the claims
alleged in this action, filed by plaintiff Nancy del Socorro Diaz Martinez, a
minor, by and through her guardian ad litem Paloma Denisse Martinez Flores, as
an individual and as successor-in-interest to Nancy Lyseth Martinez, Alejandro
Arellano, Alejandra Estafania Martinez, and Joshua Nathanael Diaz
(“Plaintiff”).  
“‘As the forum state, California will apply its own law “unless a
party litigant timely invokes the law of a foreign state.” ’”  (Chen v. Los Angeles Truck Centers, LLC (2019)
42 Cal.App.5th 488, 495.)  “In that
event, the party invoking a foreign state’s law . . . ‘must demonstrate that
the [foreign state’s] rule of decision will further the interest of the foreign
state and therefore that it is an appropriate one for the forum to apply to the
case before it.’”  (Ibid.)
California decisions “have adopted and consistently applied the so-called
‘governmental interest’ analysis as the appropriate general methodology for
resolving choice-of-law questions in this state.”  (McCann v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2010)
48 Cal.4th 68, 83.)  
“The governmental interest analysis ‘involv[es] three steps: “First,
the court determines whether the relevant law of each of the potentially
affected jurisdictions with regard to the particular issue in question is the
same or different.  Second, if there is a
difference, the court examines each jurisdiction’s interest in the application
of its own law under the circumstances of the particular case to determine
whether a true conflict exists.  Third,
if the court finds that there is a true conflict, it carefully evaluates and
compares the nature and strength of the interest of each jurisdiction in the
application of its own law ‘to determine which state’s interest would be more
impaired if its policy were subordinated to the policy of the other state’ [citation],
and then ultimately applies ‘the law of the state whose interest would be the
more impaired if its law were not applied.’ ” ’”  (Textron Inc. v. Travelers Casualty &
Surety Co. (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 733, 748.) 
A.   
Difference in Law
The court finds that there is a difference in California law and Texas
law with regard to Plaintiff’s claims and requests for damages in this
action.  (Textron Inc., supra,
45 Cal.App.5th at p. 748.)
First, Texas and California courts evaluate the effect of a products
liability defendant’s compliance with federal standards differently.  
“In a products liability action brought against a product manufacturer
or seller [in Texas], there is a rebuttable presumption that the product
manufacturer or seller is not liable for any injury to a claimant caused by
some aspect of the formulation, labeling, or design of a product if the product
manufacturer or seller establishes that the product’s formula, labeling, or
design complied with mandatory safety standards or regulations adopted and
promulgated by the federal government, or an agency of the federal government,
that were applicable to the product at the time of manufacture and that
governed the product risk that allegedly caused harm.”  (Tex. Civ. Prac. & Rem. Code, § 82.008,
subd. (a).) 
Conversely, in California, “[c]ourts have generally not looked with
favor upon the use of statutory compliance as a defense to tort
liability.”  (Ramirez v. Plough, Inc. (1993)
6 Cal.4th 539, 547-548.)  However, if
“the evidence shows no unusual circumstances, but only the ordinary situation
contemplated by the statute or administrative rule, then ‘the minimum standard
proscribed by the legislation or regulation may be accepted by the triers of
fact, or by the court as a matter of law, as sufficient for the occasion. . .
.’”  (Id. at p. 548.) 
Thus, the court finds that there is a difference in law regarding the
effect of a manufacturer defendant’s compliance with federal regulations and
standards because (1) such compliance, in Texas, would entitle that defendant
to a rebuttable presumption that it is not liable, but (2) in California, that
defendant is not entitled to a rebuttable presumption that it is not liable,
and a court “may[,]” but is not required to, accept statutory compliance
as sufficient.  (Tex. Civ. Prac. &
Rem. Code, § 82.008, subd. (a); Ramirez, supra, 6 Cal.4th at p.
548 [emphasis added].) 
Second, Texas and California law differs as to the limitation on
awards of punitive damages.
In Texas, “[e]xemplary damages awarded against a defendant may not
exceed an amount equal to the greater of: [¶] (1)(A) two times the amount of
economic damages; plus [¶] (B) an amount equal to any noneconomic damages found
by the jury, not to exceed $750,000; or [¶] (2) $200,000.”  (Tex. Civ. Prac. & Rem. Code,
§ 41.008, subd. (b).)  But in
California, there is no such limit, except as to the imposition of grossly excessive
or arbitrary awards in violation of due process.  (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47
Cal.4th 686, 712 [“The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
United States Constitution places constraints on state court awards of punitive
damages”].)
            Thus, the court has determined that
there exists differences in the law of the State of California and the State of
Texas with regard to the issues presented in this action.
B.   
Existence of a True Conflict
The court finds that a true conflict does not exist.  (Textron Inc., supra, 45
Cal.App.5t at p. 748; Chen, supra, 42 Cal.App.5th at p. 496 [on
the second step of the choice-of-law inquiry, courts “examine each
jurisdiction’s interest ‘in the application of its own law under the
circumstances of the particular case’ [citation], to determine whether a true
conflict exists”].) 
First, the court finds that Texas has a real interest in the
application of its own law in this action. (Chen, supra, 42
Cal.App.5th at p. 496 [“The state’s interest must be real rather than
hypothetical”].)  The operative complaint
alleges that (1) the decedents died, and Plaintiff was injured, at their house
in Edinburg, Texas, and (2) the cause of their injury and death was carbon
monoxide poisoning after “a dangerously defective portable generator spewed
carbon monoxide throughout their house.” 
(FAC ¶ 1 [Plaintiff seeks relief based on Plaintiff’s injuries and the
wrongful deaths of decedents at their home “on July 27, 2020 in Edinburg,
Texas”].)  “Texas maintains an interest
‘in protecting its citizens from, and compensating them for, injuries resulting
from defective products.’”  (Ford
Motor Co. v. Aguiniga (Tex. Ct. App. 1999) 9 S.W.3d 252, 261.)  Thus, Texas has an interest in adjudicating
the wrongful deaths of its residents caused by a defective product.  (Ibid.) 
Second, the court finds that California has only a hypothetical
interest in the application of its law in this action. 
            The court acknowledges that
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant was a California corporation at the time that
the subject incident occurred and that Plaintiff filed this action.  But Plaintiff has not pointed to any
particular interest that California has in this case, where Plaintiff and the
decedents were not California residents or injured in California.  (Chen, supra, 42 Cal.App.5th at
p. 498 [finding that California had only “a theoretical interest in the
application of its strict products liability rules” when the California
defendant “placed an allegedly defective product into the stream of commerce,
importing it and selling it to a California tour operator”].)  The “underlying basis” for California’s
policy behind imposing strict products liability “is the protection of
California residents and other persons within its territorial jurisdictions
from injury.  California’s interest in
imposing that policy becomes hypothetical when the injured persons are not
California residents and were not injured in California.”  (Ibid.)  
            Thus, upon evaluating the interests
of Texas and California in the application of their own laws under the
circumstances in this case, the court finds that there is no true
conflict.  “‘When one of two states
related to a case has a legitimate interest in the application of its law and
policy and the other has none, there is no real problem; clearly, the law of
the interested state should be applied.’” 
(Hurtado v. Superior Court (1974) 11 Cal.3d 574, 580.)  The court therefore finds that the law of
Texas, as the state that has a legitimate interest in the application of its
law in this action, should govern this case. 
(Ibid.) 
C.   
Nature and Strength of Interest of
Each Jurisdiction
As set forth above, the court has determined that Texas law should
apply because there is no true conflict. 
However, even if the court were to determine that there is a true
conflict, the court would find that Texas’s interest would be more impaired if
its policy were subordinated to the policy of California.  (Textron Inc., supra, 45
Cal.App.5th at p. 748.)
In conducting the analysis under this step, courts must “keep in mind
that ‘[t]he court does not “ ‘weigh’ ” the conflicting governmental interests
in the sense of determining which conflicting law manifested the “better” or
the “worthier” social policy on the specific issue . . . .  [Instead, the process] can accurately be
described as . . . a problem of allocating domains of law-making power in
multi-state context—[by determining the appropriate] limitations on the reach
of state policies—as distinguished from evaluating the wisdom of those
policies. . . .’”  (McCann, supra,
48 Cal.4th at p. 97.) 
The court finds that, under the circumstances, Texas’s interest in
protecting and compensating for the injuries suffered by its residents would be
impaired by applying California law. 
Moreover, “the application of California law [in this case] would not
protect California residents or anyone who was injured in California[,]”
because, as set forth above, the parties have not shown that Plaintiff or any
decedent was a California resident; instead, Plaintiff and the decedents were
domiciled in Texas at the time of the subject incident.  (FAC ¶ 1.)  But “a state’s interest in providing
compensation to survivors in a wrongful death case ‘extend[s] only to local
decedents and local beneficiaries.’”  (Ibid.)
 Because “California’s lawmaking power in
respect of its products liability policy is appropriately confined to the
protection of California residents and persons injured within California’s
borders[,]” the court finds that the application of California law in this case
would impair Texas’s interests and policies in protecting and compensating its
residents for injuries suffered in that state as a result of defective
products.  
D.   
Conclusion
The court finds, for the reasons set forth above, that (1) there
exists a difference in the laws of Texas and California; (2) there is no true
conflict in this case because Texas has a real interest in this action while
California has only a hypothetical interest; and (3) even if a true conflict
existed, the circumstances support applying Texas law. 
The court therefore finds that Texas law shall govern this
action.   
ORDER

The court grants defendant Champion Power Equipment, Inc.’s motion
regarding determination of applicable law. 
The court determines that Texas law shall govern this action.  
The court orders defendant Champion Power Equipment, Inc. to give
notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 25, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court