  Case Number:  22STCP03994    Hearing Date:   February 16, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
OHANNES GEORGIAN, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
US GC INVESTMENTS, L.P.,
  et al.,
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCP03994
  Hearing Date:  February 16, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiffs’ application for prejudgment
  writ of attachment 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            Plaintiffs Ohannes Georgian and
Aziza Georgian initiated this action on November 7, 2022. The operative First
Amended Complaint was filed on January 31, 2023. The action stems from a business
investment deal related to the operation of a restaurant. The FAC asserts
claims for dissolution, accounting, unlawful business practice, negligence,
fiduciary duty, fraud, and conversion against various corporate and individual
defendants. 
            On November 28, 2023, default was
entered against Defendants US GC Investment LP, Fu & Sons Investment
Capital LLC, and New Prosperity LLC. However, the Court has concurrently granted
Defendants’ motion to vacate the default. 
            On December 12, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
the instant application for prejudgment writ of attachment. Defendant Fu &
Sons Investment Capital LLC filed its opposition on the same day. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            “Except as otherwise provided by
statute, an attachment may be issued only in an action on a claim or claims for
money, each of which is based upon a contract, express or implied, where the
total amount of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable amount
not less than five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and
attorney’s fees.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010(a).) 
            “Upon the filing of the complaint or
at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this article for a
right to attach order and a writ of attachment by filing an application for the
order and writ with the court in which the action is brought.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 484.010.) “The application shall be supported by an affidavit showing
that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be entitled to a judgment on
the claim upon which the attachment is based.” (Id., § 484.030.) The
court shall issue the right to attach order if it finds all of the following: (1)
the claim upon which the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment
may be issued; (2) the plaintiff has established the probable validity of the
claim upon which the attachment is based; (3) the attachment is not sought for
a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is
based; and (4) the amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than zero.
(Id., § 484.090(a).) 
DISCUSSION
            The Court does not find that “the
plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon which the
attachment is based.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 484.090(a)(2).) There is a bona
fide dispute as to liability, and the Court has in fact sustained Defendant Fu
& Sons Investment Capital LLC’s demurrer. As discussed in that ruling,
Plaintiff Ohannes Georgian has improperly asserted claims identical to or
arising from the same facts as the claims asserted in Department 30. Plaintiff
Aziza Georgian has failed to allege her standing. Therefore, Plaintiffs cannot
show that they are entitled to judgment for purposes of obtaining an
attachment. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiffs’ motion for prejudgment
writ of attachment is DENIED. 
  


 
OHANNES GEORGIAN, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
US GC INVESTMENTS, L.P.,
  et al.,
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCP03994
  Hearing Date:  February 16, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to set aside default 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            Plaintiffs Ohannes Georgian and
Aziza Georgian initiated this action on November 7, 2022. The operative First
Amended Complaint was filed on January 31, 2023. The action stems from a
business investment deal related to the operation of a restaurant. The FAC
asserts claims for dissolution, accounting, unlawful business practice,
negligence, fiduciary duty, fraud, and conversion against various corporate and
individual defendants. 
            On November 28, 2023, default was
entered against Defendants US GC Investment LP, Fu & Sons Investment
Capital LLC, and New Prosperity LLC. 
            On December 28, 2023, US GC and New
Prosperity filed the instant motion to set aside default. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            “The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b).) Because the law favors resolution on the merits,
doubts are resolved in favor of the party requesting relief, and only “slight
evidence” is needed to justify relief. (Caldwell v. Methodist Hospital
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1521, 1524.) “[C]ourts have often granted relief pursuant
to the discretionary relief provision of section 473 if no prejudice to the
opposing party will ensue.” (Comunidad en Accion v. Los Angeles City Council
(2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1132-1133.) Section 473(b) also provides for
mandatory relief in instances of attorney mistake, “unless the court finds that
the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”
DISCUSSION
            Defendants have sufficiently
established that the delay in filing their answer was caused by their counsel’s
inadvertence or mistake. Specifically, due to the abrupt departure of the
attorney previously handling the case, current defense counsel overlooked the
fact that Defendants had not appeared or filed a responsive pleading. (Zhou
Decl. ¶ 13.) Counsel avers that Defendants did not contribute to this
oversight. (Ibid.) Therefore, relief is warranted under Section 473(b).
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion to set aside
default is GRANTED. 


 
OHANNES GEORGIAN, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
US GC INVESTMENTS, L.P.,
  et al.,
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCP03994
  Hearing Date:  February 16, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant fu & sons investment
  capital, llc’s demurrer and motion to strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            Plaintiffs Ohannes Georgian and
Aziza Georgian initiated this action on November 7, 2022. The operative First
Amended Complaint was filed on January 31, 2023. The action stems from a
business investment deal related to the operation of a restaurant. The FAC
asserts claims for dissolution, accounting, unlawful business practice,
negligence, fiduciary duty, fraud, and conversion against various corporate and
individual defendants. 
            On November 28, 2023, default was
entered against Defendants US GC Investment LP, Fu & Sons Investment
Capital LLC, and New Prosperity LLC. However, the Court is concurrently
granting Defendants’ motion to vacate the default. 
            On December 11, 2023, Defendant Fu
& Sons Investment Capital LLC filed the instant demurrer and motion to
strike against the FAC. Plaintiffs filed their opposition on December 22, 2023.
 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Shumake Decl.)
DISCUSSION
            Defendant argues that the FAC is
invalid because the same claims that Ohannes Georgian asserts here have already
been compelled to arbitration in a prior case. Defendant also points out that
Plaintiffs’ attorney, Noah Green, was disqualified in that prior case. Lastly, Defendant
argues that Aziza Georgian has not alleged enough facts to establish her
standing.    
            1.
The Prior Case
The prior case is US GC Investment, LP
v. Fu & Sons Investment Capital, LLC, et al. (20STCV09036) in
Department 30. The case was initiated on March 4, 2020. On October 30, 2020, Fu
& Sons and Frank Fu filed a cross-complaint against US GC and Ohannes
Georgian. On March 3, 2021, Ohannes Georgian filed a cross-complaint against Fu
& Sons and Frank Fu. 
On August 12, 2021, Judge Barbara Scheper
in Department 30 ordered Georgian’s cross-complaint to arbitration. On February
16, 2023, Judge Scheper ordered the cross-claims asserted by Fu & Sons and
Fu to arbitration. On April 14, 2023, Judge Scheper ordered arbitration of the
complaint filed by various Plaintiffs-in-Intervention. Judge Scheper ordered
the entire case stayed pending arbitration. A post-arbitration status
conference is scheduled for April 11, 2024 in Department 30. 

A demurrer lies
where “[t]here is another action pending between the same parties on the same
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(c).) Furthermore, “if a party
against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a
cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his
answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not
thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause
of action not pleaded.” (Id., § 426.30.)1 “Thus, a party
cannot by negligence or design withhold issues and litigate them in successive
actions; he may not split his demands or defenses; he may not submit
 

 
1 “Complaint” means a complaint or
cross-complaint. “Plaintiff” means a person who files a complaint or
cross-complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10.) 
his
case in piecemeal fashion.” (Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179
Cal.App.4th 949, 959.) A compulsory cross-claim is one that “arises out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the
cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (Id. at
p. 960.)  
Ohannes Georgian’s complaint in this
action is identical to the cross-complaint he filed in Department 30, save for
the causes of action for dissolution and accounting. Despite the different legal
theories asserted, the claims arise from the same facts and transactions.
Therefore, the claims should have been asserted as a compulsory cross-claim in
Department 30, not as a separate action in this Court.   
            2.
Noah Green’s Disqualification 
On July 19, 2022, Judge Scheper granted
the Intervenors’ motion to disqualify Noah Green, finding that “Green’s
simultaneous representation of Georgian and US GC is grounds for automatic
disqualification.” (July 19, 2022 Minute Order, p. 2.) Judge Scheper explained
that “once a conflict has arisen between a corporation and one or more of its
officers, directors or shareholders, corporate counsel may not simultaneously
represent the corporation and the adverse officer, director or shareholder.” (Ibid.)

Plaintiffs argue that “Department 30’s
decision to disqualify Green in the USGC case was wrong and should not be
extended to this case for multiple reasons.” (Opp. 7:21-22.) However, the
parties litigated the disqualification issue before Judge Scheper. The merits
of that ruling are not reviewable by this Court. Ultimately, there exists an
order disqualifying Green which has not been set aside or reversed. Green does
not dispute being disqualified despite disagreeing with the order. This appears
to be the law of the case which this Court must follow. 
Nevertheless, a demurrer is not the
correct procedural mechanism for seeking the disqualification of counsel. Green’s
disqualification has no bearing on the sufficiency of the complaint. 
            3.
Aziza Georgian
Plaintiffs have no response to Defendant’s
argument that as to Aziza Georgian, “no facts were alleged showing an
ownership, partnership, or any interest of any kind in US GC Investment, L.P.,
or New Prosperity, LLC, and therefore, she has no standing to assert any claims
in the FAC.” (See Dem. 10:1-5.) 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Fu & Sons Investment
Capital LLC’s demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to all claims
asserted by Ohannes Georgian. The demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as
to Aziza Georgian. 