 Case Number:  23STCV03859    Hearing Date:   February 16, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
CREDITORS ADJUSTMENT
  BUREAU,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
SCHON TEPLER CONSTRUCTION, INC., et al.,
  

                        Defendants. 
 

 
SCHON TEPLER CONSTRUCTION, INC.,
 
                       Cross-Complainant,
 
            v.
 
STATE COMPENSATION INSURANCE FUND,
 
                       Cross-Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  23STCV03859
  Hearing Date:  February 16, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer to cross-complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 22, 2023, Plaintiff Creditors
Adjustment Bureau (CAB) filed this action against various entity defendants
with the Schon Tepler name. The complaint asserts (1) breach of contract, (2)
open book account, (3) account stated, and (4) reasonable value. The dispute
stems from a debt that Schon Tepler allegedly owes to State Compensation
Insurance Fund (SCIF) arising from two workers compensation insurance policies.
Schon Tepler allegedly defaulted on premium payments. SCIF assigned the debt to
CAB for collection purposes. 
            On August 16, 2023, Schon Tepler
Construction, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against SCIF, asserting (1) breach
of contract and (2) tortious breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing. The cross-complaint alleges that SCIF mishandled, overpaid, and
over-reserved one or more claims made under the policies, resulting in higher
premiums. 
            On October 19, 2023, SCIF filed the
instant demurrer to the cross-complaint. Schon Tepler filed its opposition on
February 2, 2024. SCIF filed its reply on February 8, 2024
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Cross-Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Creel Decl.)
 
DISCUSSION
I.
Administrative Exhaustion
            “[W]here a remedy before an
administrative agency is provided by statute, regulation, or ordinance, relief
must be sought by exhausting this remedy before the courts will act.” (Parthemore
v. Col (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 1372, 1379.) “The ‘failure to exhaust
administrative remedies is a proper basis for demurrer.’” (Ibid.) 
In the insurance context, “[e]very insurer
or rating organization shall provide within this state reasonable means whereby
any person aggrieved by the application of its filings may be heard by the
insurer or rating organization on written request to review the manner in which
the rating system has been applied in connection with the insurance afforded or
offered.” (Ins. Code, § 11737(f).) “Any person aggrieved by any decision,
action, or omission to act of a rating organization may request that the rating
organization reconsider the decision, action, or omission.” (Id., §
11753.1(a).) The procedural requirements and standards applicable to the review
process enumerated in these code sections are set forth in the California Code
of Regulations, sections 2509.40 et seq. 
According to SCIF, these statutes and
regulations establish an administrative process that Schon Tepler has failed to
allege exhaustion of. SCIF relies on P.W. Stephens, Inc. v. State
Compensation Ins. Fund (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1833, 1841, which noted that “the
question of excessive insurance rates is singularly within the technical
competence of the Insurance Commissioner through the enlistment of agency
resources. Thus, before any judicial relief can be sought regarding the
question of excessive surcharges, it is indispensable that the expertise of the
insurance commissioner and the agency's staff be initially engaged to make such
review.” This is because “the propriety of premium rates and surcharges involve
factors and methodology which require quasi-legislative action involving
expertise in the subject matter, and courts have traditionally given deference
to such agency determinations.” (State Compensation Ins. Fund v. Brown
(1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 188, 199.) 
However, “courts have rejected the idea
that an insured must first exhaust administrative remedies through an appeal to
the Insurance Commissioner before asserting claims of breach of contract
against its insurer, including breaches that place the amount of premium in
dispute.” (State Comp. Ins. Fund v. ReadyLink Healthcare, Inc. (2020) 50
Cal.App.5th 422, 460.) Stephens and related cases pertain to
rate-setting disputes and “did not purport to address an insured's right to sue
civilly for an insurer's breach of express and implied contractual provisions
obligating an insurer to promptly and fairly handle claims made against its
insured.” (Lance Camper Manufacturing Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 202.) The administrative exhaustion requirement does
not apply where an insured “is challenging the claims handling practices that
increased the Insurer's reported losses, which resulted in higher premiums,
higher reserves, and lower dividends.” (Id. at p. 203.) 
Here, as in Lance Camper, “this is
not a rate setting dispute, but rather a claim that the Insurer engaged in bad
faith in settling individual policy claims to artificially inflate its reserves
and the Insured's premiums, and deflate the Insured's dividends.” (Lance
Camper, supra, 44 Cal.App.4th at p. 202.) Insurance Code sections 11737 and
11753.1 are inapplicable because “[n]either of these provisions indicates that
the Insurance Commissioner has the authority to consider the common law breach
of contract and other collection claims.” (ReadyLink, supra, 50
Cal.App.5th at p. 459.) The court in ReadyLink also distinguished Stephens
for the same reasons discussed above. (Id. at pp. 463-64.) “[I]ssues of
contract interpretation, including whether an insurer accurately calculated a
premium under the contract, and the application of equitable defenses to the
enforcement of a contract, do not involve considerations that fall uniquely
within the Insurance Commissioner's expertise.” (Id. at p. 464.) 
Schon Tepler’s cross-complaint alleges
that SCIF mishandled, overpaid, and over-reserved one or more claims made under
the policies, resulting in higher premiums. (Cross-Compl. ¶¶ 13-14.) The
cross-complaint alleges that “SCIF breached the Policies by overcharging final
premium for the Policies.” (Id., ¶ 17.) Therefore, this is not a
rate-setting dispute like the one in Stephens, but rather a contractual
dispute like the one in Lance Camper concerning the insurer’s handling
of claims. It does not become a rate-setting dispute simply because the amount
of premium is disputed. (ReadyLink, supra, 50 Cal.App.5th at p. 460.) At
the very least, the allegations are sufficient to survive demurrer because the
complaint must be interpreted in Plaintiff’s favor. The allegations support a
reasonable inference that this is a contractual dispute about claims handling
rather than a rate-setting dispute. Therefore, the failure to exhaust
administrative remedies is not a defect that appears on the face of the
complaint. 
II.
Uncertainty
            A demurrer for uncertainty applies “if
the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.”
(A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th
677, 695.) Usually, a complaint does not need to be a “model of clarity” to
survive a demurrer because most ambiguities can be clarified through discovery.
(Ibid.)
SCIF argues that the breach of contract
claim is uncertain regarding how SCIF breached the policy by “overcharging
final premium.” (See Cross-Compl. ¶ 17.) For pleading purposes, Schon Tepler
has alleged the ultimate fact that SCIF overcharged the premiums on the
policies. This places SCIF on adequate notice of the claim. Precisely how SCIF
overcharged the premiums is an evidentiary matter to be resolved through
discovery. 
SCIF also argues that “[i]f SCHON TEPLER
were to contend that it is not required to exhaust its administrative remedies,
there is not enough information alleged in the Cross-Complaint to evaluate such
an assertion.” (Dem. 10:23-25.) However, as discussed above, the allegations support
a reasonable inference that this is a contractual dispute rather than a
rate-setting dispute. Therefore, the information alleged in the cross-complaint
is enough to determine, at least for pleading purposes, that Schon Tepler was
not required to exhaust administrative remedies. 
CONCLUSION
            SCIF’s demurrer to cross-complaint
is OVERRULED.
 