 Case Number:  22STCV26639    Hearing Date:   February 16, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
MARYAM KHANI,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
BOBBY BABAK SAADIAN, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV26639
  Hearing Date:  February 16, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant wilshire law firm’s motion to
  compel further responses 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 17, 2022, Plaintiff filed
this legal malpractice action against Defendants Bobby Babak Saadian and
Wilshire Law Firm, PLC. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint
on December 6, 2022, asserting causes of action for (1) legal malpractice, (2)
breach of fiduciary duty, and (3) fraud. 
            On December 8, 2023, the Court
granted Defendant Wilshire Law Firm’s motion to compel further responses to
Requests for Admission Nos. 27, 28, 33 and the associated Form Interrogatory
No. 17.1. Plaintiff served supplemental responses on December 23, 2023, which
Defendant contends are still inadequate.  

            On January 22, 2024, Defendant
Wilshire Law Firm filed the instant motion to compel further responses from
Plaintiff as to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 as it relates to RFA Nos. 27 and
33. Plaintiff filed her opposition on February 5, 2024.   
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
            Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) 
MEET AND CONFER
A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1),
2031.310(b), 2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Defendant has satisfied the
meet and confer requirement. (See Coronel Decl.)
DISCUSSION
RFA No. 27 asks Plaintiff to admit that
she took no action to investigate the alleged misconduct until July 2022. Plaintiff
denied the request and identified the following information in response to FROG
No. 17.1: 
 
(i) Supporting
facts: “Plaintiff sought information from the Defendants and their 
employees prior to
July of 2022 but the Defendants withheld information at that time.”
 
(ii) Witnesses: “Defendants
including their employees and agents whose name are 
unknown at this
time.” 
 
(iii) Documents: “Plaintiff’s
medical records from the underlying case, Defendant’s file.” 
(Coronel
Decl., Ex. F.) 
            Plaintiff has provided responsive
information relating to her denial of RFA No. 27. The response explains that
Plaintiff took some action to investigate Defendants’ alleged misconduct by
seeking information from Defendants and their employees. The witnesses are
identified as Defendants and their employees, but Plaintiff cannot specify the
names of employees that are unknown to her. Lastly, Plaintiff contends that the
medical records and Defendants’ file support her denial. While Defendant
believes these facts and documents do not support Plaintiff’s denial, that is
not a reason to compel a further response. The merits of the case cannot be
litigated on this motion. Defendant can propound supplemental discovery to the
extent it seeks more detailed information. 
RFA No. 33 asks Plaintiff to admit that
she has no evidence that Defendant Saadian breached any duty owed to her. Plaintiff
denied the request and identified the following information: 
(i) Supporting
facts: “Defendant failed to properly communicate and advise the Plaintiff of
her rights and the status of the case. Defendant failed to investigate the
underlying defendant’s assets…and Defendant failed to properly inform Plaintiff
that they did not have malpractice insurance in their contingency agreement.
Defendant orchestrated the Plaintiff’s medical care and prioritized the medical
providers over the Plaintiff.” 
 
(ii) Witnesses: “Defendants
including their employees and agents whose name are unknown at this time.” 
 
(iii) Documents: “Plaintiff’s
medical records from the underlying case, Defendant’s file.” 
(Coronel
Decl., Ex. F.) 
            This response similarly provides the
information that Plaintiff contends supports her denial. That the facts
provided mirror the facts alleged in the complaint is not a reason to compel a
further response; those are the facts that Plaintiff contends support her
position.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Wilshire Law Firm’s motion
to compel further responses is DENIED. Sanctions are denied as the parties
acted with substantial justification. 
 