 Case Number:  23STCV19669    Hearing Date:   February 16, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ANGELICA CASTANEDA,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
BRIARCREST NURSING
  CENTER, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV19669
  Hearing Date:  February 16, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to compel arbitration
  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 16, 2023, Plaintiff
Angelica Castaneda filed this action against Defendants 5648 East Gotham
Street, LLC dba Briarcrest Nursing Center, Win Win Enterprises, LLC, Ira
Smedra, and Jacob Winter. The complaint asserts claims arising from
discrimination, retaliation, and wage violations. 
            On November 3, 2023, Defendants
filed the instant motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiff filed her opposition
on February 2, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on February 8, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) states
that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing a transaction
involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising
out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) The term “involving commerce” is
interpreted to mean simply “affecting commerce” to give the FAA the broadest
reach possible, and does not require a transaction that is actually “within the
flow of interstate commerce.” (See Allied-Bruce Terminix Co. v. Dobson (1995)
513 U.S. 265, 273-74; Citizens Bank v. Alafabco, Inc. (2003) 539 U.S.
52, 56.) Moreover, parties may agree to apply the FAA notwithstanding any
effect on interstate commerce. (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020)
46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1281.2.) “The party seeking
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s
Objections to Defendants’ Evidence:

Plaintiff’s objections are
     overruled. 

Defendants’
Objections to Plaintiff’s Evidence:

Declaration of Angelica
     Castaneda

The following objections are
      sustained: 1, 3-7.
The following objections are
      overruled: 2. 

Declaration of Shelly McMillan

Defendants’ objection is
      overruled. 


 
 
 
 
DISCUSSION
I.
Proving an Agreement to Arbitrate
“As to the existence of an agreement, [the
moving party bears] the ultimate burden of proof, but the court [is] obliged to
resolve the dispute using a three-step burden-shifting process.” (Iyere v.
Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755.)   
a. Defendants’ Initial Burden
“The moving party ‘can meet its initial
burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opposing party's signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.) “At this step,
a movant need not ‘follow the normal procedures of document authentication’ and
need only ‘allege the existence of an agreement and support the allegation.’” (Iyere,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755.)  
Here, Defendants present two acknowledgments
purportedly signed by Plaintiff on October 22, 2015 and May 14, 2021. (Powell
Decl., Ex. A, B.) The acknowledgments contain a hand signature directly below
the following provision: “I KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY AGREE TO SUBMIT AND
SETTLE ANY DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO MY
EMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIP WITH BRIARCREST NURSING CENTER TO ARBITRATION AS
DESCRIBED IN THE ‘ARBITRATION AGREEMENT’ SECTION OF THIS HANDBOOK.” (Ibid.)
The employee handbook contains an arbitration provision covering “any dispute
including without limitation, contract claims, tort claims, breach of duty
claims, wrongful termination claims, wage claims, claims of discrimination or
harassment (whether in the hiring process or after employment) and all other
common law and statutory claims, including all claims based upon federal or
state civil rights laws.” (Id., Ex. C.) This is sufficient to meet
Defendants’ initial burden. 
 
 
b. Plaintiff’s Burden to Raise a Factual
Dispute
“If the movant bears its initial burden,
the burden shifts to the party opposing arbitration to identify a factual
dispute as to the agreement's existence—in this instance, by disputing the
authenticity of their signatures. To bear this burden, the arbitration
opponent must offer admissible evidence creating a factual dispute as to the
authenticity of their signatures. The opponent need not prove that
his or her purported signature is not authentic, but must submit sufficient
evidence to create a factual dispute and shift the burden back to the
arbitration proponent, who retains the ultimate burden of proving, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the authenticity of the signature.” (Iyere,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755.) 
The plaintiffs in Iyere failed to
meet their opposing burden because “no plaintiff declared that he had not signed
the agreement, or that his physical signature was forged or inauthentic.” (Iyere,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 756.) Instead, the plaintiffs actually admitted
that they signed a stack of documents, though they did not “recall”
specifically signing an arbitration agreement. (Ibid.) Of course, mere
failure to recall or read the arbitration agreement was not a sufficient excuse
to escape its enforcement. (Id. at pp. 758-59.) 
However, Plaintiff here specifically denies
signing the arbitration agreement. (Castaneda Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.) Plaintiff does not
merely fail to “recall” signing the agreement; she unequivocally declares that
she in fact did not sign it and attests that the signature is not hers. Under Iyere,
this is sufficient to raise a factual dispute. Plaintiff need not specifically
prove that her signature was forged. Her denial is admissible evidence against
the authenticity of the signature. Therefore, the burden returns to Defendants
to ultimately prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, that Plaintiff signed
the arbitration agreement. 
c. Defendants’ Ultimate Burden
“All that is required to authenticate a
writing is that there be ‘evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that it is
the writing that the proponent of the evidence claims it is.’” (Landale-Cameron
Court, Inc. v. Ahonen (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1409; Evid. Code, §
1400.) “A qualified witness need not be the custodian, the person who created
the record, or one with personal knowledge in order for a business record to be
admissible under the hearsay exception.” (Unifund CCR, LLC v. Dear
(2015) 243 Cal.App.4th Supp. 1, 8.) A “witness need not have been present at
every transaction to establish the business records exception; he or she need
only be familiar with the procedures followed.” (Jazayeri v. Mao (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 301, 325.) 
Here, Bradley Powell is the administrator
of Defendant 5648 East Gotham Street, LLC who also serves as its custodian of
records. (Powell Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) Mr. Powell is responsible for the maintenance
of personnel files, including arbitration agreements. (Id., ¶ 3.) In
that capacity, he is personally aware that the records in question were
prepared by Defendant and kept in the ordinary course of business. (Ibid.)
Mr. Powell avers that Exhibit A is a true and correct copy of Plaintiff’s
acknowledgment. (Id., ¶ 4.) This is sufficient to authenticate the
document. 
Additionally, Defendants present further
employment documents signed by Plaintiff with the same signature. (Powell Reply
Decl., Ex. E.) Plaintiff’s signature on the arbitration acknowledgment also
matches the signature she provided in her declaration submitted for this
motion. Therefore, the Court finds that Defendants have satisfied their
ultimate burden of proving an arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the
evidence.  
II.
Unconscionability 
Unconscionability has both a procedural
and a substantive element. (Aron v. U-Haul Co. of California (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 796, 808.) Both elements must be present for a court to invalidate
a contract or clause. (Ibid.) However, the two elements need not be
present in the same degree; courts use a sliding scale approach in assessing
the two elements. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227,
242.)
 
 
a. Procedural Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability “focuses on
two factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from an
inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an
absence of meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the
supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” (Zullo v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484, internal citations and
quotations omitted.)
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is
procedurally unconscionable because she had no opportunity to negotiate its
terms. However, an adhesion contract, by itself, presents only a minimal degree
of procedural unconscionability. (Serpa v. California Surety Investigations,
Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.) 

Plaintiff also argues that she could not
have known what entity she was entering the agreement with because “Briarcrest
Nursing Center” is a fictitious business name which was not officially
registered until shortly before Defendants filed this motion. However, there is
no dispute that Briarcrest Nursing Center is the same entity as 5648 East
Gotham Street, LLC, and Plaintiff avers in her declaration that she was
employed by Briarcrest. (See Castaneda Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff knows that
Briarcrest was her employer, and the agreement accurately identifies Briarcrest.
Therefore, Plaintiff knew that she was agreeing with her employer to arbitrate
all claims arising from her employment. The agreement is not surprising. 
Plaintiff argues that the agreement only
explains the benefits of arbitration rather than the negatives. However,
Plaintiff cites no authority for the proposition that an arbitration agreement
must equally list the pros and cons of arbitration. The acknowledgment
accurately explains that Plaintiff was agreeing to arbitration as set forth in
the handbook and was waiving her right to a jury trial. Therefore, the
essential terms of the agreement were set forth. The Court finds a minimal
degree of procedural unconscionability. 
 
b. Substantive Unconscionability 
Substantive unconscionability focuses on
the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly
harsh or one-sided results as to shock the conscience. (Suh v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1515.) 
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is
substantively unconscionable because it only requires employees, not the
employer, to arbitrate covered claims. Plaintiff points to the sentence in the
Handbook that reads: “Such arbitration shall include any Claims you have
against the Facility or any of its officers, managers, employees, supervisors,
agents or owners.” (Powell Decl., Ex. C.) Plaintiff argues that there is no
reciprocal provision applying to Briarcrest or its officers, managers, etc.
However, Plaintiff’s narrow focus on one sentence
is misplaced because the arbitration provision as a whole clearly applies to
both parties. First, the provision states that “if any disputes between
employer and employee cannot be resolved, then we will require that such
disputes be resolved in binding arbitration.” (Powell Decl., Ex. C.) Next, the
definition of a covered “claim” includes “any dispute including without
limitation . . . .” (Ibid.) Lastly, the provision states that “All
Claims, at the request of either the employee or the Facility, should be
submitted and settled by binding arbitration.” (Ibid.) The agreement
makes clear that any and all claims related to Plaintiff’s employment must be arbitrated.
This means claims brought by either Plaintiff or Defendants. The agreement further
authorizes either Plaintiff or Defendants to demand arbitration. Therefore, Defendants
are equally bound by the arbitration agreement. The Court finds no substantive
unconscionability.    
//
//
//
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. The case is stayed in its entirety pending the outcome
of arbitration. 