  On July 28, 2023, John Koblanski filed the operative Complaint against Defendants Ultralytics, Inc. and Glenn Jocher for (1) declaratory relief, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, and (3) failure to pay minimum wages under FLSA.  Plaintiff alleges that he and Jocher formed a company, Ultralytics, Inc.  Plaintiff claims there was an agreement in which he was supposed to have a 35% interest in Ultralytics, but Jocher now asserts Plaintiff is owed nothing despite the time and efforts that Plaintiff has invested in making Utralytics successful.  On October 1, 2024, the Court denied a motion to dismiss/stay for forum non conveniens filed by Defendants.  In that ruling, the Court stated, “assuming Delaware is a proper forum, Defendants fail to point to sufficient evidence indicating that litigation in this forum would be seriously inconvenient relative to Delaware.  There is nothing to indicate that Delaware would be a substantially better suited forum with greater ties.”On November 14, 2024, Defendants filed a petition for writ of mandate from the Court of Appeal.On December 9, 2024, the Court of Appeal ruled: “The order issued October 1, 2024, considered whether there had been a showing that California was a seriously inconvenient forum, which is not the burden on a Code of Civil Procedure section 410.30 motion to dismiss where, as here, the plaintiff is a resident of another country. (Fox Factory, Inc. v. Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 197, 205-208.)”  The Court of Appeal issued an alternative writ requiring that this Court either: “(a) vacate [its] October 1, 2024, order denying the motion to dismiss pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 410.30 and reconsider the motion in light of the above; or (b) show cause before this court . . .  why a peremptory writ ordering you to do so should not issue.” On December 13, 2024, the Court made the parties aware that it was considering vacating its prior ruling and entering a new ruling.  The Court invited supplemental briefing, but noted that there should not be any “new or additional evidence.”  Defendant filed a supplemental brief on January 3, 2025, and Plaintiff filed a brief on January 14, 2025.Plaintiff is not a resident of this state.  Therefore, as the Court of Appeal has pointed out, this Court previously used an incorrect standard in ruling on the instant Motion.  (See Fox Factory, Inc. v. Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 197, 205-208.)  Thus, the Court will vacate its prior ruling and enter a new ruling.“When a court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds that in the interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum outside this state, the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in part on any conditions that may be just.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 410.30(a).)  In other words, the doctrine of forum non conveniens “is an equitable doctrine invoking the discretionary power of a court to decline to exercise the jurisdiction it has over a transitory cause of action when it believes that the action may be more appropriately and justly tried elsewhere.”  (Stangvik v. Shiley Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751 (“Stangvik”))In considering motions based on forum non conveniens, courts undertake a two-part analysis.  First, the court determines whether the alternate forum is a suitable place for trial.  If it is, the next step is to consider the private interests of the litigants and the interests of the public in litigating the matter in one forum or another.  (Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d at p. 751.)  “The private interest factors are those that make trial and the enforceability of the ensuing judgment expeditious and relatively inexpensive, such as the ease of access to sources of proof, the cost of obtaining attendance of witnesses, and the availability of compulsory process for attendance of unwilling witnesses. The public interest factors include avoidance of overburdening local courts with congested calendars, protecting the interests of potential jurors so that they are not called upon to decide cases in which the local community has little concern, and weighing the competing interests of California and the alternate jurisdiction in the litigation.”  (Ibid.)  The moving party bears the burden of establishing both components in the analysis. (Ibid.)  The trial court has considerable discretion to decide motions based on forum non conveniens. (Ibid.)“[T]he forum choice of a foreign plaintiff is not entitled to a presumption of convenience.”  (Fox Factory, Inc. v. Superior Ct. (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 197, 205.)  “Where . . . the plaintiff resides in a foreign country . . . plaintiff's choice of forum is much less reasonable and is not entitled to the same preference as a resident of the state where the action is filed. . . . [T]he fact that plaintiffs chose to file their complaint in California is not a substantial factor in favor of retaining jurisdiction here.”  (Stangvik v. Shiley Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 755.)“Defendant's residence is also a factor to be considered in the balance of convenience. If a corporation is the defendant, the state of its incorporation and the place where its principal place of business is located is presumptively a convenient forum.”  (Stangvik v. Shiley Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 755.)As an initial matter, it seems that Delaware is a suitable alternative forum.  Indeed, there is already a lawsuit pending between the parties in that forum.  (See Ultralytics Inc., et al. v. Koblanski, No. N24C-05-326 EMD.)  Additionally, Jocher has stipulated to jurisdiction in Delaware.  Plaintiff is a resident of Norway and a citizen of Canada.   Ultralytics, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware.  Jocher resides in Madrid, Spain.  Ultralytic’s principal place of business is Madrid, and “Ultralytics has no other offices in the United States and has no employees located in California.”  (Jocher Decl. para. 1.)  It is undisputed that Delaware is significantly closer to Madrid than Los Angeles, meaning that witnesses and documents may be somewhat more accessible in Delaware.  Plaintiff claims that Ultralytics, Inc. had a presence in Los Angeles.  Plaintiff testifies that “Mr. Jocher, at least when I was working for Ultralytics, maintained an apartment in Los Angeles, California. I am aware of this because Mr. Jocher told me. The Los Angeles address for Mr. Jocher's apartment was also the address that Ultralytics used as its principal place of business in the United States.”The Court finds credible the assertion by Jocher that the corporate affiliation to Los Angeles was with regard to a predecessor, Ultralytics, LLC.  (See Jocher Decl. para. 12 [“at least the Ultralytics X account (formerly Twitter) was started many years ago, near the time when Ultralytics LLC was founded in 2014.”].)  It is not apparent what corporate matters actually took place in Los Angeles for Ultralytics, Inc.The only facts supporting litigation in California are that Jocher may have had an apartment in Los Angeles and that one witness, Louis Lehot, is located in California.  California does not have a particularly strong tie to this lawsuit.The Court has weighed the private and public factors and finds that they tip in favor of litigation in Delaware.  As mentioned, a lawsuit between the parties is already pending there, and Jocher has consented to jurisdiction in that forum. Furthermore, the Court rejects Plaintiff’s waiver argument—no prejudice has been shown.Therefore, in the exercise of its discretion, the Court grants the Motion to Dismiss.Even though the Court did not permit the filing of a supplemental declaration by Plaintiff, the Court read and considered that declaration.Moving party to give notice.