 Case Number:  23STCP04543    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
COMMUNITY COALITION, et al.,   


 
 
 
 
 
Petitioners,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
23STCP04543




 
vs.
 
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondents.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON DEMURRER TO VERIFIED FIRST
  AMENDED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
 
Dept. 86 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



            Respondents City of Los Angeles, Los
Angeles Police Department and Dominic Choi demur to all three causes of action
in the Verified First Amended Petition for Writ of Mandate.
 
I.       Factual Allegations
 
As alleged, respondent
Los Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”) has a policy of conducting “high-risk” or
“felony” traffic stops when its officers lack probable cause and the only basis
for reasonable suspicion is that the vehicle may be stolen. (FAP ¶¶ 1,
15-19.) During high-risk traffic stops, LAPD officers are trained to: (1)
respond with at least seven to more than a dozen officers and a police
helicopter; (2) hold the driver at gunpoint by several officers; (3) order the
occupants of the vehicle to lie face down on the street spread-eagled, i.e.,
with arms and legs extended; (4) search the vehicle; and (5) handcuff each
occupant before investigating whether the vehicle was stolen. (FAP ¶ 20.)
Officers are trained to use these tactics even when the occupants obey the
officers’ comments and do not resist in any way. (FAP ¶ 21.) Officers are also
trained to point their firearms toward the vehicle while a suspect is still in
the vehicle. (FAP ¶ 22.) After the suspect exits the vehicle, officers are
trained to hold their firearms in the low ready position, i.e., toward
the suspect below the suspect’s hands. (FAP ¶ 22.)
 
            LAPD trains its officers to conduct a high-risk traffic
stop when the California Law Enforcement Telecommunication System (“CLETS”)—a system
of electronic databases maintained by the California Department of Justice—indicates
that a vehicle may be stolen or that the vehicle’s license plate is registered
to another vehicle. (FAP ¶ 23.) LAPD does not have its officers confirm
the CLETS information before conducting a high-risk traffic stop, even though
confirmation is required by California Department of Justice regulations. (FAP
¶¶ 24, 35.) According to training provided by the Commission on Peace Officer
Standards and Training (“POST”), an agency created within the California
Department of Justice, the fact that a vehicle was identified by CLETS as
having been stolen is insufficient to establish probable cause to conduct a
search or to place an individual under arrest. (FAP ¶¶ 31, 34.) 
 
            Petitioners allege the risk presented during a traffic
stop of a suspected stolen vehicle is low. (FAP ¶ 26.) LAPD has not identified
any traffic stop based on suspicion of a stolen vehicle where any officer was
injured. (FAP ¶ 26.) Weapons were seized in fewer than one percent of 8,000
stops between 2018 and 2022. (FAP ¶¶ 3, 27.) In 74 percent of stops, the
vehicle turned out not to be stolen. (FAP ¶¶ 3, 28.) Between 2018 and 2022, Black
Angelenos, who represent 8 percent of the population of the City of Los
Angeles, were subjected to 18 percent of traffic stops based on suspicion of a
stolen vehicle. (FAP ¶ 30.) 
 
            Petitioner Community Coalition is a
non-profit organization that trains activists and organizers and promotes
racial justice. (FAP ¶ 7.) Petitioner Black Lives Matter Los Angeles is part of
a nationwide network dedicated to racial justice, Black organizing, and ending
police brutality. (FAP ¶ 8.) Petitioner Sheilanee Sen previously brought a
lawsuit, now settled, against the City of Los Angeles over a high-risk traffic
stop conducted by an officer of the Los Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”).
(FAP ¶ 9.) Petitioner Sen seeks to prevent LAPD from subjecting motorists
suspected only of stealing a vehicle to high-risk traffic stops. (FAP ¶ 9.)
 
            Petitioners contend that the policy as alleged violates
the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution and Article 1, Section
13 of the California Constitution—both of which prohibit unreasonable seizures,
including arrests, without a warrant or probable cause. (FAP ¶ 2.) 
 
II.      Procedural History 
 
          On December 19, 2023, petitioners filed a Verified Petition for Writ of
Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief. After respondents
demurred to the Petition, petitioners filed a Verified First Amended Petition
for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief. 
 
            On April 5, 2024, respondents filed a demurrer to the
First Amended Petition. On April 26, 2024, petitioners filed an opposition. On May
2, 2024, respondents filed a reply.
 


III.     Evidentiary Matters
 
            Petitioner’s
requests for judicial notice are GRANTED, as follows:
 
            Exhibit
A - “Event 4 – Traffic Enforcement, Session 13, revised November 13, 2019,”
which is an instructor manual available on LAPD’s website at https://www.lapdonline.org/ev04-traffic-enforcement/.
(Evid. Code § 452(b), (c); Julian Volunteer Fire Co. Assn. v. Julian-Cuyamaca
Fire Protection Dist. (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 583, 599 [judicial notice taken
of official acts of local agencies].)
 
            Exhibit
B - California Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training’s “Basic
Course Workbook Series, Student Materials, Learning Domain 22, Vehicle
Pullovers, Version 3.2,” which is available at https://post.ca.gov/portals/0/post_docs/basic_course_resources/workbooks/LD_22_V-3.2.pdf.
(Evid. Code § 452(b), (c); Childs v. State of California (1983) 144
Cal.App.3d 155, 162 [official acts of state subject to judicial notice].)
 
            Exhibit
C – Second Amended Complaint for Damages in Sheilanee Sen et al. v. City
of Los Angeles et al., United States District Court, Central District of
California, Case No. 2:21-Cv-02326 (Sen). (Evid. Code § 452(d).)
 
            Exhibit
D – Order re: Motions for Summary Judgment in Sen. (Evid.
Code § 452(d).)
 
Exhibit E – Settlement Agreement and Release of All Claims
in Sen (Evid. Code § 452(h); Performance Plastering v. Richmond
American Homes of California, Inc. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 659, 666 [judicial
notice taken of settlement agreements, which were considered on demurrer
because no factual dispute existed as to their contents].) 
 
            Exhibit
F – Joint Stipulation for an Order of Dismissal of Entire Action with
Prejudice in Sen. (Evid. Code § 452(d).)
 
            Exhibit
G – Order re: Joint Stipulation for an Order of Dismissal of Entire Action
with Prejudice in Sen. (Evid. Code § 452(d).)
 
IV.     Analysis
 
A.          
First and Second Causes of Action – Writs of
Mandate Pursuant to CCP § 1085
 
CCP
§ 1085(a) provides: “A writ of mandate may be issued by any court to any
inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of
an act which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office,
trust, or station, or to compel the admission of a party to the use and
enjoyment of a right or office to which the party is entitled, and from which
the party is unlawfully precluded by that inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person.”
 
“There
are two essential requirements to the issuance of a traditional writ of
mandate: (1) a clear, present and usually ministerial duty on the part of the
respondent, and (2) a clear, present and beneficial right on the part of the
petitioner to the performance of that duty.” (California Assn. for Health
Services at Home v. State Dept. of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
696, 704.) “An action in ordinary mandamus is proper where…the claim is that an
agency has failed to act as required by law.” (Id. at 705.)
 
            With
respect to the first two causes of action, petitioners seek a peremptory writ of mandate pursuant to CCP § 1085
directing respondent to:
 
cease to enforce the
policy, practice, custom, and/or training of conducting high-risk traffic stops
without probable cause and where the only basis of reasonable suspicion is that
the vehicle may be stolen [ ], and without any of the special circumstances
required by the Ninth Circuit in [Green v. City and County of San Francisco
(9th Cir. 2014) 751 F.3d 1039, 1047], such as: 1) the suspect is uncooperative
or takes action at the scene that raises a reasonable possibility of danger or
flight; 2) the police have information that the suspect is currently armed; 3) the stop closely follows a violent crime;
or 4) the police have information that a crime that may involve violence is
about to occur.
 
(FAP ¶ 55.) 
 
Petitioners allege that respondents have a duty to
comply with the Fourth Amendment of the United States Constitution and Article
1, Section 13 of the California Constitution—both of which prohibit
unreasonable seizures. (FAP ¶¶ 40-42, 45-47.) Respondents argue that
petitioners have not adequately alleged any ministerial duty.
 
In the First Amended Petition, petitioners rely on Green v. City and County of San Francisco (9th Cir. 2014) 751 F.3d 1039.[1] In Green,
the Ninth Circuit held that a police department and sergeant were not entitled
to summary judgment on the plaintiff’s claim for false arrest. The Ninth
Circuit examined when a traffic stop transforms from a valid investigatory stop
under Terry v. Ohio (1968) 392 U.S. 1 into an arrest. (Green, 751
F.3d at 1047.) That determination turns on the intrusiveness of the methods
used during the stop and whether the methods were reasonable considering the
specific circumstances of the stop. (Id. at 1047, citing Washington
v. Lambert (9th Cir. 1996) 98 F.3d 1181, 1185.) “If the stop amounted to an
arrest, it would be unlawful absent probable cause.” (Green, 751 F.3d at
1039; see also Washington, 98 F.3d at 1186 [“If we conclude that the
detention was only a ‘stop’ it will be lawful even though there was no probable
cause. If, under the same circumstances, we term it an arrest, it will not be
lawful in the absence of such cause”].) 
 
Petitioners allege that a
high-risk traffic stop—one involving at least seven police officers, drawing of
weapons toward the driver and occupants of the vehicle, and handcuffing of each
occupant—always constitutes an arrest requiring probable cause. (FAP ¶¶ 2, 20,
22.) Petitioners also allege that suspicion of a stolen vehicle alone is
insufficient to warrant a high-risk traffic stop. (FAP ¶¶ 11, 34, 38.)  For pleading purposes, the Court agrees that
petitioners have adequately a policy for which there be a constitutional duty
to cease.
 
In Green, the
police pulled the plaintiff over. (Green, 751 F.3d at 1043.) Four to six
officers were involved in the stop. (Ibid.) The officers pointed their
weapons at the plaintiff. (Ibid.) The sergeant directed plaintiff to lower
herself to her knees and handcuffed her. (Ibid.) Due to knee problems,
the plaintiff, who weighed 250 pounds, had trouble lowering herself to the
ground and standing back up. (Ibid.) The plaintiff did not resist while
being detained. (Ibid.) 
 
The defendants argued
that the degree of force was justified based solely on the existence of a
stolen vehicle. (Id. at 1048.) The Ninth Circuit disagreed, holding that
the fact that the plaintiff “was stopped on suspicion of a stolen vehicle does
not by itself demonstrate that she presented a danger to the officers.” (Ibid.)
The Ninth Circuit examined the Washington factors and found that they “count[ed]
against a finding that the officers’ conduct was a reasonable response to
safety concerns.” (Ibid. [“(1) it is uncontested that Green was
compliant with law enforcement at all times; (2) the police had no specific
information that Green was armed; (3) the stop did not closely follow a violent
crime; and (4) the police did not have information that a violent crime was
about to occur”].) The police also failed to visually confirm that the license
plate number provided by the automated reader matched the license plate number
on the plaintiff’s vehicle, indicating that the police failed to confirm that
the vehicle was stolen. (Id. at 1042-43, 1045.) Because as many as six
officers detained the plaintiff, who was alone, handcuffed, and unable to stand
up without assistance, the plaintiff did not pose any threat justifying the use
of high-risk tactics.[2] (Id.
at 1048.) 
 
Based on the writ of
mandate proposed by petitioners, they have sufficiently alleged the existence
of a ministerial duty. Petitioners allege the existence of a policy requiring a
high-risk traffic stop based only on the suspicion that a vehicle is stolen. (FAP
¶¶ 1, 5, 15, 18; see also City RJN at 6, 11 [high risk pullover used where
officer has reasonable belief that vehicle occupant or occupants “have
committed a felony”].) The Ninth Circuit in Green held that the suspicion
of a stolen vehicle did not by itself warrant the use of high-risk tactics. (Green,
751 F.3d at 1048.) 
 
Respondents contend that
the four factors set forth in Washington require a level of discretion
that precludes issuance of a traditional writ of mandate. “[Traditional] mandamus
will not lie to control an exercise of discretion, i.e., to compel an official
to exercise discretion in a particular manner.” (Morris v. Harper (2001)
94 Cal.App.4th 52, 62.) The four Washington factors arguably involve the
exercise of discretion by police officers in determining whether (1) a
suspect’s actions at the scene pose a “reasonable possibility” of danger or
flight, (2) the police have information that sufficiently indicates that the
suspect is currently armed, (3) the stop is sufficiently close to a violent
crime, and (4) the police have information that sufficiently indicates that a
violent crime may occur. (See Green, 751 F.3d at 1047.) Moreover, the Washington
factors are not exhaustive. (Ibid.) The factors “should all be
considered in light of the specificity of the information law enforcement has
to suggest both that the individuals are the proper suspects and that they are
likely to resist arrest or police interrogation. [Citation.] The number of
police officers present is also highly relevant. [Citation.]” (Ibid.) 
 
Nevertheless, the fact
that police officers may be required to exercise discretion in determining
whether the suspect in a traffic stop poses a threat to their safety does not
preclude the existence of a ministerial duty as alleged in this case. “A
ministerial act is an act that a public officer is required to perform in a
prescribed manner in obedience to the mandate of legal authority and without
regard to his own judgment or opinion concerning such act's propriety or
impropriety, when a given state of facts exists.” (CV Amalgamated LLC v.
City of Chula Vista (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 265, 279, quoting Kavanaugh v.
West Sonoma County Union High School Dist. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 911, 916,
internal quotations omitted.) Here, petitioners allege a given state of facts—the
lack of legitimate safety concerns, based on the Washington factors and
other circumstances indicating that a suspect does not pose any threat. (FAP ¶
2; see Green, 751 F.3d at 1047, quoting Washington, 98 F.3d at
1186 [four Washington factors probative of “the ultimate inquiry of
whether the officers’ conduct was a ‘reasonable response to legitimate safety
concerns on the part of the investigating officers’”].) Absent any threats to
safety or any of the other Washington factors and concerns, where the
only basis for pulling a suspect over is suspicion that the vehicle may be
stolen, in accordance with Green, a high-risk traffic stop may violate
the federal and state constitutional prohibition against unreasonable seizures.

 
In contending otherwise,
respondents point out that the U.S. District Court in Sheilanee
Sen et al. v. City of Los Angeles et al., Case No. 2:21-Cv-02326
found that a high-risk stop based solely on a stolen vehicle did not violate
clearly established Fourth Amendment law. 
That is not quite accurate. In Sen, the plaintiffs argued that certain
police officers were not entitled to qualified immunity because a jury could
find that the involved police officers conducted a high-risk stop based solely
on suspicion of a stolen vehicle. (RJN Ex. D at 186.)  In granting summary judgment to those
officers based on a qualified immunity, the district court explained: “[E]ven
if these high-risk tactics did amount to a de facto arrest, the officers would
nonetheless be entitled to qualified immunity because there is no case law that
‘clearly establishes that a high-risk stop is an unreasonable level of
intrusiveness for a suspected stolen vehicle.’” (Ibid.) “An officer will
be denied qualified immunity in a § 1983 action only if (1) the facts
alleged, taken in the light most favorable to the party asserting injury, show
that the officer’s conduct violated a constitutional right, and (2) the right
at issue was clearly established at the time of the incident such that a
reasonable officer would have understood her conduct to be unlawful in that
situation.” (Torres v. City of Madera (9th Cir. 2011) 648 F.3d 1119,
1123.) 
 
The
district court’s observation in Sen relates to the second prong, which
concerns an officer’s reasonable belief as to the constitutionality of an action
or policy and not whether such action or policy is constitutional.  In finding that the officers’ beliefs were
reasonable as to the constitutionality of their conduct, the district court noted
that the question of whether a high-risk stop based solely on suspicion of a
stolen vehicle has not clearly been established as either constitutional or
unconstitutional.  Whether officers could
reasonably believe that suspicion of a stolen vehicle by itself is sufficient
to support the constitutionality of a high-risk stop is a question entirely
distinct from whether conducting a high-risk stop under such circumstances is
constitutional. Thus, even if a court (such as in Sen) has found that police
officers could reasonably believe such high-risk stops are permissible for
purposes of invoking qualified immunity, that finding does not squarely address
the determination at issue in this case—namely, whether the alleged policy being
challenged violates the federal and state prohibitions against unreasonable
seizures.
 
            Because
petitioners allege the existence of a policy that may violate the United States
and California Constitutions, the demurrer to the first and second causes of
action are OVERRULED. 
 
B.          
Third Cause of Action – Violation of CCP § 526(a)
Based on Illegal Expenditure of Public Funds
 
Respondents argue that the third cause of action
fails because the subject policy is not unlawful. “[T]he term ‘waste’ as used
in [CCP] section 526a means something more than an alleged mistake by public
officials in matters involving the exercise of judgment or wide discretion.” (City
of Ceres v. City of Modesto (1969) 274 Cal.App.2d 545, 555.) “An injunction
lies to prevent ‘... wholly void and inoperative ...’ acts.” (Lucas v. Santa
Maria Public Airport Dist. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1017, 1027, quoting Sundance
v. Municipal Court, supra, 42 Cal.3d 1101, 1138.) 
 
Petitioners Community Coalition and Sen seek to
enjoin the enforcement of the subject policy as an illegal expenditure of
public funds. (FAP ¶¶ 7, 9, 50, 53.) For the reasons discussed above with
respect to the first and second cause of action, petitioners allege sufficient
facts which, if true, would establish that the subject policy violates the
Fourth Amendment of the United States Constitution and Article 1, Section 13 of
the California Constitution. 
 
The demurrer to the third cause of action is
OVERRULED. 
 
C.          
Effect of Petitioner Sen’s Release
 
Respondents argue that petitioner Sen signed a
release in the Sen action that “fully and forever release[d] and
discharge[d] DEFENDANT CITY OF LOS ANGELES…from any and all bodily injury
claims, liability, causes of action, demands…and obligations of any
nature…whether presently known or unknown…” (Ugaz Decl. Ex. E at § 1.2.) In the
Sen action, Sen alleged that LAPD officers deprived her of her Fourth
Amendment rights by conducting a high-risk stop based only on suspicion of a
stolen vehicle, even though the vehicle was not actually stolen. (RJN Ex. C at
¶¶ 63, 64.)
 
The scope of the release is for claims that Sen “may
have, from the beginning of time to the date of this SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT,
against the CITY OF LOS ANGELES…arising out of, connected to, or in any way related
to the facts, matters, allegations, and/or issues alleged in the ACTION.” (Ibid.)
The settlement agreement was signed between July 27 and October 4 of 2022.
Accordingly, any claim that Sen may have after the execution of the settlement
agreement is not covered by the release. 
 
The First Amended Petition was filed on March 6,
2024. Petitioners allege that the subject policy is still operative. (¶¶ 1, 2.)
“‘[W]here the question is one of public right and the object of the mandamus is
to procure the enforcement of a public duty, the [petitioner] need not show
that he has any legal or special interest in the result, since it is sufficient
that he is interested as a citizen in having the laws executed and the duty in
question enforced.’” (Save the Plastic Bag Coalition v. City of Manhattan
Beach (2011) 52 Cal.4th 155, 166, quoting Bd. of Soc. Welfare v. County
of L.A. (1945) 27 Cal.2d 98, 100-01.) For the reasons set forth above,
defendants have a duty to comply with the federal and state constitutional prohibitions
against unreasonable seizures. Petitioners, including Sen, may seek mandamus
relief to enforce the prohibitions. 
 
V.      Conclusion
 
            The
demurrer to the First Amended Petition is OVERRULED in its entirety.[3]
Respondents City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles Police Department, and Dominic
Choi are ordered to file an answer to the First Amended Petition within 10
days.


