 Case Number:  22TRTCV00137    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  B Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesSouthwest DistrictTorrance Dept. B BRANDON REYNOLDS, et al.,   Plaintiffs, Case No.:  22TRCV00137 vs.  [Tentative] RULING ZAMA SURTI, et al.,   Defendants.       Hearing Date:                         July 16, 2024 Moving Parties:                      Defendants Zarna Surti and Tarun SartiResponding Party:                  NoneMotion for Order Dismissing the Action of Plaintiff Cashmine Crawford for Failure to Comply with Court Order and for an Order Imposing Monetary Sanctions             The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed. RULING            The motion for terminating sanctions is GRANTED in part.  The complaint is DISMISSED WITHOUT PREJUDICE as to plaintiff Crawford.BACKGROUNDOn January 17, 2023, plaintiffs Brandon Reynolds and Cashmine Crawford filed a  complaint against Zarna Surti and Tarun Surti for negligence and motor vehicle negligence based on an incident that occurred on January 16, 2021 in Inglewood. On November 2, 2023, the court granted defendants’ motions to compel further discovery responses against plaintiff Crawford.On December 12, 2023, the court granted plaintiffs’ counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel as to plaintiff Crawford.On March 26, 2024, the court granted plaintiffs’ counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel as to plaintiff Brandon Reynolds.Trial is set for October 23, 2024.LEGAL AUTHORITYIf a party fails to comply with a court order compelling discovery responses or attendance at a deposition, the court may impose monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions.  CCP § 2025.450(h) (depositions); § 2030.290(c) (interrogatories); § 2031.300(c) (demands for production of documents).  CCP § 2023.030 provides that, “[t]o the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method . . . , the court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose . . .  [monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating] sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process . . . .”  CCP § 2023.010 provides that “[m]isuses of the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following: . . . (d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery. . . . (g) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery. . . .” “The trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of the circumstances:  [the] conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the discovery.’”  Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377, 390 (quoting Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1225, 1246).  “Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly.  But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’”  Los Defensores, 223 Cal. App. 4th at 390 (citation omitted).“Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders.”  Los Defensores, 223 Cal. App. 4th at 390 (citing Lang, 77 Cal. App. 4th at 1244-1246 (discussing cases)); see, e.g., Collisson & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 1611, 1617-1622 (terminating sanctions imposed after defendants failed to comply with one court order to produce discovery); Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 481, 491, disapproved on other grounds in Garcia v. McCutchen (1997) 16 Cal. 4th 469, 478, n. 4 (terminating sanctions imposed against plaintiff for failing to comply with a discovery order and for violating various discovery statutes).DISCUSSIONDefendants Zarna Surti and Tarun Surti request an order imposing terminating and monetary sanctions against plaintiff Cashmine Crawford for failing to comply with the Court’s November 2, 2023 ruling.  Because of the fact that there is confusion arising from Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration long ago attesting to his lack of clarity as to whether or not he actually was retained by Crawford, compounded by the fact that Plaintiff’s counsel, after being granted the right to withdraw, still has not obtained an order to serve on Crawford, the Court concludes that it is appropriate to dismiss Crawford’s claim without prejudice.On November 2, 2023, the Court granted defendants’ motions to compel further discovery responses against plaintiff Crawford.  Plaintiff Crawford was ordered to serve responses without objections to defendants’ form and special interrogatories and demand for inspection and production of documents within sixty days.  Plaintiff Crawford was also ordered to pay to defendants $500 in sanctions, within sixty days.On November 7, 2023, defense counsel served notice of the November 2, 2023 ruling on plaintiffs’ counsel.  The Court’s November 2, 2023 ruling ordered that plaintiff’s counsel of record give notice to plaintiff at their last known address and email address forthwith.On December 13, 2023, the Court granted plaintiffs’ counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel as to plaintiff Crawford.Defendants assert that plaintiff Crawford failed to serve responses within the sixty-day deadline.  On January 15, 2024, defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter to plaintiff regarding her outstanding discovery but she did not reply.  Defendants contend that to date, she has failed to serve responses.The Court notes that there is no signed order to granting Plaintiff’s counsel that counsel is relieved as counsel for plaintiff Crawford and no proof of service of a signed order upon the client, although plaintiff’s counsel recently lodged an order on June 17, 2024.  The Court has not signed that order, as it reveals that merely days after the date of submission, this Motion was on calendar and Plaintiff would have to respond to this Motion to protect her rights.  Plaintiff’s counsel remains counsel of record – assuming that counsel ever had such authority.There is also no proof that plaintiff’s counsel served notice of the Court’s November 2, 2023 ruling to plaintiff Crawford at her last known address as the Court ordered counsel to do.Defendants did send a letter directly to plaintiff on January 15, 2024 providing defendants’ notice of the November 2, 2023 ruling.  Defendants also gave notice of the motion for terminating sanctions to plaintiff Crawford directly and via plaintiffs’ counsel.The Court remains concerned as to whether plaintiffs’ counsel had authority to file the complaint on Crawford’s behalf.  See plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration in support of his motion to be relieved where he states that upon careful review of all internal files for this matter, he was unable to determine or confirm that Crawford retained plaintiffs’ attorneys of record, Law Office of Jacob Emrani.  Further, as stated above, it is unclear as to whether plaintiff Crawford was aware of the November 2, 2023 ruling before the 60-day deadline to serve responses.  Thus, the Court cannot determine whether her failure to serve responses was willful and thus a misuse of the discovery process.In any event, in consideration of all of the above, the Court finds that it is appropriate and exercises its discretion to dismiss the complaint without prejudice as to plaintiff Crawford.  The Court declines to issue additional monetary sanctions.  That dismissal shall be ordered with Plaintiff’s counsel of record still her counsel of record for this Motion.The motion is thus GRANTED in part to the extent that the complaint is dismissed without prejudice as to plaintiff Crawford.ORDERThe motion is GRANTED in part.  The complaint is DISMISSED WITHOUT PREJUDICE as to plaintiff Crawford.Defendants are ordered to give notice of the ruling.