  Case Number:  19TRCV00310    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  B CAROL JEAN THOMPSON, vs DELMER JAMES MCENTYRE, et al.Case No. 19TRCV00310Before the Court is the Motion for Summary Judgment of Defendant Delmer James McEntyre.This action was filed on March 27, 2019 by Plaintiff Carol Jean Thompson alleging claims identified as "derivative Complaint for Partition and Declaratory Relief. The complaint was quickly superseded by the First Amended Derivative Complaint for Declaratory Relief filed June 4, 2019. That is the operative pleading for purposes of this Motion. (Plaintiff requests that the Court take judicial notice of the operative complaint. That request is unnecessary. The operative complaint in the action is inherently before the Court for purposes of a motion for summary judgment as it is the staring point for the analysis of the merits of the motion.)The Complaint alleged that there is the McEntyre Family Properties, LLC ("MFP, LLC"), whose members are Plaintiff, DefendantMary Elaine Tavares and Russell McEntyre. (Complaint 8.) MFP, LLC owns two pieces of real property. (Complaint 11, 12.) There is an operating agreement. (Complaint 10.) Plaintiff alleged that "13. Over the past several years, the ability of the MFP, LLC Members to cooperatively operate the MFP, LLC has deteriorated. This lack of cooperation increased since 2016. 14. MFP, LLC Members have been unable to work together to manage the properties owned by MFP, LLC. Defendant has been making unilateral decisions regarding the properties, in violation of the MFP, LLC agreement." (Complaint 13, 14.)The Complaint also alleges that in May 2018 Plaintiff had filed a prior civil action for partition to force the sale of the real property. ((Complaint 16.) Then in late 2018 Plaintiff caused there to be a vote of the members of MFP, LLC to direct the sell of the real property. (Complaint 17.) The vote passed by a 75-25% vote with 3 members in favor, Defendant opposed. (Complaint 19-20.)Plaintiff then alleged that:"22. As a result of the actions described herein, MFP, LLC has been damaged in an amount according to proof and will continue to be damaged if relief is not granted. This action is commenced on behalf of Plaintiff and for the benefit of MFP, LLC, pursuant to Corp. Code§ 800." (Complaint 22.)The First (and only) Cause of Action is titled "Declaratory Relief" and it incorporates the foregoing allegations. It states, in its entirety:"24. An actual controversy has arisen and now exists between Plaintiff and Defendants concerning their respective rights and duties in that Defendant, Delmer James McEntyre, protests a vote held between the MFP, LLC members as to three ballot items: (a) Amend the Operating Agreement to remove Section 18.08 which states each member waives a partition action; (b) Sell the 2905 Property and the 2909 Property; and (c) Dissolve MFP, LLC.25. Plaintiff, Elaine, and Russell all voted "yes" on all three ballot items. As a result, the MFP, LLC majority would like to take action per the votes and amend the operating agreement, sell the MFP, LLC properties, and dissolve MFP, LLC.26. Plaintiff desires a judicial determination of the validity and enforceability of the vote on all three ballot items.27. A judicial declaration is necessary and appropriate at this time in order for Plaintiff to enforce the votes, take action on the votes with certainty, and proceed for the benefit of MFP, LLC."In the Prayer Plaintiff asks for a declaration that the October 2018 vote was valid and enforceable, for an injunction, for damages that MFP, LLC suffered, costs and attorneys fees as well as interst. On October 24, 2023 this Court (Judge Hill) granted Plaintiff's motion for the appointment of a receiver for MFP, LLC..The Receiver's Status Conference Statement filed April 3, 2024 states:"On August 23, 2021 this Court made and entered its order ... appointing the Receiver ... for defendant McEntyre Family Properties LLC (the "LLC") and all of its assets. Pursuant to the ... Order Appointing Receiver, the Receiver took possession of the LLC's assets, including the LLC's real property located at 2509 & 2909 N. Sepulveda Boulevard, Manhattan Beach, California (the "Real Property"). As provided in ... the Order Appointing Receiver, the Receiver listed the Real Property for sale with a real estate broker. The Receiver accepted an offer to purchase the Real Property for $4,415,000. The Court, by order filed May 8, 2023, confirmed the sale of the Real Property. The sale closed on July 10, 2023 and resulted in the Receiver receiving net proceeds of $4,176,904.74.Now that the Real Property has been sold, the Receiver's administration of the assets of the LLC is largely complete. The parties to this action are the members of the LLC and the Receiver desires promptly to distribute the funds he is holding to the members entitled thereto and to windup the receivership. However, the Receiver is aware that certain of the parties to this action have or may assert claims against the LLC." (Report pg. 1:21-2:6.) Defendant seeks summary judgment on the basis that the dispute alleged in the First Amended Complaint is now moot. The properties have been sold. The LLC is being controlled by the receiver who is winding it up.In a nutshell, Plaintiff opposes the Motion by noting that the action is a derivative action and she still claims damages on behalf of MFP, LLC. (See FAC 22 "As a result of the actions described herein, MFP, LLC has been damaged in an amount according to proof and will continue to be damaged if relief is not granted", Prayer 3.)It appears that both parties are correct. The single cause of action for declaratory relief appears to be moot, and Defendant is entitled to summary judgment on that claim. There is no need for the Court to declare anything any longer. However, Plaintiff's FAC vaguely references damages and prays for damages. However, complicating that claim for damages for the LLC is the fact that the Court appointed a receiver to take control of all the assets of the LLC. It appears that the receiver, not Plaintiff, is entitled to assert claims on behalf of MFP, LLC. However this issue has not been briefed or otherwise addressed in the papers by both sides.The Court requests that the parties address at the hearing the issue of the claim for damages for the LLC that appears to be asserted in the FAC. What is the nature of the damages asserted? No meaningful allegation is contained in the FAC. Since the claim is derivative, and hence is asserted for MFP, LLC, who is entitled to assert that claim given the Order appointing the receiver? Should the Court grant Plaintiff leave to file a Second Amended Complaint requiring that a pleading with specificity identifying each and every claimed type of damages be asserted. A mere statement of having suffered damages would not suffice.