 Case Number:  22IWUD02358    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  B Hearing Date: July 16, 2024Moving Parties: Plaintiff 6232 Manchester LLCResponding Party: Defendant Orb Tertius LLCMotion to Enforce Settlement AgreementThe Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers and supplemental declarations.RULINGThe motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.BACKGROUNDOn November 29, 2022, plaintiff 6232 Manchester LLC filed an unlawful detainer complaint against Orb Tertius LLC based on a three-day notice to quit.On January 25, 2023, the court (Inglewood) overruled defendant’s demurrer.On March 1, 2023, the court (Inglewood) grants defendant’s motion to compel further responses and production to defendant’s request for production of documents.On March 22, 2023, the court (Inglewood) granted defense counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel.On May 1, 2023, defendant filed a notice of association of counsel.On May 31, 2023, the court (Inglewood) granted plaintiff’s consolidated motion to compel responses to interrogatories and request for production of documents, set two and deemed the requests for admission, set one, admitted. The court denied plaintiff’s request for sanctions.On June 16, 2023, the case was reclassified to Dept. M.On July 23, 2023, the court granted defendant’s motion for leave to withdraw and to amend defendant’s responses to requests for admission and relief from order.On December 19, 2023, the court denied plaintiff’s motion to compel defendant’s PMQ as moot as the deposition had taken place and defendant had produced documents.On May 6, 2024, pursuant to written stipulation, the trial scheduled for May 6, 2024 was continued to May 28, 2024.On May 28, 2024, the minute order indicates that the parties had reached a global settlement, and that the non-jury trial was trailed to May 30, 2024 to finalize the settlement agreement.On May 30, 2024, the minute order indicates that the parties had reached a settlement and the court set an OSC re dismissal for June 21, 2024.On July 1, 2024, a joint stipulation and order was entered for writ of possession and to retain jurisdiction to enforce settlement after dismissal pursuant to CCP §664.6.LEGAL AUTHORITYCCP §664.6 states: “If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”“A trial court, when ruling on a section 664.6 motion, acts as a trier of fact. Section 664.6’s ‘express authorization for trial courts to determine whether a settlement has occurred is an implicit authorization for the trial court to interpret the terms and conditions to settlement.’” Skulnick v. Roberts Express, Inc. (1992) 2 Cal. App. 4th 884, 889 (citation omitted).CCP §187 states: “When jurisdiction is, by the Constitution or this Code, or by any other statute, conferred on a Court or judicial officer, all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also given; and in the exercise of this jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be not specifically pointed out by this Code or the statute, any suitable process or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear most conformable to the spirit of this Code.”The court’s inquiry in ruling on a motion for judgment pursuant to CCP §664.6 is generally limited to a determination of whether the parties entered into a valid and binding settlement, and the material terms thereof. Viejo Bancorp, Inc. v. Wood (1989) 217 Cal. App. 3d 200, 209 n.4. “Although a judge hearing a section 664.6 motion may receive evidence, determine disputed facts, and enter the terms of a settlement agreement as a judgment, nothing in section 664.6 authorizes a judge to create the material terms of a settlement, as opposed to deciding what terms the parties themselves have previously agreed upon.” Hernandez v. Board of Educ. of Stockton Unified School Dist. (2004) 126 Cal. App. 4th 1161, 1176. “The court is powerless to impose on the parties more restrictive or less restrictive or different terms than those contained in their settlement agreement.” Id.DISCUSSIONPlaintiff requests an order to enforce the terms of the settlement agreement as against defendant Orb Tertius, LLC, including that judgment be entered against defendant for $675,000 in favor of plaintiff; for writ of possession of the property be issued immediately; defendant must leave all trade fixtures; and for attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $9,515 for enforcing the settlement agreement.According to the joint stipulation and order entered on July 1, 2024, judgment will be entered against defendant for $675,000 in favor of plaintiff, for possession and forfeiture of the lease. Judgment will be stayed in accordance with the terms of the settlement agreement and the judgment will be reduced to $300,000 in accordance with the settlement agreement. Writ of possession will issue immediately in favor of plaintiff but lockout stayed for five months to October 31, 2024. If defendant is in escrow in accordance with the settlement agreement, then the lockout will be stayed to nine months while in escrow no later than January 31, 2025. The parties agreed that the Court retain jurisdiction under CCP §664.6 to enforce the settlement agreement terms. See Joint Stipulation and Order for Writ of Possession and to Retain Jurisdiction to Enforce Settlement after Dismissal filed on July 1, 2024, Exh. A.Plaintiff asserts that defendant Orb breached the settlement agreement as follows and is thus in default: (1) defendant failed to comply with the notices from the City of Los Angeles within a reasonable amount of time to bring the roll-up door of the property up to code, which exposes plaintiff to legal risk; and (2) defendant failed to make the first payment and said payment was also incomplete. Under the settlement agreement, under paragraph 9 “Event of Default,” the parties agree that breaching any term of the settlement agreement, the occurrence of any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default: (a) Failure by Orb to timely make any payment of the Settlement Consideration . . . . (e) Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default, Manchester shall be allowed to immediately seek possession of the Premises and file any related motion to confirm the stipulated judgment of $675,000 is reinstated.City of Los Angeles noticesAs to City of Los Angeles notices, the settlement agreement states that Orb will comply with the notices from the City of Los Angeles to bring space up to code (the roll-up door) within a reasonable amount of time after signing the agreement. Manchester will coordinate with Orb to coordinate with the city inspector. After signing the agreement, Orb shall contact and meet the city inspector to go over the required work necessary to comply with the notice. Settlement Agreement, 8(b).Plaintiff asserts that on June 4, 2024, plaintiff’s counsel sent an email to defense counsel with respect to the notices from the LA Department of Building and Safety. On June 10, 2024, defense counsel emailed plaintiff’s counsel that “we have all of the intention within the reasonable amount of time, to contact the City.”In opposition, defendant argues that plaintiff’s claims regarding ADA compliance and the roll-up door are unfounded, as the roll-up door has been in place for nine years without any complaints or complications. In any event, defendant asserts, it has a reasonable amount of time to take any action with the city. Defense counsel states in his declaration that his assistant has “already begun the process of making an appointment with the inspector online” but has not been able to complete the required steps because the portal asks for an upload of all relevant documents. Defense counsel states that they contacted plaintiff’s counsel for the notices.In reply, plaintiff argues that defendant misrepresents defendant’s known code violations and that letters from the City of Los Angeles were stipulated trial exhibits and discussed at defendant’s deposition.In a supplemental declaration, Milton Sznaider states that through his counsel he has arranged for an inspection by the city.Payment of rent, CAM, additional paymentAs to payment, the settlement agreement under “monthly rent and CAM current charges” states, “For clarity, the Parties agree that the base rent will increase to $9,655.31 as of August 1, 2024 pursuant to the Lease; the CAM fee (not including utilities) is $2,093.50; the HVAC fees monthly is $38.88; the Utility cam fee will be determined after June 2024; and all late fees are 10% pursuant to the Lease.” Settlement Agreement, 6(b). Defendant agreed also to pay an additional $3,000 a month due at the same time as rent. Settlement Agreement, 6(c).Plaintiff contends that defendant Orb Tertius failed to make a timely and complete payment in violation of the settlement agreement terms. Plaintiff asserts that on June 6, 2024, plaintiff’s counsel sent an email to defense counsel that defendant owed landlord $11,506.47 in rent/CAM/utilities and $3000 in additional monthly payments for a total of $14,506.47 for June 2024 payable to plaintiff’s counsel. Defendant paid $12,942.97. Plaintiff contends that defendant still owes $1,563.50 and that defendant incurred a late fee of $156.35. Plaintiff explains that on June 10, 2024, defense counsel emailed plaintiff’s counsel that the amounts paid are not incorrect--$9,655.31 rent and $3,000 additional payment.In opposition, defendant argues that it did not materially breach the settlement agreement and has made substantial efforts to comply with the settlement agreement’s payment terms. It paid an initial $30,000 in accordance with 6.a.(a) and a $3,000 monthly payment (as required by 6.c.). Defendant asserts that a second $3,000 payment for July is about to be paid with the July rent. Defendant contends that the settlement agreement stipulated monthly rent and CAM charges but did not specify the exact amount of CAM charges for the period prior to August 2024. Defendant contends that it paid the “old CAM rate of $530 with the June payment,” as the settlement agreement seems to indicate in paragraph 6.b. that the increase will occur in August. In any event, the disputed amount, defendant argues, is only around $1,600 for June and for July and will be paid to satisfy plaintiff’s “insistence on its version of possible interpretations.”In reply, plaintiff reiterates its position that defendant had not complied with the settlement agreement because it did not pay the proper monthly amounts and through its attorney to the plaintiff and that defendant’s “version of possible interpretations” is in bad faith as defendant has “always known it underpaid the CAM charges.”In a supplemental declaration by Milton Sznaider, he states that since the opposition was filed, he caused the transfer of $16,341.59 on July 5, 2024 to plaintiff’s counsel. He also states that when the June payment was made, he “was under the impression that the CAM payments would remain as they had been without increasing during the 5-8 month settlement period” and that although he “still believes that the payments were to be $530” he will continue to make the additional CAM payments.The Court finds that plaintiff has not shown that defendant has materially breached the settlement agreement and in default. As to the roll-up door, the settlement agreement specifies “within a reasonable time” and defendant has shown confirmation that they have been in contact with the inspector. As to payment, it appears that even if defendant were in default, it has paid the amount due and is no longer in default.Thus, the motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.ORDERThe motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.Moving party [or prevailing party] is ordered to give notice of ruling.