 Case Number:  22TRCV01318    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
S.W.,
  


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01318




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING – Medical Exam
 




 
GINDER
  MARSHALL, M.D., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July
16, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Marshall Ginder,
M.D. and Marshall Ginder, M.D., a Professional Corporation
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff S.W.
Motion
to Compel Defense Medical Examination of Plaintiff
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  See order below.
BACKGROUND
On November 22, 2022, plaintiff
S.W. filed a complaint against defendants Ginder Marshall, M.D., an individual,
and Ginder Marshall, M.D., a professional corporation for (1) sexual assault
and battery, (2) IIED, (3) medical battery, (4) failure to obtain informed
consent, and (5) negligent misrepresentation. 

On April 27, 2023, the court
overruled defendants’ demurrer as to the 1st and 2nd causes of action and
sustained with leave to amend as to the 3rd, 4th, and 5th causes of
action.  The court denied the motion to
strike. 
On May 16, 2023, plaintiff filed a
FAC for (1) sexual assault and battery and (2) IIED.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
“As a general matter, a defendant
may obtain a physical or mental examination of the plaintiff, in accordance
with those provisions, if the plaintiff has placed his or her physical or
mental condition in controversy.”  Carpenter
v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal. App. 4th 249, 258.
CCP § 2032.020 states: “(a) Any
party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a physical or mental examination
of (1) a party to the action . . . in any action in which the mental or
physical condition . . . of that party or other person is in controversy in the
action. . . . (c) A mental examination conducted under this chapter shall be
performed only by a licensed physician, or by a licensed clinical psychologist
who holds a doctoral degree in psychology and has had at least five years of
postgraduate experience in the diagnosis of emotional and mental disorders.”
CCP §
2032.310(a) states:  “(a)  If any party desires to obtain discovery by a
physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with
Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of
court.  (b)  A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. 
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040.  (c) Notice of the
motion shall be served on the person to be examined and on all parties who have
appeared in the action.”  
            CCP
§ 2032.320 states:  “(a) The court shall
grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only
for good cause shown. . . . (d) An order granting a physical or mental examination
shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as
the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination.”    
CCP
§2032.530 states: “(a) The examiner and examinee shall have the right to record
a mental examination by audio technology. (b) Nothing in this section shall be
construed to alter, amend, or affect existing case law with respect to the
presence of the attorney for the examinee or other persons during the
examination by agreement or court order.”
Good
cause generally requires a showing both of relevancy to the subject matter and
specific facts justifying discovery: 
i.e., allegations showing the need for the information sought and lack
of means for obtaining it elsewhere. 
Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: 
Civ. Procedure Before Trial, ¶ 8:1157. 
“’Good cause’ may be found where plaintiff claims additional injuries,
or that his or her condition is worsening; or even simply because of lapse of
time (e.g., if it has been 3 or 4 years since the first exam and plaintiff
claims continued symptoms, another physical examination before trial may be
proper).”  Id., ¶ 8:1558.
DISCUSSION
Defendants
request that the Court compel plaintiff to appear for a defense medical
examination (“DME”) pursuant to CCP §2032.310(a) before Mark A. Cohen, M.D.,
M.S., who is board-certified in psychiatry and forensic psychiatry.  
Defendants
explain that on April 22, 2024, defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter
regarding their intent to conduct a DME of plaintiff to take place in June
2024.  On April 29, 2024, plaintiff’s
counsel sent an email stating that “we can meet and confer on a date in June as
well as the scope of the IME.”  On May
17, 2024, defendants served a notice of DME to take place on June 19,
2024.  On May 21, 2024, defense counsel
sent an email to plaintiff’s counsel offering July 2 or July 3 as alternative
dates if June 19 was not going to work. 
On June 6, 2024, plaintiff served objections.  On June 6 and 7, defense counsel attempted to
contact plaintiff’s counsel.  On June 13,
2024, defendants served a first amended notice of DME for July 2, 2024.  On July 1, 2024, plaintiff’s counsel sent an
email to defense counsel stating that plaintiff “was unable to attend
tomorrow’s scheduled DME as she has medical concerns preventing tomorrow’s
attendance.”
Plaintiff’s
objections include that a party may not unilaterally notice the mental
examination because leave of court is required and that the date was noticed
without meeting and conferring as to an agreeable date.
Defendants
argue that good cause exists for plaintiff to undergo a DME because plaintiff
has placed her mental health at issue and is claiming emotional distress
damages.  She alleges damages, including
for “great pain of mind and body, shock, emotional distress, physical
manifestations of emotional distress, embarrassment, loss of self-esteem,
disgrace, humiliation, and loss of enjoyment of life” and for “expenses for
medical and psychological treatment, therapy, and counseling.”  In response to discovery requests, defendant
asserts, plaintiff responded that she has suffered severe and permanent
injuries including substantial emotional, psychological, and mental injuries,
PTSD, mental anguish, trauma, sleeplessness, nightmares, headaches, anxiety,
anger, trust issues, frustration and sadness, humiliation and shame, and
isolation. 
In
opposition, plaintiff acknowledges that she has put her mental health at issue
but that due to underlying medical conditions, she is unable to attend an
extensive and invasive defense medical examination.  Although plaintiff had agreed on a date for a
defense medical exam, plaintiff contends that her physician raised medical
concerns “which necessitated the cancelation of the scheduled defense medical
examination.
In reply,
defendants reiterate that plaintiff has placed her mental health at issue and
that they have shown good cause.  Defendants
assert that plaintiff agreed to the course and scope of the DME.  Defendants argue that plaintiff has offered
no valid reason other than a vague and ambiguous claim that she cannot attend.
The Court
had (belatedly) received and reviewed the one paragraph doctor’s letter that
Plaintiff claims justifies her refusal to attend the deposition which had been
scheduled.  It does not justify that
action.  The Court shall not discuss the
content in its tentative.  However, the
reasons provided do not provide a basis for the refusal to attend.  On the contrary, at least part of the justification
in the letter suggests that such examination is appropriate.
 
The Court
finds that defendants have shown good cause for a mental examination.  Plaintiff has agreed that she has placed her
mental health at issue.  The deposition
notice was compliant with CCP § 2032.320. 
Plaintiff’s objections lack merit.
The
motion is GRANTED.
Defendants
request monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,600.  Defendants were required to file a motion to
conduct a mental examination to show good cause.  The request is GRANTED.  Defendant is awarded $1,200 in sanctions payable
by Plaintiff within 60 days.
 
ORDER
The
motion is GRANTED.  
Plaintiff
S.W. is ordered to submit to an independent mental examination, with Marc A.
Cohen, M.D., M.S. who is board-certified in psychiatry and forensic psychiatry
within thirty days of this order, or on such other date and time that the
parties mutually agree in writing.
The
examination will consist of a psychiatric interview and the administration of
one or 
more psychological tests.  The psychiatric interview will involve a
detailed inquiry into many 
different pertinent topics, including the onset and
course of current symptoms as well as several 
other clinical domains, such as psychiatric and
mental health treatment history, social history, 
substance use, criminal history, medical history and
current medications, family history, and 
relationship histories, as well as other subject
matters.
The
examination may also include the administration of one or more of the following
psychological tests or assessments: Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory
(MMPI-2; MMPI-2RF; MMPI-3); Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory (MCMI-IV);
Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI); Structured Interview of Reported Symptoms
(SIRS-2); Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MOCA); 15 Item Test (FIT); Morel
Emotional Numbing Test (MENT); Trauma Symptom Inventory (TSI-2); and/or Test of
Memory Malingering (TOMM).
The
plaintiff will not be required to complete any patient information forms, nor
will the examination process consist of any invasive tests or procedures.
The
examination and testing portions of the examination are to be audio recorded,
in compliance with CCP §2032.530.
Defendant
is awarded $1,200 in sanctions payable by Plaintiff within 60 days.
Defendants
are ordered to give notice of ruling.
 



Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
S.W.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01318




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING – Motion to be Relieved
 




 
GINDER
  MARSHALL, M.D., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July 16,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorneys Lauren Welling
and Slater Slater Schulman LLP, attorney for plaintiff S.W. 
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
The Court considered the moving
papers.  Although S.W. herself had indicated
previously that she opposed the motion, no opposition was filed.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  The Court orders that the attorney is
relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff S.W., effective upon the filing of
the proof of service of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the client.
BACKGROUND
On November 22, 2022, plaintiff
S.W. filed a complaint against defendants Ginder Marshall, M.D., an individual,
and Ginder Marshall, M.D., a professional corporation for (1) sexual assault
and battery, (2) IIED, (3) medical battery, (4) failure to obtain informed
consent, and (5) negligent misrepresentation. 
On April 27, 2023, the court
overruled defendants’ demurrer as to the 1st and 2nd causes of action and
sustained with leave to amend as to the 3rd, 4th, and 5th causes of
action.  The court denied the motion to
strike. 
On May 16, 2023, plaintiff filed a
FAC for (1) sexual assault and battery and (2) IIED.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff S.W.’s attorneys, Lauren
Welling and Slater Slater Schulman LLP, seek to be relieved as counsel.
            Counsel states in her declaration that
counsel has reached an impasse with plaintiff regarding representation in this
litigation that cannot be reconciled. 
She states that there has been a complete breakdown of the working
relationship with the client.  Current
ethical and professional conduct implications further impede counsel’s ability
to represent plaintiff.
The Court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied.  The Court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reason why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted.
            The motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED. The Court
orders that the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff S.W.,
effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed “Order Granting
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council form
MC-053) upon the client.
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.