 Case Number:  24STCV02860    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 
 



 GAIL BOUCHER, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 ANTELOPE VALLEY SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION AGENCY, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


24STCV02860




Hearing Date:


July 5, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEMURRER OF
  DEFENDANTS TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT FOR DAMAGES
 



 
Background
On February 2, 2024, Plaintiff Gail Boucher (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Antelope Valley School Transportation Agency
(“AVSTA”) and Morris Fuselier III (“Fuselier”) (jointly, “Defendants”). The
Complaint alleges cause of action for (1) retaliation for reporting illegal
activities (violation of Gov. Code, § 1102.5), (2) retaliation
for reporting safety conditions (violation of Labor
Code, § 6310), (3) failure to maintain safe work environment (violation of Labor Code §§ 6400, et seq.), (4) negligent
supervision, hiring, and retention (violation of California common law), (5)
common law assault, and (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress.[1] 
The first, second, third, and fourth causes of action of the Complaint
are alleged against AVSTA only. The fifth cause of action is alleged against
Fuselier only. The sixth cause of action is alleged against both Defendants. 
            Defendants now demur to the first, second, third, fourth,
and sixth causes of action of the Complaint. Defendants also demur to
Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. Plaintiff opposes. 
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants Defendants’ request for
judicial notice. With respect to Exhibit 2, Defendants cite to Gong v. City of Rosemead (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 363, 376, where the Court
of Appeal noted that “[i]f a plaintiff alleges compliance with the claims
presentation requirement, but the public records do not reflect compliance, the
governmental entity can request the court to take judicial notice under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c) that the
entity’s records do not show compliance.” The Gong
Court further noted that “[t]he court may take judicial notice of the
filing and contents of a government claim, but not the truth of the claim.” (Id. at p. 368, fn. 1.) 
Discussion
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar
v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) 
A
pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (¿¿Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f)¿¿.) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if
the failure to label the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing
defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams ¿v. Beechnut
Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2¿¿.) However, “¿¿[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.¿¿” (¿Khoury ¿v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616¿¿.)
 
B.    
Allegations of the Complaint
In
the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that since
approximately 1986 to March 2022, Plaintiff was employed by AVSTA in the
positions of “Bus Driver” and “Dispatch.” (Compl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff alleges that
she was “subject to hostile treatment from AVSTA’S Chief Executive Officer,
[Fuselier], throughout her employment.” (Compl., ¶ 12.)  
“[O]n or around October 2021, [Plaintiff] and two of her colleagues
discovered that AVSTA was bidding away scheduled bus runs. While [Plaintiff]
and her two colleagues were on their lunch break, they inquired with [Fuselier]
about the sudden change in bus runs. [Fuselier] denied any knowledge of such.”
(Compl., ¶ 14.) “[Fuselier] returned to the room shortly thereafter and began
screaming at [Plaintiff] while pounding and lifting the table in front of her.”
(Compl., ¶ 15.) 
“At a Board Meeting on or around October 19, 2021, [Plaintiff] gave
AVSTA a letter regarding [Fuselier’s] actions. On or around November 2021,
[Plaintiff] also submitted signed declarations to AVSTA regarding [Fuselier]
and the hostile work environment he created. These complaints included, but
were not limited to, [Fuselier’s] threats to fire people, bullying, and use of
profanity.” (Compl., ¶ 18.) “Despite these complaints, AVSTA indicated that
they could not speak on the matter at the time, and eventually conveyed to
[Plaintiff] that [Fuselier] would not be terminated and nothing could be done.”
(Compl., ¶ 19.) Plaintiff alleges that “[d]ue to AVSTA and DOES 1 through 50’s
inaction regarding the circumstances, [Plaintiff] was forced to resign on or
around March 11, 2023.” (Compl., ¶ 20.) 
C.    
First, Second, Third, Fourth, and Sixth
Causes of Action 
Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s first, second, third, fourth
and sixth claims against AVSTA are barred since Plaintiff failed to file a
timely tort claim pursuant to the Government Tort Claims Act.” (Demurrer at p.
6:22-25.) 
 Defendants cite to State of California v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th
1234, 1237, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[a]s part of the California Tort Claims Act, Government Code section 900 et seq….establishes
certain conditions precedent to the filing of a lawsuit against a public
entity. As relevant here, a plaintiff must timely file a claim for money or
damages with the public entity. (§ 911.2.) The
failure to do so bars the plaintiff from bringing suit against that entity. (§ 945.4.) In this case, we consider whether failure to
allege facts demonstrating or excusing compliance with this claim presentation
requirement subjects a complaint to a general demurrer. We conclude it does.” 
“Under [Government Code] section 911.2, ‘[a] claim relating to a cause of
action for death or for injury to person or to personal property…shall be
presented as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section
915) of this chapter not later than six months after the accrual of the
cause of action.’ [Government Code] [s]ection 945.4 then provides that ‘no suit for money or damages may be brought against a public
entity on a cause of action for which a claim is
required to be presented in accordance with Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 900) and Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 910)
of Part 3 of this division until a written claim therefor has been presented to
the public entity and has been acted upon by the board, or has been deemed to
have been rejected by the board, in accordance with Chapters 1 and 2 of Part 3
of this division.’…Thus, under these statutes, failure to timely present a
claim for money or damages to a public entity bars a plaintiff from filing a
lawsuit against that entity.” (State of
California v. Superior Court, supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 1239 [emphasis
in original]. The California Supreme Court in State of California v.
Superior Court “conclude[d] that a plaintiff must allege
facts demonstrating or excusing compliance with the claim presentation
requirement. Otherwise, his complaint is subject to a general demurrer for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Id.
at p. 1243.) 
Defendants note that the
Complaint in this action alleges that “AVSTA is a California public
entity…” (Compl., ¶ 6.) The Complaint also alleges that “[p]ursuant to California Labor Code sections 6310, 6311 as well as
the holding in Sheridian v. Touchstone Television
Productions, LLC (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 508, [Plaintiff] is not
required to exhaust administrative remedies when his or her protected activity
regarding employee health and safety is at issue. Nonetheless, [Plaintiff] has
sent written notice by certified mail to the California 
Division
of Occupational Safety and Health, [Plaintiff’s] former employers, and the
Labor and Workforce Development Agency (LWDA) including specific provisions of
the Labor Code that have been violated and facts and theories to support said
violations. The same was sent to [Defendants] via certified mail.” (Compl., ¶
10.)
            In the demurrer, Defendants assert
that Plaintiff failed to file a timely tort claim. As set forth above, pursuant
to Government Code section 911.2, subdivision (a),
“[a] claim relating to a cause of action for death or
for injury to person or to personal property or growing crops shall be
presented as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section
915) not later than six months after the accrual of the cause of action. A
claim relating to any other cause of action shall be presented as provided in
Article 2 (commencing with Section 915) not later
than one year after the accrual of the cause of action.” Defendants note that
here, Plaintiff alleges that she “was forced to resign on or around
March 11, 2023.” (Compl., ¶ 20.) Defendants assert that accordingly,
Plaintiff’s “tort claim needed to be presented by September 2023.” (Demurrer at
p. 9:12-13.) 
            Defendants assert that “Plaintiff
did not file a tort claim with AVSTA. Instead, she submitted a labor claim on
February 2, 2024. Defendants dispute this is a tort claim. Notwithstanding,
what Plaintiff submitted in February 2024 was untimely.” (Demurrer at p.
9:13-15.) “Exhibit 2” to Defendants’ request for judicial notice is a letter
dated February 2, 2024, with the heading “Re: PAGA CLAIMS NOTICE…Gail
Boucher v. Antelope Valley School Transportation Agency, et al.”
(Defendants’ RJN, Ex. 2.) The February 2, 2024 letter states, inter alia,
that “AVSTA violated Labor Code sections 1102.5, 6310,
and 6400 based on the facts set forth below…” (Ibid.)  
            In the opposition, Plaintiff states
that she “will not argue against Defendants’ demurrer on Plaintiff’s first,
second, third, fourth and sixth Causes of actions against Defendant AVSTA.”
(Opp’n at p. 2:9-10.) Thus, Plaintiff does not appear to dispute that AVSTA’s “public records do not reflect [Plaintiff’s] compliance” with the claims presentation
requirement. (Gong v. City of Rosemead, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 376.) 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
sustains Defendants’ demurer to the first, second, third, fourth, and sixth
causes of action as to AVSTA, with leave to amend. Plaintiff states that she “requests
that she be granted leave to amend her Complaint.” (Opp’n at p. 2:6-7.) 
 
D.   
Sixth Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress 
As set forth above, the sixth cause of action is also alleged against
Fuselier. “A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress exists when there is (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. A
defendant’s conduct is outrageous when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds
of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051 [internal
quotations and citations omitted].) 
Defendants argue
that here, “Plaintiff claims that defendant Fuselier (on one
occasion) screamed at her while pounding and lifting a table such that she
reasonably believed she was in danger. This conduct alone is insufficient to
support her claim that defendant Fuselier’s conduct was extreme and outrageous
as a matter of law.” (Demurrer at p. 11:2-5.) In support of this assertion,
Defendants cite to Schneider v. TRW, Inc. (9th Cir. 1991) 938
F.2d 986. However,
this is a non-binding federal case. In addition, the Court finds that the allegations
of the Complaint sufficiently allege “extreme
and outrageous conduct” for purposes of the intentional infliction of emotional
distress cause of action. As noted by Plaintiff, she alleges that “[Fuselier]…began
screaming at [Plaintiff] while pounding and lifting the table in front of her.
[Fuselier’s] demeanor led [Plaintiff] to reasonably believe that she was in
danger.” (Compl., ¶ 15.) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to
the sixth cause of action as to Fuselier. 
E.    
Punitive
Damages Claim 
Lastly, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff fails to allege sufficient
facts to support her claim for punitive damages against Defendant Fuselier.”
(Demurrer at p. 11:8-9.) In the Prayer for Relief of the Complaint, Plaintiff
alleges that she seeks “punitive damages, pursuant to California
Civil Code section 3294, in amounts sufficient to punish FUSELIER for the
wrongful conduct alleged herein…” (Compl., Prayer for Relief, ¶ 4.) 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that “¿¿a demurrer cannot rightfully be sustained
to part of a cause of action or to a particular type of damage or remedy.¿¿” (¿Kong ¿v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108
Cal.App.4th 1028, 1047¿¿; ¿see also ¿PH II, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682 [“A demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of
action.”]¿¿.) “¿¿[W]hen a substantive defect is clear¿from
the face of a complaint…a defendant may attack that portion of the cause of
action by filing a motion to strike.¿¿” (PH II, Inc. v. ¿Superior Ct., supra¿, ¿¿33 Cal.App.4th
at pp. 1682-1683¿¿.)¿
In
light of the foregoing, the Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s
claim for punitive damages. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains
Defendants’ demurrer to the first, second, third, fourth, and sixth
causes of action as to AVSTA, with leave to amend. 
The Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to
the sixth cause of action as to Fuselier. The Court also overrules Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. 
The Court orders Plaintiff
to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of
this order. If no amended complaint
is filed within 20 days of this Order, Fuselier is ordered to
file and serve his answer within 30 days of the date of this Order.¿¿In
addition, if no amended complaint is filed within 20 days of this Order, the Court orders AVSTA to file and serve a proposed
judgment of dismissal within 30 days of the date of this Order as to AVSTA.[2]
Defendants are ordered to
give notice of this Order.¿  
 
DATED:  July 5, 2024                                    ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


