  Case Number:  20STCV23203    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




ricardo armando nunez,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
san martin de porres medical clinic of south gate, inc., et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


20STCV23203




Hearing Date:


July 5, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
 
DEFENDANTS’
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION TO THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT




            
Background
Plaintiff Ricardo
Armando Nunez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on June 19, 2020 against
Defendant San Martin De Porres Medical Clinic of South Gate, Inc.
(“Defendant”). 
Plaintiff filed the
operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) on April 17, 2023, asserting causes
of action for (1) FEHA retaliation, (2) violation of Labor
Code sections 510, 1194,
and 1198, (3) violation of Labor Code section
2802, (4) violation of Labor Code section 226.7 and
512, (5) violation of Labor Code section 226, (6)
violation of Labor Code sections 200-204, and (7)
violation of Labor Code section 1194. 
Defendant now moves for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s first
cause of action for FEHA retaliation. Plaintiff opposes. 
Evidentiary Objections
The Court rules on
Defendant’s evidentiary objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1:
sustained. As noted by Defendant, the applicable question does not appear to be
provided in the excerpted deposition transcript. 
Objection No. 2:
sustained. As noted by Defendant the applicable question does not appear to be
provided in the excerpted deposition transcript.
Objection No. 3:
overruled
Objection No. 4:
overruled
Objection No. 5:
overruled
Objection No. 6:
overruled 
Objection No. 7:
overruled
Objection No. 8:
overruled
Objection No. 9: overruled
Objection No. 10:
overruled 
The Court notes that Plaintiff’s
response to Defendant’s separate statement of undisputed material facts lists evidentiary
objections to certain facts submitted by Defendant. Pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1354, evidentiary
objections are to be served and filed separately from the other papers in
support of or in opposition to a motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff did not
comply with the format requirements of rule
3.1354. Thus, the Court declines to rule on the
evidentiary objections.[1]
 
Legal Standard
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes
of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more
claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that
the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the
cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any
cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in
Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more
defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).) 
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a
prima facie showing that there are
no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.)
If the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima
facie showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists. (Ibid.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) When a defendant seeks summary
judgment or summary adjudication, he/she must show either (1) that one or more
elements of the cause of action cannot be established; or (2) that there is a
complete defense to that cause of action. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the
TAC
In the TAC, Plaintiff
alleges that in or about 1994, he became employed with Defendant as a janitor,
and he remained in this position until he was terminated on or about March 11,
2020. (TAC, ¶ 9.) Plaintiff alleges that he was denied financial
compensation for the work he did for defendants, resulting in Plaintiff
receiving less than the minimum wage and unpaid overtime. (TAC, ¶ 14.)
Plaintiff also alleges that from the year 1994 to 2015, Plaintiff regularly
used his own vehicle to go purchase his own cleaning supplies, but these
expenses were never reimbursed by defendants. (TAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges
that during the entirety of his employment, he was denied meal and rest breaks.
(TAC, ¶ 16.)
Plaintiff alleges that
in or about January 2020, Dr. Jose Fernando Torreblanca told Plaintiff that
“you’re too old to do what you need to do” and “if it were up to me, you would
have been fired already because you’re old.” (TAC, ¶ 18.) Ana Maria Rodriguez,
another one of Plaintiff’s supervisors, told Plaintiff “you are too old.” (TAC,
¶ 18.) In or about early March 2020, Ms. Rodriguez told Plaintiff, “you are
getting old, and shouldn’t even be working anymore” and that “it would be best
if you went back to your… country and stopped working.” (TAC, ¶ 19.) In or
about early March 2020, Dr. Jose Fernando Torreblanca Ponce, the son of Dr.
Jose Fernando Torreblanca, told Plaintiff, “You’re old, go back to your home
country. You’re so old you can barely even stand; you really should stop
working here and go back to your home country…” (TAC, ¶ 20.) 
In March of 2020, Dr. Jose Fernando Torreblanca approached Plaintiff
and informed him that he needed to find another company to work for by the end
of the month. (TAC, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff responded to Dr. Jose Fernando Torreblanca
by stating that he needed to speak to an attorney. (TAC, ¶ 22.) After Plaintiff
expressed his intention to speak to an attorney, Dr. Jose Fernando Torreblanca
immediately terminated Plaintiff’s employment. (TAC, ¶ 22.) Plaintiff alleges
that he “is informed and believes that he was terminated for expressing his
intention to consult an attorney.” (TAC, ¶ 23.) 

B.    First Cause of
Action for FEHA Retaliation
“[I]n order to establish
a prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he
or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the
employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between
the protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th
1028, 1042.) “The causal link may be established
by an inference derived from circumstantial evidence, ‘such as the employer’s knowledge that the
[employee] engaged in protected activities and the proximity in time between
the protected action and allegedly retaliatory employment decision.’” (Morgan v.
Regents of University of California
(2000) 88 Cal.App.4th 52, 69.)
Protected activity includes opposing “any practices forbidden” under FEHA or
filing a complaint, testifying, or assisting in any proceeding under FEHA. (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (h).) 
            In the instant motion, Defendant
asserts that “Plaintiff has filed a Third Amended Complaint alleging
termination due to expressing an intent to seek legal advice on employment
rights. Yet, the Plaintiff’s deposition transcript reveals a critical
inconsistency – he admits to being terminated before notifying the Defendant
about his intention to seek legal advice.” (Mot. at p. 5:6-9.) Defendant
asserts that accordingly, there is no merit to Plaintiff’s first cause of
action for FEHA retaliation. 
            Defendant cites to the following
testimony from Plaintiff’s deposition: “Q[.] When Dr. Torreblanca Jr.
told you that he was terminating you because you were no good, you are too old,
and the virus was coming, how did you respond to him? What did you tell him in
response to that? A[.]…I said, ‘Why am I being fired? I did not make any
mistake. I was still working well.’ And he told me, ‘You are no good. No, no, and
no.’ ‘Then, sir, I am going to complain to my attorney.’” (Lopez
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2 (Nunez Depo.) at pp. 135:16-136:4.) Defendant also cites to
the following testimony from Plaintiff’s deposition: “MR. LOPEZ: Can you
read back the question, please. Q[.] And then can you respond to the question.
And we’ll keep your objection on the record. (The record was read as follows: ‘So
he had already fired you before you threatened to go talk to an attorney;
correct?’) THE WITNESS: Yes.” (Lopez Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 3 (Nunez Depo.)
at p. 137:10-19.) 
            Defendant also argues that Plaintiff
“was terminated for poor work performance.” (Mot. at p. 13:2.) In his
supporting declaration, Jose Manuel Torreblanca, MD states, inter alia,
that “[i]n or about March 10, 2020 my wife and I made the decision to terminate
plaintiff’s independent contractor janitorial services with the clinic. The
decision was solely based on plaintiff’s work performance and behavior and for
the fear that the clinic personnel/employees and patients would be at an
increased risk of contracting Covid 19. The decision had nothing to do with
plaintiff’s desire to speak to an attorney…My wife and I informed our son, Dr.
Jose Fernando Torreblanca, and gave him the go ahead to terminate the
janitorial services provided by Mr. Nunez to the clinic.” (Torreblanca Decl., ¶
12.) 
            Defendant argues that “Plaintiff’s
FEHA retaliation claim falters due to the absence of a crucial element – the
alleged causal link. The Plaintiff’s admission in the deposition transcript,
where termination predates any communication about seeking legal counsel, forms
the linchpin of the Defendant’s argument. This, coupled with the Defendant’s
assertion of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory basis for the adverse employment
action rooted in poor performance and misconduct, renders the retaliation claim
baseless.” (Mot. at p. 5:22-27.) 
            In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts
that “the moving party erroneously asserts there was no protected activity and
there is no causal link between the activity and the adverse action.” (Opp’n at
p. 5:9-10.) Plaintiff cites to the following testimony from the deposition of
Jose Torreblanca, MD (aka ‘Jr.’): “Q[.] I’d like to go back to my question,
which was what was your discussion with your parents after you told Ricardo
that you were ending the working relationship? Well, yeah, I told them that as
soon as I said, I can give you until the end of the month, that he said, oh,
this -- you can’t do this. I’m going to have to talk to an attorney. And then I
told him that I just said, and we can stop having this relationship and
services by you, immediately.” (Zambrano Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. C (Torreblanca Depo.)
at p. 66:16-25.) 
            Plaintiff also cites to the
following testimony from the deposition of Jose Torreblanca, MD (aka ‘Jr.’):
“Q[.] Okay. And I just want to get a direct understanding of what happened. So
you and your parents discuss this, and you came to the consensus that you’re
going to give him until the end of one month to finish his services; is that
correct? A[.] That was the original intent, yes. Q[.] And then when you had the
discussion with Mr. Nunez, telling him that he had till the end of the month,
at that point, you decided to end it at that time? A[.] Then I told him
please do not return because of his, you know, threat of seeking attorney
services. Q[.] And then you went and told your parents that you decided to end
Mr. Nunez’s services that day; is that correct? A[.] No. Then I discussed then
what happened, and they agreed with him not returning.” (Zambrano Decl., ¶
5, Ex. C (Torreblanca Depo.) at p. 91:9-25, emphasis added.) As Plaintiff
notes, “an employee engages in protected activity under the FEHA when he threatens
to file a charge of employment discrimination.” (Iwekaogwu
v. City of L.A. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th
803, 815.)
            In light of the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of material fact regarding
whether “a causal link existed between the protected
activity and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz
v. L'Oreal USA, Inc., supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 1042.) 
            Lastly, the Court notes that
Defendant’s instant motion appears to contain arguments concerning a discrimination
cause of action. For instance, Defendant argues that “Plaintiff has not met its
[sic] burden in proving all elements for the Age Discrimination cause of
action…” (Mot. at p. 15:6-7.) However, the TAC does not allege any cause of
action for discrimination. In addition, the Court notes that on March 4, 2022,
the Court granted Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the cause
of action for discrimination in the SAC. (See March 4, 2022 Order.)
Thus, any purported motion for summary adjudication by Defendant concerning the
SAC’s discrimination cause of action is moot. 
            Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Defendant’s motion for
summary adjudication. 
The Court orders Plaintiff to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  July 5, 2024                                    ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


