 Case Number:  22STCV10556    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




kimberlina whettam &
   associates, inc.

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
eric bruget

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV10556




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   31, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to stay action pending
  conclusion of criminal action



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Eric Bruget
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Kimberlina Whettam &
Associates, Inc. 
Motion to Stay Action Pending Conclusion of Criminal Action
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Eric Bruget (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order
staying this action filed by plaintiff Kimberlina Whettam & Associates,
Inc. (“Plaintiff”) in its entirety pending conclusion of the criminal action
against him.  Alternatively, Defendant
requests that the court issue a protective order staying discovery and ordering
that he not be required to respond to any discovery requests or submit to
deposition pending conclusion of the criminal proceedings.
“Trial courts generally have the inherent power to stay proceedings in
the interests of justice and to promote judicial efficiency.”  (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995)
33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.)  “Where . . .
a defendant’s silence is constitutionally guaranteed, the court should weigh
the parties’ competing interests with a view toward accommodating the interests
of both parties, if possible.”  (Pacers,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 686, 690.)  “The determination whether to stay an action
pending resolution of criminal proceedings should be made in light of the
particular circumstances and competing interests involved.  [Citation.] 
The decisionmaker should consider the extent to which Fifth Amendment
rights are implicated.  In addition,
factors to be considered include: (1) the interest of the party opposing the
stay in proceeding expeditiously with the action, and the potential prejudice
to the party opposing the stay of a delay; (2) the burden which any particular
aspect of the proceedings may impose on the party seeking the stay; (3) the
convenience to the court in management of its cases and the efficient use of
judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not parties to the civil
litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the pending cases.  [Citation.] 
While the privilege against self-incrimination is a factor to be
considered, the issue of a stay itself does not implicate constitutional issues.”  (People ex rel. Harris v. Rizzo (2013)
214 Cal.App.4th 921, 952 [internal citations omitted].) 
On August 29, 2023, a Felony Complaint was filed against Defendant,
alleging 33 counts against him for grand theft by an employee or agent based on
the allegations that Defendant unlawfully took labor, money, and real and
personal property from Plaintiff. 
(Bruget Decl., Ex. 1, Felony Complaint.) 
Thus, Defendant contends that a stay of this action or, alternatively,
the issuance of a protective order is warranted in order to preserve his right
against self-incrimination. 
First, the court acknowledges that Plaintiff has an interest in
proceeding expeditiously with this action. 
(People ex rel. Harris, supra, 214 Cal.App.4th at p.
952.)  This case was filed on March 28,
2022.  Plaintiff has not presented
evidence or argument establishing that it will be unduly burdened by a
delay.  Thus, the court finds that this
factor does not weigh against imposing a stay. 
Second, the court finds that there may be a substantial burden imposed
on Defendant in defending against this action. 
(People ex rel. Harris, supra, 214 Cal.App.4th at p.
952.)  As set forth above, the Felony
Complaint filed against Defendant is based on the same set of facts as alleged
in Plaintiff’s complaint against Defendant in this action.  (FAC ¶ 1 [Plaintiff’s case arises out of
Defendant’s alleged wrongful conduct and fraudulent scheme “wherein [Defendant]
embezzled and converted monies of [Plaintiff] while he was employed by
[Plaintiff] as its Chief Financial Officer”]; Bruget Decl., Ex. 1, Felony
Complaint.)  Thus, the court finds that Defendant,
in asserting and preserving his right against self-incrimination, may be
limited in preparing a defense to this action. 
(People v. Coleman (1975) 13 Cal.3d 867, 884-885 [“More
troublesome is the plight of a defendant in a criminal prosecution who must
also defend against civil proceedings involving the same facts.  The defendant may well be required to make
incriminating admissions if he is to have a meaningful chance of avoiding the
loss through judicial process of a substantial amount of property”].)  The court therefore finds that this factor
weighs in favor of imposing a stay of this action against Defendant.  
Third, the court finds that imposing a stay of this action as to all
remaining defendants (i.e., Defendant and nonmoving defendant Wendy Bruget)
would not be convenient to the court in managing this action.  The court also finds that Defendant’s
alternative request for an order staying discovery as to him would not promote
the convenience of the court in the management of this case.  The court instead finds that imposing a stay
of this action only as against Defendant would be most convenient to the court
in its management of this case.  (People
ex rel. Harris, supra, 214 Cal.App.4th at p. 952.) 
Fourth, the parties have not presented evidence or argument showing
that there are interests of persons not parties to the civil litigation that
would be prejudiced by imposing a stay of this action.  Thus, the court finds that this factor does
not weigh against imposing a stay.  (People
ex rel. Harris, supra, 214 Cal.App.4th at p. 952.)
Fifth, the court finds that the interest of the public in the pending
civil and criminal litigation weighs in favor of a stay of this action, but as
against Defendant only, because there is a public interest in ensuring that
criminal defendants such as Defendant are not “required to make incriminating
admissions” in order to have a meaningful chance of avoiding losses in
concurrent civil actions.  (People ex
rel. Harris, supra, 214 Cal.App.4th at p. 952; Coleman, supra,
13 Cal.3d at pp. 884-885.) 
Thus, the court finds, after considering the circumstances presented
by this motion and the competing interests of Plaintiff and Defendant, that
Plaintiff’s action should be stayed against Defendant pending resolution of the
criminal action against him.  
The court therefore (1) denies Defendant’s requests (i) that the court
stay this action in its entirety against all remaining defendants and (ii) that
the court issue a protective order staying discovery against him, and (2)
exercises its discretion to order that Plaintiff’s action against Defendant is
stayed.
ORDER
            The court grants in part defendant Eric Bruget’s motion to stay action
pending conclusion of criminal action. 
            The court orders that this action is
stayed only as to plaintiff Kimberlina Whettam & Associates, Inc.’s claims against
defendant Eric Bruget, pending conclusion of the criminal action entitled The
People of the State of California v. Eric Bruget (Case No. BA517478).
            The court sets a Status Conference
re stay of action pending conclusion of criminal action for hearing on July 30,
2024, at 8:30 a.m.
            The court orders plaintiff
Kimberlina Whettam & Associates, Inc. and defendant Eric Bruget to file a
joint report regarding the status of the criminal action no later than July 19,
2024.  
            The court orders defendant Eric
Bruget to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 31, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court