  Case Number:  18STCV08570    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




anthony’s worldwide
   promotions, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
sommer ray beaty

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


18STCV08570




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   31, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for judgment on the
  pleadings
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Sommer Ray Beaty 
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Plaintiffs Anthony Aiello and Anthony’s Worldwide
Promotions, LLC
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant Sommer Ray Beaty’s request for judicial
notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd.
(c).) 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Sommer Ray Beaty (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order
granting her motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the 16th cause of
action for economic interference, alleged by plaintiffs Anthony Aiello and
Anthony’s Worldwide Promotions, LLC (“Plaintiffs”) in their Complaint. 
The court grants Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings on
the 16th cause of action for economic interference because it does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(B)(ii).) 
Plaintiffs’ 16th cause of action is based on the allegations that (1)
on June 13, 2016, Plaintiffs and Defendant entered into a binding written
contract (the “Contract of Ownership & Management”), of which Defendant had
knowledge; (2) Defendant hired Eli Zoe to breach the contract with Plaintiffs
by hacking, blocking access to, and interfering with Plaintiffs’ Instagram
accounts; (3) that conduct constituted a breach of contract with Plaintiffs;
and (4) Plaintiffs “suffered damages in regard to expected revenues from the
duly signed contract.”  (Compl.,
¶¶ 99-101; Compl., p. 2:27-28 [alleging that the contract executed on June
13, 2016 was the “Contract of Ownership & Management”].) 
Although Plaintiffs have labeled the 16th cause of action to be a
cause of action for economic interference, the facts allege a cause of action
for interference with contract since it is based on the interference with the
contract between Plaintiffs and Defendant. 
(Compl., ¶¶ 100-101.)  To
state a cause of action for intentional interference with a contract,
Plaintiffs must allege, inter alia, “‘a valid contract between
[Plaintiffs] and a third party . . . .’” 
(Winchester Mystery House, LLC v. Global Asylum, Inc. (2012) 210
Cal.App.4th 579, 596 [elements of cause of action for intentional interference
with contract].)  The contract that is
the subject of the cause of action (i.e., the June 3, 2016 Contract of
Ownership & Management between Plaintiffs and Defendant) has been
determined to be void ab initio by the Labor Commissioner.  (RJN Ex. A, Determination of Controversy, pp.
3, ¶ 9, 15, ¶ 2.)  Thus, the court
finds that Plaintiffs have not alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action for interference with contract by failing to allege interference with
a “valid” contract.[1]  (Ibid.; Winchester Mystery House,
LLC, supra, 210 Cal.App.4th at p. 596.)  
The court notes that, in opposition, Plaintiffs argue that (1)
Defendant denied Plaintiffs the future economic benefits that they would have
obtained pursuant to their relationships with advertisers, and (2) they seek to
recover damages sustained from having Plaintiffs’ Instagram page taken by
Defendant.  (Opp., pp. 8:25-9:5.)  However, Plaintiffs did not allege those
facts in support of this cause of action. 
Instead, as set forth above, the 16th cause of action alleges that
Defendant hired Eli Zoe to breach the contract between Plaintiffs and Defendant
and that Plaintiffs suffered damages in the form of expected revenue from that
contract.  (Compl., ¶¶ 100-101.)  The court, however, grants Plaintiffs leave
to amend their complaint to allege those facts. 
(Green Decl., ¶ 4 [Plaintiffs “can amend to allege interference
with [Plaintiffs’] relationships with other advertisers and promoters derived
from the 20 million followers [they] cultivated for the pages Defendants
wrongfully took and appropriated for their own”].)  
ORDER
            The court grants defendant Sommer
Ray Beaty’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the 16th cause of action
for economic interference. 
The court grants plaintiffs Anthony Aiello and Anthony’s Worldwide
Promotions, LLC 20 days leave to file a First Amended Complaint that cures the
defects in the 16th cause of action for economic interference as set forth
above. 
The court orders defendant Sommer Ray Beaty to give notice of this
ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 31, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


