 Case Number:  23LBCV02516    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Leslie A. Smith, Trustee of the Leslie A. Smith Trust Dated
July 11, 2022 filed this action against Defendant, Anchor Seaport Escrow on
12/29/23.  Plaintiff’s complaint contains
causes of action for breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, and
negligence.  
 
2.    
Demurrer
On 5/15/24, Defendant filed a demurrer to the negligence cause of
action.  Defendant’s demurrer is
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration establishing Defense Counsel
attempted to email and call Plaintiff’s attorney, but received no
response.  
 
On 7/03/24, Plaintiff filed a response to the demurrer, wherein she
indicates “negligence” is listed in the caption of the complaint, but there is
no negligence cause of action pled in the body of the complaint, and she does
not intend to pursue a claim for negligence. 
She indicates she does not object to a ruling striking the reference to
“negligence” in the caption of her complaint.
 
This proceeding demonstrates the importance of participating in meet and
confer conversations.  The reference to
“negligence” is stricken without leave to amend.  Plaintiff’s attorney is admonished to fully
participate in all meet and confer conversations in the future in connection
with this and other actions to avoid unnecessary consumption of judicial and
attorney resources.  
 
Defendant is ordered to file an answer to the complaint, with the
reference to “negligence” deemed stricken, within ten days.  
 
3.    
Notice
Plaintiff’s opposition to the demurrer indicates the hearing date is
6/16/24.  It is 7/16/24.  Additionally, on 6/04/24, Plaintiff was
ordered to give notice that the Court set a CMC and OSC for 7/16/24.  Plaintiff did not serve the notice until a
month later, on 7/03/24, and noticed the CMC and OSC for 6/16/24, not
7/16/24.  The Court admonishes Plaintiff’s
attorney to give notice promptly in the future in connection with this and
other actions, and also admonishes Plaintiff’s attorney to ensure dates are correct
on all notices.  
 
4.    
CMC
and OSC
The parties are reminded that there is a CMC and OSC on calendar
concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer. 
The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements to appear remotely at the
CMC, OSC, and hearing on the demurrer.