 Case Number:  23LBCV00891    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Complaint
Plaintiffs, Magnolia Lopez, Yadira Zambrano, Viridiana Zambrano, and
Rebecca Martinez, individually and as successors-in-interest to Decedent, Jose
Perez filed this action against Defendants, Long Beach Healthcare Center, LLC,
Secrom, Inc., and Amparo Ramirez for elder abuse, negligence, wrongful death,
NIED, and violation of the patients’ bill of rights.  
 
2.    
Demurrer

Legal Standard on
     Demurrer

A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares the attorneys for both sides met and
conferred, but were unable to resolve their dispute.  The Court will therefore rule on the demurrer
on its merits.  
 

Elder Abuse

i.             
Parties’
Positions 
Defendant demurs to the elder abuse cause of action, contending
Plaintiffs have improperly stated only legal conclusions, when specific factual
pleading is required in order to state a claim for elder abuse.  
 
Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer. 
They argue their claim is pled with the requisite particularity, because
only facts sufficient to acquaint the defendant with the nature of the claim
need be pled, and less particularity is required when the defendant necessarily
has knowledge of the facts equal to the knowledge of the plaintiff.  
 
ii.            
Recklessness,
Oppression, Fraud, or Malice
Defendant establishes that each element of elder abuse must be pled
with specificity.  See, for example,
Covenant Care v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.  Plaintiffs cite cases decided in
non-statutory contexts to support their position that notice-based pleading is
sufficient and/or that they need not plead all facts when the defendant has
equal knowledge of the facts.  These
cases do not apply in a statutory cause of action, such as elder abuse, and
Plaintiffs have cited no on point authority in this regard.  The Court will therefore apply the
particularity standard applies in Covenant Care and all other elder abuse cases
cited by Defendant.  
 
The Court finds Plaintiffs failed to plead facts showing elder abuse
with specificity.  The problem with
Plaintiffs’ complaint is that it allege, at ¶6 of the FAC, that Decedent was at
Co-Defendant’s facility from 8/21/19 through 6/01/22, and then was only at
Moving Defendant’s facility from 6/07/22 to 6/10/22.  Plaintiffs then go on to allege, at ¶¶12-16,
that “Defendants” engaged in various acts and omissions that constitute elder
abuse; the primary contention is that Defendants did not have a fall plan and
Decedent fell repeatedly.  
 
By lumping the defendants together, especially when Decedent was only
in the care of Moving Defendant for three days, Plaintiffs fail to meet the
specificity requirement for pleading. 
The demurrer is sustained.  Notably,
at ¶15(a), Plaintiff alleges Decedent was injured by falling multiple times
while in “Defendants’ care.”  Plaintiffs
fail to allege any fall occurrence during the three days Decedent was at Moving
Defendant’s facility, which would be necessary to state a claim for damages
against Moving Defendant.  
 
If Plaintiffs choose to amend, they must allege what happened during
the three days that Decedent was at Moving Defendant’s facility, as opposed to
Co-Defendant’s facility, in order to state a claim with the requisite
specificity. 

NIED 

i.             
Law
Governing NIED Bystander Claims
“The law of negligent infliction of emotional distress in California is
typically analyzed ... by reference to two ‘theories' of recovery: the
‘bystander’ theory and the ‘direct victim’ theory.” (Burgess v. Superior Court
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1071).) Under the bystander theory, the plaintiff seeks
to recover damages for serious emotional distress suffered as a result of an
injury to a close family member. Recovery is limited as a matter of public
policy to those cases where the plaintiff was present at the scene of the
injury-producing event and was aware that the event was causing injury to the
victim. (Id. at pp. 1072-1073.)
 
In Thing v. LaChusa (1989) 49 Cal.3d 644, 667, the Supreme Court held
to recover for negligent infliction of emotional distress as a bystander the
plaintiff must plead and prove he or she “(1) is closely related to the injury
victim; (2) is present at the scene of the injury-producing event at the time
it occurs and is then aware that it is causing injury to the victim; and (3) as
a result suffers serious emotional distress-a reaction beyond that which would
be anticipated in a disinterested witness and which is not an abnormal response
to the circumstances.” (Footnotes omitted.) The Thing Court expressly
disapproved suggestions in prior cases that a negligent actor is liable to all
those “who may have suffered emotional distress on viewing or learning about
the injurious consequences of his conduct,” rather than on viewing the
injury-producing event itself. (Id. at p. 668; Bird v. Saenz (2002) 28 Cal.4th
910, 915-916.
 
ii.            
Analysis
Defendant demurs to the NIED cause of action, correctly noting that it
is non-sensical.  Plaintiffs allege they
were aware of and perceived the injury-producing events.  ¶40. 
However, at ¶15(a), Plaintiffs allege the injury-producing events
constituted being allowed to wander and/or ambulate without monitoring or
aid.  As Defendant correctly notes in
demurrer, if Plaintiffs were present, then Decedent was, by definition, not
without monitoring or aid.  Plaintiffs
fail to address this argument in opposition to the demurrer.  The demurrer is sustained.  Plaintiffs must allege facts re: the three
days at Moving Defendant’s facility and must explain what it is that they
witnessed if they choose to amend their NIED cause of action.
 

Patients’ Bill of Rights

Defendant correctly notes that this cause of action, like the elder
abuse cause of action, is statutory and must be pled with specificity.  Plaintiffs, in opposition to the demurrer,
merely indicate that the cause of action is sufficient because the elder abuse
cause of action is sufficient.  The
demurrer is sustained with leave to amend for the reasons set forth above.
 
3.    
Motion to Strike
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages,
treble damages, and injunctive relief, all of which are sought in connection
with the elder abuse cause of action.  The
motion is moot in light of the ruling on the demurrer, above.
 
4.    
Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.  Defendant’s motion to strike is moot.  Plaintiffs are ordered to file an amended
complaint within twenty days.  If they do
not have specific facts to support their elder abuse cause of action and/or
patient’s bill of rights cause of action, they must omit those claims from the
SAC.  If they cannot meaningfully plead
their NIED cause of action, as discussed above, they must omit the cause of
action from their SAC.  Defendant must
file a responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice.
5.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above demurrer and
motion to strike.  The Court asks Counsel
to make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the demurrer and
motion to strike and the CMC.