  Case Number:  23AHCV00494    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MASAKO INOUE, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GREEN
   WORKS CONSTRUCTION & DESIGN, INC.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00494
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 15,
  2024




 


)


 



 
On March 7, 2023, plaintiff Masako
Inoue (“Inoue”) filed this action against defendant Green Works Construction
& Design, Inc. (“Green Works”). On April 28, 2023, Green Works answered
Inoue’s complaint and filed a cross-complaint against subcontractors ACR
Heating & Cooling, Inc. (“ACR”) and Reform Construction & Design, Inc.
(“Reform). On October 24, 2023, Reform answered Green Works’ cross-complaint
and filed its own cross-complaint. 
On January 3, 2024, Inoue filed a
motion for an order compelling all parties to arbitrate all claims pursuant to
arbitration provisions in the agreements entered into between Inoue and Green
Works and the agreements between Green Works, Reform, and ACR. 
On February 20, 2024, ACR filed its
answer to Green Works’ cross-complaint. 
On May 8, 2024, the parties filed a
stipulation and proposed order agreeing to complete mediation within 90 days of
the execution of the order. If mediation is unsuccessful, the parties agree to
commence arbitration. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for an order compelling
arbitration is moot and the motion is taken off calendar. 
 
 
Dated
this 15th
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 