  Case Number:  23STCV16136    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants’ 6 Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses   
Form Interrogatories by Defendants Allen, N. Sehmi, and T.
Sehmi
            Defendants
Allen Corporation Supply Co., Inc. (Allen), Navjot Sehmi, and Tejroop Sehmi
move to compel plaintiff Cacker Capital, Inc. to further respond to form
interrogatories.  Allen moves to compel
further responses to form interrogatories – general Nos. 9.1, 9.2, 12.1, and
17.1.  Navjot Sehmi and Tejroop Sehmi
move to compel further responses to No. 17.1.
A party
propounding interrogatories may move to compel further responses when an answer
“is evasive or incomplete,” “[a]n exercise of the option to produce documents
under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate,” or “[a]n objection to an interrogatory is without
merit or too general.”  (CCP §
2030.300(a).)  
Nos. 9.1 and 9.2
            After Allen
filed this motion, plaintiff served supplemental responses to Nos. 9.1 and
9.2.  No. 9.1 asks, “Are there any other
damages that you attribute to the INCIDENT?  If so, for each item of damage state: (a) the
nature; (b) the date it occurred; (c) the amount; and (d) the name, ADDRESS,
and telephone number of each person to whom an obligation was incurred.”  Initially, plaintiff responded, “Damages
include but are not limited to damages allowed under Civil Code section 3336,
interest on the funds that defendants did not promptly return, statutory
damages and attorney fees under Penal Code section 496(c).”  That answer is incomplete because it only
addresses subpart (a).  Moreover, stating
the damages “include but are not limited to…” is evasive.
            Plaintiff
ultimately responded, “As of December 20, 2023: (a) Attorney fees and statutory
damages under Penal Code section 496(c), compensation under Civil Code section
3336 ( compensation for time and money expended in pursuit of property), and
interest on $135,000.  (b) December 31,
2021 (c) $65,339 as of December 20, 2023.  ( d) Matt Bloodgood, Christina Bloodgood.”  (Mink Decl., Ex. 10.)
            This
response is also incomplete and evasive. 
No. 9.1 asks questions (a)-(d) “for each item of damage.”  The response identifies four forms of purported
damages: (1) attorney fees, (2) statutory damages under Penal Code section
496(c), (3) compensation under Civil Code section 3336, and (4) interest on
$135,000.  Subpart (c), however, states
only a single amount instead of answering “for each item of damage.”
No. 9.2 asks, “Do any DOCUMENTS
support the existence or amount of any item of damages claimed in interrogatory
9.1?  If so, describe each document and
state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT.”  Initially, plaintiff responded, “Yes.”  That response was incomplete.  It does not answer the follow-up question
beginning, “If so... .”  
Plaintiff ultimately supplemented the
response: “Yes.  As to attorney fees,
bills were produced to defendants’ counsel. 
As to CC 3336, none.  As to
interest, calculations at 7% on scratch pads that were discarded.” (Mink Decl.,
Ex. 10.)  This response is valid.  Though it does not directly identify who has
each document, it suffices that plaintiff produced the bills and that the other
documents “were discarded,” meaning nobody has them.  
No. 12.1
            No. 12.1
asks, “State the name, ADDRESS and telephone number of each individual: (a) who
witnessed the INCIDENT or the events occurring immediately before or after the
INCIDENT; (b) who made any statement at the scene of the INCIDENT; (c) who
heard any statements made about the INCIDENT by any individual at the scene;
and (d) who YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF claim has knowledge of the
INCIDENT (except for expert witnesses covered by Code of Civil Procedure
section 2034).”
            To all four
subparts, plaintiff responded, “Matthew Bloodgood, Christina Bloodgood, Andrew
White, employees at Franchise Tax Board, whose identities will be stated when
ascertained.  Investigation and discovery
are continuing.  The response to 17.l(c),
below, is incorporated herein by this reference.”  
This response is inadequate.  As Allen argues, “Plaintiff failed to
properly identify the witnesses, including the employees at the FTB it
communicated with.”  (Separate Statement,
p. 3.)  Interrogatory responses “shall be
as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the
responding party permits.”  (CCP §
2030.220(a).)  “If the responding party
does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an
interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good
faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or
organizations, except where the information is equally available to the
propounding party.”  (Id., subd.
(c).)  “Verification of the answers is in effect a declaration
that the party has disclosed all information which is available to him.  If only partial answers can be supplied, the
answers should reveal all information then available to the party.  If a person cannot furnish details, he should
set forth the efforts made to secure the information.  He cannot plead ignorance to information
which can be obtained from sources under his control.”  (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 782 (Deyo).)
Plaintiff
does not set forth any efforts made to identify which employees at the
Franchise Tax Board (FTB) it communicated with. 
That information is not equally available to Allen.  The response is therefore incomplete or
evasive.   
No. 17.1
            No. 17.1 asks, “Is your response to each request for
admission served with these interrogatories an unqualified admission? 
If not, for each response that is not an unqualified admission: (a)
state the number of the request; (b) state all facts upon which you base your
response; (c) state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS
who have knowledge of those facts; and (d) identify all DOCUMENTS and other
tangible things that support your response and state the name, ADDRESS, and
telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT or thing.”
            For each
subject request for admission, plaintiff responded to subpart (b) with a long
narrative.  Defendants argue this
narrative merely regurgitates the complaint’s allegations.  The response does repeat several allegations
from the complaint, but that does not make it incomplete or evasive.  The response states facts and specifically
describes events by date.  
Defendants’ position regarding No.
17.1(b) amounts to arguing the facts plaintiff gives are not persuasive.  For example, request for admission No. 30
asked, “Admit that YOU have no EVIDENCE that” Tejroop Sehmi “participated in
any aspect of the incident described in YOUR COMPLAINT.”  Plaintiff’s response to 17.1(b) included the
following statements: “Defendant Tejroop Sehmi is the chief financial officer
of Allen owned an interest in Allen, and was doing business as an individual
through Allen.  …  Each of the defendants participated in the
conduct described herein were agents of each other acting within the course and
scope of their agency and employment with the knowledge, consent, or
ratification of each other defendant.”  
In Tejroop Sehmi’s and Navjot Sehmi’s
motions, they ask the rhetorical question, “[W]hat evidence does Cacker have to
name [Tejroop or Navjot] Sehmi other than his happening to be a shareholder and
officer of the company?”  (Motions, p.
6.)  This argument goes to the merits of
the case against the individual defendants, not whether the response complies
with the Civil Discovery Act.  Plaintiff
is not required to admit it has no evidence to support various claims when it
can point to facts it believes permit an inference supporting its
allegations.  Whether those facts or
evidence are persuasive is a separate matter. 
Acquiring what defendants consider weak sworn responses constitutes
achieving the objects of their discovery.
Plaintiff’s response to No. 17.1(c),
however, is incomplete and evasive. 
Plaintiff responded, “Matthew Bloodgood, Christina Bloodgood, Murray
Greiff, Marla Robinson, Moises Cardoso, Brian Young, Mike Krycler, Andrew
White, Lori at FTB.”  This response does
not state their names, addresses, or telephone numbers.  As for “Lori at FTB,” plaintiff did not set
forth any effort to learn Lori’s full name. 
(See Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 782.)  
Plaintiff’s response to No. 17.1(d) is
also incomplete and evasive.  For each
disputed request for admission, plaintiff responded, “Documents will be
produced after plaintiff’s counsel concludes his trial, currently estimated to
be November 1, 2023.”  That is incomplete
and evasive.  The Civil Discovery Act sets
forth deadlines for discovery responses. 
The responding party is not entitled to unilaterally extend those
deadlines.  Plaintiff’s opposition argues
plaintiff produced documents on November 2 and 3, 2023.  That is not a substitute for an interrogatory
response stating, under oath, every document that supports plaintiff’s denial
of a request for admission.    
Special Interrogatories
            Defendant
Allen moves to compel further responses by plaintiff to special interrogatories
Nos. 1-7, 10-25.  Plaintiff gave evasive
and incomplete responses to each interrogatory. 
These interrogatories all ask plaintiff to “identify” documents supporting
various allegations in the complaint.  The interrogatories defined “identify” to mean
“set forth the date, the author of the document, any recipients of the
document, the bates number of the document, if available, or if the document
has not been previously produced, the location of the document.”
After objecting, plaintiff responded,
“[T]he documents include but are not limited to the email correspondence with
Matt Bloodgood, Christina Bloodgood, Murray Grieff, Marla Robinson, and the
Franchise Tax Board; the web pages of the accounts of plaintiff and defendant
Allen; the records of the California secretary of state, which are equally
available to defendants.  Investigation
and discovery are continuing.”
            Responding
that documents “include but are not limited to” those listed is evasive.  That qualification constitutes an effort to
give plaintiff room to refuse to identify documents it believes support its
allegations.  
            The response
is incomplete because it only generically describes documents.  It vaguely refers to “email correspondence
with” specified people and the FTB but does not state the dates, authors, and
recipients of those emails.  Responding, “[W]eb
pages of the accounts of” the parties and “records of the California secretary
of state” is also too vague.  Plaintiff
must specify which “web pages of the accounts” (including their locations, i.e.
web addresses or URLs) and which “records” it refers to.
Requests for Admission
            Defendant
Allen moves to compel plaintiff to further respond to requests for admission
Nos. 3-7.  A party requesting admissions may move to compel further responses if
“[a]n answer to a particular request is evasive or incomplete” or “[a]n
objection to a particular request is without merit or too general.”  (CCP § 2033.290(a).)
            Plaintiff
made meritless objections to requests for admission Nos. 3-7.  It objected to various phrases in Nos. 3, 4,
6, and 7 as “vague and ambiguous.”  Those
phrases are not vague or ambiguous.  They
are plain English.  “A party may not
deliberately misconstrue a question for the purpose of supplying an evasive
answer.  …  [W]here the question is somewhat ambiguous,
but the nature of the information sought is apparent, the proper solution is to
provide an appropriate response.”  (Deyo,
supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 783.)  
For example, request No. 4 demands,
“Admit that the funds sent and credited to PROPOUNDING PARTY were sent and
credited to PROPOUNDING PARTY by the FTB.” 
Plaintiff responded, “Objection.   ‘[S]ent and credited’ is vague and ambiguous.
 Unable to admit or deny due to the
objections.”  None of the terms plaintiff
objected to are vague or ambiguous.  They
are plain English.  The dispute giving
rise to this action is simple.  Plaintiff’s
complaint itself alleges, “The Franchise Tax Board credited [plaintiff’s]
payments to Allens’ tax account.”  (¶
10.)  It further alleges, “[P]laintiff
had mistakenly caused $135,000 of its funds to be credited to Allen’s state tax
account with the California Franchise Tax Board.”  (¶ 14.) 
    
Plaintiff’s objection to No. 5 is
also meritless.  No. 5 asks, “Admit that
the funds sent to PROPOUNDING PARTY, as alleged in paragraph 26 of YOUR
COMPLAINT, were sent by the FTB to PROPOUNDING PARTY on checks from the
Treasurer of the State of California.” 
Plaintiff responded, “Objection.  Paragraph 26 does not allege funds were sent
by the FTB to the propounding party.  Denied.” 
This response is evasive.  Paragraph
26 of the complaint alleges, “Defendants owed plaintiff a duty to use ordinary
care and to return to plaintiff the $135,000 defendants had received as a
result of plaintiff’s mistake.”  That
defendant “received” the $135,000 implies somebody “sent” the money.  Moreover, regardless of what the complaint
alleges, the question is clear.  Did
Allen receive the money in the form of checks from the Treasurer?  The only proper response is to either admit, deny,
or state plaintiff “lacks sufficient information or knowledge” to admit or
deny.  (CCP § 2033.220(b)(3).)  
Plaintiff’s objections to requests
for admission Nos. 3-7 are overruled.
Requests for Production
            Defendant
Allen moves to compel plaintiff to further respond to requests for production
Nos. 1-8 and 11-27.  A party demanding documents may move to
compel further responses if “[a] statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete,” “[a] representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive,” or “[a]n objection in the response is without merit or
too general.”  (CCP § 2031.310(a).)
Plaintiff
made meritless objections to Nos. 1-5.  They
request, “All DOCUMENTS between the FTB and” plaintiff and four
specified individuals, respectively, “from December 2021 to the present
relating to the allegations in YOUR COMPLAINT.” 
Plaintiff objected “that ‘relating to the allegations’ is vague and
ambiguous.”  It is not.  This case arises from a simple dispute over
two transactions.  It is not difficult to
determine which documents between the FTB and plaintiff or the named
individuals relate to the allegations and which documents do not.  This objection to request Nos. 1-5 is overruled.  
Plaintiff’s
substantive responses to each request also do not comply with the Civil
Discovery Act.  Each response states, “Responding
party assumes propounding party is not asking for attorney-client
communications with his clients before and during the pendency of this action,
or counsel’s work product for this action.  The documents in this category that are in the
possession, custody or control of responding party and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production. Discovery and investigation are
continuing.”
Plaintiff
does not clearly make objections based on attorney-client privilege or work
product.  Assuming plaintiff wishes to do
so, it must “[i]dentify with
particularity any document … to which an objection is being made.”  (CCP § 2031.240(b)(1).)  “If an objection is based on a claim of
privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be stated.”  (CCP § 2031.240(b)(2).)  “If an objection is based on a claim of
privilege or a claim that the information sought is protected work product, the
response shall provide sufficient factual information for other parties to
evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege
log.”  (CCP § 2031.240(c)(1).)  Plaintiff did not do so.
The statement of compliance is also incomplete.  A statement of compliance must
state that “all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the
possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production.” 
(CCP § 2031.220.)  Plaintiff responded, “The
documents in this category that are in the possession, custody or control of
responding party and to which no objection is being made will be included in
the production.”  This response omits the
crucial word “all.”  A
statement of compliance must include the precise language stated in section
2031.220 because it states under oath not only that the responding party will
produce some documents, but also that the responding party is not withholding
any responsive documents—except those subject to objections and identified
with particularity as required under section 2031.240(b)(1).
Sanctions       
Defendants move for sanctions against
plaintiff and its counsel, Lyle R. Mink. 
Courts must impose sanctions against one who unsuccessfully opposes a
motion to compel further responses, unless the opposing party acted with
substantial justification or other circumstances make sanctions unjust.  (CCP §§ 2030.300(d) [interrogatories];
2031.310(h) [requests for production]; 2033.290(d) [requests for admission].)  “Making, without substantial justification,
an unmeritorious objection to discovery” and “[m]aking an evasive response to
discovery” are misuses of the discovery process subject to sanctions.  (CCP § 2023.010(e) & (f).)  
Plaintiff unsuccessfully opposed each
motion, with minimal exceptions.  Plaintiff
made meritless objections and evasive responses.  Plaintiff did not act with substantial
justification.  Sanctions are just under
the circumstances.
The three
moving defendants each move for $1,460 in sanctions on their motions regarding
form interrogatories.  Allen moves for
$2,510 in sanctions for the motion regarding requests for admission, $1,460 for
the requests for production, and $1,460 for the special interrogatories.  Defendants reasonably incurred these expenses
as a result of plaintiff’s misuse of the discovery process.    
Disposition 
            Defendant
Allen Corporation Supply Co., Inc.’s motion to compel further responses to form
interrogatories is granted as to Nos. 9.1, 12.1, and 17.1(c), and 17.1(d).  The motion is denied as to Nos. 9.2
and 17.1(b).  Plaintiff Cacker Capital,
Inc. is ordered to serve further verified responses to Allen’s form
interrogatories Nos. 9.1, 12.1, 17.1(c), and 17.1(d) within 30 days.  Plaintiff Cacker Capital, Inc. and its
counsel, Lyle R. Mink, are ordered to pay defendant Allen $1,460 in
sanctions within 30 days.  Plaintiff and
its counsel shall be jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.
            Defendant
Navjot Sehmi’s motion to compel further responses to form interrogatories is granted
as to No. 17.1(c) and No. 17.1(d).  The
motion is denied as to No. 17.1(b). 
Plaintiff is ordered to serve further verified responses to
Navjot Sehmi’s form interrogatory No. 17.1(c) and No. 17.1(d) within 30 days.  Plaintiff Cacker Capital, Inc. and its
counsel, Lyle R. Mink, are ordered to pay defendant Navjot Sehmi $1,460
in sanctions within 30 days.  Plaintiff
and its counsel shall be jointly and severally liable for the sanctions. 
Defendant Tejroop Sehmi’s motion to
compel further responses to form interrogatories is granted as to No.
17.1(c) and No. 17.1(d).  The motion is denied
as to No. 17.1(b).  Plaintiff is ordered
to serve further verified responses to Tejroop Sehmi’s form interrogatory No.
17.1(c) and No. 17.1(d) within 30 days. 
Plaintiff Cacker Capital, Inc. and its counsel, Lyle R. Mink, are ordered
to pay defendant Tejroop Sehmi $1,460 in sanctions within 30 days.  Plaintiff and its counsel shall be jointly
and severally liable for the sanctions. 
Defendant Allen Corporation Supply
Co., Inc.’s motion to compel further responses to special interrogatories is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to serve further
verified responses to Allen’s special interrogatories Nos. 1-7 and 10-25 within
30 days.  Plaintiff Cacker Capital, Inc.
and its counsel, Lyle R. Mink, are ordered to pay defendant Allen $1,460
in sanctions within 30 days.  Plaintiff
and its counsel shall be jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.
Defendant Allen Corporation Supply
Co., Inc.’s motion to compel further responses to requests for admission is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to serve further
verified responses without objections to requests for admission Nos. 3-7 within
30 days.  Plaintiff Cacker Capital, Inc.
and its counsel, Lyle R. Mink, are ordered to pay defendant Allen $2,510
in sanctions within 30 days.  Plaintiff
and its counsel shall be jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.
Defendant Allen Corporation Supply
Co., Inc.’s motion to compel further responses to requests for production is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to serve further
verified responses to requests for production Nos. 1-8 and 11-27, and a
privilege log within 30 days.  Plaintiff
must make no objections except those based on attorney-client privilege or the
work product doctrine.  Plaintiff shall
produce all additional responsive documents concurrently with its written
responses.  Plaintiff Cacker Capital,
Inc. and its counsel, Lyle R. Mink, are ordered to pay defendant Allen
$1,460 in sanctions within 30 days. 
Plaintiff and its counsel shall be jointly and severally liable for the
sanctions.