 Case Number:  24PSCV02046    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Faviola Ponce’s Demurrer
 
Respondent: Plaintiff Marco Ponce, Sr.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Faviola Ponce’s Demurrer is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing in
Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendant’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer
with Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding the Demurrer and to file a supplemental
declaration describing such meet and confer efforts, including whether the
attempts were made by telephone, video conference, or in person, at least
(9) court days before the next scheduled hearing on the Demurrer.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action for elder abuse. Rolando Ponce is
Plaintiff Marco Ponce, Sr.’s brother and Defendant Faviola Ponce’s uncle. Marco
Ponce alleges Faviola Ponce and Doe Defendants subjected Rolando Ponce to
financial and psychological abuse by influencing Rolando Ponce to alter a power
of attorney and other estate planning documents, isolating Rolando Ponce from
other family members, manipulating control over Rolando Ponce’s assets, depriving
Rolando Ponce of valuable real estate and personal property, and subjecting
Rolando Ponce to physical and emotional abuse.
 
On June 26, 2024, Marco Ponce filed a complaint against
Faviola Ponce, Doe Family 1, Doe Family 2, and Does 3-50, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) elder abuse, (2) fraud, (3) forgery, (4)
conversion, (5) identity theft, (6) negligent infliction of emotional distress
(NIED), and (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED).
 
On August 15, 2024, Faviola Ponce filed the present
demurrer. A hearing on the present demurrer is set for October 9, 2024, along
with a case management conference and OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service
on November 19, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Faviola Ponce demurs to Marco Ponce’s entire
Complaint. For the following reasons, the court
finds parties did not adequately meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In
this case, Faviola Ponce’s counsel has not provided any declaration describing whether
counsel met and conferred with Marco Ponce’s counsel. Because the court has no
evidence parties met and conferred as required by code, the court finds parties
have failed to adequately meet and confer. Thus, a continuance of the hearing
on the demurrer is appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Faviola
Ponce’s demurrer is CONTINUED to a date to
be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Faviola
Ponce’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Marco Ponce’s
counsel regarding the demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration
describing such meet and confer efforts, including whether the attempts were
made by telephone, video conference, or in person, at least (9) court days
before the next scheduled hearing on the demurrer.