  Case Number:  22STCV04333    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  T Motion: Pro Hac ViceMoving Party: Defendant Columbus McKinnon Corporation Responding Party: None Tentative Ruling: GrantBACKGROUNDOn February 3, 2022, Plaintiff Harrigan filed this products liability action against Defendants JPW Industries, Inc., erroneously sued as JET, and Build Group Company, Inc., erroneously sued as Build Group and Does 1 to 100.On September 23, 2024, CMC filed the Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice for Attorney John E. Tyrrell (“Tyrrell”).On October 17, 2024, the Court did not adopt its tentative and continued the hearing to October 23, 2024. On October 17, 2024, CMC filed an amended Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice for Attorney Tyrrell. As of October 18, 2024, no opposition has been filed. LEGAL STANDARDCalifornia Rules of Court Rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by way of written application with proof of service by mail and notice of hearing on the application to all parties who have appeared in the case and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, so long as that attorney is not a resident of California, does not work in California, and does not perform regular or substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a), (c)(1).) The State Bar of California may set an appropriate application fee to by paid by counsel pro hac vice, which is currently set at $500. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(e).) The written application must provide the following information: (1) applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of admission; (3) representation that the attorney applicant is a member in good standing in the courts of admission; (4) representation that the attorney is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of each court and action in which the applicant attorney has appeared pro hac vice in this State in the preceding two years, if any; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active California State Bar member who is counsel of record in the local action. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)ANALYSISThe application complies with California Rules of Court Rule 9.40. For instance,Tyrrell has filed a verified application for pro hac vice and served all parties that appeared in the case. Tyrrell attests that he is not a California resident, is not regularly employed in California, and is not regularly engaged in the practice of law or any substantial business, professional, or other activities in California. (Application, ¶ 6.) He lists his address as 82 Bunning Drive in Voorhees, NJ, 08043. (Application, ¶ 5.) His business address is 1515 Market Street, Suite 1800, Philadelphia, PA 19102. (Ibid.) Tyrrell represents that he is a member in good standing of the New Jersey State Bar and Commonwealth of Pennsylvania State Bar. (Application, ¶¶ 7, 8.) Tyrrell has not been suspended or disbarred in any court. (Application, ¶ 10.) Tyrrell has not applied to appear pro hac vice in California in the past two years. (Application, ¶ 11.)Tyrrell’s Application states that the attorney of record for CMC is Robert E. Davies of Davies Blakemore LLP. Davies is licensed to practice in California. (Davies Decl., ¶ 1.) Tyrell further provides the proof of payment and service to the State Bar of California. Notably, no opposition has been filed. RULINGThus, the Court GRANTS Attorney John E. Tyrrell’s Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice. 