 Case Number:  24NNCV01700    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LUCINDA SKY, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
COUNTY
   OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24NNCV01700
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ORDER FOR DEFENDANT FOOTHILL LAPD TO DELIVER
   SURVEILLANCE CAMERA FOOTAGE 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   31, 2024




 


)


 



 
On May 20, 2024, plaintiffs Lucinda Sky
(“Sky”) and Leonardo Nishanov (“Nishanov”) filed this action alleging injuries
from crimes committed by a drug trafficking ring. On August 23, 2024, Sky filed
a First Amended Complaint which removed Nishanov as a plaintiff. 
On October 8, 2024, Sky filed a motion
for an order demanding defendant City of Los Angeles (“City”, erroneously sued
as Foothill LAPD”) provide her with surveillance camera footage from the
Foothill Police Station that recorded her interview with Officer Juan Rico on
December 8, 2023. 
A party may demand the inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things, land, and
electronically-stored information in the possession, custody or control of
another party, so long as the demand is limited to matters within the
permissible scope of discovery and not privileged. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.010, subd. (a).) A plaintiff may make a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling without leave of court at any time that is 10 days after
the service of the summons on, or appearance by, the party to whom the demand
is directed, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.020, subd. (b).) 
The form of such an inspection demand
must be in writing and comply with section 2031.030 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, which requires:
-     
An
opening paragraph identifying the identity of the demanding party, the set
number, and identity of the responding party,
-     
Consecutively-numbered
demands which describe the thing to be inspected with reasonable particularity,
-     
A
description of the thing to be inspected,
-     
The
form in which any electronically-stored information is to be produced, 
-     
A
specific reasonable place for the inspection, 
-     
A
specific time for the inspection that is at least 30 days after service of the
demand (which is extended based on whether service of the demand was by mail,
electronic, or overnight delivery), 
The demand must also be served on the party to whom it is
directed and on all other parties who have appeared in the action. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.040.) 
No written demand complying with the
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure sections 2031.010 and 2031.030 was
attached to Sky’s motion. Accordingly, City is under no obligation to produce
anything and Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED. 
The Court invites Plaintiff’s attention
to the templates for requesting discovery in civil lawsuits which are available
at the Judicial Branch of California’s website: https://selfhelp.courts.ca.gov/discovery-civil/request
 
Dated
this 31st
day of October, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 