 Case Number:  23AHCV02303    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



GLENN MARQUART, as Trustee of the Arnt Marquart Trust, et
   al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MINTWOOD
   PHARMACEUTICALS INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV02303
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: CROSS-DEFENDANT GLENN MARQUART’S DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINT
   FILED BY MINTWOOD PHARMACEUTICALS INC.
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   31, 2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
          On
October 5, 2023, plaintiff Glenn Marquart (“Marquart”), as trustee of the Arnt
Marquart Trust and Marquart Family Trust, and Dansk Investment LLC (“Dansk”) filed
this action against Mintwood Pharmaceuticals Inc. (“Mintwood”), Milad Naguib Tossoun,
and Nancy Elias for breach of contract and account stated. On April 2, 2024,
Mintwood filed a cross-complaint against Marquart and Dansk (collectively,
“Cross-Defendants”) for negligence and breach of the implied covenant of quiet
enjoyment.
          On
June 18, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed this demurrer to Mintwood’s
cross-complaint on the grounds that it failed to allege facts sufficient to
state a cause of action.   On October 18,
2024, Mintwood filed an opposition brief. No reply brief is on file with the
Court. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) “We treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and
also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell v. California Department of Public
Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.) In construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific
factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory
allegations. (Financial Corporation of
America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.) 
III.    DISCUSSION
          Mintwood
alleges that in its lease agreement with Cross-Defendants, Cross-Defendants are
required to “maintain all bearing and exterior walls in a safe and secure
manner” and this requirement includes “the interior demising walls between the
individual units.” (XC, ¶ 7.) Mintwood alleges that at all relevant times, the
commercial spaces on either side of its leased space were vacant and under the
sole control of Cross-Defendants. (XC, ¶ 9.) Criminal activities in these vacant
spaces resulted in vandalism and theft when unknown persons gained entrance
into the vacant units and broke through the interior wall into Mintwood’s
pharmacy. (Ibid.) These break-ins occurred in June 2019, July 2022, and
December 2022 by breaking holes . (Id.) Mintwood claims that this
criminal activity constructively forced it out of business and that
Cross-Defendants failed to secure those spaces from criminal activity. (XC, ¶
8.)  
Cross-Defendants argue that they, as
the commercial landlords of the building leased by Mintwood, owed no duty to
Mintwood to provide any form of security. (Demurrer, pp. 6-9.) Cross-Defendants
argue that there are no allegations that they had any notice of prior criminal
activities or that the activities occurred in common areas. 
As Mintwood notes in its opposition
brief, the lease between Mintwood and Cross-Defendants requires
Cross-Defendants to “maintain, in good condition . . . [the] structural parts
of the building and other improvements in which the premises are located, which
structural parts include only the foundations, bearing and exterior walls
(excluding glass and doors), subflooring and roof and the heating, ventilating,
and air-conditioning units servicing the premises.” (XC, Lease, ¶ 8.) Therefore,
the Court finds that Mintwood’s Cross-Complaint is sufficiently pleaded because
it alleges that: (1) the criminal activity originated from space under
Cross-Defendants’ control as a result of  Cross-Defendant’s failure to “maintain all bearing
and exterior walls sufficient to resist criminal break-in activities” and (2) previous
incidents in 2019 and 2022 were reported to Cross-Defendants which provided
notice of the need to improve security measures for the vacant spaces adjoining
Mintwood’s business. (XC, ¶¶ 9, 15.) 
Cross-Defendants also argue that
Mintwood was never actually or constructively evicted. (Demurrer, p. 109.)
However, possession is not the only aspect of the implied covenant of quiet
enjoyment; the implied covenant “insulates the tenant against any act or
omission on the part of the landlord . . . which interferes with a tenant’s
right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the
tenancy.” (Lee v. Placer Title Co. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 503, 512.)
Here, Mintwood adequately alleges that Cross-Defendants’ failure to maintain
the security of the premises they controlled prevented Mintwood from continuing
its pharmacy business. (XC, ¶ 16.)
IV.    CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is
OVERRULED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 31st
day of October
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 