 Case Number:  24PSCV00548    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant PHH Mortgage Corporation’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Kyndle Crigler and Shelia Crigler
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant PHH Mortgage Corporation’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing in
Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendant’s Counsel is also ordered to meet and confer
with Plaintiffs’ Counsel regarding the present demurrer and to file a
supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9)
court days before the next scheduled hearing.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action to quiet title. In November 1987,
Plaintiff Shelia Crigler and William Crigler purchased a property in Pomona. To
finance their purchase, they obtained a secured loan and subsequently mortgaged
the Pomona property for additional funds. In October 2018, they executed a
quitclaim deed to convey their ownership to the Family Trust of William Robert
Crigler and Shelia Vera Crigler. After William Crigler passed away in 2018,
Plaintiff Kyndle Crigler assumed the mortgage payments. In 2022, the Criglers
applied for and were placed on a payment plan by Defendant PHH Mortgage
Corporation (PHH). In April 2023, PHH removed the Criglers from the repayment
plan after they allegedly failed to timely pay property charge expenses. While
the Criglers allege they attempted to make payment towards the amount demanded
by PHH, PHH proceeded with nonjudicial foreclosure proceedings. On December 4,
2023, Defendant Breckenridge Property Fund 2016, LLC (Breckenridge) purchased
the Pomona property at a foreclosure auction.
 
On February 21, 2024, the Criglers filed a complaint
against Breckenridge, First American Title Insurance Company (First American),
PHH, and Does 1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) quiet title,
(2) cancellation of written instrument, (3) wrongful foreclosure, (4)
declaratory relief, (5) slander of title, and (6) negligent misrepresentation.
On May 13, 2024, the Court sustained a demurrer to the Complaint by
Breckenridge.
 
On May 1, 2024, PHH filed the present demurrer. A hearing on
the demurrer is set for May 28, 2024. Two motions to be relieved as counsel and
a case management conference are also set for June 18, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
PHH demurs to the Criglers’ first cause of
action (wrongful foreclosure), second cause of action (declaratory relief),
third cause of action (slander of title), and fourth cause of action (negligent
representation). For the following reasons,
the Court finds the parties did not adequately meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, PHH’s
counsel filed a declaration stating the parties met and conferred.
But a
meet-and-confer declaration must state “[t]he means by which the demurring
party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject to
demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a)(3)(A).) Here, PHH’s counsel stated the parties met and conferred without stating
how the parties met and conferred. (King Decl., ¶ 5.) Thus, the Court finds a
continuance to further meet and confer is appropriate. Furthermore, the Court
notes this demurrer is likely to be rendered moot as the Court has already
granted leave to amend the Complaint.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the PHH’s demurrer is CONTINUED
to a date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
The PHH’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with the
Criglers’ counsel regarding the present demurrer and to file a supplemental
declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court
days before the next scheduled hearing.