  Case Number:  23PSCV02981    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc.’s Motion to Compel  Binding Arbitration Respondent: Plaintiff Michael  Soliman TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc.’s Motion to Compel  Binding Arbitration is GRANTED. The action is STAYED  pending completion of binding arbitration between the parties. BACKGROUND This is a lemon law action.  In February 2019, Plaintiff Michael Soliman allegedly entered into a warranty  contract with Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc. (Tesla) by acquiring a certified  pre-owned 2015 Tesla Model S 85. Subsequently, Soliman alleges the vehicle  presented with serious defects in its electrical and body systems. On September 27, 2023,  Soliman filed a complaint against Tesla and Does 1-20, alleging (1) breach of  express warranty and (2) breach of implied warranty. On February 28, 2024, Tesla  filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is set for May 28,  2024, along with a case management conference. ANALYSIS Tesla  moves to compel Soliman to binding arbitration pursuant to an arbitration  agreement. For the following reasons, the Court GRANTS Tesla’s motion. Legal  Standard “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a  controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon  such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1281.) The court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless it finds  no written agreement to arbitrate exists, the right to compel arbitration has  been waived, grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or litigation is  pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting  rulings on common issues. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) A petition to compel  arbitration functions as a motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.2.) In  a motion or petition to compel arbitration, “the moving party bears the burden  of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the  controversy.’” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) Once the court finds an arbitration  agreement exists, the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of  establishing a defense to enforcement by preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal  v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) In interpreting  an arbitration agreement, courts apply the same principles used to interpret  contractual provisions with the fundamental goal of giving effect to the  parties’ mutual intentions and applying contractual language if clear and  explicit. (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177.) Because  public policy strongly favors arbitration, “any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,  686.) The Federal  Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to contracts that involve interstate commerce (9  U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also  applies if stated in the agreement.  (See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman  Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) Pursuant to the FAA, the  court’s role “is limited to determining (1) whether a valid agreement to  arbitrate exists and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement encompasses the  dispute at issue.” (Philadelphia Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG Holdings, Inc. (2019)  44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840, quoting U.S. ex rel. Welch v. My Left Foot  Children’s Therapy, LLC (9th Cir. 2017) 871 F.3d 791, 796.) Discussion In  this case, Tesla argues the present action is subject to an arbitration  provision that was included in an order agreement. According to Tesla, when Soliman  placed an order for the subject vehicle on February 16, 2019, Soliman agreed to  the terms of a Motor Vehicle Order Agreement. (Kim Decl., ¶ 3.) The third page  of the order agreement included an agreement to arbitrate which stated as  follows in relevant part: “If not resolved within 60 days, you agree that any  dispute arising out of or relating to any aspect of the relationship between  you and Tesla will not be decided by a judge or jury but instead by a single  arbitrator in an arbitration administered by the American Arbitration  Association (AAA) under its Consumer Arbitration Rules. This includes claims  arising before this Agreement, such as claims related to statements about our  products.” (Kim Decl., Ex. 1, p. 3.) The  agreement also allowed individual disputes to be heard in small claims court and  gave Soliman the option to opt out of the arbitration provision within thirty  days of signing the order agreement. (Kim Decl., Ex. 1, p. 3.) Subsequently,  Tesla states Soliman failed to opt out of the arbitration provision. (Kim  Decl., ¶ 5.) While the arbitration provision does not state it is governed by  the FAA, Tesla argues the FAA applies because the arbitration provision was  part of a transaction evidencing interstate commerce. (Motion, p. 8:3-10.) In  arguing a vehicle order agreement constitutes interstate commerce, Tesla points  to United States v. Oliver (9th Cir. 1995) 60 F.3d 547, where the Ninth  Circuit noted cars are “instrumentalities of commerce.” (Id., at p.  550.) In opposition, Soliman does not dispute or even mention the applicability  of the FAA. Therefore, the Court finds the FAA is applicable. In  opposition, Soliman first argues Tesla cannot enforce the arbitration provision  because it was not a signatory to the order agreement. (Opp., p. 2:28-3:7.) Soliman  points out that while the present action is against Tesla Motors, Inc., the  order agreement was between Soliman and Tesla, Inc. (Kim Decl., Ex. 1, p. 2.)  But in a supplemental declaration by Tesla’s senior corporate counsel, Tesla  establishes that Tesla, Inc. and Tesla Motors, Inc. are the same entity and  that Tesla, Inc. does business in California as Tesla Motors, Inc. (Jay Decl.,  ¶ 3) Next,  Soliman contends the arbitration provision does not flow from the sale of the  vehicle as it was included in an order agreement as opposed to a purchase  agreement. (Opp., p. 1:19-2:13.) Soliman also contends that the order agreement  was superseded by a purchase agreement. (Opp., p. 3:10-5:4.) Soliman’s first  contention fails as the arbitration provision explicitly states, “this agreement  to arbitrate overrides any different arbitration agreement between us,  including any arbitration agreement in a lease or finance contract.” (Kim  Decl., Ex. 1, p. 3.) And to the extent Soliman suggests a subsequent purchase  agreement has superseded the subject arbitration provision, Soliman failed to include  any evidence of the existence or terms of such an agreement. Last,  Soliman maintains Soliman’s claims bear no connection to the order agreement  because Tesla’s alleged warranty obligations arose outside the order agreement.  (Opp., 10:19-11:1, 11:20-12:6.) But again, this argument requires the Court to  ignore the language of the arbitration provision which applies to “any dispute  arising out of or relating to any aspect of the relationship between [Soliman]  and Tesla” and “includes claims arising before this Agreement, such as claims  related to statements about [Telsa’s] products.” (Kim Decl., Ex. 1, p. 3.) Accordingly,  the court finds Tesla adequately established the existence of an applicable  arbitration provision that is governed by the FAA.  The burden now shifts to Soliman to establish  any defenses to the enforcement of the subject provision. In opposition, Soliman  argues the arbitration provision is unconscionable. Pursuant  to both federal and state law, arbitration agreements are valid and  enforceable, unless they are revocable for reasons under state law that would  render any contract revocable” including “fraud, duress, and  unconscionability.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th  231, 239.) “‘[U]nconscionability has both a procedural and a substantive  element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’ or ‘surprise’ due to unequal  bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’ results.” (Armendariz  v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114,  quoting A & M Produce Co. v. FMC Corp. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473,  486-487.) While both elements must be present to prevent enforcement, courts  evaluate them as a sliding scale in that “the more substantively oppressive the  contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to  come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Ibid.) As  to procedural unconscionability, Soliman argues the arbitration provision is a  contract of adhesion. (Opp., p. 6:22-7:11.) But the plain text of the  arbitration provision contradicts Soliman’s argument. In fact, the arbitration  provision specifically allowed Soliman to unilaterally reject the arbitration  provision within thirty (30) days of entering into the order agreement. (Kim  Decl., Ex. 1, p. 3.) Thus, the court finds the arbitration provision was not an  adhesion contract since Soliman had the option to reject it without rejecting  the entire order agreement. Further, Soliman does not point to any other  instance of procedural unconscionability.   Therefore, the court concludes that Soliman cannot establish the  arbitration provision is unconscionable. (Crippen v. Central Valley RV  Outlet (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1167 [declining to consider substantive  unconscionability when procedural unconscionability is nonexistent].) In  light of Soliman’s failure to establish a defense to the enforcement of the  arbitration provision at issue, the court GRANTS Tesla’s motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing,  Tesla’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The action is STAYED pending  completion of binding arbitration between the parties.