  Case Number:  23STCV08498    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  74 Robert Cole, et al. v. Greystar
Management
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with this motion. 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from an
employment dispute.
            On
April 17, 2023, Plaintiffs Robert Cole and Chaya Huston (Plaintiffs) filed a
complaint on behalf of themselves and all aggrieved employees against Defendant
Greystar Management Services, LP (Defendant). In their complaint, Plaintiffs allege
various violations of the Labor Code.
            On
June 9, 2023, Defendant filed this motion to compel arbitration.
DISCUSSION
            The parties dispute the extent to
which the arbitration agreement’s Private Attorneys General Act (PAGA) waiver
is enforceable. The agreement provides as follows: “By signing this agreement,
you waive your right to commence, or be a party to, any class, representative,
or collective claims or to bring jointly with any other person any claim
against the Company.” (Adams Decl., ¶¶ 10, 14; Ex. A; Ex. C.) However, in Viking
River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906, 1924-1925 (Viking),
the Supreme Court held that private arbitration agreements cannot effectuate a
wholesale waiver of PAGA claims. But the Supreme Court also held that an
employee who has entered an enforceable arbitration agreement may be compelled
to arbitrate his individual PAGA claims. (Ibid.) Defendant contends the
court should compel arbitration of Plaintiffs’ individual PAGA claims and
dismiss their non-individual PAGA claims for lack of standing.
            Plaintiffs
in turn argue the court should not enforce the PAGA waiver at all. To that end,
they point to the following provision in the agreement: “If the prohibition
against […] representative actions is deemed unlawful, then such action shall
proceed forward in court as a potential […] representative action.” (Adams
Decl., ¶¶ 10, 14; Ex. A; Ex. C.) But Plaintiffs have not persuaded the court
that ‘representative actions’ encompasses their individual PAGA claims. (Adolph
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1118 [recognizing
distinction between individual PAGA claims and representative, non-individual
PAGA claims].) Plaintiffs also liken the provision at issue to the ‘poison
pill’ severability provision in Westmoreland v. Kindercare Education LLC (2023)
90 Cal.App.5th 967. There, the arbitration agreement provided that if the PAGA
waiver was unenforceable, then the entire agreement was invalid and all PAGA
claims had to proceed to a court of competent jurisdiction. (Id. at p.
972.) Such is not the case here. Under the agreement, if any provision is
unlawful, that provision is automatically amended so the agreement is
enforceable. (Adams Decl., ¶¶ 10, 14; Ex. A; Ex. C.) Moreover, if an employee
challenges the validity of the waiver, Defendant may still ask the court to
compel arbitration of each individual’s claims. (Adams Decl., ¶¶ 10, 14; Ex. A;
Ex. C.) Thus, the court orders Plaintiffs’ individual PAGA claims to
arbitration.
            Additionally,
Defendant contends the court should dismiss Plaintiffs’ non-individual PAGA
claims for lack of standing. Since the parties filed their supporting papers,
though, the California Supreme Court held that “[A] plaintiff who files a PAGA
action with individual and non-individual claims does not lose standing to
litigate the non-individual claims in court simply because the individual
claims have been ordered to arbitration.” (Adolph v. Uber Technologies,
Inc., supra, 14 Cal.5th at p. 1128.) Accordingly, the court will stay
Plaintiffs’ non-individual PAGA claims pending the arbitrator’s ruling of their
individual PAGA claims.
CONCLUSION
                Based on the foregoing, the court grants
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiffs’ individual PAGA claims.
The court denies Defendant’s request to dismiss Plaintiffs’ non-individual PAGA
claims. The court instead stays the non-individual PAGA claims while the
arbitration of Plaintiffs’ individual claims is pending.
Defendant
shall give notice.