 Case Number:  23SMCV04868    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 19, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04868




MOTION


Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Vicky Boladian and Boladian Aviation Law Group,
  APC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs Stephen R. Hofer; Stephen R. Hofer Law
  Corporation d/b/a Aerlex Law Group; Aerlex Tax Services, LLC; and Aerlex Tax
  Services, LLP



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from a dispute between former business partners.  Plaintiffs Stephen R. Hofer (“Hofer”);
Stephen R. Hofer Law Corporation d/b/a Aerlex Law Group (“ALG”); Aerlex Tax
Services, LLC (“ATS LLC”); and Aerlex Tax Services, LLP (“ATS LLP”) (ATS LLC
and ATS LLP will be referenced as “ATS”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) brought
suit against Defendants Vicky Boladian (“Boladian”) and Boladian Aviation Law
Group, APC (“BALG”) (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging thirteen causes of
action: (1) breach of contract – settlement agreement; (2) breach of contract –
operating agreement and buy-sell agreement; (3) breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing; (4) breach of fiduciary duty; (5) intentional
misrepresentation; (6) fraud in the inducement; (7) wrongful dissociation; (8)
conversion; (9) intentional interference with contractual relations; (10)
computer data access and fraud act; (11) receiving stolen property; (12)
unlawful business practices; and (13) declaratory relief.
 
Defendants now move for judgment on the pleadings as to Plaintiffs’
first, second, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh causes
of action on the grounds that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438, subdivision
(c)(1)(B)(ii).  Plaintiffs oppose the
motion and Defendants reply.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants request judicial notice
of the September 22, 2020 Settlement Agreement entered into among Boladian,
Hofer, and ALG, as alleged in paragraphs 13 and 23-27 of the Complaint.
 
“Judicial notice may not be taken of any matter unless authorized or
required by law.”  (Evid. Code, §
450.)  Evidence Code section 452 outlines
the matters of which a Court may take judicial notice as follows:
 
(a)   The
decisional, constitutional, and statutory law of any state of the United States
and the resolutions and private acts of the Congress of the United States and
of the Legislature of this state.
 
(b)   Regulations
and legislative enactments issued by or under the authority of the United
States or any public entity in the United States.
 
(c)   Official
acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United
States and of any state of the United States.
 
(d)   Records
of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States
or of any state of the United States.
 
(e)   Rules
of court of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the
United States or of any state of the United States.
 
(f)    The
law of an organization of nations and of foreign nations and public entities in
foreign nations.
 
(g)   Facts
and propositions that are of such common knowledge within the territorial
jurisdiction of the court that they cannot reasonably be the subject of
dispute.
 
(h)   Facts
and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.
 
            In support of the request,
Defendants cite to Ingram v. Flippo (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1280
(hereafter Ingram), where the trial court took judicial notice of a
letter and media release made by a District Attorney.  Specifically, the appellate court found
judicial notice proper under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (h) for
three reasons: (1) “the complaint excerpted quotes from the letter and
summarized parts of it in some detail[,] (2) “both sides referred to the letter
and quoted from it[,]” and (3) the appellant did not oppose the request.  (Id. at p. 1285, fn. 3.)  
 
However, unlike a letter and media release made by a District
Attorney, which appear to be public records and therefore capable of immediate
and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable
accuracy (public government records), private contracts and agreements between
parties are not capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy. 

 
Therefore, the Court denies the request for judicial notice.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD – MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a
general demurrer, but may be made after the time to demur has expired. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f).)  “Like a
demurrer, the grounds for the motion [for judgment on the pleadings] must
appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice.” (Civic Partners Stockton, LLC v. Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th
1005, 1013.)  In ruling on a motion for
judgment on the pleadings, “[a]ll allegations in the complaint and matters upon
which judicial notice may be taken are assumed to be true.” (Rippon v. Bowen (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1313.)  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     First
Cause of Action – Breach of Settlement Agreement
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  Here, the
Complaint alleges:
 
13. The Settlement Agreement entered into among
Boladian, Hofer, and ALG on or about September 22, 2020 provides, among other
things, that: 
 
a) “Boladian shall promptly inform Hofer
in advance of any major decisions that affect ATS, and any decisions that
impact Hofer personally or ALG. . . . Neither Boladian nor ATS shall take any
action that harms the Aerlex brand, ALG, Hofer, or Hofer’s interest in ATS.” 
 
b) “ATS and ALG shall jointly . . . ensure
that all ATS and ALG marketing decisions are made in an acceptable way that is
consistent with the Aerlex brand and messaging and does not harm ATS, Hofer,
ALG, or Boladian.”
 
c) “ALG and ATS will continue in the
future to maintain cordial relations as sister companies and where and when
appropriate will recommend that clients utilize each other’s services. ALG
shall identify and recommend ATS as ALG’s preferred provider of post-acquisition
aircraft related tax services … . ATS shall identify and recommend ALG as ATS’s
preferred provider of legal services for aircraft transactional work and such
other matters that ALG is qualified to perform.” 
 
d) “This Agreement, including the releases
herein, shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each of the Parties
hereto and their respective successors and assigns.”[1]
 
[…]
 
24. Hofer and ALG, and ATS as a third-party
beneficiary, on the one hand, and Boladian on the other hand, entered into the
Settlement Agreement. 
 
25. Plaintiffs did all, or substantially all, of
the significant things that the Settlement Agreement required them to do. 
 
26. Boladian breached the Settlement Agreement
by, inter alia: 
 
a) Failing to promptly inform Hofer in
advance of her decision to withdraw from ATS to start her own competing law
firm; 
 
b) Failing to promptly inform Hofer in
advance of the decisions she took which impacted Hofer and ALG, including her
decision to convert Hofer’s 55% ownership interest in ATS; to open a law firm
to directly compete with ALG; and to induce ATS and ALG clients to join her new
firm; 
 
c) Failing to work jointly with ALG to
make decisions that were consistent with the Aerlex brand and not harmful to
ATS, Hofer or ALG; and, 
 
d) Failing to work cordially with ALG as a
“sister company” and refusing to identify and recommend ALG as a preferred
provider of legal services for aircraft transactional work. 
 
27. Plaintiffs were harmed and continue to be
harmed by the aforementioned breaches in an amount to be determined. Boladian’s
breaches were and are a substantial factor in causing Plaintiffs’ harm.
 
(Complaint,
¶¶ 13, 24-27.)
 
Defendant argues this fails to state a cause of action on behalf of ATS,
as an alleged third-party beneficiary of the agreement, because it does not
state facts to support this third party beneficiary theory.
 
The Court disagrees.  The
Complaint alleges Hofer and Boladian created ATS LLC in 2014, with Hofer owning
a 55% membership interest, and Boladian owning a 45% interest, and that Hofer
and Boladian also jointly formed the successor entity, ATS LLP in 2023.  (Complaint ¶ 4.)  Further, the essential terms of the
settlement agreement, as alleged in the Complaint, specifically reference mutual
protections for ATS and ALG.  (See
Complaint ¶ 13.)  Whether the ATS
entities are in fact an intended third party beneficiary entitled to
enforce the settlement agreement, or simply incidental beneficiaries not
entitled to enforce the agreement, is a factual determination that cannot be
decided at the pleadings stage.
 
Defendant next argues the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action because it does not identify any specific terms
Boladian allegedly breached.  The Court
disagrees.
 
The Complaint alleges the Settlement Agreement requires “Boladian
shall promptly inform Hofer in advance of any major decisions that affect ATS”
(Complaint ¶ 13(a)), which Boladian allegedly breached by “Failing to promptly
inform Hofer in advance of her decision to withdraw from ATS to start her own
competing law firm”  (Complaint ¶ 26(a).)
 
Similarly, the Complaint alleges the Settlement Agreement requires
Boladian to promptly inform Hofer in advance of “any decisions that impact
Hofer personally or ALG” (Complaint ¶ 13(a)) which Boladian allegedly breached
by “Failing to promptly inform Hofer in advance of the decisions she took which
impacted Hofer and ALG, including her decision to convert Hofer’s 55% ownership
interest in ATS; to open a law firm to directly compete with ALG; and to induce
ATS and ALG clients to join her new firm” 
(Complaint ¶ 26(b).) 
 
The Complaint further alleges the Settlement Agreement requires “Neither
Boladian nor ATS shall take any action that harms the Aerlex brand, ALG, Hofer,
or Hofer’s interest in ATS.” (Complaint ¶ 13(a) , which Boladian allegedly
breached by “Failing to work jointly with ALG to make decisions that were
consistent with the Aerlex brand and not harmful to ATS, Hofer or ALG.”
(Complaint ¶ 26(c).)
 
The Complaint also alleges the Settlement Agreement requires:   “ALG
and ATS will continue in the future to maintain cordial relations as sister
companies and where and when appropriate will recommend that clients utilize
each other’s services. ALG shall identify and recommend ATS as ALG’s preferred
provider of post-acquisition aircraft related tax services . . . .
  ATS shall identify and recommend ALG as
ATS’s preferred provider of legal services for aircraft transactional work and
such other matters that ALG is qualified to perform.” (Complaint ¶ 13(c).)  Boladian allegedly breached these terms by
“Failing to work cordially with ALG as a “sister company” and refusing to
identify and recommend ALG as a preferred provider of legal services for
aircraft transactional work.”  (Complaint
¶ 26(d).)
 
Therefore, the Court denies Defendants’ motion for judgment as to the
first cause of action.
 
2.     Second
Cause of Action – Breach of Operating Agreement and Buy-Sell Agreement
 
Plaintiff first argues that the Second Cause of Action for Breach of
the Operating Agreement and Buy-Sell Agreement is brought on behalf of ALG,
which is neither alleged to be a party to those agreements, nor a third-party
beneficiary of that agreement.  
 
To the contrary, the Complaint alleges, “Hofer and ATS, and ALG as a
third-party beneficiary, on the one hand, and Boladian on the other hand,
entered into the [Operating Agreement] and the Buy-Sell.”  (Complaint ¶ 29.)  Further, the allegations regarding the
Operating Agreement specifically reference ALG: “ATS and ALG shall jointly …
ensure that all ATS and ALG marketing decisions are made in an acceptable way
that is consistent with the Aerlex brand and messaging and does not harm ATS,
Hofer, ALG, or Boladian.” (Complaint at ¶ 14(f); Ex. A at ¶ 5.8.)  Whether ALG is in fact a third-party
beneficiary entitled to enforce the Operating Agreement and/or the Buy-Sell
Agreement are factual determinations to be made at later stages of the
litigation.  
 
Plaintiff next argues that the non-compete clause of the Buy-Sell
Agreement was not triggered, because the Complaint does not allege Boladian
sold her interests in ATS LLC or ATS LLP; rather, the Complaint alleges ATS LLC
was dissolved in or around March 2023 (Complaint ¶¶ 4, 17), and ATS LLP was
dissolved by operation of law in or around September 15, 2023, when Boladian
withdrew from the partnership (Complaint ¶ 20.) 

 
The Buy-Sell Agreement pertains to the “transfer” of a party’s
membership interest in ATS.  “Transfer”
is defined as “sell, assign, convey, donate, gift, bequeath, transfer or
otherwise dispose of (other than by an Involuntary Transfer) or contract to
transfer any of a Member's Interest.” 
(Ex. B to Complaint at p.3.)  “Involuntary
Transfer” is defined as “any transaction, proceeding or action by or in which a
Member shall be deprived or divested of any right, title or interest in or to
any of his or her Interest, including, without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, seizure under levy of attachment or execution, transfer in
connection with bankruptcy or other court proceeding to a trustee in bankruptcy
or receiver or other officer or agent.”  (Ibid.)
A Member’s “Interest” in ATS is defined as “(i) that Member's share of the
profits and losses of ATS and the right to receive distributions of ATS's
assets (as defined above as the Distribution Percentage) and (ii) that Member's
right to participate in the management and operation of the business and
affairs of ATS, including but not limited to the right to vote on, consent to,
or otherwise participate in any decision or action of or by the Members granted
pursuant to this Buy-Sell Agreement, the Operating Agreement, or the Act.”  (Ibid.)
 
Because the contractual terms are not immediately clear, ultimately
whether dissolving ATS LLC or Boladian’s voluntary withdrawal from ATS LLP
constitutes a voluntary “Transfer” triggering the noncompete clause or an
“Involuntary Transfer” that does not, is a factual question to be resolved at
later stages of the litigation.
 
Therefore, the Court denies Defendants’ motion for judgment as to the
second cause of action.
 
3.     Fifth
and Sixth Causes of Action – Intentional Misrepresentation
 
“To establish a claim for fraudulent misrepresentation, the plaintiff
must prove: ‘(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an important
fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant knew that
the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the defendant made
the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth; (4) the
defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5) the
plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was a
substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  To
plead with adequate particularity, the complainant must “show how, when, where,
to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Charpentier v. Los Angeles Rams Football
Co., Inc. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 301, 312.)
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
The Complaint alleges:
 
16. The parties continued their partnership in
ATS for nearly three years following the settlement, during which time they
generally adhered to the terms of the 2020 Agreements. However, at some point
during this time and unbeknownst to Hofer, Boladian concocted a plan to
extricate herself both from the 2020 Agreements and from the partnership with
Hofer – not by having an honest and forthright conversation with Hofer about
her desire to end or modify the partnership, but by engaging in an underhanded
and deceitful scheme to steal 100% of the company and its assets for herself. 
 
17. The first step of Boladian’s plan was to
convert ATS from an LLC to an LLP. In or around March 2023, Boladian approached
Hofer and convinced him that she was illegally practicing law as an LLC, so she
needed to change the company’s corporate form and convert it from an LLC to an
LLP.[2]
Boladian represented to Hofer that the dissolution of the LLC and the formation
of the LLP would affect neither the parties’ ownership interests in ATS, nor
the terms and conditions of the ATS Operating Agreement or Buy-Sell Agreement.
Hofer confirmed that understanding in writing, and when he co-signed the Plan
of Dissolution, he wrote that he was doing so “on the understanding that our
intent is to retain the existing structure and intent of our various prior
agreements.”
 
18. The second step of Boladian’s plan was to
secretly form her own law firm, Boladian Aviation, which she did in August
2023, and she immediately began surreptitiously transferring information,
property, and manpower from ATS to her new firm. 
 
19. For the third step of her plan, Boladian
drained ATS’s bank accounts by making unplanned member distributions to herself
and Hofer on September 6, 2023. This was inconsistent with the parties’ rule of
always maintaining a minimum of $200,000-$250,000 in the ATS operating account.
In fact, Boladian left just enough in the operating account to cover one
month’s rent and the ATS employees’ September 15 payroll before making them
employees of Boladian Aviation. 
 
20. When Hofer caught wind of what was going on,
Boladian immediately executed on the final stage of her plan and informed him
on September 12th that she was withdrawing from ATS LLP effective September 15,
2023, hence dissolving the partnership by operation of law. She quickly
siphoned off the remainder of ATS’s personnel, clients, information, property
and assets to her new firm. In fact, the only thing of substance she left in
ATS was Hofer’s personal guaranty of ATS’s two-year commercial lease, which Boladian
abandoned without informing him or even the landlord. In fact, despite
representing to Hofer that she was leaving “55% of the furniture and equipment”
in ATS’s office, she took everything but a table, a few chairs, some computer
room equipment, and miscellaneous litter scattered throughout the space. She
even took the physical files owned by ATS and boxes of files belonging to ALG. 
 
21. Because the dissolution of ATS LLC was
fraudulently induced, the dissolution is void and all agreements to which ATS
LLC was a party and/or beneficiary remain in effect. 
 
22. Even if ATS LLC were legally dissolved, the
parties intended that the LLP would serve as a successor-in-interest to the LLC
and that all agreements to which the LLC was a party would apply equally to the
LLP as though the latter was expressly named therein. Indeed, the agreements
each specify that they are binding upon the signatories’ successors and
assigns. For this reason, Plaintiffs will hereafter refer to ATS LLC and ATS
LLP collectively as “ATS.”
 
[…]
 
44. Boladian represented to Plaintiffs (and
others) in writings sent from March to August 2023, that she was forming ATS
LLP as a successor to ATS LLC, to continue the business of ATS, and that she
would continue to abide by the 2020 Agreements. 
 
45. Boladian’s representation were false. She had
no intention of continuing the business of ATS, nor any intention of abiding by
the 2020 Agreements. In fact, she fraudulently orchestrated the conversion of
the LLC to an LLP, knowing that her planned withdrawal from the LLP would have
the effect of dissolving that entity by operation of law. 
 
46. Boladian knew that the aforementioned
representations were false when she made them, and she intended that Plaintiffs
rely on the representations. 
 
47. Plaintiffs reasonably relied on Boladian’s
representations and, believing them to be true, agreed to dissolve ATS LLC and
form ATS LLP. 
 
48. Plaintiffs were harmed as a result of
Boladian’s fraud, and their reliance on her false representations was a
substantial factor in causing their harm. 
 
49. In doing the things herein alleged, Boladian
acted with oppression, fraud, and malice. Boladian’s conduct was intended to
cause injury to Plaintiffs and was despicable conduct carried out with a
willful and conscious disregard of their rights. Boladian’s conduct was also
deceitful, and Boladian concealed material facts with an intention to deprive
Plaintiffs of their property, legal rights, and otherwise cause injury, such that
an award of punitive damages is appropriate.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 19-22, 44-49.)
 
            Defendants argue this fails to
allege with requisite specificity any false statements Boladian made to
Hofer.  Specifically, Defendants point
out that Boladian’s alleged statements that ATS LLC was illegally practicing
law as an LLC was true when made, as Corporations Code sections 13401 et seq.
specifically prohibits the provision of professional legal services as an
LLC.  The Court notes that a limited
liability company may not render “professional services,” which including legal
services, in California.  (Corp. Code, §§
17701.04, subd. (e); 13401; 13401.3.)  As
such, that statement appears true when made.
 
However, Boladian also allegedly told Hofer “that the dissolution of
the LLC and the formation of the LLP would affect neither the parties’
ownership interests in ATS, nor the terms and conditions of the ATS Operating
Agreement or Buy-Sell Agreement” and “Hofer confirmed that understanding in
writing, and when he co-signed the Plan of Dissolution, he wrote that he was
doing so “on the understanding that our intent is to retain the existing
structure and intent of our various prior agreements.” (Complaint ¶ 17.)  These statements appear to have been false
when made, as Boladian, within six months of making that statement to Hofer,
utilized ATS’s new partnership structure to avoid the non-compete provision of
the Buy-Sell Agreement.  
 
Therefore, the Court denies Defendants’ motion for judgment as to the
fifth cause of action.
 
4.     Sixth
Cause of Action – Fraudulent Inducement
 
Similarly, with regard to the sixth cause of action, the Complaint
alleges, “Based upon Boladian’s representations, supposedly based upon
legitimate legal advice from her counsel, that the only possible solution was a
change in structure from an LLC to an LLP, and based upon her representations
that the change would not substantively affect any of the rights, duties and
obligations of the parties as set forth in the 2020 Agreements, Hofer agreed to
execute a Plan of Dissolution for ATS LLC.” 
(Complaint ¶ 52.)  
 
Thus, while the statement that it was illegal to provide legal
services as an LLC appears true when made, Boladian’s statements that “the only
possible solution was a change in structure from an LLC to an LLP” (as opposed
to a professional corporation or other possible corporate restructuring) and
that “the change would not substantively affect any of the rights, duties, and
obligations of the parties as set forth in the 2020 Agreements” appear
knowingly false when made, as Boladian utilized the new partnership structure
to attempt to avoid the noncompete provisions of the Buy-Sell Agreement within
six months of making those statements.
 
Therefore, the Court similarly denies Defendants’ motion for judgment
as to the sixth cause of action.  
 
5.     Eighth
Cause of Action – Conversion
 
“Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of
another.  The elements of a conversion
claim are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of the
property; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of
property rights; and (3) damages.”  (Welco
Electronics, Inc. v. Mora (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 202, 208.)  
 
The Complaint alleges:
 
62. Plaintiffs owned, possessed, and had a right
to possess certain property. Hofer owned, possessed and had a right to 55 % of
ATS. ATS owned, possessed and/or had a right to its personal property, client
relationships, employee relationships, data, information, digital and physical
files, funds and assets. 
 
63. Defendants substantially interfered with
Plaintiffs’ property by knowingly or intentionally taking control and/or
possession of the property belonging to Plaintiffs. 
 
64. Plaintiffs did not consent to Defendants’
conduct and were and continue to be damaged thereby in an amount to be
determined.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 62-64.)  
 
            Defendants contend these allegations
are insufficient because during the wind-up process, Boladian distributed
Hofer’s 55% interest in ATS to him.  The
Court disagrees.  Plaintiffs have alleged
Defendants wrongfully took clients, employees, computers, files, etc. from ATS,
and continue to provide legal services to those clients while retaining 100% of
the profits.  
 
            Therefore, the Court denies
Defendants’ motion for judgment as to the eighth cause of action.
 
6.     Ninth
Cause of Action – Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations
 
“To prevail on a cause of action for intentional interference with
contractual relations, a plaintiff must plead and prove (1) the existence of a
valid contract between the plaintiff and a third party; (2) the defendant's
knowledge of that contract; (3) the defendant's intentional acts designed to
induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual
breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting
damage.”  (Reeves v. Hanlon (2004)
33 Cal.4th 1140, 1148.) 
 
The Complaint alleges:
 
67. Until September 2023, ALG and ATS acted as
“sister companies” and shared many of the same clients, with whom each had
contractual relationships. 
 
68. Boladian and Boladian Aviation knew of the
aforementioned contractual relationships. Boladian and Boladian Aviation wished
to interfere with the contracts by inducing the clients to terminate their
relationships with ALG and/or ATS and enter into new contracts with Boladian
Aviation. 
 
69. While still a managing member of ATS and a
contract employee for ALG, and while bound by the 2020 Agreements, Boladian
actively solicited ATS and ALG clients to her new law firm. Boladian informed
ATS and ALG clients that she was leaving ATS and starting her own firm,
Boladian Aviation. She stated: “All of the employees of the Aerlex Tax Team
have decided to join me at Boladian Law. It would be a pleasure to keep
servicing your aviation tax needs and there will be a smooth transition in your
current projects should you decide to join me as a client of Boladian Law. If
you do decide to continue to retain me in your representation, please include
in your email response that any existing retainer (if any) be transferred from
the Aerlex Tax Services trust account into the Boladian Aviation Law Group
trust account. We will be sending new engagement agreements in the upcoming
week. Please advise of your decision at your earliest convenience, so that I
can ensure your matters are properly handled.”
 
70. When a client failed to respond, Boladian
sent a follow up email marked “URGENT” and stating, “Tomorrow is our last day
at the firm. Please advise if you would like us to continue representing your
aviation tax matters.” 71. Plaintiffs were harmed as a result of Defendants’
interference with their contractual relationships in an amount to be
determined. Boladian and Boladian Aviation’s conduct was a substantial factor
in causing Plaintiffs’ harm.
 
(Complaint
at ¶¶ 67-70.)
 
Defendants contend these allegations fail because Plaintiffs fail to
identify the specific contracts and the third parties with whom they
contracted.  The Court disagrees.  The Complaint alleges that Defendants
interfered with Plaintiffs’ contractual relationships with their clients by
soliciting those clients to leave ATS and/or ALG and become clients of Boladian
Law Firm instead.  Under these
circumstances, Plaintiffs are not required to plead the specific name and date of
each client, especially where, as here, such client information is equally
known to Defendants.
 
Therefore, the Court denies Defendants’ motion for judgment as to the
ninth cause of action.
 
7.    
Seventh, Tenth, and Eleventh Causes of Action
– Wrongful Dissociation (Corp., § 16602), Computer Data Access and Fraud Act
(Cal. Penal, § 502), and Receiving Stolen Property (Cal. Penal, § 496) 
 
Corporations Code section 16602, subdivision (b) provides, “A
partner’s dissociation is wrongful only if […] It is in breach of an express
provision of the partnership agreement.”
 
Defendants first argue that the seventh cause of action for wrongful
dissociation, pursuant to Corporations Code section 16602 fails because the
Complaint does not identify any provisions of the partnership agreement or
operating agreement that Boladian breached. 
Here, the Complaint alleges:
 
14. The ATS Amended and Restated Operating
Agreement (the “OA”) entered into among Boladian, Hofer, and ATS on or about
September 22, 2020 (Exhibit A) provides, among other things, that: 
 
a) “Neither the Managers nor any Member
shall take any action inconsistent with the express intent of the parties to
this Agreement.” (Exh. A, ¶ 2.6) 
 
b) “Although both Initial Members are
Managers, Boladian shall have sole decision-making power with regard to the
management of the day-to-day operations of the Company … with such decisions to
be made in good faith, with reasonable judgment, and in the best interests of
the Company and its Members.” (Id., ¶ 5.1) 
 
c) “Boladian shall promptly inform Hofer
in advance of any major decisions that affect the Company, or any decisions
that affect Hofer personally or his law practice.” (Id., ¶ 5.1) 
 
d) “The Members may engage in any lawful
business activities, provided that neither the Members nor their affiliates
shall engage in such activities which are in competition with those of the
Company. A business activity shall be deemed to be in competition with the
Company if such activity is of the same type and in the same geographic area as
the business of the Company as it may exist from time to time.” (Id., ¶ 5.4) 
 
e) “The Managers shall cause all assets of
the Company, whether real or personal, to be held in the name of the Company.”
(Id., ¶ 5.6) 
 
f) “ATS and ALG shall jointly … ensure
that all ATS and ALG marketing decisions are made in an acceptable way that is
consistent with the Aerlex brand and messaging and does not harm ATS, Hofer,
ALG, or Boladian.” (Id., ¶ 5.8) 
 
g) “…[P]roposed actions concerning the
Company’s business shall be made by a Vote of the Managers. An action shall be
approved if both Managers Vote in favor of such action. Votes of the Managers
shall be taken at meetings or as otherwise provided herein.” (Id., ¶ 5.1) 
 
h) “…[A]ll of the following acts shall
require the unanimous Vote of both Members … [a]ny act that would make it
impossible to carry on the ordinary business of the Company [and] [a]ny
disposition of all or a substantial part of the Company’s assets.” (Id., ¶ 7.1)

 
i) “A Member’s withdrawal from the Company
shall not release that Member from any obligations and liabilities under this
Agreement accrued or incurred before the effective date of withdrawal. A
withdrawing Member shall divest the Member’s entire Membership Interest before
the effective date of withdrawal in accordance and subject to the provisions of
that certain Amended and Restated Buy-Sell Agreement of Aerlex Tax Services,
LLC … the terms of which are incorporated herein by this reference.” (Id., ¶ 8.1)

 
j) “This Agreement shall be binding on and
inure to the benefit of the Parties and their heirs, personal representatives,
and permitted successors and assigns.” (Id., ¶ 11.3)
 
k) “‘Successor in Interest’ means an
Assignee, a successor of a Person by merger or otherwise by operation of law,
or a transferee of all or substantially all of the business or assets of a
Person.” (Id., ¶ 1.43)[3]
 
[…]
 
31. Boladian breached the OA and the Buy-Sell by
failing to do the things required thereunder, and also by doing things
prohibited by the OA and Buy-Sell, including, inter alia: 
 
a) Failing to make management decisions of
ATS in good faith, with reasonable judgment, and in the best interests of ATS
and Hofer; 
 
b) Failing to promptly inform Hofer in
advance of major decisions affecting ATS, Hofer and ALG, including her decision
to withdraw from ATS; to convert Hofer’s ownership interest in ATS; and to open
a law firm to directly compete with ALG, including by stealing ATS and ALG
clients; 
 
c) Competing with ATS by engaging in
activity of the same type and in the same geographic area; 
 
d) Converting ATS assets to Boladian
Aviation; 
 
e) Failing to make marketing decisions
that were consistent with the Aerlex brand and that avoided harm to ATS, Hofer
and ALG. 
 
f) Failing to hold a vote of the managers
before taking major actions concerning ATS’s business and unilaterally taking
actions that required a unanimous vote of the members, including actions that
would make it impossible to carry on the ordinary business of the company and
the disposition of all or substantially all of the company’s assets; 
 
g) Withdrawing from ATS without complying
with the terms of the Buy-Sell or divesting her membership interest prior to
the effective date of the withdrawal; 
 
h) Refusing to notify Hofer in advance of
her plan to divest of her membership interest in ATS;
 
i) Refusing to offer Hofer the opportunity
to acquire her membership interest in ATS and refusing to sell it to him in
accordance with the terms of the Buy-Sell and the 2023 Certificate of Agreed
Value; and, 
 
j) Refusing to abide by the terms of the
non-compete and non-solicitation provisions of the Buy-Sell.
 
Therefore, the Court denies Defendant’s motion for judgment as to the
seventh cause of action.
 
Defendants also argue that the Tenth and Eleventh causes of action for
violations of Penal Code sections 496 and 502 fail because as a part owner of
ATS with control over the day-to-day operations, Boladian was authorized to
access ATS’s servers and computers and did not steal any property.
 
Penal Code section 502, subdivision (c) provides:
 
(c) Except as provided in subdivision (h), any
person who commits any of the following acts is guilty of a public offense:
 
(1) Knowingly accesses and without permission
alters, damages, deletes, destroys, or otherwise uses any data, computer,
computer system, or computer network in order to either (A) devise or execute
any scheme or artifice to defraud, deceive, or extort, or (B) wrongfully
control or obtain money, property, or data.
 
(2) Knowingly accesses and without permission
takes, copies, or makes use of any data from a computer, computer system, or
computer network, or takes or copies any supporting documentation, whether
existing or residing internal or external to a computer, computer system, or
computer network.
 
(3) Knowingly and without permission uses or
causes to be used computer services.
 
Subdivision (h) of Section 502 exempts acts “committed by a person
within the scope of lawful employment. For purposes of this section, a person
acts within the scope of employment when the person performs acts which are
reasonably necessary to the performance of their work assignment.”  Similarly, Penal Code section 496 provides, “A
principal in the actual theft of the property may be convicted pursuant to this
section.”  
 
As discussed above, although Boladian had permission to access the ATS
servers, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants knowingly accessed and without
permission used the data to devise and execute a scheme to defraud Plaintiffs and
wrongfully control or obtain their money, property, and data, including client
information.  
 
Therefore, the Court denies Defendants’ motion for judgment as to the
tenth and eleventh causes of action. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court denies Defendants’ motion for
judgment on the pleadings in its entirety. 

 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  September 19, 2024                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


