  Case Number:  22AHCV01111    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LIZETTE TORRES, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV01111
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR TERMINATING, ISSUE, OR EVIDENTIARY
   SANCTIONS, OR MONETARY SANCTIONS AND AN ORDER COMPELLING COMPLIANCE WITH
  PRIOR COURT ORDER
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

January
   4, 2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiffs Lizette Torres and Omar
Torres Angulo (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) move for an order imposing
terminating, issue, or evidentiary sanctions against defendant General Motors
LLC (“Defendant”) or, in the alternative, an order imposing monetary sanctions
and compelling compliance with a prior court order issued on September 15, 2023
(the “September 15 Discovery Order”). 
Plaintiffs contend that Defendant has
failed to abide by the September 15 Discovery Order by providing unverified
further responses and improperly withholding documents responsive to Requests
for Production Nos. 16, 19 through 21, 32, 35, 38, 39, 42, 57, and 60 through 62,
which seek internal investigation documents, customer complaints, Defendant’s
lemon law policies and procedures, and documents supporting Defendant’s refusal
to purchase Plaintiffs’ vehicle, a 2020 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 (“Subject
Vehicle”). (Motion, p. 1.) 
Defendant filed an opposition brief, as
well as a declaration from defense counsel, Claudia Gavrilescu, on December 20,
2023. 
Plaintiffs filed a reply brief on
December 27, 2023.   
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
When a party refuses to obey a court
order compelling a further response to an inspection demand, the court “may
make those order that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction,
an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (i).) An issue sanction will order that certain “facts shall be taken as
established in the action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely
affected by the misuse of the discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030,
subd. (b).) An evidentiary sanction will “prohibit any party engaging in the
misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated matters in
evidence.” (Id., subd. (c).) A terminating sanction may entail 1)
striking the pleadings of a party misusing the discovery process; 2) staying
further proceedings by the offending party until the order is obeyed; 3)
dismissing the action against the offending party; or 4) rendering default
judgment against the offending party. (Id., subd. (d).) In lieu of, or
in addition to, an issue, evidentiary, or terminating sanction, the court may
impose a monetary sanction ...” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (j).) “Only
two facts are absolutely prerequisite to imposition of the sanction: (1) there
must be a failure to comply ... and (2) the failure must be willful.” (Liberty
Mut. Fire Ins. Co. v. LcL Adm'rs, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1102 [citing
Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.) 
The main purpose of discovery sanctions
is to enable the interrogating party to obtain the information sought rather
than simply to punish a disobedient party or lawyer. While each case is to be
decided on its own merits, the sanctions imposed must not go beyond those
necessary to further the purposes of discovery—i.e., to compel disclosure and
to compensate for costs incurred in enforcing discovery. (Reedy v. Bussell
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1272, 1293. It is an abuse of discretion to impose
sanctions solely for punishment purposes. (Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle of Los
Angeles (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 256, 262, 
Before imposing a “terminating”
sanction, courts should usually grant lesser sanctions: e.g., orders staying
the action until plaintiff complies, or orders declaring matters as admitted or
established if answers are not received by a specified date, often accompanied
with costs and fees to the moving party. It is only when a party persists in
disobeying the court's orders that the ultimate (“doomsday”) sanctions of
dismissing the action or entering default judgment, etc. are justified. (Deyo
v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 796.) 
The moving party need only show the
failure to obey earlier discovery orders. Thereafter, the burden of proof
shifts to the party seeking to avoid sanctions to establish a satisfactory
excuse for that party's conduct. (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d
195, 201; Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1227.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
First, Plaintiffs take issue with
Defendant’s supplemental responses because they were not provided before the
deadline set by the Court, which was October 16, 2023. Instead, Defendant
served responses on October 30, 2023, 3 days after Plaintiffs sent an inquiry
and request for their supplemental responses. Second, Plaintiffs point out that
Defendant’s responses are unverified. It is well-settled law that discovery
responses served without verification “are tantamount to no response at all.” (Appleton
v. Super. Ct. (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 633.) Third, Plaintiffs argue that
Defendant’s responses which purport to comply with each request “in whole” are
disingenuous because Defendant is only producing a limited set of bates-stamped
documents.  
Defendant does not address any of
Plaintiffs’ specific complaints, nor did Defendant submit a response to
Plaintiffs’ separate statement. Instead, Defendant only broadly states that
Plaintiffs’ assertions are unfounded and that its supplementation has rendered
Plaintiffs’ motion moot.  Defendant does
not dispute that it identified a list of the twenty-seven transmission
“engineering work orders” and fourteen electrical “engineering work orders,”
but did not include the actual work orders in its response or production, even
though those are internal investigation documents responsive to the Requests. (Liu
Decl., Ex. 6.) Defendant also does not dispute it only produced some internal
investigation and root cause analysis documents for five of the nine Technical
Service Bulletins (“TSBs”) and twelve engineering e-mails for two of the nine
TSBs. (Liu Decl., ¶
14.) There is no explanation for why Defendant’s responses refer to
bates-stamped documents which state, “Image Representation Not Available.” (Liu
Decl., Ex. 5.) There
are no, nor have there been any, assurances from Defendant that responsive
documents are not being withheld or that no other documents exist. (Liu Decl., ¶ 17.) 
In light of these non-compliant
supplemental responses and the lack of any substantive defense justifying its
incomplete production, sanctions of some sort are clearly warranted. Plaintiffs
claim that issue and evidentiary sanctions are the most suitable and argue that
it should be conclusively established that Defendant knew of the Powertrain and
Electrical Defects, knew that the Subject Vehicle suffered from the Powertrain and
Electrical Defects, knew that the Subject Vehicle was unrepairable, and knew
that the Powertrain and Electrical Defects substantially impaired the use,
value, and safety of the Subject Vehicle. 
However, these requested jury
instructions would result in a windfall to Plaintiffs because it would relieve
Plaintiffs of having to prove that the Subject Vehicle was defective. Furthermore,
the Court is more inclined to take an incremental approach to address
Defendant’s recalcitrance by imposing monetary sanctions because no monetary
sanctions have been imposed on Defendant thus far. But, as Defendant points
out, Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions is improperly noticed and
unsupported. Therefore, the Court continues the hearing so that Plaintiffs’
counsel may submit a supplemental declaration substantiating Plaintiffs’
request for a prospective $500 per day sanction for Defendant’s failure to
comply with the September 15 Discovery Order, and clarifying whether such
sanctions are to be imposed against Defendant, counsel, or both, and why such a
sanction is preferable to the more customary sanction of the cost of time
expended in bringing this motion, which does not have the character of a
punitive daily fine. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The hearing is continued to _________.
Plaintiffs are ordered to submit a supplemental declaration supporting their
request for monetary sanctions by __________. Defendant is permitted to file a
supplemental brief – not to exceed 2 pages -- in response to this declaration by
______. 
 
Dated
this 4th
day of January, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 