 Case Number:  22STCV22080    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
reviewed the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Jose Dennis Callejas Reyes (“Plaintiff”) and Eileen
Reyes filed this action against Defendants Milestone Haulers Inc LSE, Ivan
Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”), and Does 1-50 for negligence and negligence per se. 
On
September 8, 2022, Defendants Milestone Haulers Inc.
(erroneously sued and served as Milestone Haulers Inc LSE) (“Milestone”) and
Rodriguez (“Defendants”) filed an answer. 
On
October 5, 2022, the Court dismissed Plaintiff Eileen Reyes with prejudice at
Plaintiffs’ request. 
On
November 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Milestone’s further
response to request for production of documents, set three, and for sanctions,
to be heard on March 8, 2024.  On
February 26, 2024, Milestone filed an opposition.  On February 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 6, 2024. 
PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS 
A.      Informal Discovery Conference 
The
Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts
Effective October 10, 2022 (filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, provides: “PI Hub
Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery
until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and complete
an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Discovery.” 
Counsel
for Plaintiff and Milestone participated in an IDC on December 29, 2023. 
B.       Timeliness
of motion 
A
notice of motion to compel further responses must be given within 45 days of
the service of the responses, or any supplemental responses, or on or before
any specific later date to which the parties have agreed in writing. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2031.310, subd. (c) [demand for inspection].)  Failure to file a motion within this time
period constitutes a waiver of any right to compel further responses. 
Milestone
does not dispute the timeliness of Plaintiff’s motion. 
C.   Meet and
confer 
A
motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.310,
subd. (b)(2) [demand for inspection].) 
“A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts
showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each
issue presented by the motion.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.) 
Plaintiff
has provided a meet and confer declaration. 
D.      Separate statement 
With
exceptions that do not apply here, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,
requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is warranted.  
Plaintiff
has provided a separate statement. 
APPLICABLE LAW 
A.   Demand for inspection 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310 provides in part: 
“(a) On receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply: 
“(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete. 
“(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. 
“(3) An objection in the response is without merit or
too general. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
each of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(3) In lieu of a separate statement required under
the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a
concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute. 
“(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party
and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any
right to compel a further response to the demand. 
* * *
 “(h) Except as provided in
subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subds. (a), (b), (c), (h).) 

  B.   Work product doctrine 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2018.020 provides: 
“It is the policy of the state to do both of the
following: 
“(a) Preserve the rights of attorneys to prepare cases
for trial with that degree of privacy necessary to encourage them to prepare
their cases thoroughly and to investigate not only the favorable but the
unfavorable aspects of those cases. 
“(b) Prevent attorneys from taking undue advantage of
their adversary’s industry and efforts.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.020.) 
          Consistent with this policy, Code of Civil Procedure section
2018.030 provides:         
“(a) A writing that reflects an attorney’s
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories is not
discoverable under any circumstances. 
“(b) The work product of an attorney, other than a
writing described in subdivision (a), is not discoverable unless the court
determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking
discovery in preparing that party’s claim or defense or will result in an
injustice.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030.) 
DISCUSSION 
          Plaintiff’s motion to compel Milestone’s further responses
to request for production of documents, set three 
Propounded:           October 24, 2023
Responses:             November 28, 2023
Motion
filed:           November 29, 2023 
Plaintiff
seeks the production of video surveillance, attempted video surveillance,
photographs, and investigative reports concerning Plaintiff since April 1, 2022
(collectively, “surveillance evidence”).  Citing Suezaki v. Superior Court (1962)
58 Cal.2d 166 (Suezaki), Plaintiff contends that good cause exists to
compel the production of surveillance evidence to protect against surprise at
trial, to prepare for an adequate cross examination of any investigators, and
to substantiate Plaintiff’s claims.  In
particular, Plaintiff asserts that surveillance evidence might strengthen
Plaintiff’s claim that the April 1, 2022 accident severely impacted his health
and quality of life. 
          In opposition, Milestone contends that the surveillance evidence
should receive absolute work product protection because Milestone created it in
anticipation of litigation at the direction of counsel.  Milestone also asserts that, at a minimum, the
surveillance evidence is qualified work product and Plaintiff has not shown
that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice him in preparing his claims or
will result in an injustice.  Finally,
Milestone argues that the surveillance evidence “would be used solely for
purposes of impeachment, and production would destroy their impeachment value.”  (Opposition p. 7.) 
The
Court concludes that the surveillance evidence is work product because Milestone’s
counsel directed its creation.  (See, e.g., Coito v. Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480, 494 (Coito) [“witness statements obtained as a result of interviews conducted by an
attorney, or by an attorney’s agent at the attorney’s behest, constitute work
product protected by [Code of Civil Procedure] section 2018.030”].)  As a result, Milestone may assert qualified
work product protection for this evidence. However, Milestone has not shown
that the surveillance evidence reflects its attorney’s impressions,
conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories.  Therefore, Milestone may not assert absolute
work product protection. 
          A party seeking disclosure of qualified work product “has
the burden of establishing that denial of disclosure will unfairly prejudice
the party in preparing its claim or defense or will result in an injustice.” (Coito,
supra, 54 Cal.4th at p. 499.)  Plaintiff
argues that he might use the surveillance evidence to strengthen his argument
that defendants’ alleged negligence damaged his health and quality of
life.  Plaintiff does not show that he
would be prejudiced by presenting his case without this evidence because he has
ample opportunity to present other evidence establishing his damages.  In addition, if Milestone calls the
investigators who gathered the surveillance evidence to testify at trial,
Plaintiff will not be prejudiced in cross-examining them because Milestone will
have to disclose the surveillance evidence before calling the investigators as
witnesses.   Weighing these asserted harms
against the policies behind the work product doctrine, the Court finds that Plaintiff
has not carried his burden of showing denial of disclosure will unfairly
prejudice him or result in an injustice. 
          Denied: 65, 66, 67, 68, 74, 75, 76, and 77 
          The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Jose Dennis Callejas Reyes’s motion to compel Defendant
Milestone Haulers Inc.’s further responses to request for production of
documents, set three, and request for sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.