 Case Number:  21STCV46205    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 20, 2021, Plaintiff Ruth Prins (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Frank Young Tailor, Frank Young Tailors, Inc., County of Los Angeles
(“County”), City of Los Angeles, and Does 1-100 for premises liability—negligence
and dangerous condition of public property (Gov. Code, § 835). 
On
April 26, 2022, the County filed an answer. On August 1, 2022, the Court
dismissed the County without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
September 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint omitting the
County. 
On
October 20, 2022, the City filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Frank Young Tailor, Frank Young Tailors, Inc., and Roes 1-10
for indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. 
On
January 31, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel, Gerald L. Marcus, filed a motion to be relieved
as counsel to be heard on March 8, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 18, 2024. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff’s
counsel, Gerald L. Marcus, asks to be relieved as counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the client
and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b) Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no
memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as counsel. 
“(c) Declaration 
“The motion to be relieved as counsel must be accompanied
by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in general
terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client
relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is
brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(1). 
“(d) Service 
“The notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties who
have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service, electronic
service, or mail. 
“(1)  If the
notice is served on the client by mail under Code of Civil Procedure section
1013, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing that either: 
“(A)   The service address is the current residence
or business address of the client; or 
“(B)   The service
address is the last known residence or business address of the client and the attorney
has been unable to locate a more current address after making reasonable
efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved. 
“(2)  If the notice
is served on the client by electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1010.6 and rule 2.251, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating
that the electronic service address is the client's current electronic service
address. 
“As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the address
was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved.
Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last known
address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message was
received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is current.
If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b) applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared
on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order must
specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the
date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the court
may set one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed, a
copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that
have appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order
relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION 
Counsel
has submitted completed MC-051, MC-052 and MC-053 forms and proper proof of
service.  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Gerald L.
Marcus to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Ruth Prins.  Counsel will be relieved upon filing proof of
service on Plaintiff Ruth Prins of the
Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (Judicial
Council form MC-053). 
Counsel
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel
is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.