  Case Number:  23TRCV02363    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. M




 
FIRST
  BANK, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02363
 




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Ruling
 




 
A.V.
  CENTER MAINTENANCE, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 27,
2023
 
Moving Party:                         Plaintiff First Bank
Responding Party:                  None
Applications for a
Right to Attach Order and Issuance of Writ of Attachment
            
            The court considered the moving papers.
RULING
            The applications are GRANTED.  
BACKGROUND
            On July 20, 2023, plaintiff First
Bank filed a verified complaint against A.V. Center Maintenance, LLC, White Hat
Commercial Services, Inc., Joseph Jaworski, Justin Villanueva, and Steven/James
Group, LLC for (1) breach of contract (Loan Agreement, Note and Security
Agreement), (2) money lent, (3) account stated, (4) foreclosure and recovery of
personal property, (5) conversion, (6) claim and delivery, (7) specific
performance, (8) breach of unconditional guaranties, and (9) money due.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
“Upon the filing of the complaint
or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this article for
a right to attach order and a writ of attachment by filing an application for
the order and writ with the court in which the action is sought.”  CCP §484.010.
The application shall be executed
under oath and must include: (1) a statement showing that the attachment is
sought to secure the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment may be
issued; (2) a statement of the amount to be secured by the attachment; (3) a
statement that the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the
recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based; (4) a statement that
the applicant has no information or belief that the claim is discharged or that
the prosecution of the action is stayed in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy
Act (11 U.S.C. section 101 et seq.); and (5) a description of the property to
be attached under the writ of attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is
informed and believes that such property is subject to attachment.  CCP §484.020.
“The application [for a writ of
attachment] shall be supported by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on
the facts presented would be entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the
attachment is based.”  CCP §484.030.
The court shall issue a
right to attach order if the court finds all of the following:
(1)   The claim upon which
the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued.
(2)   The plaintiff has
established the probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is
based.
(3)   The attachment is not
sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the
attachment is based.
(4)   The amount to be
secured by the attachment is greater than zero.
CCP §484.090.
            “A claim has
‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will
obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.”  CCP §481.190.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff First Bank seeks a right
to attach order and an order for issuance of writs of attachment against defendant
guarantors Joseph Jaworski, Justin Villanueva, and Steven/James Group, LLC in
the total amount of $1,405,288.90, which includes $1000 in costs and $15,942.89
in attorney’s fees.
            The complaint alleges that on August
23, 2022, plaintiff and borrowers A.V. Center and White Hat entered into a loan
agreement based upon the U.S. Small Business Administration’s approval of the
borrowers’ loan application for a loan in the amount of $1,364,500 (“SBA Loan
Agreement”).  Complaint, ¶12.  On August 23, 2022, to evidence the loan,
borrowers executed and delivered to plaintiff a U.S. Small Business
Administration Note (“Note”) for value received, in the principal sum of
$1,364,500.  The Note provides that the
borrowers promise and agree to pay to plaintiff the sum of $1,364,500, together
with interest on the unpaid outstanding principal balance, and other charges as
more particularly set forth in the Note, payable in monthly installments, until
ten years from the date of the initial disbursement, when the entire unpaid
balance due shall be due and payable. 
Id., ¶13.  On August 23, 2022, the
borrowers executed and delivered to plaintiff a Security Agreement.  Pursuant to the terms of the Security
Agreement, borrowers granted to plaintiff a security interest in all the
inventory, equipment, accounts, and other personal property collateral.  Id., ¶15. 
Events of default have occurred under the Note, and continue to occur,
including (a) borrower’s failure to make the regularly scheduled payment due on
February 5, 2023, or any payment due thereafter; (b) borrower’s ceasing its
business operations and closing the business; (c) borrower’s failure to comply
with financial reporting requirements; (d) a material adverse change in borrower’s
financial condition; (e) plaintiff believes the prospect of payment or
performance of the subject obligation is impaired; and (f) plaintiff in good
faith believes itself insecure. 
Plaintiff accelerated the unpaid balance due and made demand upon
borrower for payment of all amounts due and owing.  Id., ¶17. 
Guarantors Jaworski, Villanueva, and SJG each delivered to plaintiff a
U.S. Small Business Administration Unconditional Guarantee.  Id., ¶47.
            The complaint further alleges that
there is now due, owing, and payable the principal sum of $1,411,719.12, which
includes unpaid principal of $1,344,815.49, accrued interest of $59,319.22,
late fees of $3690.91, miscellaneous fees of $2254, and attorneys’ fees of
$1640.50.  Id., ¶18.  
                        Basis of Attachment
            “[A]n attachment may be issued only
in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which is based upon a
contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is
a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars
($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney’s fees.”  CCP §483.010(a).  “An attachment may not be issued on a claim
which is secured by any interest in real property arising from agreement . . .
.”  CCP §483.010(b).
            “If the action is against a
defendant who is a natural person, an attachment may be issued only on a claim
which arises out of the conduct by the defendant of a trade, business, or
profession.”  CCP §483.010(c).  “An attachment may not be issued on a claim
against a defendant who is a natural person if the claim is based on the sale
or lease of property, a license to use property, the furnishing of services, or
the loan of money where the property sold or leased, or licensed for use, the
services furnished, or the money loaned was used by the defendant primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes.” 
Id.
            Plaintiff’s applications for
issuance of a writ of attachment are based on the loan agreement, note, and
guaranties, which are express contracts. 

The total amount allegedly due on
the agreements is readily ascertainable and more than $500.  The guarantors’ obligations to plaintiff are
not secured by any real or personal property.
            Plaintiff has also demonstrated that
the claim arises out of defendants’ business.
                        Probable
Validity of Claim
The applications are based on
breach of unconditional guaranties.
To establish a claim for breach of
contract, a plaintiff must prove: (1) existence of a contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach of the
contract, and (4) damages incurred by plaintiff as a result of the breach.  Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal. App. 4th 1350, 1367.
            As alleged above, plaintiff contends
that this action arises out of undisputed claims for money owed to plaintiff
from defendant borrowers A.V. Center Maintenance LLC and White Hat Commercial
Services pursuant to the above referenced written loan agreements.  Plaintiff asserts that defendants Jaworski,
Villanueva, and Steven/James Group LLC, jointly and severally, each guaranteed
borrower’s indebtedness and borrowers pledged certain personal property
business assets as collateral.  Borrowers
defaulted on the terms of the subject loan agreements.  Plaintiff explains that the purpose of the
loan was to allow White Hat via a stock purchase transaction for $1,550,000 to
acquire A.V. Center Maintenance.  White
Hat is a wholly owned subsidiary of Steven/James Group and Steven/James Group
is owned 50/50 by Jaworski and Villanueva. 
See Keith Sturmer decl. and attachments.
Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient
to support all elements of a breach of contract claim against defendants and
establish the probable validity of its breach of contract claim. 
            
                        Purpose
and Amount of Attachment
            CCP §484.090 states that the court
shall issue a right to attach order if “the attachment is not sought for a
purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based
. . . [and] the amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than
zero.”  CCP §484.090.
            Plaintiff declares that the
attachment is not sought for a purpose other than recovery on its claim.  The amount to be secured is greater than
zero.
                        Subject
Property
            Plaintiff requests attachment
against a natural person.
            CCP §487.010 provides that where the
defendant is a natural person, all of the following property is subject to
attachment:
(1)            
Interests
in real property except leasehold estates with unexpired terms of less than one
year.
(2)            
Accounts
receivable, chattel paper, and general intangibles arising out of the conduct
by the defendant of a trade, business, or profession, except any such
individual claim with a principal balance of less than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150).
(3)            
Equipment.
(4)            
Farm
products.
(5)            
Inventory.
(6)            
Final
money judgments arising out of the conduct by the defendant of a trade,
business, or profession.
(7)            
Money
on the premises where a trade, business, or profession is conducted by the
defendant and, except for the first one thousand dollars ($1,000), money
located elsewhere than on such premises and deposit accounts, but, if the
defendant has more than one deposit account or has at least one deposit account
and money located elsewhere than on the premises where a trade, business, or
profession is conducted by the defendant, the court, upon application of the
plaintiff, may order that the writ of attachment be levied so that an aggregate
amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000) in the form of such money and in such
accounts remains free of levy.
(8)            
Negotiable
documents of title.
(9)            
Instruments.
(10)        
Securities.
(11)        
Minerals
or the like (including oil and gas) to be extracted.
CCP
§487.010(c).
            As to Steven Jaworski and Justin
Villanueva, plaintiff requests attachment of their interest in real property at
4719 Wortser Avenue, Sherman Oaks, CA 91423 and (2) – (11) above.
The request for attachment of this
property is appropriate under CCP §487.010(c).
            
                        Reduction
of Amount to be Secured
            CCP §483.015(b) provides the amount
to be secured by the attachment shall be reduced by:
(1)   The amount of any money judgment in
favor of the defendant and against the plaintiff that remains unsatisfied and
is enforceable
(2)   The amount of any indebtedness of
the plaintiff that the defendant has claimed in a cross-complaint filed in the
action if the defendant’s claim is one upon which an attachment could be issued
(3)   The amount of any claim of the
defendant asserted as a defense in answer pursuant to Section 431.70 if the
defendant’s claim is one upon which an attachment could be issued had an action
been brought on the claim when it was not barred by the statute of limitations
(4)   The value of any security interest
in the property of the defendant held by the plaintiff to secure the
defendant’s indebtedness claimed by the plaintiff, together with the amount by
which the value of the security interest has decreased due to the act of the
plaintiff or a prior holder of the security interest
CCP
§483.015(b).
            “[T]o sustain reduction in a writ
amount, most courts require that the defendant provide enough evidence about
its counterclaims and/or defenses to prove a prima facie case [for attachment
against Plaintiff].”  Ahart, California
Practice Guide: Enforcing Judgments and Debts, ¶ 4:64 (1998 rev.).
            Defendants have not asserted any
reductions pursuant to CCP §483.015(b) and thus has not shown that the amount
of attachment should be further reduced.
                        Undertaking
            CCP §489.210 requires the plaintiff
to file an undertaking before issuance of a writ of attachment.  Pursuant to CCP §489.220, the amount of the
undertaking will be $10,000 as to each application absent an objection.  The failure to post an undertaking prior to
the issuance of the writ of attachment renders the writ of attachment void ab
initio.  Vershbow v. Reiner
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 879, 883.
            There is no objection to an
undertaking of $10,000 as to each defendant.
                        Costs
            CCP §482.110 provides the court with
discretion to include an estimated amount for costs and allowable attorney’s
fees in the amount to be secured by the attachment.  CCP §482.110(a).
            Plaintiff seeks costs in the amount
of $1000, which is reasonable.  Plaintiff
also requests $15,942.89 in attorney’s fees, which is based on Local Rule
3.214.
Based on the foregoing, the applications
for a right to attach order and issuance of writs of attachment are GRANTED in
the amount requested of $1,405,288.50.
            The granting of the applications is
conditioned upon plaintiff posting an undertaking in the amount of $10,000.00 as
to each defendant and submission of a proposed right to attach order and order
for issuance of writ of attachment after hearing (Form AT-120).
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.