  Case Number:  19GDCV00602    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JENNY ZHANG, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
JANICE
   YEN, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19GDCV00602
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS BY DEFENDANT ARROYO
   PACIFIC, INC. 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

October
   30, 2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
May 14, 2019, Jenny Zhang (“Plaintiff”) and her son, Z.D. filed this action against
defendants Janice Yen (“J. Yen”), Leslie Yen (“L. Yen”), Jenny Chan (“Chan”),
Vivien Djeu (“Djeu”), and Steps Academy, Inc. (“Steps”).
On
April 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC
removes Z.D.’s claims and adds Arroyo Pacific, Inc. (“Arroyo Pacific”) as a
defendant. 
Plaintiff
alleges she is a minority shareholder and a possesses a 29% shareholder
interest in Steps, a closely held corporation that, along with Arroyo Pacific,
runs a private elementary school in Arcadia, California. (FAC, p. 2, lines 8-11.)
Plaintiff asserts causes of action against Arroyo Pacific for breach of
fiduciary duty, aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, conversion,
conspiracy, unfair competition, and accounting. 
On
September 18, 2023, Arroyo Pacific filed this motion for judgment on the
pleadings. 
Plaintiff
filed an opposition brief on October 17, 2023. 
Arroyo
Pacific filed a reply brief on October 23, 2023 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
“A motion for judgment on the pleadings
performs the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only
defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be
judicially noticed.  [Citations.]” (Burnett
v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1064.) The court must assume
the truth of all properly pleaded material facts and allegations, but not
contentions or conclusions of fact or law. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318; Wise v. Pacific Gas and Elec. Co. (2005) 132
Cal.App.4th 725, 738.)  “A judgment on
the pleadings in favor of the defendant is appropriate when the complaint fails
to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438,
subd. (c)(3)(B)(ii).)” (Kapsimallis v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2002) 104
Cal.App.4th 667, 672.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Fourth
Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
i.            
The
Allegations
Plaintiff asserts a cause of action against
Arroyo Pacific for breach of fiduciary duty.  
Plaintiff alleges that Arroyo Pacific,
by entering into a partnership with Steps, owed her fiduciary duties of care,
loyalty, and good faith. (FAC, ¶ 70.) Plaintiff alleges that Arroyo breached
these duties by allowing L. Yen and J. Yen to manage and control Steps without
supervision and allowing the possibility of mismanagement of partnership funds.
(FAC, ¶ 71.) Plaintiff also alleges that Arroyo Pacific engaged in self-dealing
transactions with J. Yen, L. Yen, and Chan, and failed to inform Plaintiff of
the agreement between Arroyo and Steps. (FAC, ¶ 71.) 
ii.           
Statute
of Limitations
Arroyo Pacific argues that this cause
of action is barred by the statute of limitations because Arroyo Pacific was
not substituted as a “Doe” defendant and the FAC does not relate back to the
initial Complaint. Here, the initial complaint purportedly asserted causes of
action against Does 1 through 10, but did not include any allegations of
conduct by Does 1 through 10. Therefore, any new allegations involving Arroyo
Pacific in connection with this Cause of Action cannot “relate back” to the
initial complaint. Nevertheless, although Arroyo Pacific was not added as a Doe
defendant, it is not discernible from the face of the complaint that this claim
is time-barred. The statute of limitations for a breach of fiduciary duty is
either 3 or 4 years; the shorter period applies to breaches that are based in
fraud. (Code Civ. Proc. § 343; Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th
594, 607.) 
Plaintiff alleged in her initial
complaint that in or about March 2019, Steps entered into an agreement with
Arroyo Pacific. (Compl., ¶ 46.) Plaintiff claims the transaction was made
without her knowledge or consent, and without proper approval by Steps’ board
of directors and shareholders. If Plaintiff’s action was based solely on the
allegation that Arroyo Pacific breached any purported duty of loyalty by
failing to inform her of its agreement with Steps in March 2019, this claim
would be based in fraud and time-barred based on Plaintiff’s failure to file
the FAC by September 2022. 
However, Plaintiff also alleges that
Arroyo Pacific failed to supervise L. Yen and J. Yen’s management of Steps (FAC,
¶ 71) and assisted or encouraged J. Yen and Chan to breach their fiduciary
duties (FAC, ¶ 80). This alleged conduct does not amount to fraud and is
subject to the four-year statute of limitations. Even though there is no
allegation identifying when this conduct took place, the face of the FAC shows
that it could not have occurred earlier than March 2019. Emergency Rule 9
tolled the statute of limitations during 2020 for 6 months and 5 days. Since the
FAC was filed on April 18, 2023, these causes of action were timely asserted
within 4 years, 6 months, and 5 days of March 2019. 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings,
like a demurrer, can only attack an entire cause of action. Therefore, the
motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the fourth and fifth cause of action
on the grounds that they are time-barred is DENIED.  
iii.         
Standing
Next, Arroyo Pacific argues that
Plaintiff lacks standing to assert a cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duty in her individual capacity. Arroyo Pacific argues that it owes no
fiduciary duty to her as an individual and that her claims against Arroyo
Pacific would be derivative of any claim owned by Steps. In opposition,
Plaintiff merely relies on the general rule that a general partner stands in a
fiduciary relationship with the limited partners. However, she then erroneously
argues that Arroyo Pacific owes fiduciary duties to her, even though she is not
a limited partner. (Opp., pp. 6-7.) Because Arroyo Pacific does not owe her a
fiduciary duty, Plaintiff lacks standing to assert her fourth cause of action.
The motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the fourth cause of action is
therefore GRANTED on this ground. 
B.  
Ninth
Cause of Action for Conversion
i.            
The
Allegations
Plaintiff alleges that she had a “right
to possess the distributions, dividends, and monies due and owing to her.”
(FAC, ¶¶ 127, 128.) Plaintiff alleges that Arroyo Pacific interfered with her
property “by taking possession of the distributions, dividends, and monies owed
to her” and intentionally interfered with her “property interest in Steps” by
breaching its fiduciary duties of care and loyalty. (FAC, ¶ 130.) 
Arroyo Pacific argues that Plaintiff’s
conversion claim fails as a matter of law because she does not state the
specific sum of money that is owed. (Voris v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th
1141, 1151 [money cannot be the subject of an action for conversion unless a
specific sum capable of identification is involved].) The Court agrees.
Furthermore, to the extent that Plaintiff’s conversion claim is duplicative of
her claim that Arroyo Pacific breached any fiduciary duties owed to her, the
conversion claim fails because, as discussed above, Arroyo Pacific does not
directly owe her any fiduciary duties. The Court additionally notes that Plaintiff
only argues in her opposition brief that her claim is not time-barred and does
not address the substantive deficiencies of her FAC. Accordingly, the motion
for judgment on the pleadings is granted as to the Ninth Cause of Action for
Conversion. 
C.  
Tenth
Cause of Action for “Conspiracy”
Plaintiff generally alleges that all
the defendants agreed to commit an assortment of wrongful acts including
breaches of fiduciary duty, fraud, and conversion and, as a result, she entered
into the Share Transfer Agreement and invested $203,000 in Steps, and she also
entered into the Guarantee Assumption Agreement, and has failed to receive
dividends, distributions, or monies due and owing to her. (FAC, ¶¶ 137, 142.) Plaintiff
specifically alleges that Arroyo Pacific “failed to verify any representations
made by the individual Defendants and conspired with each, to subordinate and
hinder [Plaintiff’s] interest directly or indirectly” by “allow[ing] Steps to
maintain a private school, despite the merger, and allow[ing] L. Yen, J. Yen,
and Chan to have complete authority to run the financial aspect [sic] of the
school.” Although they do not state a standalone cause of action for
conspiracy, Plaintiff’s allegations essentially assert that Arroyo Pacific is
liable for the other defendants’ fraud and conversion as a co-conspirator. 
The statute of limitations for fraud
and conversion is 3 years. (CCP 338(d).) The alleged fraud and conversion by L.
Yen, J. Yen, and Chan concerning Plaintiff’s initial investment of $203,000,
the Share Transfer Agreement, and Guarantee Assumption Agreement occurred in 2015,
2017, and 2019 (FAC, ¶ 113) and Plaintiff was placed on notice of the merger
with Arroyo Pacific in March 2019 (FAC ¶ 140-141). Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
claim against Arroyo Pacific as a co-conspirator for fraud and conversion is
time-barred. 
To the extent that Plaintiff alleges
that Arroyo Pacific engaged in any conspiracy with the other defendants to
breach their fiduciary duties, Arroyo Pacific cannot be held liable because civil
conspiracy is a legal doctrine that “presupposes that the coconspirator is
legally capable of committing the tort.” (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton
Saudi Arabia Ltd., 7 Cal.4th at 511. A nonfiduciary such as Arroyo Pacific
cannot conspire to breach the fiduciary duties owed by J. Yen and Chan. (Kidron
v. Movie Acquisition Corp. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1571, 1597 [“A
nonfiduciary cannot conspire to breach a duty owed only by a fiduciary.”]) Insofar
as Plaintiff alleges that Arroyo Pacific planned to “commit a wrongful act”, this
allegation is too conclusory to state a cause of action. 
Accordingly, the motion for judgment on
the pleadings is granted as to the Tenth Cause of Action.  
D.  Thirteenth Cause of Action for
Violation of Penal Code § 496
California Penal Code Section 496
allows an injured party to sue for treble damages and attorney's fees against
anyone who obtains or receives or aids in obtaining or receiving any property
that has been stolen or that has been obtained in any manner constituting
theft. Pen. Code§ 496(a) and (c). Plaintiff broadly alleges that Arroyo Pacific
“stole, misappropriated, embezzled, converted, and diverted monies from Steps’
belonging to [her]” and/or obtained and received stolen monies belonging to
her. (FAC, ¶¶ 159, 160.) 
However, as Arroyo Pacific argues,
Plaintiff fails to state a claim because she does not allege that Arroyo
Pacific knew it obtained or received (or aided in obtaining or receiving) money
that was allegedly stolen from her. 
Plaintiff’s claim is also too
conclusory; Plaintiff alleges that the theft took place through
misrepresentations by Arroyo Pacific, but does not identify any of these
purported misrepresentations.
Accordingly, the motion for judgment on
the pleadings is GRANTED. 
E.  
Eleventh
Cause of Action for Violation of Unfair Competition Law
Arroyo Pacific argues that Plaintiff
lacks standing to assert a claim under the UCL. A UCL plaintiff must: (1) establish
a loss or deprivation of money or property sufficient to qualify as injury in
fact, i.e., economic injury, and (2) show that economic injury was the result
of, i.e., caused by, the unfair business practice that is the gravamen of the
claim. (Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 54 Cal.4th 310, 322
(citing Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17204).) The UCL defines “unfair competition”
to include “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 17200.) “‘Because Business and Professions Code section
17200 is written in the disjunctive, it establishes three varieties of unfair
competition—acts or practices which are unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.’” (Cel-Tech
Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 163, 180, 83 Cal.Rptr.2d 548.) “Each is its own independent ground for
liability under the unfair competition law [citation], but their unifying and
underlying purpose ‘is to protect both consumers and competitors by promoting
fair competition in commercial markets for goods and services.’” (Shaeffer
v. Califia Farms, LLC (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 1125, 1135.) 
Arroyo Pacific cites to a federal case,
UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund v. Mayer (N.D. Cal. 2016) 2016 WL6122458 (Mayer),
for the proposition that a UCL claim cannot be sustained in a shareholder
derivative action. In Mayer, the district court noted that the plaintiff
had not identified any cases in which shareholders were permitted to maintain a
UCL claim in a derivative action, and the defendant identified no case in which
they have not. Instead, in dismissing the plaintiff’s claims, the Mayer court
relied on the California Supreme Court’s general pronouncement that the purpose
of the UCL is to protect consumers and competitors. 
In her opposition brief, Plaintiff cuts
and pastes her conclusory allegations from her FAC and cites to inapposite case
law; Plaintiff does not address Arroyo Pacific’s substantive arguments
regarding standing, nor does Plaintiff identify any unlawful, unfair, or
fraudulent conduct that would make the UCL applicable. In light of Plaintiff’s
failure to specify how Arroyo Pacific engaged in unfair competition or how her
claim furthers the purpose of the UCL despite not being a consumer or a
competitor, the Court grants the motion for judgment on the pleadings with
respect to the Eleventh Cause of Action. 
F.  
Fifth
Cause of Action for Aiding and Abetting 
There are two different theories
pursuant to which a person may be liable for aiding and abetting a breach of
fiduciary duty. One theory, like conspiracy to breach a fiduciary duty,
requires that the aider and abettor owe a fiduciary duty to the victim and
requires only that the aider and abettor provide substantial assistance to the
person breaching his or her fiduciary duty. (American Master Lease LLC v.
Idanta Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1477.) As discussed
above, Arroyo Pacific does not owe Plaintiff a fiduciary duty; therefore, this
theory of aiding and abetting cannot apply.
The second theory for imposing
liability for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty requires one to give
substantial assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result and the
person's own conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of duty to
the third person. (Casey v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th
1138, 1144 [citing Saunders v. Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 832,
846.)  
Plaintiff generally alleges in
Paragraph 74 of the FAC that J. Yen and Chan breached their fiduciary duties to
her as an individual by making misrepresentations to her and concealing
material facts from her, and negligently hiring, supervising, and retaining L.
Yen as an employee. But, there are no allegations in the entirety of the FAC that
Arroyo Pacific’s actions constitute an independent tort.
G.  Twelfth Cause of Action for Accounting
Arroyo Pacific argues that Plaintiff
has not shown that she is entitled to an accounting because she has no viable
underlying claims against Arroyo Pacific. In opposition, Plaintiff only recites
general principles supporting an accounting. Plaintiff admits that an
accounting is appropriate only where the plaintiff has shown that it is
“entitled to some remedy.” (Opp., p. 10.) Since Plaintiff has failed to plead a
successful cause of action, Plaintiff’s request for an accounting fails as a
matter of law. 
IV.        
 CONCLUSION
In light of the foregoing, Arroyo
Pacific’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED in its entirety. Plaintiff
is granted leave to only amend the 12th and 13th Causes of Action. Any amended
pleading must be filed within 10 days of the date of this order. 
Dated this 30th day of October,
2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 