  Case Number:  23VECV01576	    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Hamid
  Kohan Darvish,
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
                        
Khelika Bell, et al.
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  23VECV01576                   107




 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
Motion to Dismiss 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:  Denied.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND
 
On November 6, 2022, Hamid Kohan
Darvish was crossing the street when he was struck by a vehicle driven by
Defendant Khelika Bell. (Complaint p. 5.) 
Hamid Kohan Darvish sustained injuries ultimately leading to his death.
(First Amended Complaint, “FAC” ¶ 15.) On April 11, 2023, Hamid Kohan Darvish filed a
complaint against Defendants Khelika Bell, El Camino Real Charter High School,
Friends of ECR, a Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation, the City of Los
Angeles, and Does 1 to 20 (collectively, “Defendants”).
 
On May 23, 2024, the Estate of
Hamid Kohan Darvish and Sara Kohan Darvish (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a
first amended against Defendants. 
 
On August 1, 2024, Defendant City
of Los Angeles filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings because Plaintiffs
failed to comply with the claims presentation requirement of the California
Tort Claims Act. (Notice of Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings p. 2.) 
 
On August 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a motion for leave to file a second amended complaint.
 
On August 29, 2024, this court
denied Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file a second amended complaint.
 
On September 12, 2024, this court
granted the motion for judgment on the pleadings and granted Plaintiffs thirty
days to amend. (09/12/24 Minute Order.)
 
On October 29, 2024, Defendant Friends of ECR, a
Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation (“Friends of ECR”) filed an ex parte
application for order of dismissal because Plaintiffs failed to amend the
complaint within thirty days’ notice of the court’s order (the “Motion”). (Ex
Parte Application p. 5.)  That same day,
Plaintiffs filed a request for dismissal of El Camino Real Charter High School
and the City of Los Angeles. (Request for Dismissal filed 10/29/24.) The City
of Los Angeles and El Camino Real Charter High School were subsequently
dismissed from this action. (Request for Dismissal filed 10/29/24.)
 
On October 30, 2024, this court held a hearing on
Friends of ECR’s ex parte application and advanced the hearing to November 14,
2024. (10/30/24 Minute Order.)
 
On November 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.
Friend’s of ECR filed a reply on November 8, 2024.
 
II.            
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same
purpose and effect as a general demurrer. (Sofias v. Bank of America (1985)
172 Cal.App.3d 583, 586.) As such, the same rules that apply to a general
demurrer apply to a judgment on the pleadings. (Id.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 581, subdivision (f),
provides that “[t]he court may dismiss the complaint as to that defendant when
. . . [e]xcept where Section 597 applies, after a demurrer to the complaint is
sustained with leave to amend, the plaintiff fails to amend it within the time
allowed by the court and either party moves for dismissal.” Dismissal is
discretionary. (Contreras v. Blue Cross of California (1988) 199
Cal.App.3d 945, 948.)  
 
III.          
THE
MOTION, OPPOSITION, AND REPLY
 
Friends of ECR argues this court should dismiss
Plaintiffs’ complaint because they failed to amend the complaint within thirty
days’ notice of this court’s order granting the City of Los Angeles’ motion for
judgment on the pleadings. (Memorandum p. 5.) Friends of ECR states that
Plaintiffs were present when the court granted the motion for judgment on the
pleadings, but the court served a copy of the Minute Order to all parties via
USPS mail on September 14, 2024. (Memorandum p. 5.) Thus, Plaintiffs’ amended
complaint was due by October 15, 2024, or October 17, 2024, at the latest.
(Memorandum p. 5.) Plaintiffs failed to file or serve an amended complaint.
(Memorandum p. 5.) Friends of ECR also notes that “[t]his is the second time
Defendant has filed an ex parte application for an order of dismissal due to
plaintiff’s failure to amend the complaint as ordered by the court [and
p]reviously, plaintiff failed to communicate with Defendant regarding the delay
and did not amend the complaint after the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer
for fifty-one (51) days[.]” (Memorandum p. 3.)
 
Plaintiffs state that the City of Los Angeles filed
the motion for judgment on the pleadings and, “upon extensive discussions”
Plaintiffs agreed to dismiss the City of Los Angeles and El Camino Real Charter
High School. (Opposition p. 5.) Plaintiffs state that Friends of ECR did not
join the City of Los Angeles’ motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Opposition
p. 6.) Plaintiffs argue that, because Friends of ECR did not join the City of
Los Angeles’ motion for judgment on the pleadings, and the City of Los Angeles
and El Camino Real Charter High School were subsequently dismissed, “Plaintiff
would not have to amend the Complaint as . . . the other Defendants had already
filed an Answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.” (Opposition p. 5.) 
 
Plaintiffs further argue that Friends of ECR cannot
request dismissal of this cause of action because Friends of ECR did not move
for judgment on the pleadings. (Opposition p. 7.) Plaintiffs cite the language
in Code of Civil Procedure section 438, subdivision (h)(4)(c), which states: “ Except
where subparagraphs (A) and (B) apply, if the motion is granted with respect to
the entire complaint or answer with leave to file an amended complaint or
answer, as the case may be, but an amended complaint or answer is not filed,
then after the time to file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be,
has expired, judgment shall be entered forthwith in favor of the moving party.”
Plaintiffs also cite Code of Civil Procedure section 438, subdivision
(i)(1)(B), which states “If no amended pleading is filed, then the party shall
move for entry of judgment in its favor.” 
 
Plaintiffs
argue that “[a]ccording to the above code section, only the moving party is
entitled to a Judgment” and “[n]o other Defendant is entitled to a Judgment as
the basis of the Judgment does not apply to any other Defendant.” (Opposition
p. 7.) Plaintiffs state that the Friends of ECR’s answer did not allege
Plaintiffs failed to file a statutory claim with Friends of ECR. (Opposition p.
7.) And “the Complaint cannot be dismissed unless the Motion to dismiss is
filed by the party filing for the Judgment on the Pleading which is the City of
Los Angeles and not Defendant Friends of ECR.” (Opposition p. 7.) 
 
In its reply, Friends of ECR argues this
court should dismiss the action under Code of Civil Procedure section 583.410,
which provides that “The court may
in its discretion dismiss an action for delay in prosecution pursuant to this
article on its own motion or on motion of the defendant if to do so appears to
the court appropriate under the circumstances of the case.” (Reply pp.
3-4.) Although Friends of ECR argued in its Motion that Plaintiff has
repeatedly delayed the litigation, Friends of ECR did not specifically argue in
its Motion that the court should dismiss the action under section 583.410
because Plaintiff failed to prosecute the case.  (Memorandum p. 6.) “The
salutory rule is that points raised in a reply brief for the first time will
not be considered unless good cause is shown for the failure to present them
before.” (Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010.)
 Accordingly, this court does not consider Friends of ECR’s argument it
should dismiss the action under section 583.410.
 
 
IV.          
DISCUSSION

 
Code of Civil Procedure section
581, subdivision (f), grants the trial court authority to “dismiss
the
complaint as to that defendant when . . . [e]xcept where Section 597
applies, after a demurrer to the complaint is sustained with leave to amend,
the plaintiff fails to amend it within the time allowed by the court and either
party moves for dismissal.” (Emphasis added.)
 
This section, along with Code of
Civil Procedure section 438 that is cited by Plaintiffs above, 
appear to only give this court
authority to dismiss the complaint and enter judgment in favor of 
the defendant who moved for
judgment on the pleadings. 
 
Moreover, even if this court has
authority to dismiss the action under Code of Civil Procedure 
section 581, subdivision (f),
dismissal is discretionary. (See Contreras v. Blue Cross of 
California,
supra, 199
Cal.App.3d at p. 948.)  
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel submits a
declaration stating that, after this court granted the City of Los 
Angeles’ motion for judgment on the
pleadings, Plaintiffs’ counsel contacted the City of Los 
Angeles’ and El Camino Real Charter
High School’s counsel and later agreed to dismiss those 
Defendants from the lawsuit.
(Nehoray Declaration ¶¶ 2-4.) Plaintiffs’ counsel states that, while 
they were waiting to receive
authorization to dismiss the City of Los Angeles and El Camino Real 
Charter High School, Friends of ECR
filed this Motion. (Nehoray Declaration ¶ 6.) Further,  
Plaintiffs’ counsel appears to
believe it did not need to file an amended complaint because the 
motion for judgment on the
pleadings only pertained to the City of Los Angeles and El Camino 
Real, and Plaintiffs’ counsel was
negotiating dismissing those defendants. (Nehoray Declaration
¶¶ 2-7; Opposition p. 5.)
 
Accordingly, this court exercises its discretion and denies
Friends of ECR’s Motion.
 
V.             
CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, Friends of ECR’s Motion is
denied