 Case Number:  20STCV21303    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  KENNY KAPOOR, et al., Plaintiffs,  vs. ZALFA HALABY, et al., Defendants.  Case No.:  20STCV21303   Hearing Date:  November 15, 2023    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS RECORDS FROM  FIRST AMERICAN TITLE INSURANCE FILED BY CLIFFORD SULLIVANCross-Defendant Sullivan’s motion to quash subpoena is GRANTED.Sanctions in the amount of $1,200 are awarded jointly and severally against Plaintiffs Zalfa Halaby, Charles Elkins and their counsel of record. Sanctions are payable within 10 days after the date of this order. Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order.The requested information is privileged.  If it is not privileged, it is not subject to discovery pursuant to CCP Section 2017.210.Any matter that is relevant to the subject matter and not privileged is discoverable if it is itself admissible or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2017.010.)Sullivan argues that the subpoenaed documents are protected by attorney-client privilege based on the relationship between the insured, the insurer, and the attorney. Sullivan testifies that when he purchased the Hacienda Property, he purchased an ALTA Owner’s Policy of Title Insurance Policy from First American Title Insurance Company (“First American”). (Sullivan Decl., ¶3.) After Plaintiffs brought this action, Sullivan submitted a claim to First American, including a request that the insurer defend him in the action. (Id., ¶5.) Sullivan provided documents and responded to questions under oath. (Id.) Sullivan intended and understood that these communications would be confidential. (Id.) Sullivan alleges that his examination under oath is a communication necessary for an insurer to process an insured’s claims under a policy and that such communications are privileged and not subject to disclosure. Sullivan cites Soltani and Bank of America, N.A. v. Superior Court (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1083 (“Bank of America”) in support of this argument.The court in Soltani specified that statements given to an insurer for the sole purpose of defending claims against the insured are protected by attorney-client privilege even if litigation had not yet commenced. (Soltani-Rastegar v. Superior Court (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 424, 428.) In Bank of America, the court there explained that a tripartite attorney-client relationship exists between the insured, the insurer, and the insurer’s attorney because the insurer and the insured have a common interest in defeating or settling the third party’s claim. (Bank of America, N.A. v. Superior Court (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1090.) The attorney has two clients with overlapping interests. (Id.) Communications among the three are privileged. (Id at p. 1091.)Here, Sullivan alleges that he provided documents and answered questions under oath when he requested that First American defend him in this action. It is reasonable to infer that the examination under oath was taken by First American’s counsel. Because these communications were transmitted from the insured, Sullivan, to the insurer, First American, for the purpose of defending a claim against Sullivan, these communications are privileged. Therefore, the testimony and documents sought by the subpoena are protected by attorney-client privilege.Zalfa and Elkins that the examination under oath is not subject to attorney-client privilege because the examination was conducted to allow First American to decide whether it would defend Sullivan at all. Because First-American’s counsel did not represent Sullivan during the examination, no attorney-client privilege applies. However, the courts have ruled that “consultations regarding a policy of insurance between an insurance company and its attorney prior to the time the insurance company has accepted its obligations under that policy are protected by the attorney-client privilege vis a vis the person insured by the policy.” (Aetna Casualty & Surety Co. v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 467, 474.) Zalfa and Elkins cite cases pertaining to an insurer’s right to conduct an examination under oath. However, these cases do not touch on whether the transcripts of these examinations are privileged. Zalfa and Elkins also cite Griffith v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 59 arguing that a party has a right to an insured’s insurance information after the filing of a formal proceeding. However, Griffith involved the discovery of an insured’s policy limit information, not communications between an insurer and its insured for the purpose of defending an action against the insured. If the subpoenaed information were not privileged, it would certainly concern a dispute over coverage and thus would not be discoverable pursuant to CCP Section 2017.210. California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2 provides that “the court may in its discretion award the amount of reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing [a motion to quash], including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Proc. section 1987.2(a).) With respect to sanctions, the Court finds that Zalfa and Elkins were not substantially justified in opposing this motion because the subpoena sought privileged information or information not subject to discovery pursuant to CCP Section 2017.210. However, Sullivan’s request for sanctions is excessive. The Court awards Sullivan $1,120 in sanctions for four hours of attorney time at a rate of $265 per hour plus filing fees.DATED: November 15, 2023 ________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court 