  Case Number:  23STCV07136    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  61 TALUN HSU, et al. vs SCOTT EHRLICH, et al.TENTATIVEPlaintiffs Talun Hsu and Fawnia Hsu’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED. Plaintiffs are to post an undertaking of $100,000.00.Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSIONCode of Civil Procedure, section 526, subdivision (a) provides that the court “may” grant an injunction in the following cases:(1) When it appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period or perpetually.(2) When it appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or continuance of some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or irreparable injury, to a party to the action.(3) When it appears, during the litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the rights of another party to the action respecting the subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual.(4) When pecuniary compensation would not afford adequate relief.(5) Where it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation which would afford adequate relief.(6) Where the restraint is necessary to prevent a multiplicity of judicial proceedings.(7) Where the obligation arises from a trust.(Code Civ. Proc., § 526, subd. (a).)In determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction, a trial court considers: (1) the likelihood that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and (2) the interim harm that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied as compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary injunction. (Donahue Schriber Realty Group, Inc. v. Nu Creation Outreach (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1177.) “‘The latter factor involves consideration of such things as the inadequacy of other remedies, the degree of irreparable harm, and the necessity of preserving the status quo.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)“The trial court's determination must be guided by a ‘mix’ of the potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff's showing on one, the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction.” (Butt v. State of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678.)Plaintiffs Talun Hsu and Fawnia Hsu (Plaintiffs) seek a preliminary injunction preventing Defendants Scott Ehrlich, Superior Loan Servicing, and Asset Default Management, Inc. (Defendants) from foreclosing on Plaintiffs’ property located on Hillview Place in Los Angeles.Plaintiffs obtained a loan in the amount of $584,000 secured by a deed of trust on the property with a maturity date of November 1, 2022. (Hsu Decl. ¶¶ 3–4, Exhs. A, B.) In mid-October 2022, Plaintiffs sought to refinance the loan, and were told by Defendant Superior Loan Servicing that the loan had matured on October 1, 2022. (Hsu Decl. ¶ 9.) Defendants presented an altered promissory note with their claimed maturity date. (Hsu Decl. Exh. C.) Defendants recorded a notice of default on November 1, 2022, and Plaintiffs represent that they intend to foreclose on the property on October 28, 2024. (su Decl. ¶¶ 12–15.) Plaintiffs argue that allowing foreclosure would cause them to lose “our home that we have lived in with my family for years and have invested tens of thousands of dollars in down payment and renovations.” (Hsu Decl. ¶¶ 16–17.)Plaintiffs bring claims for negligent misrepresentation, intentional misrepresentation, declaratory relief, promissory estoppel, and violation of Business & Professions Code § 17200. These claims arise from the allegation that Defendants had misrepresented that they would abide by the November 1, 2022 maturity date on the loan, while concealing their intent to rely on altered loan documents with an earlier October 1 maturity date. (Complaint ¶¶ 31–62.) Plaintiff seeks a declaration that Defendants cannot foreclose on the property. (Complaint ¶¶ 67–70.)Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have not shown that they will suffer irreparable injury if the injunction is denied because, despite their representations here, the property at issue is not their primary residence. (Opposition at p. 3.) Defendants note that the loan application package attached as Exhibit B to Plaintiffs’ Complaint contains a “Loan Purpose and Real Property Security Declaration” in which Plaintiffs signed under penalty of perjury their confirmation that the loan was to be used to “acquire, improve, or maintain rental property,” that no borrower or any of their family members would “occupy any residential housing unit on the property,” that the property “is rented to a third party (not a relative or family member) who pays, or will pay, fair market value rent,” and that their current principal address was not the Hillview property that is the subject of this action, but a property on North Buena Vista in Burbank. (Complaint Exh. B (Complaint pp. 60–63.)Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs have not demonstrated a likelihood of success on their claims, reasoning that Plaintiffs’ declaration attributes the failure of their October 2022 refinancing efforts to the early maturity of the note, relying solely on hearsay statements made by SLS in denying their modification request. (Opposition at pp. 4–6.)Land is generally considered “unique,” and loss thereof is not necessarily susceptible to adequate compensation by monetary damages. (See Real Estate Analytics, LLC v. Vallas (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 463, 473.) However, a court possesses discretion to find the loss of property held only for investment purposes susceptible to compensation by damages. (See Jessen v. Keystone Savings & Loan Assn. (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 454, 458.)Plaintiffs here have shown sufficient basis for the injunction they seek. Talun Hsu declares that his family lives in the property at issue. Although this is inconsistent with the information on the loan application, that loan application was dated September 22, 2020, while the present declaration is dated October 10, 2024. (Complaint Exh. B.) Although the discrepancy raises questions, the two documents are not mutually exclusive, allowing for a change in circumstances due to time. Failing to grant the preliminary injunction thus risks alienating Plaintiffs from, as Hsu declares, their residence. Defendants’ comparative harm is pecuniary and compensable by damages. (Opposition at p. 7.)Plaintiffs have made sufficient showing of likelihood of prevailing to justify the relief sought. First, Plaintiffs present the different loan documents, with one set of papers stating that the maturity date was November 1, 2022, and the other, relied upon by Defendants, offering October 1 as the maturity date. Plaintiffs offer evidence that they attempted to refinance the loan in October 2022, and that application was denied at that time. The evidence that this erroneous maturity date was the reason for their denial consists of the fact that the application was made and denied in that time, and the representation of Defendant SLS, the denying party. (Hsu Decl. ¶ 9.) This statement is not hearsay, because the statement offered here by SLS — that the loan had matured on October 1 — is not offered to prove the truth of that assertion, but to show that it formed a basis for the denial of the application.Plaintiffs have shown that the equities favor the issuing of the injunction here. But this being the case, Defendants request a bond in the amount of $100,000.00, representing the attorney fees likely required to litigate this matter through judgment. (Opposition at p. 8.)On granting an injunction, the court or judge must require an undertaking on the part of the applicant to the effect that the applicant will pay to the party enjoined any damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified, the party may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court finally decides that the applicant was not entitled to the injunction. Within five days after the service of the injunction, the person enjoined may object to the undertaking. If the court determines that the applicant's undertaking is insufficient and a sufficient undertaking is not filed within the time required by statute, the order granting the injunction must be dissolved.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 529, subd. (a).) Defendants may seek an undertaking securing them against the fees incurred to dissolve the injunction. “It is now well settled that reasonable counsel fees and expenses incurred in successfully procuring a final decision dissolving the injunction are recoverable as ‘damages' within the meaning of the language of the undertaking, to the extent that those fees are for services that relate to such dissolution.” (Abba Rubber Co. v. Seaquist (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1, 15.)Accordingly, the motion for preliminary injunction is GRANTED. Plaintiffs are to post an undertaking of $100,000.00.