 Case Number:  24CHCV00421    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  F51  SEPTEMBER 19, 2024    MOTION TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 24CHCV00421    Motion Filed: 5/24/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Pueblo Restaurant Inc., dba  Casa Torres Restaurant Y Cantina; Albert Gonzalez, Jr.; and Daniel Torres (collectively,  “Moving Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Crystal Baires (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving Defendants move to strike references to punitive damages from Plaintiff’s complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied. Moving Defendants to file and serve their  answer to Plaintiff’s complaint within 30 days.   BACKGROUND    Plaintiff  alleges that on 3/6/22, while Plaintiff was a patron of Moving Defendants’  restaurant located at 14117 Hubbard St., Sylmar, CA 91342, an altercation  occurred and Defendants escorted Plaintiff and unnamed assailant Doe defendant  4 from the property. (Compl. ¶ 14.) The nonmoving security defendants allegedly  handcuffed Plaintiff to a bench rail and left her unattended, after which the  unnamed assailant defendant physically assaulted Plaintiff. (Id. at ¶¶  15–16.)   On 2/13/24,  Plaintiff filed her complaint, alleging against Defendants the following causes  of action: (1) Negligence; (2) Premises Liability; and (3) False Imprisonment. On  5/24/24, Moving Defendants filed the instant motion to strike. On 9/9/24, Plaintiff  filed her opposition. On 9/12/24, Moving Defendants filed their reply.   ANALYSIS   The court may, upon a motion, or at any  time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,  false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,  subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn  or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order  of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the  face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)   A.    Meet  and Confer   Moving Defendants’ counsel declares that on 5/23/34, she met  and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the issues raised in the  instant motion, but the parties were unable to informally resolve the issues.  (Decl. of Kathleen M. Ward ¶ 3.) The Court therefore finds that counsel has  satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements under Code of Civil  Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a).   B.     Punitive  Damages   Punitive  damages may be recovered in non-contract actions upon a proper showing of  malice, fraud, or oppression by clear and convincing evidence. (Civ. Code §  3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a  person or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and conscious disregard  for the rights or safety of others. (Id. at subd. (c); Turman v.  Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)  “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust  hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud”  is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact  known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property, rights or  otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)   Punitive  damages must be supported by factual allegations. Conclusory allegations,  devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that  parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court  (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.  Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.)   In the  complaint, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that the security defendants, at  Moving Defendants’ direction, “deprived PLAINTIFF of her liberty, freedom of  movement and ability to escape the vicious assault by ASSAILANT,” and allowed  the assailant to flee the premises. (Compl. ¶¶ 23, 36.) Plaintiff further  alleges that she suffered physical, mental, and emotional injuries from the  subject incident, including permanent disabilities. (Id. at ¶¶ 25,  37–39.)    Here, Moving  Defendants argue that “Plaintiff’s factual allegations against Defendants fail  to identify any wrongful conduct that meets the description of despicable  conduct. The facts stated in support of the punitive damages allegations  against Defendants fall short of properly alleging malice oppression or fraud.”  (MTS 6:1–3.) “At most, Plaintiff’s claim amounts to negligence against  Defendants which is insufficient to meet the standard for pleading entitlement  to punitive damages.” (Id. at 6:6–7.)   In  opposition, Plaintiff argues that she has sufficiently alleged “the ultimate  facts necessary to state a claim for punitive damages based upon malice and  oppression.” (Pl.’s Opp. 6:15–16, citing Compl. ¶¶ 13, 15, 16, 18–25, 29, 34,  37, 40.) On reply, Moving Defendants maintain that Plaintiff’s allegations are  inadequate to show malice, fraud, or oppression giving rise to the recovery of  punitive damages. (Def.’s Reply 2:15–19.) The Court disagrees. Based on a  review of Plaintiff’s factual allegations, the Court finds that the Complaint,  as pled, sufficiently pleads a basis for punitive damages against Moving  Defendants based on malice or oppression. As Plaintiff contends, the Complaint  sufficiently alleges that Moving Defendants directed the security personnel to  restrain Plaintiff by handcuffing her to a bench rail and leaving her  unattended and therefore unable to escape the assault by the assailant. (Compl.  ¶¶ 34–36.) This alleged conduct sufficiently supports a prayer for punitive  damages as a “conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others.” (Civ.  Code § 3294, subd. (c).)   Accordingly,  the Court finds that at the pleading stage, Moving Defendants’ alleged conduct  as pled may be considered malicious and oppressive as defined by Civil Code  section 3294. Further investigation of the merits of Plaintiff’s allegations  may be resolved through the discovery process.   CONCLUSION    The motion is  denied. Moving Defendants to file and serve their answer to Plaintiff’s  complaint within 30 days.