 Case Number:  24SMCV00367    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV00367




MOTION


Demurrer to Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Alieu Conteh, Mary Chavarria aka Elisa
  Chavarria, and Kadjaly Conteh




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff AWI Fairburn LLC



 
MOTION
 
 On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff
AWI Fairburn, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a verified complaint for forcible
detainer against Defendants Alieu Conteh, Mary Chavarria aka Elisa Chavarria,
and Kadjaly Conteh (“Defendants”).
 
Defendants demur to the Complaint on the grounds that it fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10.  Plaintiff
opposes the demurrer.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
               
I.         
DEMURRER - STANDARDS
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
             
II.         
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 1160 provides:
 
(a) Every
person is guilty of a forcible detainer who either:
 
(1) By
force, or by menaces and threats of violence, unlawfully holds and keeps the
possession of any real property, whether the same was acquired peaceably or
otherwise.
 
(2) Who,
in the night-time, or during the absence of the occupant of any lands,
unlawfully enters upon real property, and who, after demand made for the
surrender thereof, for the period of five days, refuses to surrender the same
to such former occupant.
 
(b) The
occupant of real property, within the meaning of this section is one who,
within five days preceding such unlawful entry, was in the peaceable and
undisturbed possession of such lands.
 
Defendants contend that
“forcible detainer” is available only in scenarios where the plaintiff is in
possession of the property and subsequently the defendants forcibly prevent
plaintiff from regaining possession.  But
subdivision (a) does not require that the plaintiff be in possession of the
premises.  It only requires that the
defendants “by force, or by menaces and threats of violence, unlawfully hold[]
and keep[] the possession of any real property, whether the same was acquired
peaceably or otherwise.”  
 
Here, the complaint alleges:
 
24. Defendants have utilized force or the promise
of force to prevent Plaintiffs access to the Premises, specifically by refusing
to provide keys, and maintaining locks to prevent Plaintiffs from accessing the
Premises. The conduct of Defendants as alleged herein was done maliciously,
willfully, and with the intent to harm the Plaintiff. On information and
belief, Defendants persisted under the erroneous notion that (a) they could
gain title once more through adverse possession and (b) the various protections
given to tenants during the height of the Coronavirus pandemic would protect
them from all efforts to remove them from the Premises. On information and
belief, Defendants also perpetrated this conduct in order to specifically harm
Plaintiff and its principals due to personal animosity towards Plaintiff and
its parent entity.
 
[…]
 
26. Defendants, have by means of force and
threats of violence, unlawfully held and kept the possession of the Premises. 
 
27. On November 27, 2023, Plaintiff served
Defendants with the 5 Day notice. 
 
28. Defendants have remained and continue to
remain, without the Plaintiff's consent, in possession of the Premises and its
contents up to and including the date of the verification of this complaint and
are threatening to remain permanently in possession of the Premises.
 
(Complaint
at ¶¶ 24, 26-28.)
 
            Therefore,
the Complaint adequately alleges forcible detainer to withstand demurrer.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendants’ Demurrer to
the Complaint.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to file and serve an Answer to
the Complaint on or before June 7, 2023. 

 
Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court continues the Case
Management Conference from May 23, 2024 to July 16, 2024 at 8:30 A.M.in
Department 207.   All parties shall comply with California Rules
of Court, rules 3.722, et seq.  In
particular, all parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer (Rule
3.724) and to the requirement to prepare and file Case Management Statements
(Rule 3.725).  
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  May 16, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court