 Case Number:  21SMCV00182    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 
DEPARTMENT          207
HEARING DATE       May 16, 2024
CASE NUMBER        21SMCV00182
MOTION                    Motion
to Set Aside Default
MOVING PARTIES   Defendants
Cantervale Limited and Amanda Staveley
OPPOSING PARTY   Plaintiff
Keyway Pride Limited LLC
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 17, 2023, with leave of the Court, Plaintiff Keyway Pride
Limited LLC (“Plaintiff” or “Keyway”) filed the Verified First Amended
Complaint, adding, among other new defendants, Defendants Amanda Staveley (“Staveley”)
and Cantervale Limited (“Cantervale”) (collectively, “Moving Defendants”).  
 
Staveley is a citizen of England who resides in London and Dubai.  (Declaration of Amanda Staveley filed March
20, 2024, at ¶ 2.)  Staveley is the
founder, sole shareholder, and director of Cantervale, an English company.  (Id. at ¶ 3.)
 
Plaintiff filed proofs of personal service on Cantervale and Staveley
on March 1, 2024 and March 21, 2024, respectively.  
 
The Staveley proof of “personal” service indicates service was
effectuated on February 7, 2024 in accordance with the Hague Service Convention
by leaving the summons with “PA Joanne Mills” at Staveley’s residential address.  
 
The Cantervale proof of “personal” service indicates service was
effectuated on January 12, 2024 in accordance with the Hague Service Convention
by leaving the summons with an occupant at Cantervale’s Registered Office, Mr.
Ghodoussi.
 
On March 7, 2024, the Court entered default against Cantervale.  On March 20, 2024, Cantervale moved to quash
service of the summons on the grounds that this Court lacks personal
jurisdiction over it.  On March 21, 2024,
the Court entered default against Staveley. 
On April 5, 2024, Staveley and Cantervale jointly filed an amended
motion to quash the summons.  
 
Moving Defendants now move to set aside the defaults entered against
them.  Plaintiff opposes the motion and
Moving Defendants reply.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court rules as follows with respect to Plaintiff’s evidentiary
objections:
 
1.    
Overruled
2.    
Overruled
3.    
Overruled
4.    
Sustained
5.    
Overruled
6.    
Overruled
7.    
Overruled
 
The Court rules as follows with respect to Moving Defendants’
evidentiary objections:
 
1.    
Overruled
2.    
Overruled 
 
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Both parties request the Court to
take judicial notice of various English laws and statutes pertaining to Hague
Service Convention service.  As discussed
below, because the Court does not analyze whether service was proper in
connection with this motion, both requests for judicial notice are denied in
connection with this motion as irrelevant.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            Code of Civil procedure section 473
“includes a discretionary provision, which applies permissively, and a
mandatory provision, which applies as of right.” (Minick v. City of Petaluma
(2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 15, 25 (hereafter Minick).)  “Section 473 is a remedial statute to be
“applied liberally” in favor of relief if the opposing party will not suffer
prejudice.  Because the law strongly
favors trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 473
must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default.  Unless inexcusable neglect is clear, the
policy favoring trial on the merits prevails.” 
(Minick, supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at p. 24 [cleaned up].)  
 
The party or the legal
representative must seek such relief “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more than
six months had elapsed from the entry of default, and hence relief under
section 473 was unavailable”]; People v.
The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Ca.App.4th 712, 721 [motion
for relief under section 473 must be brought “within a reasonable time, in no
case exceeding six months”]).  “The
six-month limit is mandatory; a court has no authority to grant relief under
section 473, subdivision (b), unless an application is made within the
six-month period.”  (Arambula v. Union Carbide Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 333, 340,
citations omitted.)  
 
1.     DISCRETIONARY RELIEF
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b), a court may “relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” 
 
2.     MANDATORY RELIEF 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court
shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after
entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default
entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry
of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that
the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  “In considering whether the trial court
properly denied relief under section 473(b), the first question is the
sufficiency of defendants' showing of attorney fault, if believed, to trigger
the mandatory relief provisions of that statute.”  (Standard Microsystems Corp. v. Winbond
Electronics Corp. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 868, 896, disapproved on other
grounds by Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire
Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830 (hereafter Standard).)  “Under section 473(b), a party is entitled to
relief from a default and resulting judgment whenever, on timely application
for relief, his attorney ‘attest[s] to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect’ in connection with the default or the judgment.”  (Ibid.)  
 
            In Standard, counsel for the
defendants attested that he believed the service of the summons on defendants
was defective and informed defendants that they were not required to answer the
summons under the laws of the United States. 
Defense counsel also did not advise the defendants to take any
affirmative action, for example move to quash the service of the summons.  Defense counsel also indicated that he
expected to “receive notice of any application for entry of default before
default was entered so that we could respond.”  “He also acknowledged that he was responsible
for advising defendants in connection with, and preparing, the first motion for
relief from the default; that in doing so he “believed that the Court would set
aside any default because of an invalid service of process”; and that he
omitted “any argument showing that there was a ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect’ in WEC and Winbond Israel's motions.” Although he did not
separately point it out, he also indisputably omitted from defendants' first
motion any invocation of the mandatory relief provisions of section 473(b), and
the required showing to support such an invocation.”  (Standard, supra, 179 Cal.App.4th at
p. 897.)   
 
            After considering the record before
the trial court, the appellate court held that “Counsel's mistakes, in
contrast, entitled them to relief . . . . 
[defense counsel's] affidavit and the record as a whole overwhelmingly
established that the default and ensuing judgment were the products of attorney
fault.”  (Standard, supra, 179
Cal.App.4th at p. 900.)   
 
            Further, “[t]he court's
determination of whether the default was caused by the attorney's mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect is in part a credibility determination.  Credibility is an issue for the fact finder,
we do not reweigh evidence or reassess the credibility of witnesses.. When the
evidence gives rise to conflicting reasonable inferences, one of which supports
the findings of the trial court, the trial court's finding is conclusive on
appeal.”  (Cowan v. Krayzman
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 907, 915 [cleaned up].) 

 
ANALYSIS
 
1.    
MOTION TO SET ASIDE
 
a.    
Cantervale
            
Cantervale contends that default should be set aside because
substitute service on Mr. Ghodoussi is ineffective.  First, Mr. Ghodoussi is not an employee or
agent of Cantervale, and does not occupy a senior position with Cantervale.  Second, to perfect service on an English
company, personal service must be made on an employee in a senior position
according to Cantervale.  
 
In support of the motion, Cantervale references the March 14, 2024 Declaration
of Amanda Staveley, which was filed in connection with Cantervale’s original
motion to quash, which provides in relevant part as follows:
 
3. I formed Cantervale Limited in London, England, as a private
limited liability company on January 2, 2018. Cantervale Limited is
headquartered in London. Since its formation, I have been the sole shareholder
and director of Cantervale Limited.
 
[…]
 
8. I was not served with Keyway Pride Limited LLC’s Summons and First
Amended Complaint on behalf of Cantervale Limited. Nor have I received copies
of them in the mail.
 
9. I have read the “Certificate – Attestation” and Witness Statement
of Nigel Roger Walker. Mr. Walker states that the “Service Documents” were
given to “Mr. Ghodoussi” to pass on to me. Mr. Ghodoussi is not a director or
shareholder in Cantervale Limited. Mr. Ghodoussi is not an employee or agent of
Cantervale Limited. Nor is he authorized to accept service of process on behalf
of Cantervale Limited.
 
(Staveley
Decl. ¶¶ 3, 8-9.)
 
Cantervale has also provided the attorney declaration of Robert M.
Gilchrest, which provides:
 
2. I first learned of this action in or about late February 2024. In
late February, GLG and I agreed to represent Ms. Staveley and Cantervale in
this action. When I am retained to represent a defendant in ongoing litigation,
one of the first things I do is review the operative pleadings as well as the
court index in the case. I obtained a copy of the First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) from counsel for other defendants first named as defendants (“defense
counsel”) in the FAC and reviewed it. Then, I reviewed the court index. As of
late February, neither the case index nor the document index reflected that the
proofs of service of the summons and FAC had been filed with the Court. 
 
3. On March 11, 2024, defense counsel provided me with a copy of a
proof of service for Cantervale. Attached hereto as Exhibit A is a true and
correct copy of the proof of service and witness statement only provided to me
by defense counsel. I reviewed the proof of service and saw that it alleges the
process server left the service documents with “Mr. Ghodoussi.” The process
server then states “I believe that service has been effected…” by leaving the
service documents with Mr. Ghodoussi. I conducted research on service on a
company formed and headquartered in London, England. I discovered that Practice
Direction 6A governs service of process within the United Kingdom. Attached
hereto as Exhibit C is a true and correct copy of relevant provisions of Practice
Direction 6A. Cantervale and Ms. Staveley hereby request that the Court take
judicial notice of the excerpts of Practice Direction 6A. I read Section 6.1
and 6.2 of Practice Direction 6A as requiring service to be made on a person
holding a senior position with the company. My reading of Sections 6.1 and 6.2
led me to conclude that service had not been properly effectuated on
Cantervale.
 
4. Out of an abundance of caution, I prepared a motion to quash
service of the summons and FAC on Cantervale. Shortly before I filed the motion
to quash on behalf of Cantervale, I reviewed the court index and saw that
Keyway had filed a request for entry of default. I completed the motion to
quash, and filed and served it on March 20, 2024; the hearing on that motion
was set for June 6, 2024. I had reviewed the Court index on March 20, 2024
before filing the motion. At the time of filing, the Court index did not
reflect that default had been entered. I first learned that default had been
entered during a review of the Court index on March 30, 2024. 
 
5. On March 21, 2024, defense counsel provided me with a copy of a
proof of service for Ms. Staveley that apparently had just been served by
Keyway. Attached hereto as Exhibit B is a true and correct copy of the proof of
service and witness statement only provided to me by defense counsel. Keyway
had not served the proof of service on GLG even though Cantervale filed and
served its motion to quash on Keyway (and others) on March 20, 2024. The motion
to quash argues that personal service on Cantervale was ineffective and that,
in all events, this Court lacks personal jurisdiction over Cantervale. The
motion relies upon, among other things, the Staveley Declaration for
evidentiary support. The Staveley Declaration sets forth the factual predicate
for Staveley to challenge this Court’s personal jurisdiction over her as well
as Cantervale. 
 
6. When I first learned that default had been entered against
Cantervale through a review of the Court index on March 30, 2024, I also first
learned that Keyway had filed a request for entry of default against Ms.
Staveley on March 21, 2024, and default had been entered against her on that
date. This took me by surprise for two reasons. First, Keyway had failed to
serve GLG with a copy of the request for entry of default when it filed it on
March 21, 2024. Had it done so, I would have contacted Keyway’s counsel and
advised counsel that Ms. Staveley would be joining in Cantervale’s motion to
quash service.
 
7. […] At the time I filed the motion to quash on March 20, 2024,
Keyway had not filed the proof of service on Staveley. Had Keyway filed the
proof of service before I filed the motion to quash, I would have brought the
motion jointly on behalf of Cantervale and Ms. Staveley. In all events, Keyway
filed its request to enter default against Staveley on March 21, 2024, after
Cantervale filed and served its motion to quash on the grounds of ineffective
service of process and for lack of personal jurisdiction over Cantervale. […]
 
8. The Clerk entered default against Cantervale on March 7, 2024, less
than 30 days before Cantervale brought the instant motion. The Clerk entered
default against Ms. Staveley on March 21, 2024. Before bringing this motion, I
asked Keyway to stipulate to set aside the default. A true and correct copy of
my April 4, 2024 email exchange with Keyway’s counsel is attached hereto as
Exhibit D. Keyway’s counsel failed to respond as of the time Cantervale filed
this motion. 
 
9. Regarding the determination that I made regarding effective service
on Cantervale described in paragraph 3 above, the proof of service on
Cantervale alleges that the process server left the service documents with “Mr.
Ghodoussi.” [Ex. A (1/15/24 Witness Statement of Nigel Roger Walker, ¶5).] The
process server then states “I believe that service has been effected…” by
leaving the service documents with Mr. Ghodoussi. [Id., ¶6.] However, Ms.
Staveley’s Declaration establishes that “Mr. Ghodoussi” is not a director,
shareholder, employee or agent of Cantervale. [3/20/24 Declaration of Amanda
Staveley (“Staveley Decl.”), ¶9.] Nor is Mr. Ghodoussi authorized to accept
service of process on behalf of Cantervale. [Id.] Personal service on an
English company residing in England requires that service documents be left
with a person holding a senior position with the company. Mr. Ghodoussi holds
no such position with Cantervale. Consequently, service on Cantervale was
ineffective. If Your Honor determines that service of process was proper and
default was properly entered, I request that this Court exercise its mandatory
power to set aside the default based on my mistaken belief that Keyway had not
complied with Practice Direction 6A. Had I believed that service had been
properly effectuated, I would have filed the motion to quash before Keyway
filed the request for entry of default on March 7, 2024.
 
(Gilchrest
Decl. ¶¶ 2-9.)  
 
            Pursuant to the Gilchrest
declaration, Mr. Gilchrest was not even aware of the purported service until
Keyway’s counsel sent him the proof of service on March 11, 2024.  (Gilchrest Decl. ¶ 3.)  But default had already been entered against
Cantervale on March 7, 2024.  Thus, the mistake
was not counsel’s.  
 
To the extent someone erred, it was either Keyway in improperly
serving Cantervale (see Staveley Decl. ¶¶ 8-9 [indicating Staveley was not
served on behalf of Cantervale and did not receive the documents in the mail
and that Ghodoussi is not an agent of Cantervale]), or it was Staveley in
failing to timely respond to the complaint on behalf of Cantervale before
default was entered.  The Court need not
decide in connection with this Motion whether service on Cantervale was proper
under the Hague Service Convention.  Either
way, Cantervale has demonstrated that the entry of default against it should be
set aside.
 
            Therefore, the Court exercises its
discretion and grants Cantervale’s Motion and Sets Aside the entry of default
as to Cantervale and deems the concurrently-filed Amended Motion to Quash filed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b) [“Application
for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading
proposed to be filed therein[.]”])
 
b.    
Staveley
 
Staveley also argues that personal service via a third party is not
proper, but primarily argues that Keyway violated its ethical and statutory
obligation to warn counsel for Cantervale that it intended to seek a default
against Staveley.  Staveley relies upon Shapell
Socal Rental Properties, LLC v. Chico’s FAS, Inc. (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 198
(hereafter Shapell), in which the appellate court reversed the trial
court’s refusal to set aside entry of default and default judgment, because
plaintiff’s counsel had breached its ethical and statutory obligation to advise
defendant’s counsel of the intent to seek default.  Shapell relies on Lasalle v. Vogel
(2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 127, which similarly held that the ethical duty to warn
defendant’s counsel of the intent to take a default is codified as part of Code
of Civil Procedure section 583.130, which requires the parties “cooperate in
bringing the action to trial or other disposition.”
 
However, “That obligation arises only if opposing counsel's identity
is known[.]”  (Shapell, supra,
85 Cal.App.5th at p. 216.)  Here,
Staveley argues that Plaintiff’s counsel should have known that the same
counsel who represented Cantervale would also represent Staveley.  While the Court agrees that the most prudent
course of action would have been for Plaintiff’s counsel to inquire whether
Cantervale’s counsel also represented Staveley, the Court cannot say that the
identity of Staveley’s counsel was known at the time Plaintiff sought entry of
default against Staveley.
 
The Court notes that the proof of “personal” service purportedly
effectuated on Staveley by delivering the documents to “PA Joanne Mills” appears
defective on its face.  However, because
Staveley relied primarily on the argument that Keyway failed to warn counsel,
the evidentiary record is incomplete with respect to the mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect that resulted in entry of default as to
Staveley.  While the Staveley declaration
indicates that Staveley did not receive service on behalf of Cantervale, it is
silent with respect to receipt of service on her own behalf.  As such the Court continues the hearing with
respect to Staveley to enable the parties to submit further
declarations/briefing regarding the mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect regarding service on and entry of default against Staveley.
 
2.    
KEYWAY’S REQUEST FOR LEGAL FEES AND COSTS
 
Plaintiff’s counsel seeks recovery of its reasonable legal fees and
costs incurred in bringing this motion, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure,
section 473, subdivision (b), which provides, “[t]he court shall, whenever
relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the
attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing
counsel or parties” and, in the alternative, pursuant to subdivision (c) which
provides:
 
Whenever the court grants relief from a default, default judgment, or
dismissal based on any of the provisions of this section, the court may do any
of the following:
 
(A) Impose a penalty of no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) upon
an offending attorney or party.
 
(B) Direct that an offending attorney pay an amount no greater than
one thousand dollars ($1,000) to the State Bar Client Security Fund.
 
(C) Grant other relief as is appropriate. 
 
Here, because the Court finds that the mistake was not counsel’s, an
award of legal fees and costs is not mandatory as to Cantervale.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
            For the reasons stated, the Court
grants the motion as to Cantervale and orders the March 7, 2024 entry of
default set aside.  Further, the Court
deems filed on Cantervale’s behalf the Amended Motion to Quash.  
 
With regard to Staveley, the Court continues the hearing on the motion
to June 5, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 207, to permit the parties time to
file additional memoranda of points and authorities, not to exceed 5 pages, and
relevant evidence, addressing the mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and/or
excusable neglect that led to the entry of default against Staveley.
 
·      
Staveley supplement papers shall be filed and served
on or before May 24, 2024; and
·      
Plaintiff’s supplemental papers shall be filed
and served on or before May 31, 2024.  
            
            Further, on the Court’s own motion,
the Court advances and reschedules Cantervale and Staveley’s Motion to Quash Service
of Summons from June 6, 2024 to June 5, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  
 
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling/orders, and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
 
 
DATED:
May 16, 2024                                                          ___________________________
Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court