 Case Number:  22SMCV02041    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV02041




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Justin Shelton




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant
  WIB Holdings, LLC  



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities; Declaration of Justin Shelton
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Opposition to Motion for Summary Adjudication;
     Memorandum of Points and Authorities; Declaration of Barbara Bills;
     Declaration of Isaac Aba
Response to Statement of
     Undisputed Facts


 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 28, 2022, Plaintiff Justin Shelton (“Plaintiff”) brought
suit against Defendant WIB Holdings, LLC (“Defendant”) alleging five causes of
action for (1) unlawful retention of security deposit; (2) business and
professions code section 17200; (3) breach of written residential lease
agreement; (4) negligence; and (5) conversion. 

 
On August 24, 2023, the Court
granted Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend the complaint and ordered
Plaintiff to file and serve the proposed amended complaint on or before
September 7, 2023, but Plaintiff never filed it.  (See August 24, 2023 Minute Order.)  The proposed first amended complaint attached
to Plaintiff’s motion for leave inserts a new third cause of action for
Declaratory Relief for Violation of California Civil Code Section 1953 that was
not previously pleaded.  
 
Plaintiff now moves for summary adjudication that there are no triable
issues of material fact with respect to the “second” and “third” causes of
action.  The motion does not specify what
the “second” and “third” causes of action are, but the motion’s argument that
“Plaintiff is entitled to declaratory relief that the illegal lease provisions
violate civil code § 1953” appears to refer to the third cause of action that
Plaintiff added to the proposed amended complaint that was never filed.  The body of the motion also seeks an order
that there are no triable issues of fact that Defendants committed conversion,
but this issue is not raised in the notice of motion.
 
Defendant opposes the motion. 
Plaintiff did not reply.
 
TIMELINESS OF MOTION
 
            Defendant
objects to the motion as untimely.  Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a)(3) provides: “The motion shall
be heard no later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless the court for
good cause orders otherwise.”  Trial in
this matter is currently set for June 10, 2024. 
The hearing on this motion is scheduled for May 16, 2024, less than 30
days prior to trial.  Therefore, the
motion is untimely.
 
            On
February 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to continue the trial so that this
motion for summary judgment would be timely. 
The Court issued a tentative ruling, tentatively denying Plaintiff’s
motion to continue trial on the grounds that Plaintiff had not shown good cause
for the continuance and the motion for summary adjudication would not
streamline the issues for trial because, among other things, it appears to seek
summary adjudication of a cause of action not actually alleged in the operative
complaint.  
 
Plaintiff’s counsel
failed to appear at the March 21, 2024 hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to
continue trial, so the Court took the motion to continue off calendar and the
trial date was not continued.  
 
            Moreover,
Plaintiff has not provided the Court with good cause to order the untimely
motion for summary adjudication to be heard, in connection with this motion,
the abandoned motion to continue trial, or otherwise.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion for summary
adjudication as untimely under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (a)(3).  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service regarding the same.   
 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  May 16, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 