 Case Number:  SC125546    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


SC125546




MOTION


Motion
  for Leave to Amend the Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  and Cross-Complainants Scott Miller and Melissa Miller




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a neighbor dispute.  On March 14, 2016, Plaintiffs and
Cross-Defendants Hilburn Covington and Diane Covington, individually and as
co-trustees of the Hilburn Covington Faily Trust, U/T/I dated September 27,
2012 (“Cross-Defendants”) filed suit against Defendants and Cross-Complainants
Scott Miller and Melissa Miller (“Cross-Complainants”) for View
Restoration.  On April 14, 2016, Cross-Defendant
Melissa Miller filed a Notice of Petition for Relief under Chapter 11 of the
United States Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 101 and Imposition of Automatic
Stay, indicating that she had filed a bankruptcy petition on August 11, 2010,
effectively staying the instant action.  At
a status conference on January 31, 2023, counsel informed the Court that the
Relief from the Automatic Stay was signed and filed on December 6, 2022.
 
On March 17, 2023, Cross-Complainants filed a Cross-Complaint against
Cross-Defendants for (1) Nuisance; (2) Trespass; and (3) Negligence, alleging
that improper drainage on Cross-Defendants’ property is causing water to
intrude onto Cross-Complainants’ property.
 
Cross-Complainants now move for leave to amend the Cross-Complaint to
add as cross-defendants their neighbors to the north, after recently
discovering that improper drainage from that neighbor’s property was also
contributing to the problem.
 
The motion is unopposed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Amendments
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”
 
            To wit, without notice to the other
party the Court has wide discretion to allow either party (i) to add or strike
the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in the name of a party or a
mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as
may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage
of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to
the other party, the Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend
pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1). Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.”
 
            Judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an
established policy in California since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter
(1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150,
155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) Moreover, “it is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing party did not
establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The court may grant leave to amend
the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter
Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely justified if the
motion is timely made and granting the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.) However, if the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at
¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not
grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or
prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails.
Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if
sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins
v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) “Prejudice exists where
the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical
evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. . . .
But the fact that the amendment involves a change in legal theory which would
make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of prejudice
the court will consider.” (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656,
citations omitted.)
 
            “Even if some prejudice is shown,
the judge may still permit the amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is
authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be proper.’” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.) For example, the court
may cause the party seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in
preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del
Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural Requirements
 
            Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
            In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate
declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
            In
support of the motion, Cross-Complainants have included a redlined version of
the proposed first amended cross-complaint, showing all the changes from the
initial cross-complaint.  Cross-Complainants
have also provided the Declaration of Alec P. Schulman, indicating:
 
d. The Effect of the
Amendment (Rule 3.1324(b)(1)): The effect of the amendment is to add the
Hoppers to all three Causes of Action already alleged in the Cross Complaint.
Adding the Hoppers will ensure complete relief for the Millers as the Hoppers’
negligent conduct was a contributory cause of the damages already alleged
against the Covingtons. 
 
e. Why the Amendment is
Necessary and Proper (Rule 3.1324(b)(2)): The Millers allege that the water
from the Covington Property and the Hopper Property has combined and intruded
onto the Miller Property causing immense damage. This damage includes, but is
limited to slope instability, a slide, soil erosion, a foul smell, damage to
the Miller’s sprinklers and significant landscaping issues. The Millers’
addition of the Hoppers to this action is essential to ensure that there is not
an integral party missing from this action and that the Millers may receive
complete relief following this single action’s conclusion. 
 
f. When the Facts Giving
Rise to the Amendment were Discovered (Rule 3.1324(b)(3)): The Millers
discovered the facts supporting the addition of the Hoppers to this action
following the completion of recent construction efforts and the heavy rainfall
in the Southern California area. Following the extreme weather, it was revealed
that various construction improvements performed by the Hoppers have
contributed to the damages allegedly created by Covingtons. The Millers
consulted with their attorneys concerning how best to move forward and after a
short period of time, decided to add the Hoppers to this action. 
 
g. Reasons Why the Request
for Amendment was not Made Earlier (Rule 3.1324(b)(4)): As the Court knows, the
Miller Property has been subject to various construction projects that have
hindered the Miller’s ability to assess the particular cause of damage that has
been done. Following substantial completion of the work done on the property,
and the recent heavy rains, it was revealed that the Hoppers’ poor maintenance
of their property resulted in substantial water flow that has combined with the
water flow emanating from the Covington Property which has resulted in the
damages alleged in the Cross-Complaint.
 
(Schulman Decl. ¶ 2.)
 
            Therefore,
Cross-Complainants’ motion is both procedurally and substantively proper.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court grants
Cross-Complainants’ unopposed Motion for Leave to Amend the Cross-Complaint.  
 
            Cross-Complainants shall file and
serve the proposed first amended cross-complaint on or before June 7, 2024.  Further, Cross-Complainants shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service
forthwith.  
 
 
 
 
DATED:  May 16, 2024                                 ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 