  Case Number:  23STCV01875    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants
Armando Berriz and Berriz Law Group, PC’s Motion for Protective Order 
Defendants Armando Berriz and Berriz
Law Group, PC (collectively, Berriz), move for a protective order limiting
plaintiff The Law Offices of Jacob Emrani’s special interrogatories.  
A
party propounding more than 35 specially prepared interrogatories must provide
a declaration stating a “greater number is warranted because of any of the
following: (1) The complexity or the quantity of the existing and
potential issues in the particular case. 
(2) The financial burden on a party entailed in conducting the
discovery by oral deposition.  (3) The
expedience of using this method of discovery to provide to the responding party
the opportunity to conduct an inquiry, investigation, or search of files or
records to supply the information sought.” 
(CCP § 2030.040(a).)  
Courts
may issue a protective “order that justice requires to protect any party or
other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment,
or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” 
(CCP § 2030.090(b).)  The
responding party may move for a protective order on the basis “[t]hat, contrary
to the representations made in a declaration submitted under Section 2030.050,
the number of specially prepared interrogatories is unwarranted.”  (Id., subd. (b)(2).)  “If the responding party seeks a protective
order on the ground that the number of specially prepared interrogatories is
unwarranted, the propounding party shall have the burden of justifying the
number of these interrogatories.”  (CCP §
2030.040(b).) 
Plaintiff
does not meet its burden of justifying its number of special
interrogatories.  Plaintiff served 277
special interrogatories on Armando Berriz and the same 277 interrogatories on
Berriz Law Group, PC.  (Meehan Decl.,
Exs. 1-2.)  This volume of
interrogatories is “unduly burdensome or expensive, taking into account the
needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues
at stake in the litigation.”  (CCP §
2019.030(a)(2).)  This action is a
dispute over splitting $14,800 in attorney fees between two law firms who
represented a client in a personal injury case. 
(FAC, ¶ 16.)  Berriz offered to
pay plaintiff $2,794.25 of those fees.  (Id.,
¶¶ 16, 20, Ex. 4.)  Plaintiff demanded
half of the total fees, i.e., $7,400.  (Id.,
¶ 21.)  In other words, plaintiff brought
this action over its demand for an extra $4,605.75.  The compensatory damages plaintiff seeks to
recover fall within the jurisdiction of the small claims department.  
Serving 277 special
interrogatories on Armando Berriz and on Berriz Law Group, PC drastically
outweighs the needs of the case when taking into account the amount in
controversy, the needs of the case, and the importance of the issues at
stake.  Plaintiff has already spent more
money litigating this case than the amount it demanded from Berriz in the first
place.  These expenditures include both
out-of-pocket expenses and the time spent by plaintiff’s lawyers.  The court has sanctioned plaintiff $5,525 so
far.  (June 15, 2023 minute order
[$3,525]; Nov. 8, 2023 minute order [$2,000].)  In its opposition, plaintiff asserts it
incurred $3,500 in attorney fees opposing this motion.  (Suarez Decl., ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff does so notwithstanding the rule
that, as a law firm representing itself, it cannot recover attorney fees.  (Argaman v. Ratan (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1173, 1179.)
Plaintiff contends
that, because it seeks punitive damages, the amount in controversy far exceeds
the dispute over splitting $14,800.  No
defendant has moved to strike plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages.  Assuming plaintiff can recover punitive
damages in this fee-splitting dispute, the amount would be limited.  For punitive damages, “ ‘few awards’
significantly exceeding a single-digit ratio will satisfy due process.”  (Simon v. San Paolo U.S. Holding Co., Inc.
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1159, 1182, quoting State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v.
Campbell (2003) 538 U.S. 408, 425.) 
The special
interrogatories’ content further indicates plaintiff has not propounded them in
a good-faith effort to prepare for trial. 
For example, No. 1 asks, “Do YOU contend that on October 10, 2018, YOU
were not sent a request to segregate the SETTLEMENT AMOUNT in three checks
RELATED TO the LIEN?”  (Meehan Decl., Ex.
1, p. 4.)  Nos. 2-4 ask follow-up
questions.  (Id., pp. 4-5.)  Berriz may have unreasonably denied those
allegations via the answer’s broad denials, but proving this fact does not
reasonably require asking four special interrogatories about it.  Plaintiff’s first amended complaint includes
a copy of its email to Berriz asking to divide the settlement amount into three
checks.  (FAC, Ex. 5.)        
Plaintiff’s
interrogatories also include dozens of follow-up questions about the “LEGAL
BASIS” for Berriz’s affirmative defenses. 
(E.g., Nos. 40, 45, 56, 62, 68, etc.) 
The interrogatories provide, “The term ‘LEGAL BASIS’ as used herein
shall mean to identify the applicable legal authority.  If the legal authority is codified, to state
the applicable number of the statute, rule, or regulation along with the code,
law, or regulation in which it’s contained, and the last known date said
specific statute, rule, or regulation was amended.  If the legal authority derives from
jurisprudence, to state the full case citation with pincite, whether the cited
case has been disapproved, limited, narrowed, or negatively affected by any subsequent
case, and if so, provide the case citation for the subsequent case.  If the legal authority derives from a
principal of law or equity, provide a detailed description of said principal or
law or equity, and its applicability to the facts in this matter.”  (Meehan Decl., Ex. 1, p. 3.)  
Plaintiff provides
no authority permitting such interrogatories. 
They ask defendants to do legal research for plaintiff.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.010(b)
provides, “An interrogatory may relate to whether another party is making a
certain contention, or to the facts, witnesses, and writings on which a
contention is based.  An interrogatory is
not objectionable because an answer to it involves an opinion or contention
that relates to fact or the application of law to fact, or would be based on
information obtained or legal theories developed in anticipation of litigation
or in preparation for trial.”  This
provision permits only the first set of four questions plaintiff repeatedly
asks: (1) is each defendant making a contention, and what are the supporting
(2) facts, (3) witnesses, and (4) writings. 
It does not permit the fifth question, which asks each defendant to
state the legal authority on which the contention is based.  And even if doing so were permitted, that
would not extend to asking defendants to state when each statute was amended or
to describe cases’ subsequent history. 
This part of the interrogatory is pointless busywork.  Plaintiff can find that information itself
and cannot rely on defendants’ assertions about whether any case has been
disapproved or overruled.
When considering the
totality of the circumstances, serving 277 special interrogatories on each
moving defendant constitutes propounding excessive discovery to increase the
costs of litigation rather than a genuine effort to learn information relevant
to the action.    
Sanctions
            Berriz moves for $3,300 in sanctions
against plaintiff The Law Offices of Jacob Emrani, APC and plaintiff’s counsel
Rodrigo Suarez.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.090(d) provides, “The court shall impose a monetary sanction …  against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order under this
section, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  Plaintiff
unsuccessfully opposed this motion for a protective order.  Plaintiff and its counsel did not act with
substantial justification.  Sanctions are
just under the circumstances.
Disposition
            Defendants Armando J. Berriz and Berriz Law Group, PC’s motion for
protective order is granted.  The
court hereby orders that plaintiff may only propound 35 special interrogatories
to each defendant.  Within 30 days, each
defendant shall respond only to plaintiff’s special interrogatories Nos. 1-35.
Plaintiff The Law Offices of Jacob Emrani, APC, and
plaintiff’s counsel Rodrigo Suarez are ordered to pay defendants $3,300 in sanctions within 20
days.  Plaintiff and counsel Suarez are
jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.