 Case Number:  24STCV06670    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Auto Finance Solutions,
LLC’s Demurrer
Defendant Auto Finance Solutions, LLC
demurs to all three causes of action alleged by plaintiff Auto Auction Group,
Inc.
1.
Breach of contract
Plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts for breach of contract.  The elements of breach of contract are: “(1) the existence of the contract,
(2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s
breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
Plaintiff does not adequately allege the contract.  “A written contract may be pleaded either by
its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached
to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal
effect.  [Citation.]  In order to plead a contract by its legal
effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the substance of its relevant terms.’ ”  (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489, citing Witkin.)
The complaint alleges, “On November 7, 2022
plaintiff and defendants … entered into a DEMAND PROMISSORY NOTE AND SECURITY
AGREEMENT - FLOORING AGREEMENT which is attached hereto as EXHIBIT 1.”  (Comp., ¶ 7.) 
But the exhibit is not attached.  Nor
does the body of the complaint allege the contract’s terms or legal
effects.  
2.
Unlawful repossession – conversion in the absence of security interest
            Defendant demurs to this cause of
action on the basis that plaintiff’s complaint incorrectly claims defendant
never had a security interest. 
(Demurrer, pp. 6-7.)  Defendant
argues the contract—which is neither attached to the complaint nor the demurrer—expressly
provides that defendant has a security interest in the vehicles.  That contract is not part of the record.  It cannot serve as a basis for demurrer.
3.
Breach of peace
Defendant demurs to this cause of action
on the basis that it is not an independent claim and merely duplicates the
conversion claim.  Rather than an
independent cause of action, breaching the peace can give rise to a claim for
conversion that would otherwise be lawful. 
“[W]here one is otherwise entitled to take possession of property, its
repossession by [unlawful] means constitutes a conversion.”  (Henderson v. Security Nat. Bank
(1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 764, 770.)  
Though “breach of peace” is not a cause of
action, per se, the court must examine the complaint “[i]rrespective of the labels attached …  to any alleged cause of action … ‘to determine
whether [the allegations] state a cause of action on any available
legal theory.’ ”  (Adelman v.
Associated Intern. Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 352, 359.)  In substance, the complaint alleges breaching
the peace as an alternative legal theory for conversion.  The second cause of action alleges defendants
had no right to repossess the vehicles. 
The third cause of action alleges that, even if defendant had the right
to repossess the vehicles, it did so by “trespassing upon plaintiff’s property”
and “threatening plaintiff’s employee with physical harm.”  (Comp., ¶ 16.)  That constitutes conversion via the theory of
repossession by unlawful means.    
Disposition
            Defendant
Auto Finance Solutions, LLC’s demurrer to plaintiff’s first cause of action is sustained
with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
Defendant’s demurrer to the second and third causes of action is overruled.  