  Case Number:  19SMCV00133    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here for a final status conference.  The court gave its FSC order on December 14,
2022.  In that order, the court
admonished the parties to be familiar with the court’s FSC and trial rules and
also to begin meeting and conferring on the FSC materials—many of which must be
joint—two to three months before the FSC.
 
On August 30, 2024, the court received the following FSC
materials: (1) Plaintiff’s Jury Instructions (CACI and six specials); (2)
Plaintiff’s Exhibit List (54 exhibits, no stipulations); (3) Plaintiff’s
Witness List (19.5 hours total testimony); (4) Plaintiff’s Verdict Form
(essentially a general verdict); (5) Plaintiff’s Short Statement of the case;
and (6) Plaintiff’s Trial Brief.  On
September 4, 2024, the court received WCS’s Verdict Form (using a special verdict
format).  The court also received on August
15, 2024, 10 motions in limine from plaintiff, 9 motions in limine
by WCA, and 2 motions in limine by the City.  Oppositions were received on August 26, 2024,
to the bulk of the motions, although WCA’s oppositions to plaintiff’s motions in
limine 4 and 5 were received on September 4, 2024.  Plaintiff filed an eleventh motion in
limine on August 30, 2024.  On
September 4, 2024, the court received the following: (1) WCA’s Special Verdict;
(2) City’s Special Verdict; (3) City’s Jury Questionnaire; (4) Defendants’ Jury
Instructions (including specials); (5) Defendants’ Exhibit List (without any
stipulations or objections); (6) Defendants’ Statement of the Case; (7)
Defendants’ Witness List indicating 38 hours of direct and cross examination,
but obviously without any estimates for plaintiffs’ cross examination.
 
The court was very, very clear in its FSC order.  The court stated that it wanted joint filings
for the FSC materials, the court wanted the parties to meet and confer, the
court wanted stipulations as to authenticity where possible and admissibility
where possible.  It seems that plaintiffs
and WCA spent a lot of time dusting off the form book for the motions in
limine but elected not to follow the court’s express instructions.  The court also received a detailed
declaration from the City’s counsel explaining how the FSC discussions went
forward to explain the various filings.
 
The parties may not have it front of mind, but the court
does, that jurors are paid $15/day for their time.  It is an extraordinary inconvenience that we
impose upon them.  The inconvenience is
worth it given the importance of juries to our system of justice, but the court
will not waste the jury’s time because counsel are ill-prepared.  It seems clear to this court that the
parties, having chosen to ignore the court’s FSC order, are not prepared.  Therefore the case is deemed NOT READY FOR
TRIAL.  The trial date is VACATED.  Instead, on September 16, 2024, at 8:30 am,
the court will hold a trial setting conference and an OSC re: sanctions to
discuss the appropriate sanctions for the parties’ unreadiness for trial and unwillingness
to cooperate to get ready.  That includes
the potential imposition of sanctions against not only the parties, but also
each party and each attorney involved in this case.  The court makes no promises as to the next
trial date.  It might be that the court
will be inclined to try and squeeze the case in to its schedule—although that
will be difficult.  The next available
regular trial date is April 2026.  That
may or may not pose a 5 year problem for plaintiffs, and the court will address
that at the TSC next week.  
 
The court makes the following observations about counsel’s
preparation here.  The court was clear
when the trial was set that the FSC process required more than a short
time.  The court stated it could not be
done in a week.  The court advised
starting 2-3 months before the FSC.  The
court warned of the consequences of not doing so.  So far as the court can tell here, no one did
anything at all until just over a week before the FSC.  On Friday afternoon August 30, 2024—during a
deposition—plaintiffs’ counsel sent around the proposed materials and without
giving the defense any meaningful chance to respond, then filed it in
court.  That is bad faith.  Period. 
It is not acceptable; it is not ethical. 
Plaintiffs’ materials are therefore STRICKEN.  Perhaps had plaintiff at least waited the
weekend and really tried to engage the court would have found it insufficient
but not unethical.  Of course, that
assumes that defense counsel’s recitation is true.  The court’s view changes if there is more to
the story.  For example, it is entirely
possible that plaintiffs’ counsel started the process weeks or months earlier
and the defense refused to engage, which is what led to the August 30
email.  The court does not know because
plaintiffs’ counsel filed no explanation for the patent disregard of the
court’s rules.  By August 30, it appears
that defense counsel finally started to pay attention to the FSC and started
drafting things and trying to engage plaintiffs’ counsel.  That, too, is insufficient.  The FSC materials are a joint
responsibility.  Defense counsel cannot
sit back and wait for plaintiffs’ counsel to start the ball rolling and then
complain when the ball starts rolling too late. 
Defense counsel—both for WCA and the City—apparently deliberately failed
to prepare this case for trial notwithstanding over 18 months between the time
the trial was set and the FSC.  
 
Lest it be ambiguous from the foregoing, the court is
unhappy at this state of affairs.
 