 Case Number:  23SMCV02264    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  I The motion for terminating sanctions is DENIED, somewhat
reluctantly.  
 
This is a close motion. 
The case involves a dispute between neighbors.  Defendant, who lived at the property for 23
years, served discovery on March 26, 2024. 
Plaintiff did not respond, so motions to compel were brought.  The motions were granted on June 21, 2024,
and July 5, 2024.  The court ordered
plaintiff to provide responses and pay sanctions.  Plaintiff ignored the court’s order.  Defendant wrote to plaintiff, but there is
still no response.  This motion followed.
 
The motion for terminating sanctions is plainly brought in
good faith.  Plaintiff has seemingly
abandoned the case and there is no opposition to the motion.  However, the court has seen this movie and
knows how it ends: the court awards terminating sanctions, which leads to a
judgment or a motion to vacate the sanctions; in the latter case, the plaintiff
provides some reason why plaintiff did not know of the problem and should be
given relief.  To avoid that scenario,
the court will give plaintiff one, and only one, more chance.  Defendant is invited to quote this language
back at the court if we are here again. 
The motion will be DENIED but only because the court sees no alternative
sanction that makes sense and because the court wants to be sure that if
terminating sanctions are awarded, there is no conceivable excuse for why that
might be an abuse of discretion. 
Plaintiff will have 30 days to provide verified responses to all
outstanding discovery without objection other than privilege.  The responses will be full and complete, and
any documents or logs will be provided at the same time.  If that is not done, defendant is invited to
bring a new motion, and the court has every intention of granting such a motion
absent some very good justification by plaintiff for what would then be the
failure to respond to discovery and the failure to obey (or even acknowledge)
two court orders.  The court is aware
that the discovery is pretty heavy—118 special interrogatories.  That is essentially why the court is giving
plaintiff one last chance.  But plaintiff
has now used up its good will.
 
Plaintiff, of course, need not pursue this action.  But if plaintiff wants to pursue it,
plaintiff must respond to discovery.
 
It might also be that the parties have decided to try and
resolve this dispute amicably.  Whatever
the court does, the parties are going to remain neighbors.  They need to be able to live in their
respective units.  Perhaps with the HOA
or a third party mediator, they can come to some resolution.  Even if this case is dismissed, that will not
stop it from being re-filed tomorrow if what plaintiff alleges as the offending
conduct continues.