


[1]
           Code of
Civil Procedure § 2025.220, subdivision (a) provides, in relevant part, as
follows:

(a)          A party desiring to take the oral deposition of any person
shall give notice in writing. The deposition notice shall state all of the
following, in at least 12-point type:
(1)         The address where the deposition will be
taken.
(2)          The date of the deposition, selected under Section
2025.270, and the time it will commence.
(3)         The name of each deponent, and the address and telephone
number, if known, of any deponent who is not a party to the action. If the name
of the deponent is not known, the deposition notice shall set forth a instead a
general description sufficient to identify the person or particular class to
which the person belongs.
(4)         The specification with reasonable particularity of any
materials or category of materials, including any electronically stored
information, to be produced by the deponent.
(5)         Any
intention by the party noticing the deposition to record the testimony by audio
or video technology . . .
(6)         Any intention to reserve the right to use at trial a video
recording of the deposition testimony of a treating or consulting physician or
of an expert witness under subdivision (d) of Section 2025.260 . . .
(7)         The form in which
any electronically stored information is to be produced, if a particular form
is desired.
(8)(A) A statement disclosing the existence of a contract, if any
is known to the noticing party, between the noticing party or a third party who
is financing all or part of the action and either of the following for any
service beyond the noticed deposition:
(i)          The deposition
officer.
(ii)         The entity
providing the services of the deposition officer.
(B) A statement disclosing that the party noticing the deposition,
or a third party financing all or part of the action, directed his or her
attorney to use a particular officer or entity to provide services for the
deposition, if applicable.”            [2]
           Code of Civil Procedure §
2025.250, subdivision (a) provides as follows:
(a)             
 Unless the court
orders otherwise under Section 2025.260, the deposition of a natural person,
whether or not a party to the action, shall be taken at a place that is, at the
option of the party giving notice of the deposition, either within 75 miles of
the deponent’s residence, or within the county where the action is pending and
within 150 miles of the deponent’s residence.”


[3]            Rosa’s deposition was noticed on
September 29, 2023 to take place on April 3, 2024 at Beck’s Riverside office.
(Beck Decl., ¶ 5, Exh. A.) On October 11, 2023, Defendant served Rosa with a
“Notice of Continuance of Taking Deposition of Plaintiff,” rescheduling Rosa’s
deposition to March 3, 2024 at Beck’s office. (Id., ¶ 6, Exh. B.) On
February 14, 2024, Rosa served an objection thereto, advising that she was not
available for her deposition at the date and time scheduled. (Id., ¶ 7,
Exh. C.) The remainder of Beck’s declaration accompanying the motion pertaining
to Rosa is identical to his declaration filed in support of Motion #1. Rosa, in opposition, asserts that the motion is moot and
that she is entitled to a protective order, which is what Ricardo also argued. While
a Certificate of Non-Appearance was not taken for Rosa, this motion followed
after counsel were unable to resolve the issue of where all three plaintiff
depositions would occur. Additionally, the issue in Motion #2 is identical to
that in Motion #1 (i.e., regarding Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.310). 


[4]           Jasmine's
deposition was noticed on September 19, 2023 to take place on April 4, 2024 at
Beck’s Riverside office. (Beck Decl., ¶ 5, Exh. A.) On October 11, 2023,
Defendant served Jasmine with a “Notice of Continuance of Taking Deposition of
Plaintiff,” rescheduling Jasmine’s deposition to March 4, 2024 at Beck’s
office. (Id., ¶ 6, Exh. B.) On February 14, 2024, Jasmine served an
objection thereto, advising that she was not available for her deposition at
the date and time scheduled. (Id., ¶ 7, Exh. C.) On March 4, 2024, Beck
took a Certificate of Non-Appearance after Jasmine failed to appear for
deposition. (Id., ¶ 20, Exh. G.) The remainder of Beck’s declaration
accompanying the motion pertaining to Jasmine is identical to his declaration
filed in support of Motion #1. Jasmine, in opposition, asserts that the motion
is moot and that she is entitled to a protective order, which is what Ricardo
also argued. Additionally, the issue in Motion #3 is identical to that in
Motion #1 (i.e., regarding Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.310). 

