 Case Number:  23VECV01892    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV01892 Tipton v  Ezralow [TENTATIVE] ORDER:   The Motions to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production Set 1 as to  Defendant Ezralow Company, LLC and Defendant Calabasas Sorrento Square, LLC;  and Motions to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admission Set 1 and  accompanying Form Interrogatory 17.1 as to Defendant Ezralow Company, LLC   and Defendant Calabasas Sorrento Square, LLC are GRANTED.  Verified Code  compliant answers, privilege log and production are due within 20 days. The Court orders monetary  sanctions against defendants and their counsel, Harrington, Foxx, Dubrow &  Canter, LLP, jointly and severally, in the sum of $2,346.66 pursuant to CCP  section 2023.030, payable to the Client Trust Account of Effres & Effres,  LLP, 5115 Clareton Dr. Suite 110, Agoura Hills, CA 91301 by 5/11/2024. Introduction Plaintiff Joshua Tipton moves to  compel further responses to the following: Request for Production of  Documents Set 1 (“RFP1”) from Defendant Ezralow Company, LLC (“Ezralow”).  Plaintiff requests $885.00 in sanctions from Defendant and/or Counsel. Request for Production of  Documents Set 1 (“RFP1”) from Defendant Calabasas Sorrento Square, LLC  (“Calabasas”). Plaintiff requests $885.00 in sanctions from Defendant and/or  Counsel. Request for Admission Set 1  (“RFA1”) and the accompanying Form Interrogatory 17.1 Set 1 (“FROG1”) from  Defendant Ezralow Company, LLC. Plaintiff requests $885.00 in sanctions from  Defendant and/or Counsel. Request for Admission Set 1  (“RFA1”) and the accompanying Form Interrogatory 17.1 Set 1 (“FROG1”) from  Defendant Calabasas Sorrento Square, LLC. Plaintiff requests $885.00 in  sanctions from Defendant and/or Counsel. Discussion RFP1 from Ezralow Ezralow’s responses to RFP nos.  44 and 58 are: “Based on the limitation contained in the special definition of  PREMISES, after a good faith, reasonable and diligent search this responding  party is unable to comply with this request as it is not in possession, custody  or control of the requested documents and is not aware of their  existence.”  As to RFP nos. 56 and 57, Ezralow objects on the grounds that  the requests are vague, ambiguous, overbroad, unintelligible, irrelevant, and  not likely to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, thus considering it  burdensome and harassing.  Ezralow also states that it is unable to comply  with the request after a good faith and reasonable inquiry and diligent search. The Court finds the responses to  be insufficient.  Ezralow fails to sufficiently explain that it is not in  possession of the requested documents, unaware of their existence, or that the  documents have been lost or misplaced under Code of Civil Procedure section  2031.230.  These responses fail to clarify whether the documents ever  existed, and if they no longer exist, why that is the case.  RFP# 44: Concerns writings about  the decision to have wheelstops at the premises’ parking lot.  Ezralow  does not address the existence or non-existence of the documents  explicitly.  This request is relevant for proving Plaintiff’s claims, that  the placement of the wheelstops in this case created a dangerous condition  which caused Plaintiff to trip and fall. RFP# 56, 57, and 58: Relate to  writings regarding the removal of a wheelstop and plans/drawings of the parking  lot.  The Court finds that evidence of post-accident measures may be  relevant for purposes of demonstrating feasibility of making repairs, control  of premises, impeachment, and for the limited purpose of showing Defendant  acknowledged a duty to take such safety measures. Thus, the Court GRANTS  Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RFP1 from Ezralow. RFP1 from Calabasas Calabasas’ responses to RFP nos.  44 and 58 are: “Based on the limitation contained in the special definition of  PREMISES, after a good faith, reasonable and diligent search this responding  party is unable to comply with this request as it is not in possession, custody  or control of the requested documents and is not aware of their  existence.”  As to RFP nos. 56 and 57, Calabasas objects on the grounds  that the requests are vague, ambiguous, overbroad, unintelligible, irrelevant,  and not likely to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, thus  considering it burdensome and harassing.  Calabasas also states that it is  unable to comply with the request after a good faith and reasonable inquiry and  diligent search. The Court finds the responses to  be insufficient.  Calabasas fails to sufficiently explain that it is not  in possession of the requested documents, unaware of their existence, or that  the documents have been lost or misplaced under Code of Civil Procedure section  2031.230.  These responses fail to clarify whether the documents ever  existed, and if they no longer exist, why that is the case.  RFP# 44: Concerns writings about  the decision to have wheelstops at the premises’ parking lot.  Calabasas  does not address the existence or non-existence of the documents  explicitly.  This request is relevant for proving Plaintiff’s claims, that  the placement of the wheelstops in this case created a dangerous condition  which caused Plaintiff to trip and fall. RFP# 56, 57, and 58: Relate to  writings regarding the removal of a wheelstop and plans/drawings of the parking  lot.  The Court finds that evidence of post-accident measures may be  relevant for purposes of demonstrating feasibility of making repairs, control  of premises, impeachment, and for the limited purpose of showing Defendant  acknowledged a duty to take such safety measures. Thus, the Court GRANTS  Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RFP1 from Calabasas. RFA1 from Ezralow The responses from Ezralow to the  RFA1 predominantly consist of objections on the grounds that they are vague,  ambiguous, overbroad, unintelligible, and seek expert testimony from a lay  witness.  Many objections also point out that the requests contain  incomplete hypotheticals or call for legal conclusions, speculation, or both.   Specific terms such as “condition,” “unsafe condition,” “subject  wheelstop,” and “foreseeable pedestrian pathway” are cited as unclear, leading  to the denial of the requests.  Lastly, objections are raised against the  use of specific terms like “wheelstop” and “foreseeable pedestrian pathway,”  arguing that they make the requests unclear and seek legal conclusions and  expert testimony, leading to their denial.  In a further response to RFA  no. 23, Ezralow admits that pursuant to the property management agreement with  the owner it was responsible for maintaining the subject wheelstop. The Court finds that Ezralow has  failed to provide substantive and Code-compliant responses to several requests  for admission, utilizing unfounded and boilerplate objections.  Further,  Ezralow has not demonstrated a sufficiently valid reason for its refusal to  provide unequivocal responses to the requests at issue.  The Court also  finds that the motion to compel is not procedurally improper since the requests  for admission and the accompanying form interrogatory 17.1 are  intertwined.  Thus, the Court GRANTS  Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RFA1 and FROG 17.1 from  Ezralow. RFA1 from Calabasas The responses from Calabasas to  the RFA1 predominantly consist of objections on the grounds that they are  vague, ambiguous, overbroad, unintelligible, and seek expert testimony from a  lay witness.  Many objections also point out that the requests contain  incomplete hypotheticals or call for legal conclusions, speculation, or both.   Specific terms such as “condition,” “unsafe condition,” “subject  wheelstop,” and “foreseeable pedestrian pathway” are cited as unclear, leading  to the denial of the requests.  Lastly, objections are raised against the  use of specific terms like “wheelstop” and “foreseeable pedestrian pathway,”  arguing that they make the requests unclear and seek legal conclusions and  expert testimony, leading to their denial.  In a further response to RFA  no. 23, Calabasas admits that as an owner, it was responsible for maintaining  the subject wheelstop. The Court finds that Calabasas  has failed to provide substantive and Code-compliant responses to several  requests for admission, utilizing unfounded and boilerplate objections.   Further, Calabasas has not demonstrated a sufficiently valid reason for  its refusal to provide unequivocal responses to the requests at issue.   The Court also finds that the motion to compel is not procedurally improper  since the requests for admission and the accompanying form interrogatory 17.1  are intertwined.  Thus, the Court GRANTS  Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RFA1 and FROG 17.1 from  Calabasas. Monetary Sanctions As the prevailing party on the  motions, Plaintiff is entitled to sanctions.  Plaintiff’s counsel claims  an hourly rate of $550 and anticipates spending 1 hour preparing each motion  and 30 minute to review any opposition, prepare a reply, and attend the  hearing.  Plaintiff’s counsel also requests the filing fee of  $60.00.  This is a total of $3,540.00 for all four motions including the  filing fees, at $885.00 per motion. Because two motions are duplicated,  the court reduces two of the fees by 2/3.    The court finds that the  responses were not Code compliant and there was no merit to the counsel’s objections.   Accordingly, the court finds that there was discovery abuse without substantial  justification and orders monetary sanctions against defendants and their  counsel, Harrington, Foxx, Dubrow & Canter, LLP, jointly and severally, in  the sum of $2,346.66 pursuant to CCP section 2023.030, payable to the Client  Trust Account of Effres & Effres, LLP, 5115 Clareton Dr. Suite 110, Agoura  Hills, CA 91301 by 5/11/2024. IT IS SO ORDERED,CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.