 Case Number:  22VECV01693    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  T 22VECV01693
CARRANZA V HOME DEPOT
 
TENTATIVE
RULINGS ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Plaintiff’s
Motions in Limine
1.       Grant. 
Any evidence of alternate causes to plaintiff’s injuries must be established
more probably true than not true. 
Anything less would be speculation. 
If needed, the court can conduct a 402 hearing on defense expert’s opinions
to assure they meet this standard before presented to the jury.
2.       Grant. 
Lack of prior incidents is irrelevant if defendant was the direct cause
of the negligence.    
3.       Grant. 
The court will not allow evidence of insurance, Medicare or Medi-cal
reimbursement rates as evidence of the reasonable costs of medical services.
Defendant’s
Motions in Limine
1.       Grant. 
Counsel should decide whether there shall be any mention of the lack of
a wage loss claim or whether it should not be mentioned at all.
2.       Grant. 
There shall be no mention of settlement or opportunities to settle or
the failure of defendant to take responsibility, just as there shall be no
mention of plaintiff’s failure to take responsibility for his own injuries.
3.       Deny. 
An unpaid bill may be introduced as evidence of liability for the bill.
4.       Grant. 
This is not relevant as to whether a company, like Home Depot, had the
resources to fix the issue.
5.       Denied in a vacuum.  There needs to be a specific discovery request
and discovery response in issue.
6.       Denied. 
Plaintiff’s counsel has a right to mention dollar amounts in voir dire.
7.       Grant. There shall be no mention of
insurance.  Plaintiff cannot mention “sending
a message” or that the community safety is in issue in this case, or to suggest
that the jurors are setting a community standard of safety by their decision in
this case or to suggest that the decision in this case has any broader effect
than on the parties in this case, or to suggest that the jurors are to follow
their own personal standards, or otherwise make statements which may induce
jury nullification of the law. 