 Case Number:  23STCV02667B    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September
  17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV02667B




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Jamilh Roque




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Princess Hodges



 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Princess
Hodges (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Jamilh Roque (“Defendant”) for sexual
harassment.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant
was her shift supervisor while Plaintiff worked for Defendant Starbucks
Corporation (“Starbucks”).  Defendant moves
for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s operative second amended complaint, or, in
the alternative, summary adjudication of the causes of action therein.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
EVIDENCE
            Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections are overruled. 
Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s Exhibits 14 and 17 are
sustained.  Defendant’s other evidentiary
objections are overruled.
DISCUSSION
Second Cause of Action: Sexual Harassment
To state a claim
for hostile work environment harassment, Plaintiff must allege Defendant
engaged in severe or pervasive harassment that unreasonably interfered with
Plaintiff’s work performance.  (See Thompson
v. City Of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 877.)
Defendant advances
Plaintiff’s deposition testimony.  At
deposition, Plaintiff testified she resigned “[b]ecause it had become too
distressing for [Plaintiff’s] emotional and mental health and [Plaintiff] didn't
see any changes happening after [Plaintiff] brought the situation up to [Plaintiff’s]
manager” (Declaration of Brett D. Young, Exhibit B (Deposition of Princess
Hodges), p. 62);  the workplace was too
distressing for Plaintiff because of harassment by Defendant, who “would wait
until [Plaintiff] was alone in the backroom on [her] break and he would sneak
up behind [Plaintiff] and scare [Plaintiff], either say [Plaintiff’s] name or
say, like, ‘Boo,’ or, like, ‘Hey’ or something.  And he would do it so close to the point where
[Plaintiff] could feel his breath against [Plaintiff’s] ear. And often [Plaintiff]
would, like, jump  back.  And so [their] bodies would sort of collide in
that situation. And that would occur every shift that [Plaintiff] had with
Jamilh. At minimum, one time per shift, but it would often happen more than one
time” (id., Exhibit B, pp. 63-64); she worked with Defendant a total of 10
to 15 shifts (id., Exhibit B, p. 70); 
she did not inform anyone else at the store of Defendant’s behavior (id.,
Exhibit B, pp. 66, 76); and Defendant never mentioned Plaintiff’s gender or sex
(id., Exhibit B, p. 105).  This
evidence meets Defendant’s burden to show Plaintiff cannot prevail on her claim
for harassment because Defendant’s behavior was not “sufficiently severe or
pervasive so as to alter the conditions of employment and create a work
environment that qualifies as hostile or abusive.”  (Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc.
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1314.)  
In opposition,
Plaintiff advances her own deposition testimony.  At deposition, Plaintiff testified she
perceived Defendant’s harassment as being sexually motivated because “of the
tone of voice that he would use when he would scare [Plaintiff] and the whole
physical touching situation.”  (Plaintiff’s
Appendix of Evidence in Opposition to Defendant Jamilh Roque’s Motion for
Summary Adjudication [sic] or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication,
Exhibit 1 (Excerpts from Deposition of Princess Hodges), p. 69.)  Plaintiff also testified Defendant was
patronizing, and she could not say this was explicitly related to her sex; but she
did not witness similar comments being made to male employees.  (Id., Exhibit 1, p. 102.)  Although this suggests Roque’s behavior may
have been based on Plaintiff’s gender or sex, Plaintiff fails to advance
evidence of harassment by Defendant that would have “seriously affected the
psychological well-being of a reasonable employee . . . .”  (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989)
214 Cal.App.3d 590, 610.)  Defendant’s
behavior, while unprofessional, was not so severe or persuasive as to create an
abusive work environment.  “FEHA's
prohibitions are not a ‘civility code’ . . . .”  (Sheffield v. Los Angeles County Dept. of
Social Services (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 153, 161.)  
Plaintiff cites
the so-called eggshell plaintiff rule and argues Plaintiff is more susceptible
to psychological distress from harassment than the average person.  (See Rideau v. Los Angeles Transit Lines
(1954) 124 Cal.App.2d 466, 471.)  However,
Plaintiff cites no authority for the proposition that this tenet of tort law that
pertains to preexisting physical conditions applies to claims for emotional
distress in statutory causes of action for sexual harassment under FEHA.  Likewise, while Denzell Jones suggested at
his deposition Defendant’s behavior, as described by Plaintiff, violated
Defendant’s sexual harassment policy, that does not make Defendant’s behavior
actionable under FEHA.   
Sixth Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
“The elements of the tort of intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct. Conduct to be
outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated
in a civilized community. The defendant must have engaged in conduct intended
to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.”
(Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001,
internal quotations and citations omitted.)
            In
her operative complaint, Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s “discriminatory,
harassing, and retaliatory actions against plaintiff constituted severe and
outrageous misconduct and caused plaintiff extreme emotional distress.”  (Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 49.)  As set forth above, Defendant has met his
burden by showing Defendant did not harass Plaintiff.  Defendant, therefore, shifts the burden to
Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff can
prevail on her claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  Plaintiff fails to advance any evidence that
Defendant harassed Plaintiff in a severe and outrageous manner.  Plaintiff, therefore, fails to raise triable
issues of material fact as to her cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress.
Punitive Damages
As Plaintiff fails
to raise triable issues of material fact as to her claims against Defendant,
her claim derivative claim for punitive damages fails.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion
for summary judgment is granted.
Defendant is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s order and to file proof of service of same.