  Case Number:  22STCV37369    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


September 17, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV37369




MOTION:  


Motion for Protective Order




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant and Cross-Complainant Lisa Marie Vernola Salas,
  individually and as trustee of the Vernola Family Trust




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff Urban Soccer 5 Center LLC



 
MOTION
            Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Lisa Marie Vernola Salas, individually and as trustee of
the Vernola Family Trust (“Defendant”) moves to for a protective order against Plaintiff
Urban Soccer 5 Center LLC (“Plaintiff”). 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
Defendant seeks a
protective order that: “Plaintiff . . . shall not demand, nor file any Motion
for Further Responses against [Defendant] to the Set One Form Interrogatories,
Set One Special Interrogatories, Set One Request to Produce, and Set One
Request for Admissions. [¶] that [Plaintiff] shall not propound additional
written discovery to [Defendant] on top of that already covered in the Set One
Discovery Requests that total 297 questions . . . ; [¶] that [Plaintiff’s]
counsel shall not in any Meet & Confer and/or correspondence continue to
accuse Charles A. Mollis of ‘deliberate’ misconduct alleging ‘deliberate’
violation of the Discovery statutes . . . ; [¶] that any Further written
discovery by Plaintiff shall be approved by a Discovery Referee under Code of
Civil Procedure § 639, with the cost of said Referee to be borne [by] Plaintiff
. . . ; [¶] the Discovery Referee shall be appointed by the Court, and that
said Referee be a Retired Judge from either JAMS or ADR Services, Inc. as the
Court deems suitable for this case . . . .” 

As a basis for
this motion, Defendant cites Code of Civil Procedure sections 2023.010,
2030.090, and 2031.060.  The Court cannot
grant relief that Plaintiff fails to specify in the notice of motion, or relief
on bases other than those set forth in the notice of motion.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1010; Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1110, subd. (a); People v. American Sur. Ins. Co. (1999)
75 Cal.App.4th 719, 726.)  Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.010 sets forth conduct that is subject to discovery
sanctions.  It does not concern
protective orders.  Code of Civil
Procedure section 2030.090 permits the Court to enter a protective order
regarding a set of interrogatories that “have been propounded . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.090.)  It does not permit the Court to enjoin
Plaintiff from bringing discovery motions, or to prohibit Plaintiff from
propounding hypothetical future discovery.   Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.060
permits the Court to enter a protective order regarding a set of document
requests that “have been demanded . . . .” 
It likewise does not permit the Court to enjoin Plaintiff from making
discovery motions or to prohibit Plaintiff from propounding hypothetical future
discovery.  Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion for protective order is denied.
In the
alternative, Defendant requests the Court appoint a discovery referee.  The Court denies this request.  Code of Civil Procedure section 639 provides “[w]hen
the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the written motion of any
party, or of its own motion, appoint a [discovery] referee” under certain
circumstances, including “(5) When the court in any pending action determines
that it is necessary for the court to appoint a referee to hear and determine
any and all discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery in the action
and to report findings and make a recommendation thereon.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 639, subd. (a)(5).)  An order appointing a discovery referee must
include “the exceptional circumstances requiring the reference, which must be
specific to the circumstances of the particular case.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 639, subd. (d)(2).)  
The Court cannot
appoint a discovery referee to oversee routine matters of discovery.  (Hood v. Superior Court (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 446, 449, fn. 4.)  The Court
is not convinced this discovery dispute is extraordinary so as to justify the
appointment of a discovery referee.  Rather,
the evidence before the Court is of a typical discovery dispute between counsel
who are not cooperating to complete discovery. 
Therefore, the Court will rule on any pending discovery motions put
before it and impose sanctions as appropriate.
The Court declines
Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions in connection with the opposition to this
motion.  The Court finds Plaintiff’s
counsel failed to engage with Defendant’s counsel to informally resolve the
discovery dispute that precipitated this motion.  Instead, Plaintiff’s counsel sent voluminous
letters to Defendant’s counsel, which repeated the same arguments, verbatim.  When Defendant’s counsel requested to confer
by telephone to better understand the dispute, Plaintiff’s counsel refused to
do so unless Defendant’s counsel provided written statements in advance.  (Compendium of Evidence in Support of Motion
for Protective Order, Exhibits J through O.) 

As such, the Court
concludes Plaintiff’s counsel failed to meaningfully participate in the attempt
to resolve this matter, which makes an award of sanctions unjust.  (Code of Civil Procedure, §§ 2033.080, subd. (d),
2031.060, subd. (h), 2030.090, subd. (d).)
Defendant is to give notice of this order and
to file proof of service of same.