 Case Number:  23STCV02667A    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September
  17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV02667A




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Starbucks Corporation




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Princess Hodges



  
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Princess
Hodges (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Starbucks Corporation (“Defendant”) for sex
discrimination and sexual harassment.  Plaintiff
alleges her shift supervisor, Defendant Jamilh Roque (“Roque”), sexually
harassed her.  Defendant moves for
summary judgment on Plaintiff’s operative second amended complaint, or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication of the causes of action therein.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
EVIDENCE
            Plaintiff’s
and Defendant’s evidentiary objections are overruled.
DISCUSSION
First Cause of Action: Discrimination
            Plaintiff
asserts causes of action for discrimination and retaliation under the Fair
Employment and Housing Act, or FEHA.  To
state a claim for discrimination under FEHA, the employee must demonstrate “(1)
the employee's membership in a classification protected by the statute; (2)
discriminatory animus on the part of the employer toward members of that
classification; (3) an action by the employer adverse to the employee's
interests; (4) a causal link between the discriminatory animus and the adverse
action; (5) damage to the employee; and (6) a causal link between the adverse
action and the damage.”  (Mamou v.
Trendwest Resorts, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 686, 713.)  “A defending employer seeking summary
judgment in a discrimination case may meet its burden by showing that one or
more of these prima facie elements is lacking, or that the adverse employment
action was based on legitimate nondiscriminatory factors.  [¶]  If
the employer has met its burden by showing a legitimate reason for its conduct,
the employee must demonstrate a triable issue by producing substantial evidence
that the employer's stated reasons were untrue or pretextual, or that the
employer acted with a discriminatory animus, such that a reasonable trier of
fact could conclude that the employer engaged in intentional discrimination or
other unlawful action.”  (Cucuzza v.
City of Santa Clara (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1031, 1038, internal citation
omitted.)  
In her operative
complaint, Plaintiff alleges Defendant discriminated against her by “[d]ischarging,
barring, refusing to transfer, retain, hire, select, and/or employ . . . in
whole or in part on the basis of plaintiff’s sex.” (Second Amended Complaint, ¶
17.)  The pleadings set the outer
limits of materiality in a summary judgment proceeding.  (FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382.)   Defendant advances the testimony of the
manager of the store where Plaintiff worked, Denzell Jones (“Jones”), who states
Plaintiff resigned her employment with Defendant via a text message to him.  (Declaration of Denzell Jones, ¶ 5.)  Jones authenticates the text messages he
exchanged with Plaintiff in connection with her resignation.  (Ibid.)  In those messages, Plaintiff states Roque
“came up to [Plaintiff] three times and rubbed ice on the exposed skin of
[Plaintiff’s] neck and back until it melted despite [Plaintiff’s] obvious
discomfort,” and Roque “has a habit of sneaking behind [Plaintiff] when
[Plaintiff is] alone in the back room any saying ‘hey’ very closely to
[Plaintiff’s] ear to startle [Plaintiff] which would be less weird had he not
physically touched me the way he did today . . . .”  (Jones Decl., Exhibit A.)  
As defendants relate,
at her deposition, Plaintiff testified Roque never mentioned Plaintiff’s
gender.  (Declaration of Brett Young,
Exhibit E, p. 105), and Plaintiff did not inform anyone else at the
store Roque was scaring her (id., pp. 66, 76.)  In fact, Plaintiff did not inform Defendant of
Rogue’s alleged harassment until after she had resigned.  Taken together, however, Defendant’s evidence
demonstrates Defendant did not take any discriminatory actions against
Plaintiff.  Defendant met its burden to
show Plaintiff cannot prevail on her cause of action for discrimination.  Thus, Defendant shifted the burden to
Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff can
prevail on her claim for discrimination. 
In opposition, Plaintiff advances no evidence that Defendant
discriminated against her by discharging her, refusing to transfer her, or
failing to retain her as an employee because of her gender or sex. 
In opposing the
motion, Plaintiff presents her deposition testimony, in which she relates she
resigned “[b]ecause it had become too distressing for [Plaintiff’s] emotional
and mental health and [Plaintiff] didn't see any changes happening after [Plaintiff]
brought the situation up to [Plaintiff’s] manager”  (Plaintiff Princess Hodges’ Evidence in
Opposition to Defendant Starbucks Corporation Motion for Summary Adjudication
[Sic] or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication (Plaintiff’s Evidence in
Opposition), Exhibit 1 (Excerpts from Deposition of Princess Hodges), p. 62);
the workplace was too distressing for Plaintiff because of harassment by Roque,
as Roque would “would wait until [Plaintiff] was alone in the backroom on [her]
break and he would sneak up behind [Plaintiff] and scare [Plaintiff], either
say [Plaintiff’s] name or say, like, ‘Boo,’ or, like, ‘Hey’ or something.  And he would do it so close to the point where
[Plaintiff] could feel his breath against [Plaintiff’s] ear. And often [Plaintiff]
would, like, jump  back.  And so [their] bodies would sort of collide in
that situation. And that would occur every shift that [Plaintiff] had with
Jamilh. At minimum, one time per shift, but it would often happen more than one
time” (id., pp. 63-64); Plaintiff worked with Roque for a total of 10 to
15 shifts (id., p. 70); Plaintiff believes Defendant discriminated
against Plaintiff because of “those patronizing and demeaning comments that the
male employees only directed towards [Plaintiff]” (id., p. 130); and Roque
and Tristan discriminated against her because of her gender or sex (id.,
p. 131.)
Plaintiff argues
she was constructively discharged. 
However, as set forth above, Plaintiff admittedly did not tell Defendant
about Roque’s alleged harassment until she resigned.  As such, Defendant could not have constructively
discharged Plaintiff when she deprived Defendant of the opportunity to act on
Roque’s alleged conduct at the time she informed Defendant of such conduct.  Likewise, Plaintiff’s argument Defendant
failed to adequately investigate Plaintiff’s allegations against Roque is
unavailing when she made no allegations against Roque until she resigned.  As such, any investigation Defendant
conducted of Plaintiff’s allegations is irrelevant to Plaintiff’s claims.  Plaintiff fails to raise triable issues of
material fact as to her cause of action for discrimination.  
Second Cause of Action: Sexual Harassment
            Under
FEHA, an employer is strictly liable for a supervisor’s harassment of a
subordinate.  (State Dept. of Health
Services v. Superior Court (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1026, 1042.)  For purposes of FEHA, a supervisor is anyone
with authority to “hire, transfer, suspend, lay off, recall, promote,
discharge, assign, reward, or discipline other employees, or the responsibility
to direct them, or to adjust their grievances, or effectively to recommend that
action, if, in connection with the foregoing, the exercise of that authority is
not of a merely routine or clerical nature, but requires the use of independent
judgment.”  (Gov. Code, § 12926, subd. (t).)  A lead worker who has responsibility to
direct an employee's day-to-day duties may be a supervisor under FEHA.  (Chapman v. Enos (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
920, 930-931.)
In support of its
motion, Defendant presents Roque’s declaration wherein he states, as a shift
supervisor, he “could not hire, fire, demote, transfer, lay off, promote,
discharge, suspend, or reward other partners. 
. . .  Instead, [Roque’s] position
at Starbucks required [Roque to] run the ‘daily play’ that was created either
by [Roque] or . . . Jones.  In this
capacity, it was [Roque’s] job to ensure partners were performing their various
duties to Starbucks expectations, were working at the proper deployment or
location in the store, and oversee shift operations during [Roque’s] work time.”  (Roque Decl., ¶ 3.)  Roque does not address what overseeing shift
operations meant when Roque worked for Defendant.  Roque’s testimony does not show he did not
direct the day-to-day duties of Plaintiff and other employees.  As such, this evidence does not meet
Defendant’s burden to show it is not strictly liable for Roque’s alleged harassment
of Plaintiff.  
However, as set
forth above, Plaintiff admitted at deposition that Roque did not mention
Plaintiff’s sex in his inappropriate comments to Plaintiff.  This evidence meets Defendant’s burden to
show Plaintiff cannot prevail on her claim for sexual harassment against
Defendant, because Plaintiff did not experience harassment based on her gender
or sex.  Defendant shifts the burden to
Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff can
prevail on her cause of action for sexual harassment.
In opposition,
Plaintiff advances her own deposition testimony.  At deposition, Plaintiff testified she
perceived Roque’s harassment as being sexually motivated because “of the tone
of voice that he would use when he would scare [Plaintiff] and the whole
physical touching situation.”  (Plaintiff’s
Evidence in Opposition, Exhibit 1, p. 69.) 
Plaintiff also testified Roque was patronizing, and she could not say this
was explicitly related to her gender or sex; but she did not witness similar
comments being made to male employees.  (Id.,
Exhibit 1, p. 102.)  Although this
suggests Roque’s behavior may have been based on Plaintiff’s sex, Plaintiff
fails to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Roque’s behavior
was “sufficiently severe or pervasive so as to alter the conditions of
employment and create a work environment that qualifies as hostile or abusive.”  (Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc.
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1314.)  Plaintiff
fails to advance evidence of harassment by Roque that would have “seriously
affected the psychological well-being of a reasonable employee . . . .”  (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989)
214 Cal.App.3d 590, 610.)  Roque’s
behavior, while unprofessional, was not so severe or persuasive as to create an
abusive work environment.  “FEHA's
prohibitions are not a ‘civility code’ . . . .”  (Sheffield v. Los Angeles County Dept. of
Social Services (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 153, 161.)  
Plaintiff cites
the so-called eggshell plaintiff rule and argues Plaintiff is more susceptible
to psychological distress from harassment than the average person.  (See Rideau v. Los Angeles Transit Lines
(1954) 124 Cal.App.2d 466, 471.)  However,
Plaintiff cites no authority for the proposition this tenet of tort law that
pertains to preexisting physical conditions applies to claims for emotional
distress in statutory causes of action for sexual harassment under FEHA.  Likewise, while Jones suggested at his deposition
Roque’s behavior, as described by Plaintiff,  violated Defendant’s sexual harassment policy,
that does not make Roque’s behavior actionable under FEHA.  (See, e.g., Plaintiff’s Evidence in
Opposition, Exhibit 4 (Excerpts from Deposition of Denzell Jones), pp. 68-70.)  
Plaintiff also
advances Roque’s deposition testimony. 
Roque testified at deposition it was his job to ensure the store ran
smoothly during his shifts and to ensure employees he supervised took
breaks.  (Plaintiff’s Evidence in
Opposition, Exhibit 2, pp. 35-36.)  Roque
also testified he trained the employees he supervised on how to make drinks or
clean the machines, as well as how to multitask between warming food and
operating the register.  (Id.,
Exhibit 2, p. 37.)  Again, as set forth
above, triable issues of material fact exist as to whether Roque supervised
Plaintiff.  However, that is immaterial,
as Plaintiff fails to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Roque’s
alleged harassment of Plaintiff was actionable.
Third Cause of Action: Retaliation
To prevail on a claim for retaliation,
Plaintiff must establish “by a preponderance of the evidence, that retaliation
for an employee's protected activities was a contributing factor in a contested
employment action.  . . .  Once the plaintiff has made the required
showing, the burden shifts to the employer to demonstrate, by clear and
convincing evidence, that it would have taken the action in question for
legitimate, independent reasons even had the plaintiff not engaged in protected
activity.”  (Lawson v. PPG
Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 718.)  
At deposition,
Plaintiff testified “[t]here wasn’t really an opportunity to retaliate against
[Plaintiff]” because Plaintiff resigned her employment with Defendant.  (Young Decl., Exhibit E, pp. 137-138.)  This evidence meets Defendant’s burden to
show Plaintiff cannot prevail on her claim for retaliation against Defendant,
because Plaintiff did not experience retaliation based on sex.  Defendant shifts the burden to Plaintiff to
raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff can prevail on
her cause of action for retaliation.  In
opposition, Plaintiff fails to advance any evidence Defendant retaliated
against Plaintiff.  Thus, Plaintiff fails
to raise triable issues of material fact as to her claim for retaliation.
Fourth Cause of Action: Failure
to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation
Plaintiff’s claim
for failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation is
derivative of her claims for discrimination, harassment, and retaliation.  As Defendant met its burden to show Plaintiff
cannot prevail on those claims, Defendant likewise met its burden to show Plaintiff
cannot prevail on the cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination, harassment,
and retaliation.  As Plaintiff fails to
raise triable issues of material fact exist as to the underlying causes of
action, Plaintiff’s claims for failure to prevent discrimination, harassment,
and retaliation likewise fail.  (Nazir
v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 288.)  
Fifth Cause of Action: Wrongful Constructive
Termination
California law provides “a tort remedy when
an employer's discharge of an employee contravenes the dictates of public
policy.” (Tameny v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (1980) 27 Cal.3d 167,
177.)  As set forth above, Defendant
advances evidence Plaintiff resigned before informing Defendant Roque had harassed
her.  As such, Defendant meets its burden
to show it did not constructively discharge Plaintiff, because Defendant was
unaware of any issue with Plaintiff’s employment until Plaintiff resigned.  Defendant shifts the burden to Plaintiff to
raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Defendant constructively
discharged Plaintiff.  Plaintiff fails to
advance any evidence to show her work environment was so abusive that she had
to resign.  As such, Plaintiff fails to
raise triable issues of material fact as to her cause of action for wrongful
constructive discharge.
Sixth Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
“The elements of the tort of intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct. Conduct to be
outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated
in a civilized community. The defendant must have engaged in conduct intended
to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.”
(Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001,
internal quotations and citations omitted.)
            In
her operative complaint, Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s “discriminatory,
harassing, and retaliatory actions against plaintiff constituted severe and
outrageous misconduct and caused plaintiff extreme emotional distress.”  (Second Amended Complaint, ¶ 49.)  As set forth above, Defendant has met its
burden of showing Defendant did not discriminate, harass, or retaliate against
Plaintiff.  Defendant, therefore, has shifted
the burden to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether
Plaintiff can prevail on her claim for intentional infliction of emotional
distress.  Plaintiff fails to advance any
such evidence.  Plaintiff, therefore,
fails to raise triable issues of material fact as to her cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress.
Punitive Damages
As Plaintiff fails
to raise triable issues of material fact as to her claims against Defendant,
her derivative claim for punitive damages fails.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion
for summary judgment is granted.
Defendant is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s order and to file proof of service of same.