 Case Number:  23VECV03465    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV03465 ANUP BASUTKAR vs VOLKSWAGEN GROUP OF AMERICA
Tentative
ruling:  Plaintiff's motion to compel
further responses to RFP are granted in part. 
The court orders that a Code compliant response to all requests in which
the court uses the word GRANT shall be done in a verified response and
privilege log within 20 days.
The
responses and the opposition were not made in good faith and constitute
discovery abuse. In particular, not only does defendant use boilerplate language
in its response to the RFPs and the responses were not Code compliant, the separate
statement also is boilerplate itself.  Monetary
sanctions are awarded to plaintiff pursuant to CCP section 2023.030 against
defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. in the sum of $2,500 payable to the
Client Trust Account of Strategic Legal Practices A Professional Corporation,
1888 Century Park East, 19th Floor, Los Angeles, CA 90067 by 2/23/2024.  The court finds that the amount of $2,500 is
reasonable for the amount of work that was required and that the hourly rate is
in line with law firms in this County who do this type of work.
Defendant's
Preliminary Response to its responses is stricken because there is no statutory
authority allowing it.  No amount of
sanctions is stated in the notice of motion.
All
objections on the grounds of vague and ambiguous are overruled, except as noted
below.
All
objections on the grounds of proprietary business information are overruled.
All
objections on the grounds of premature disclosure of expert information are
overruled.
Language
in each RFP by plaintiff that starts with "[This request ...]" is
stricken because there is no statutory authority allowing it.
The
court finds that the responses are not Code compliant requiring specific
statutory language and privilege logs. 
"SUBJECT
VEHICLE" or "Subject Vehicle" means the 2019 VOLKSWAGEN Atlas,
vehicle identification number 1V2WR2CAXKC565033
Engine
defects means (1) loss of power, (2) stalling, (3) engine running rough, and
(4) engine misfire(s)
Concerning
specific requests, the court orders production of documents within 20 days with
a compliance document indicating which documents are produced in response to
which requests:
1.
       Grant except for attorney client
communications.
2.
       Grant except for attorney client
communications.
3.
      Grant except for attorney client
communications and attorney work product, and as to the subject vehicle only.
7.
       Grant except for attorney client
communications and attorney work product, and as to the subject vehicle only.
17.      Deny as overbroad.
19.      Deny as overbroad.
22.     Grant only as to same engine, make, model
and year as subject vehicle and only limited to the model year for the engine
defects.
24.      Grant only as to same engine, make, model
and year as subject vehicle in California.
30.      Deny as overbroad.
35.      Grant only as to same engine, make, model
and year as subject vehicle.
38.      Deny because for purposes of this request
only, the definition is overbroad.
41.
     Deny as overbroad.
42.      Deny as overbroad.
50.
     Grant only as to same engine, make,
model and year as subject vehicle in California.
55.    Grant as to training documents and forms
given to those who are involved in the handling of California Song-Beverly
repurchase requests between the date of purchase and the late of filing of this
lawsuit.
57.
   Grant as to training documents and
forms given to those who are involved in the handling of California
Song-Beverly claims between the date of purchase and the late of filing of this
lawsuit.
58.
     Deny as overbroad.
67.     Grant only as to the same make, model,
model year and same engine as subject vehicle in California as to engine
problems.
75.     Grant only as to the same make, model,
model year and same engine as subject vehicle in California as to engine
problems.
76.
    Grant only as to the same make,
model, model year and same engine as subject vehicle in California.
77.
    Grant only as to the same make,
model, model year and same engine as subject vehicle in California.
78.
    Grant only as to the same make,
model, model year and same engine as subject vehicle in California.
79.
    Grant only as to the same make,
model, model year and same engine as subject vehicle in California.
87.     Deny as overbroad.
IT
IS SO ORDERED, CLERK OF THE COURT TO GIVE NOTICE.