  Case Number:  23STCP04331    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  82 Christian
Williams, et al. v. City of Los Angeles 
Case No. 23STCP04331

NO TENTATIVE ORDER
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Christian Williams (“Williams”) and
Jorge Trejo (“Trejo”) (collectively, “Petitioners”) are officers with the Los
Angeles Police Department (the “LAPD” or the “Department”).  Petitioners filed a petition for writ of
administrative mandate directing the City of Los Angeles (“Respondent” or the
“City”) to set aside an administrative decision imposing a five-day suspension
without pay on Williams and a ten-day suspension without pay on Trejo.  
 
The court has no tentative order on
this petition.  The parties should be prepared
to discuss the issues in this “tentative.” 

 
BACKGROUND  
 
            Petitioners
were disciplined for their use of lethal force and tactics during an officer
involved shooting on December 26, 2021. 
As of that date, Williams was a probationary police officer.  (AR 236.) 
Trejo had been a police officer for approximately nine years.  (AR 336.) 
It was the second day Petitioner had worked together.  (AR 236-37, 393.)
 
            At approximately 18:03 hours,
Petitioners received a radio call from the Fire Department requesting police assistance.  (AR 239, 663-664.)  Petitioners received the following
information from the Communications Division before arriving on the scene:
 
            18:03:48 Hours           The Fire Department requested a Code
Three response for a “combative male”
 
            18:05:54 Hours           The suspect had “slit his throat” and
it was unknown if the suspect was armed with the knife
 
            18:06:22 Hours           An LAPD supervisor was requested to
respond, per the “Edged Weapon Protocol”
 
            18:06:42 Hours           The Fire Department reported that
“the suspect has a self-inflicted laceration to the throat and it’s unknown if
the suspect is still armed . . . .”  
 
(AR
664.)  Petitioners arrived at the scene
at 18:10 hours.  (AR 664.)  In transit, Petitioners did not discuss a
plan for using less-than-lethal force. 
(AR 252, 345.)  They did not
discuss a tactical plan for confronting the suspect.  (AR 345.) 
According to Trejo, the officers only discussed “a plan to get there and
meet with the fire department personnel and assess the situation from there.”  (AR 345.) 
The court’s review of the body camera videos does not reveal much, if
any, conversation between Petitioners. 
(AR 719 [BWV].)   
 
Williams,
who was driving, parked their vehicle approximately 30 feet behind Ruitz’s
vehicle.  (AR 562, 918.)  According to Petitioners’ body worn video,
Ruiz was sitting in his vehicle and members of the Fire Department were
nearby.  (AR 719 [Department’s Exhibit
13: Body Worn Video of Trejo and Williams (“BWV”)].)  The knife was not visible at that point, and
Petitioners exited their vehicle without drawing their own weapons.  (See ibid.)  Then,   

Ruiz
stepped out of his vehicle holding a 15-inch kitchen knife.  (See ibid.)  Fire Department personnel backed away from
Ruiz and alerted Petitioners that Ruiz had a knife.  (See ibid.)  Petitioners unholstered their weapons and
took cover behind their open vehicle doors. 
(See ibid.; see also AR 563, 568; 669.)  
 
Ruiz
stood in front of his vehicle for approximately 50 seconds.  (AR 254, 669, 719.)   His arms were extended from his sides as he
held the knife in his right hand with the blade pointed down.  (AR 669.) 
Ruiz repeatedly said or mouthed the words, “Shoot me.”  (AR 669.) 
During this 50-second time period, Williams requested backup.  (AR 58, 251.) 
Trejo rolled down the passenger window of their police vehicle.  (AR 72.) 
Both Petitioners adjusted their spotlights on their vehicle.  (AR 161, 719.)  Petitioners gave repeated commands to Ruiz to
drop the knife.  (AR 125; see AR 719
[BWV].)  Petitioners observed a visible
injury to Ruiz’s neck and that he was covered in blood.  (AR 253, 323, 825.)  
 
After
about 50 seconds, Ruiz then started to walk towards Petitioners’ vehicle in a
“slow and steady gait.”  (AR 254,
387.)  As shown in the body worn videos
of Williams and Trejo, Ruiz was severely injured by self-inflicted knife wounds
and his movements were “slow and lethargic.” 
(See AR 719; see also 686-687.)  In
his report to the Board of Police Commissioners, the Chief of Police described
the ensuing actions of the officers and Ruiz, as follows: 
 
Despite repeated
commands from both officers, Ruiz refused to stop or drop the knife. Ruiz
continued to close the distance and bumped into the front of the police
vehicle. Ruiz then looked in Officer Trejo’s direction and stepped to his left,
toward the passenger side of the police vehicle where Officer Trejo was
standing behind his ballistic door. Believing that Ruiz was going to harm
Officer Trejo, Officer Williams discharged two rounds from his service pistol
at Ruiz from approximately 11 feet. Believing that Ruiz was close enough to “kill”
him or cause “serious bodily injury.” Officer Trejo discharged one round from
his service pistol at Ruiz from approximately eight feet. Officer Trejo's round
was discharged after Officer Williams’ second round. After being struck by
gunfire, Ruiz fell to the ground and dropped the knife.
 
…. Approximately
fifteen seconds after Ruiz was handcuffed, LAFD personnel began Advanced Life
Support (ALS) procedures on Ruiz. Rescue Ambulance 12 then transported Ruiz to
Huntington Memorial Hospital, where he was pronounced deceased by Doctor Kwon.
 
(AR
669-670; see also AR 719 [BWV] & AR 276-283, 360 [testimonies of Williams
and Trejo].)
 
The
autopsy report concluded that Ruiz’s self-inflicted laceration to his neck was
a fatal wound.  (AR 57-58.) The autopsy
report also concluded that the three bullets that Petitioners fired were the
immediate cause of Ruiz’s death. (AR 65.) 
A PowerPoint presentation prepared by the LAPD for the Police Commission
states that Ruiz’s toxicology results were positive for methamphetamine.  (AR 604.)
 
The
five-member Use of Force Review Board (“UOFRB”) unanimously found that
Petitioners’ drawing and exhibiting their firearms was within policy.  (AR 428, 662-667.)  The majority also found that Petitioners’
tactics and shooting were within policy. 
(AR 66, 665, 667.)  The minority came
to a different conclusion:
 
The minority opine[d]
that the tactics used by Officers Williams and Trejo, which lead-up [sic] to
the use of deadly force, specifically the tactical planning and tactical
communication, substantially deviated from Department training and procedure.  In addition, the minority opine[d] that the
use of deadly force in this incident was not objectively reasonable or
necessary.
 
(AR
662.)  The Chief of Police adopted the
minority opinion in his report to the Board of Police Commissioners.  (AR 67; see also AR 668-689.)
 
            A Board of Rights (the “Board”) hearing
considered two charges against Petitioners:
 
Count 1: On or about December 26, 2021, you, while on duty,
utilized lethal force that reached a finding of out of policy, Administration
Disapproval. 
 
Count 2: On or about December 26, 2021, you, while on duty,
utilized tactics that were a substantial deviation, without justification, from
Department approved tactical training that reached a finding of Administrative
Disapproval.
 
(AR 6.)  The Board found Petitioners guilty on both
charges.  (AR 542.)  The Board found as follows:
 
Officer Trejo has been an officer for 19 [sic] years.  Officer Williams had only been out of the
Academy six months prior to this incident. 
As the more senior officer, Officer Trejo, therefore, bears greater
responsibility that Department policy is complied with, particularly with
regard to creating a tactical plan, which includes using non-lethal force when
responding to a call for service.  The
officers had over four minutes before arriving on scene to formulate a plan to
deal with a potentially combative, injured person armed with a knife.  Based on their training, a plan to contact
Mr. Ruiz should have been discussed and considered, which would have included a
plan to use less than lethal means, if necessary.  Instead, both officers failed to communicate,
failed to plan, and were unprepared for this situation.  The officers never engaged in any planning
prior to or after arriving on the scene. 
 
. . . 
 
The Board also finds that there was an opportunity to use
non lethal force; but because of their poor planning, both officers failed to
take advantage of that opportunity and instead resorted to lethal force
contrary to Department Policy. 
 
(AR 543-544.)  The Board recommended a ten-day suspension
for Trejo and a five-day suspension for Williams.  (AR 545.) 
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are whether the
respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial,
and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b).)
 
Because the suspensions
imposed on Petitioners concern a fundamental vested right in Petitioners’
employment with the LAPD, the court exercises its independent judgment on the
administrative findings.  (See Wences v. City of Los Angeles (2009) 177
Cal.App.4th 305, 314; Bixby v. Pierno
(1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130, 143.)  Under the
independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines the
administrative record for errors of law, but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.”  (Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130,
143.)  The court may draw its own
reasonable inferences from the evidence and make its determinations as to the
credibility of witnesses.  (Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City of
Los Angeles Board of Commissioners (2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.)  “In exercising its independent judgment, a
trial court must afford a strong presumption of correctness concerning the
administrative findings, and the party challenging the administrative decision
bears the burden of convincing the court that the administrative findings are
contrary to the weight of the evidence.” 
(Fukuda v. City of Angels
(1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817.)
 
Petitioners bear
the burden of proof to demonstrate, by citation to the administrative record,
that the weight of the evidence does not support the administrative
findings.  (Strumsky v. San Diego County Employees Retirement Assn. (1974) 11
Cal.3d 28, 32; Steele v. Los Angeles County Civil
Service Commission (1958) 166 Cal. App. 2d 129, 137.) A
reviewing court “will not act as counsel for either party to an appeal and will
not assume the task of initiating and prosecuting a search of the record for
any purpose of discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d
740, 742.)  
 
“On questions of
law arising in mandate proceedings, [the court] exercise[s] independent
judgment.’”  (Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)  The interpretation of statute or regulation
is a question of law.  (See State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Quackenbush (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 65, 77.)   
 


 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        The Board’s Factual
Findings 
 
The Board made the following factual findings in support of
its conclusions that Petitioners were guilty of both counts:
 
After
receiving the radio call, the officers failed to discuss who would be the “contact”
officer and who would be the “cover” officer. More importantly, the radio
communications indicated that Ruiz was combative and that an “edge weapon”
protocol was needed. This put the officers on notice that the use of non-lethal
force might be necessary. However, the officers did not discuss the potential
use of non-lethal force and a tactical plan for a combative male who may be
armed. They did not assign one of them to deploy non-lethal force.
 
When they arrived at the scene, Ruiz exited his
vehicle almost immediately with a knife in his hand. He was approximately 30
feet away from the officers. The LAFD personnel had moved away from Ruiz. Had
they discussed the use of non-lethal force, the officers might have been
prepared to immediately deploy a taser or a 40-millimeter less lethal launcher
[“LLL”]. However, neither officer deployed these non-lethal devices.
 
Ruiz stood outside his vehicle for approximately 50
seconds. Although he may have been out of range for the use of a taser or a
40-millimeter LLL, it was sufficient time for one of the officers to deploy
these devices while Ruiz stood there and before he began to move toward the
officers.
 
Ruiz moved slowly toward the officers with a knife in
his right hand, pointing down, and with his arms outstretched while saying “shoot
me.” He made no movement toward the LAFD personnel and made eye contact with
the officers. Ruiz’s wounds indicated that he likely had already tried to kill
himself. Other than the fact he was holding a knife, he did not give the
impression that he wished to attack the officers. Instead, it appeared that he
was carrying a knife to induce the officers to shoot him. This gave every
indication that Ruiz was attempting “suicide by cop” and was not attempting to
attack the officers.
 
Ruiz was moving very slowly. It took approximately 20
seconds to move 30 feet needed to reach the officers’ police vehicle. After he
had moved approximately nine feet, he was within the range of non-lethal force.
Had one of the officers deployed a non-lethal device at this time, if the
device failed, Ruiz would still have been approximately 20 feet from the police
vehicle, allowing one of the officers sufficient time to discharge his pistol
at Ruiz.
 
Further, both officers had already deployed behind
their vehicle doors, thus providing protection had the non-lethal device
failed. Although Ruiz eventually bumped up against the front of the police
vehicle after 20 seconds, to get at the officers, he still would have had to go
around the vehicle door, which would have provided more time to the officers.
Therefore, even if the non-lethal device failed, there was still sufficient
time for an officer to discharge his pistol at Ruiz. As Ruiz approached the police
vehicle, there was also sufficient time for an officer to drop a non-lethal
device and unholster his pistol.
 
The Board does recognize that this was a fluid and
dynamic situation. However, given that they had notice of a possibly armed
combative male, they should have discussed non-lethal force and assigned one of
them to this role. Had they done so, they might have been more prepared to
quickly react to Ruiz.
 
But even after arriving at the scene, they had almost
a minute to assess the situation and attempt to use non-lethal force. They had
a window of time before Ruiz reached the police vehicle to utilize a taser or a
40-millimeter LLL, had they already prepared the tactical plan and deployed one
of these devices while Ruiz stood outside his vehicle.
 
(AR 951-954.)
            
            B.        Count Two – NO TENTATIVE 
 
            Petitioners
were charged in Count Two with having “utilized tactics that were a substantial
deviation, without justification, from Department approved tactical training.”  This charge appears to have been based on the
failure to discuss a tactical plan before arriving on the scene and the failure
to consider less-than-lethal responses to Ruiz. 

 
            The court
has no tentative order on the petition with respect to this charge.  
 
The court shares Petitioner’s counsel’s concern that the
Board was applying 20-20 hindsight to this situation.  The court notes that this was not a call for
service to apprehend an armed suspect. 
Rather, this was a call to provide support to the Fire Department that
was trying to treat a “combative” suspect with injuries.  The use of the term “combative” in this
situation does not necessarily mean there was a danger.  Moreover, the information received by
Petitioners was that Ruiz had a self-inflicted laceration to his throat and it
was unknown if he was still armed.  This
is not necessarily the type of call that would have necessitated tactical
planning other than to make contact with the Fire Department and provide
assistance.  Ruiz did not act in a
threatening manner until after the officers arrived.  For this reason, the court has difficulty
faulting the officers for not discussing alternatives to lethal force in
advance, i.e., the information they received did not necessarily suggest that
any force would be necessary.  As their
own expert testified, the only information they had was that the Fire
Department needed assistance to deal with someone who had a self-inflicted
knife wound who was acting “combative.”  
 
At the same time, the court shares Respondent’s concern that
there was no discussion, even about contacting the Fire Department, between the
officers.  
 
            C.        Count One – NO TENTATIVE  
 
            Petitioners
were charged with use of lethal force outside of policy.  Petitioners
argue that the majority and minority of the UOFRB concluded that Petitioners’ actions in
“drawing and exhibiting their firearms” was appropriate and within policy, and
that testimony showed that once Petitioner
unholstered their firearms, they could not safely switch to less-lethal weapons.  (OB 10-14 and Reply 6-7; see e.g. AR
435, 678-680.)  Respondents did not
clearly respond to this issue in opposition. 
(See Reply 7:5-6.)  
 
            The court
has no tentative order on the petition with respect to Count Two.  
 
The court acknowledges the facts relied upon by the Board in
determining there was an unlawful use of force: 

 
·       The BWVs of
Williams and Trejo show that Ruiz was severely injured by self-inflicted knife
wounds and that his movements were “slow and lethargic.”  (See AR 719, Williams video at 6:00-7:47 and AR
686-687.)  
 
·       In their
testimony, Petitioners admitted that they observed a visible injury to Ruiz’s
neck and that he was covered in blood. 
(AR 253, 323, 825.)  
 
·       Although Ruiz held
a large knife, he held it to his side in a manner that suggested he was not
seeking to attack anyone.  (See AR 719,
Williams video at 6:00-7:47.)  He also stood
in front of his own vehicle for approximately 50 seconds without approaching
Petitioners.  (Ibid.)  Fire personnel had backed away from Ruiz, who
was not a threat to Petitioners or anyone else during this period of time.  (See also AR 254, 669.) Accordingly,
Petitioners had sufficient time for one of the officers to deploy non-lethal
force.
 
·       Even once Ruiz
started moving towards Petitioners, the evidence shows that he was moving “very
slowly,” he held the knife at his side, and that his intent was to commit
“suicide by cop.”  Ruiz did not give the
impression that he was seeking to attack the officers.  (See AR 953, 719, 686-687, 380.)   
 
·      
“It
took approximately 20 seconds [for Ruiz] to move 30 feet needed to reach the
officers' police vehicle. After he had moved approximately nine feet, he was
within the range of non-lethal force. Had one of the officers deployed a
non-lethal device at this time, if the device failed, Ruiz would still have
been approximately 20 feet from the police vehicle, allowing one of the
officers sufficient time to discharge his pistol at Ruiz.”  (AR 953.) 

 
At the same time, the
Board did not appear to acknowledge other factors that support the use of
force.  The Department’s policy sets forth multiple factors
for determining the objective reasonableness of a particular use of force,
including “the potential for injury to citizens, officers, or suspects.”  Petitioners confronted a mentally ill suspect
who was acting irrationally, had harmed himself, and expressed an intentional
to engage in “suicide by cop” behavior. 
Although he was walking slowly and not brandishing the weapon in a
threatening manner, that easily could have changed in an instant, and he was
close enough to the officers and members of the Fire Department to have posed a
threat.  Indeed, the officers did not
shoot Ruiz until he was in close proximity to them after multiple commands to
stop and drop the weapon.  While he was
close enough for the officers to have used less-than-lethal force, doing so may
have posed a danger to the officers.  In
other words, Ruiz was so close that he could have attacked while the officer
was drawing his taser or if the taser failed, and the other officer could not
have protected his partner, given the position of the vehicle.  
 