  Case Number:  21STCV29695    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JONATHAN DORTCH, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
JOSHUA GOLSEN, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV29695 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 2, 2023
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
Counsel Masoud Ahmadzadeh Darvishi applies for admission to
practice before this Court pro hac vice, in order to represent
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Jonathan Dortch and Sly Spectrum LLC in this action.
 
Counsel’s application is GRANTED, contingent on Counsel
submitting proof of payment of the fee or otherwise affirming that he has done so.
 
Background
 
Counsel filed this application on August 8, 2023. The
application was served on all other parties to the case and on the State Bar of
California. No opposition was filed.          
 
Legal Standard
 
California Rules of Court Rule 9.40 provides that an
attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac
vice in this State by way of written application upon due notice to all
interested parties, as well as service on the State Bar in San Francisco with
payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of
California, does not work in California, and does not perform regular or
substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 9.40.) 
 
The written application must provide the following
information: (1) the applicant's residence and office address; (2) the courts
to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of
admission; (3) that the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those
courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any
court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed
an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding
two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and
(6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the State
Bar of California who is attorney of record. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
9.40(d).)  
           
 
Discussion
 
Counsel is not a resident of California, nor is counsel
regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other activities in
California. (Application ¶ 1.)
 
Counsel’s residence address is 1230 Greenoak Drive, Houston,
Texas 77032. (Application ¶ 1.) Counsel’s office address is 1711 Potomac Dr.,
Suite 1, Houston, Texas 77057. (Application ¶ 1.) 
 
Counsel has been admitted to practice before the Supreme
Court of the State of Texas on November 6, 2009. (Application ¶ 2.) 
 
Counsel is in good standing before the Supreme Court of
Texas. (Application ¶ 2.) 
 
Counsel has not been suspended or disbarred in any court.
(Application ¶ 3.) 
 
Counsel has not applied to appear pro hac vice in any other
action in California in the past two years. (Application ¶ 4.)
 
James B. Devine is counsel of record in this action; his
address is 418 Chapala Street, Suite B, Santa Barbara, California 93101, and
his telephone number is 805-845-7500. (Application ¶ 5.)
 
          Although
the other requirements of rule 9.40 have been met, is unclear whether Counsel has
paid the $50 fee to the State Bar of California as required by rule 9.40(e).
The Court therefore GRANTS Counsel’s application, contingent on Counsel
submitting proof of payment of the fee or otherwise affirming that this is true.
 