 Case Number:  23STCV01335    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  72  SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIACOUNTY OF LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT 72 TENTATIVE
RULING 


JOSE GILBERTO DELGADO LEYVA,  
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
GENERAL MOTORS LLC, et al.
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  23STCV01335 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 2, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  6


 Plaintiff Jose Gilberto Delgado Leyva (“Plaintiff”) moves to
compel further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents
Nos. 13-16 and 34-35 propounded to Defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”).           Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFP Nos. 13-16
and 34-35 is GRANTED as set forth below. Defendant shall produce within 30 days
further written responses and documents in accordance with the Court’s
guidelines for production set forth below. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount
of $2004.15.  Defendant shall pay the
attorney’s fees directly to Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days.   Background Plaintiff purchased a 2021 GMC Sierra 1500. Plaintiff
alleges the car suffered from serious defects and nonconformities to warranty.
Plaintiff elaborates in his motion that these defects included (1) transmission
issues, including lack of power upon acceleration; (2) vehicle not going into
gears; and (3) hesitation and jerking. Plaintiff filed a complaint on January 20, 2023, pursuant to
the Song-Beverly Act alleging (1) breach of express warranty under Civil Code
section 1790 et seq.; (2) breach of implied warranty under Civil Code section
1790 et seq.; (3) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2; and (4) violation of
Civil Code section 1793.22. Plaintiff served Defendant with the RFP’s on May 26, 2023.
Defendant served responses on June 26, 2023. Plaintiff argues that the
responses at issue are deficient. The parties met and conferred between July
25, 2023, and August 1, 2023, but were unable to resolve the dispute. Legal Standard Song-Beverly Act The Song—Beverly Act “is a remedial measure intended for
protection of consumers and should be given a construction consistent with that
purpose.” (Id.) To succeed on a claim brought under the Act, the
plaintiff bears the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence,
several elements, including nonconformity of a vehicle that substantially
impaired its use, value or safety; presentation of vehicle to manufacturer or authorized
representative for repair; and failure to repair the defect after a reasonable
number of attempts. (Ibrahim v. Ford Motor Co. (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d
878, 886-887.) A buyer may also be entitled to a civil penalty of up to two
times the actual damages upon a showing that the manufacturer willfully failed
to abide by any of its obligations under the Act. (Civ. Code, §1794, subd. (c).) Scope of Discovery and Discovery Obligations in Song-Beverly Act litigation
 CCP § 2017.010  Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance
with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may relate to the claim
or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action. CCP §2031.220 A statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with the particular
demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in
part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the
possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production. CCP §2031.230 A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item. CCP § 2031.310 (a) On receipt of a
response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:          (1) A
statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.(2) A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.          (3) An
objection in the response is without merit or too general. (b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of
the following:(1) The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery
sought by the demand.(2) The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.(3) In lieu of a
separate statement required under the California Rules of Court, the court may
allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and
each response in dispute. (c) Unless notice
of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response,
or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date
to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
demand. … (h) Except as
provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.           The
burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and
specific facts justifying discovery. (Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) 
Once good cause is established by the moving party, the burden then
shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document
disclosure. (Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)      “Relevant evidence is defined in Evidence Code section 210
as evidence ‘having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed
fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.’ The test of
relevance is whether the evidence tends logically, naturally, and by reasonable
inference to establish material facts. The trial court has broad discretion in
determining the relevance of evidence but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant
evidence.”  (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013)
217 Cal.App.4th 138, 148 (evidence of post-warranty repairs relevant to action
based on warranty repairs because they could demonstrate that vehicle was not
repaired to conform to warranty during warranty period.)  In Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 967, plaintiff alleged violation of the Song-Beverly Act based on
the defendants’ failure to repair, repurchase, or replace a Bentley that had an
obnoxious odor in the interior. (Id. at 971.) The following discovery
requests were deemed “highly relevant” and failure to readily produce them
prior to trial should have resulted in terminating sanctions:   “all
documents relating to (1) customer complaints concerning the rust inhibitor
used on the 2002 Bentley Arnage; (2) all notices to Bentley dealers for the
period 2001 to date concerning the rust inhibitor used on the Bentley Arnage;
(3) all warranty repairs during the period of January 2002 to date of the
Bentley Arnage related to the rust inhibitor used on the  vehicle; (4) all customer complaints of a wax
oil smell caused by the rust inhibitor on the 2002 Bentley Arnage; and (5)
vehicle tests conducted on the 2002 model year Arnage to confirm whether there
was a wax oil smell arising from the vehicle's rust inhibitor.” (Doppes,
supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at pp. 973-974.)          Discussion           The parties’ respective
positions can be found in their briefs and separate statements.  In general, the requests seek relevant
documents and issues of burden are dealt with by the limitations below. The Court rules as
follows: Request for
Production No. 13: Defendant
shall produce all responsive documents about repurchases in California, except
that Defendant shall not be required to search for emails.  Request for
Production No. 14: Defendant
shall produce all responsive documents about complaints in California. Request for
Production No. 15: Defendant
shall produce all responsive documents relating to reports in California,
except that Defendant shall not be required to search for emails. Request for
Production No. 16: Defendant
shall produce all responsive documents relating to complaints in California,
except that Defendant shall not be required to search for emails. Request for
Production No. 34: Defendant
shall produce all responsive documents, except that Defendant shall not be
required to search for emails. Request for
Production No. 35: Defendant
shall produce all responsive documents, except that Defendant shall not be
required to search for emails.           In
producing the foregoing, Defendant shall redact all personally identifiable
information in the responsive items. Sanctions           As
discussed above, sanctions are appropriate when a party improperly opposes a
motion to compel unless the party acted with substantial justification or
sanctions would otherwise be unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.)            The
amount of attorney’s fees requested, $2,004.15, appears justified.   (Yashar Decl. paragraphs 14-15.)  Accordingly, the Court awards $2,004.15
against Defendant, payable within 30 days. 
 
          