 Case Number:  24TRCV00924    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
KENNETH
  E. FOLLMAR, III,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00924




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
SELENE
  FINANCE LP, et al.,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:             September 17, 2024    
 
Moving Parties:          Plaintiffs, Kenneth E. Follmar III, et
al.
Responding Party:      Defendants, Selene Finance LP and US
Bancorp; Defendant MTC Financial Inc. in Joinder
HEARING: MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S
FEES
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
 
RULING
Plaintiffs’ Motion
for Attorney’s Fees is
DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
            On March 18, 2024,
Plaintiffs Kenneth E. Follmar, III and Lauren C. Follmar filed a complaint
against Defendants Selene Finance LP, U.S. Bancorp dba US Bank Trust National
Association, not in its individual capacity, but solely as owner trustee for
RCF 2 Acquisition Trust, and MTC Financial Inc. dba Trustee Corps, alleging (1)
Violation Of Civil Code § 2923.5
(2) Violation Of Civil Code § 2923.7; (3) Declaratory Relief; (4)
Violation Of Business & Professions Code § 17200. 
 
Plaintiffs allege the following facts.
Plaintiffs obtained a first lien mortgage loan secured by the property located
at 44 Buckskin Lane, Rolling Hills Estates, CA 90274, through a Deed of Trust,
recorded on May 5, 2016. Plaintiffs suffered from financial hardship. On or
around July 12, 2022, Plaintiffs entered into a loan modification agreement
with Bank of America. Thereafter, Bank of America transferred the servicer
rights to Selene Finance (“Selene”). Plaintiffs requested a repayment plan with
Selene, but Selene did not offer a plan that Plaintiffs could manage. MTC
Financial Inc. recorded a notice of default. Prior to recording the NOD,
Defendants did not contact Plaintiff to assess the borrower’s financial
situation and explore options for the borrower to avoid foreclosure, as
required by Civ. Code § 2923.5(b). Defendants did not provide a single point of
contact as required by Civ. Code § 2923.7.
 
            On March 21, 2024,
the Court granted Plaintiffs’ ex parte application for a temporary restraining
order. 
 
            On April 12, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed the instant motion for attorney’s fees. On September 4, 2024,
Defendants Selene and US Bancorp filed an opposition. On the same date,
Defendant MTC Financial Inc. filed a joinder to the opposition. On September
11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply. 
 
            On April 24, 2024,
the Court denied Plaintiffs’ application for preliminary injunction and
dissolved the temporary restraining order the same date. 
 
            There is a hearing
for demurrer and case management conference set for October 1, 2024.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A court can award reasonable attorney’s fees
and costs to a borrower who prevails in an action for injunctive relief to stop
a foreclosure due to a material violation of certain statutory provisions, such
as Sections 2923.55, 2923.6, 2923.7, 2924.9, 2924.10, 2924.11, or 2924.17.
(Cal. Civ. Code § 2924.12(a)(1).) A borrower is considered to have prevailed if
they have obtained injunctive relief or been awarded damages under this
section. (Cal. Civ. Code § 
2924.12(h).)
 
“[T]he fee setting inquiry in California
ordinarily begins with the lodestar, i.e., the number of hours reasonably
expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate. California courts have
consistently held that a computation of time spent on a case and the reasonable
value of that time is fundamental to a determination of an appropriate
attorneys’ fee award.” (PLCM Grp. v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal 4th 1084,
1095.) The reasonable hourly rate is the prevailing rate for similar work in
the community. (Ibid.) “The lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based on
consideration of factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the
fair market value for the legal services provided.” (Ibid.)  
 
After the lodestar is determined, the court in
its discretion may, but is not required to, apply a fee enhancement or
multiplier.
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Plaintiffs
seek injunctive relief and attorney’s fees, alleging violations of California
Civil Code §§ 2923.5 and 2923.7 and California Business & Professions Code
§ 17200. They filed a lawsuit requesting declaratory relief and an injunction
to prevent the sale of their home at 44 Buckskin Lane, Rolling Hills Estates,
CA. In support of their claims, Plaintiffs applied for a TRO to halt the sale,
arguing that the Defendants violated the relevant Civil Code sections and
Business & Professions Code § 17200. The Court granted the TRO on March 21,
2024, which temporarily stopped the sale pending further litigation. Plaintiffs
argue that they are the prevailing party under Civil Code § 2924.12(h) because
they successfully obtained injunctive relief. 
 
In
addition to the TRO, Plaintiffs assert that they are entitled to attorney’s
fees and costs. They emphasize that under California law, courts have
discretion to award fees when a borrower secures injunctive relief, including a
TRO or preliminary injunction. To support their position, they reference cases
such as Bustos v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 369, 382
[“[A]mong the relevant factors a trial court may consider in making this
determination are the type of injunctive relief obtained by the borrower and
whether the borrower forced compliance with the HBOR. [Citation.]”] and Hardie
v. SELENE Mortgage LLC (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 714, 725 [“The ex parte nature
of the proceedings, the relative merits of the TRO application, and a party’s
ultimate ability to obtain statutory compliance through imposition of an
injunction are relevant factors the court may consider in determining whether
to award fees.”], which discuss the factors a court may consider when
determining entitlement to fees, including the nature of the relief obtained
and whether the borrower compelled compliance with the Homeowner Bill of Rights
(HBOR). Plaintiffs argue that their TRO was valid, meritorious, and successful,
which justifies an award of attorney’s fees. Alternatively, they propose that
the Court could reserve ruling on the fee motion until it decides on the order
to show cause. Overall, Plaintiffs contend that they are entitled to attorney’s
fees as the prevailing party due to their successful acquisition of injunctive
relief against the foreclosure of their property.
 
Plaintiffs
argue that the requested attorney’s fees of $4,770.00 are reasonable and
substantiated by the evidence. Attorney Safora Nowrouzi, who handled the case,
has provided evidence demonstrating her familiarity with the prevailing rates
in the Los Angeles County area and the number of hours expended in this matter.
The fees are calculated based on the hours worked by both the attorney and
paralegal, along with associated costs, and Plaintiffs claim they are justified
given the complexity and scope of the legal actions undertaken to oppose the
motion. (Nowrouzi Decl. ¶¶ 5-9.) 
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue that an award of attorney’s fees and costs to
Plaintiffs is not warranted because the HBOR statute grants courts the
discretion to award such fees only to a “prevailing borrower.” They cite
California Civil Code § 2924.12(h) and case law, including Bustos v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 369, 374 and Hardie v. Nationstar
Mortgage LLC (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 714, 724, which clarify that awarding
attorney’s fees is discretionary and not mandatory. Defendants emphasize that
in determining whether to award fees, the court should consider factors such as
the type of injunctive relief obtained (TRO versus preliminary injunction), the
merits of the application for relief, and whether the borrower compelled
compliance with the HBOR through the injunctive relief obtained. Defendants
argue that, in this case, Plaintiffs were only granted a TRO on an ex parte
basis, which was temporary and dissolved once Defendants had an opportunity to
present their opposition. Additionally, the Court denied the application for a
preliminary injunction on the merits, making it clear at the hearing that
Plaintiffs had failed to meet their burden of demonstrating a likelihood of
prevailing at trial on their HBOR and non-HBOR claims. The Court specifically
found that Plaintiffs did not establish that Defendants committed a material
violation of the HBOR. Given that Plaintiffs only obtained limited and
temporary relief and did not meet the required burden of proof, Defendants
contend that an award of attorney’s fees and costs is not justified in this
instance.
 
            Defendant MTC Financial, Inc.
(“Trustee Corps”) argue that it is not subject to an award of attorney’s fees
or costs under Civil Code § 2924l, as no objection was filed to its Declaration
of Nonmonetary Status (DNMS). According to California law, when a foreclosure
trustee files a DNMS and no party objects within 15 days, the trustee is not
required to participate further in the action and is exempt from any monetary
awards for damages, attorneys’ fees, or costs. In this case, Trustee Corps
filed its DNMS, and since Plaintiffs did not file an objection within the required
period, Trustee Corps is not liable for any fees or costs. Additionally, Trustee
Corps argue that it is protected by the trustee privilege, which limits the
trustee’s role to non-judicial foreclosure or reconveyance duties. They contend
that California law grants immunity to foreclosure trustees from liability for
actions taken within the scope of their duties unless done with malice or
outside their defined role. Trustee Corps’ actions, including recording the
Notice of Default and Notice of Sale, are privileged under Civil Code §§
2924(d) and 47. Since Plaintiffs have not demonstrated that Trustee Corps acted
with malice or outside its role, their claims against Trustee Corps are barred.
Finally, Trustee Corps asserts that the claims against it fail under the “agent’s
immunity rule,” which protects agents acting within their official capacity for
a disclosed principal from liability. Since Trustee Corps acted as an agent for
US Bank and Selene, it is immune from liability under this rule. Furthermore,
Plaintiffs have not alleged that Trustee Corps acted for its own financial gain
or in violation of its duties, which are necessary exceptions to the agent's
immunity rule. Therefore, Trustee Corps states that it is shielded from
liability and not subject to attorney’s fees or costs.
 
In
reply, Plaintiffs argue that an award of attorney’s fees under California Civil
Code § 2924.12(h) is warranted based on the holdings in Hardie and Bustos.
Plaintiffs contend that Defendants’ reliance on a multifactor test, which
includes the type of injunctive relief obtained, the merits of the application,
and whether the borrower forced compliance with the HBOR, is misplaced. They
point out that neither Hardie nor Bustos support the analysis
Defendants propose. Instead, they claim that Bustos explicitly rejects
the requirement that borrowers must force compliance with the HBOR to be
awarded attorney’s fees, stating that such a requirement is a policy decision
reserved for the Legislature, which the statute does not impose. Similarly, Hardie
clarifies that the statute makes no distinction between different types of
injunctive relief, affirming that attorney’s fees are authorized for obtaining
a TRO, regardless of whether it compels compliance with the HBOR. Plaintiffs
also argue that Defendants’ reference to the denial of a preliminary injunction
is irrelevant to their designation as the prevailing party under section
2924.12(h). Citing Hardie, Plaintiffs maintain that the statute does not
differentiate between temporary, preliminary, or permanent injunctive relief.
They are seeking attorney’s fees based on obtaining a TRO, not on the outcome
of the preliminary injunction, making the latter irrelevant to whether they
qualify as the prevailing party.
 
Furthermore,
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants’ claim that the requested attorney’s fees are
excessive is entirely conclusory and unsupported by any evidence. Defendants
provide no proof or basis for describing the fees or legal filings as “generic”
or “cookie-cutter.” Plaintiffs note that their billing is reasonable, amounting
to 9.5 attorney hours and 2.1 paralegal hours for tasks including the ex parte
application, preliminary injunction hearing, and preparation of necessary
documents, all charged at industry-standard rates. 
 
Based
on the arguments presented, the Court finds that Plaintiffs are not entitled to
attorney’s fees under California Civil Code § 2924.12(h). While the statute
allows for discretion in awarding attorney’s fees to a “prevailing borrower,”
here, Plaintiffs only obtained a TRO on an ex parte basis, which was
subsequently dissolved after Defendants had an opportunity to present their
opposition on April 24, 2024.
The Court also notes that the TRO did not provide a substantive determination
of the underlying issues but merely maintained the status quo pending a
hearing. Additionally, the application for a preliminary injunction was denied
on the merits, indicating that Plaintiffs did not meet the burden of proof to
show a likelihood of prevailing on their claims at trial.
 
Thus,
the Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion for attorney’s fees.
 
 