 Case Number:  23TRCV00340    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
JOHN DOE,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00340




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ERMC
  AVIATION, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:             September 17, 2024    
 
Moving Parties:          Defendants, ERMC Aviation, LLC, et al.
Responding
Party:      None
HEARING: MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
            The Court considered the moving papers.  
 
RULING
Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Judgment is
GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
            On February 6, 2023,
Plaintiff John Doe filed a complaint against Defendants ERMC Aviation, LLC and
UNIFI Services. 
 
            On July 14, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants ERMC
Aviation, LLC, UNIFI Aviation, LLC, and Maria Portillo Hernandez, alleging (1)
negligent hiring, supervision, and retention of employee; (2) negligent failure
to warn, train or educate; (3) sexual harassment – Civil Code section 51.9; (4)
invasion of privacy (intrusion); and (5) intentional infliction of emotional
distress. 
 
            On June 17, 2024,
Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment. To date, no opposition has been
filed.
 
            Trial is set for May
19, 2025.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“The purpose of the law of summary judgment is
to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties' pleadings in
order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact
necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Trial judges are required “to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint,
the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a
defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) Once the defendant has met that burden, “the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Id.) 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.” (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Statement
of Facts
 
ERMC
Aviation provides various aviation support services, including ticketing, cabin
and airport cleaning, ground handling, and cargo at airports across North
America, including the Los Angeles Airport (LAX). (Comp., Ex. 2, Bitar Decl., ¶
3.) ERMC enforces comprehensive policies to prevent misconduct and mandates all
employees to undergo training on anti-discrimination, anti-harassment,
anti-retaliation, and safety protocols. (UMF 1, 2.) Employees, including
janitors like Ms. Portillo, are trained to use proper signage when cleaning,
including in bathrooms. (UMF 1, 6.) ERMC also requires thorough background
checks for new hires, which Ms. Portillo passed before she began her duties at
LAX from September 17, 2020, to April 30, 2021. (UMF 3, 5.)
 
On
April 24, 2021, Plaintiff walked into a restroom at LAX being cleaned by Ms.
Portillo. Plaintiff alleged that after a verbal altercation between them, Ms.
Portillo took a photograph of him. (UMF 7; Comp., Ex. 1(B), Plaintiff’s Depo.)
Plaintiff admitted there was no physical contact between them, and he kept his
distance to avoid any accusations of inappropriate behavior. (Comp., Ex. 1(B),
Plaintiff’s Depo.) Shortly after the incident, Plaintiff saw Ms. Portillo
showing her phone to another employee and complained to Delta management about
the photograph. (Comp., Ex. 1(B), Plaintiff’s Depo.) ERMC promptly suspended
Ms. Portillo and began an investigation. Ms. Portillo and another Delta
employee provided statements indicating that Ms. Portillo took the photograph
after a confrontation with Plaintiff. (Comp., Ex. 2, Bitar Decl., Ex. J.). An
investigation confirmed that the photo showed Plaintiff’s upper torso and face,
not nudity. (Comp., Ex. 3, Abarca Decl., ¶ 3.) ERMC concluded that Ms. Portillo
failed to follow procedures for posting signage and took a photo inside the
restroom, leading to her termination on May 4, 2021. (UMF 6, 8, 12.)
 
Following
the incident, Plaintiff filed a police report accusing Ms. Portillo of sexual
assault. (Comp., Ex. 1(A), Complaint, ¶ 17.) Plaintiff sent several aggressive
emails to ERMC management demanding updates and threatening them, which
prompted ERMC to share the correspondence with Delta. (Comp., Ex. 2, Bitar
Decl., ¶ 14.) Ultimately, Plaintiff’s employment with Delta was terminated on
September 17, 2021, due to his inappropriate, threatening, and aggressive
behavior. (Comp., Ex. 1(B), Plaintiff’s Depo, 124:14-125:18.)
 
Analysis
 
            Negligent Hiring, Supervision,
and Retention, and Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate Claims
 
Plaintiff’s
first cause of action alleges that ERMC negligently hired, supervised, and
retained Ms. Portillo, causing him damage, while the second cause of action
claims that ERMC negligently failed to train its employees, including Ms.
Portillo. (Comp., Ex. 1(A), Complaint, ¶¶ 21-38.)
 
Defendants
argue that an employer is only liable for negligent hiring, supervision, or
retention if the employer knew or should have known that an employee posed an
undue risk of harm based on the nature of their work. This standard is not met
here. Plaintiff’s claims rest on speculation that Ms. Portillo took a
photograph showing his genitals, but Plaintiff testified he does not know what
the photograph captured. Furthermore, a witness confirmed the photograph did
not show any nudity, depicting only Plaintiff’s fully clothed upper torso and
face. (UMF 10, 11; Comp., Ex. 3, Abarca Decl., ¶ 3.) ERMC demonstrated that it
conducts thorough background checks and provides comprehensive training on
workplace policies to all employees, including Ms. Portillo. (UMF 1, 3, 5, 6.)
Plaintiff admitted he has no knowledge of ERMC’s hiring process, Ms. Portillo's
employment details, her training, or any disciplinary actions taken against her.
(Comp., Ex. 1(B), Plaintiff’s Depo, 59:1-60:25.) Moreover, when Plaintiff
complained about the incident, ERMC promptly conducted a thorough investigation
and terminated Ms. Portillo’s employment. Plaintiff agreed that this was an
appropriate action. (Comp., Ex. 1(B), Plaintiff’s Depo, 71:18-72:19.) Given the
lack of evidence showing that ERMC knew or should have known that Ms. Portillo
posed a risk, Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot establish his claims of
negligent hiring, supervision, retention, or failure to train. 
 
An employer may owe a duty of care in hiring and
supervising its employees so as to avoid exposing third persons to an
unreasonable risk of harm: “An employer may be liable to a third person for the
employer’s negligence in hiring or retaining an employee who is incompetent or
unfit.” (Federico v. Superior Court (1997)
59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1210-1211.) The basic elements of a cause of action for
negligence are: (1) the existence of a legal duty to use due care; (2) breach
of that duty; and (3) the breach as a proximate cause of the plaintiff’s
injury. (Ibid.; see also CACI 400.) Foreseeability of the harm
is key. The employer is not liable merely because its employee is incompetent,
vicious or careless. A duty of care to third persons arises only when a risk of
harm to such persons by the employee was reasonably foreseeable; i.e., only
“when the employer knows, or should know, facts which would warn a reasonable
person that the employee presents an undue risk of harm to third persons in
light of the particular work to be performed.” (Federico, supra,
59 Cal.App.4th at p. 1214; see also Doe v. Capital Cities (1996)
50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1055 [“cornerstone of a negligent hiring theory is the
risk that the employee will act in a certain way and the employee does act in
that way”].) 
 
The Court finds that Defendants
show there are no triable issues of fact that ERMC knew or should have known
that Ms. Portillo posed a risk of harm based on the nature of her work or any
specific conduct. The allegations are speculative, with no concrete evidence
showing that Ms. Portillo took a photograph depicting nudity or engaged in any
conduct that would suggest an undue risk. Furthermore, ERMC has demonstrated
that it conducts thorough background checks and provides comprehensive training
to its employees. When the incident occurred, ERMC took prompt and appropriate
action by investigating and terminating Ms. Portillo’s employment, and
Plaintiff acknowledged that this response was appropriate. Thus, Defendants
satisfy its burden and Plaintiff is unable to rebut this showing and point to evidence
to support that ERMC breached its duty of care in hiring, supervising,
retaining, or training Ms. Portillo, as required under the legal standard for
negligent hiring, supervision, or retention. 
 
Thus, the Court GRANTS Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication as to Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and
Retention, and Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate Claims. 
 
            Sexual Harassment
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s third cause of action for sexual harassment under
Section 51.9 fails because this statute applies only to specific business
relationships outside the workplace, such as relationships with physicians,
attorneys, or landlords, where a party cannot easily terminate the relationship.
Plaintiff must prove there was a qualifying business relationship between
himself and ERMC or Ms. Portillo. However, Plaintiff admitted he had no
relationship or prior association with ERMC or Ms. Portillo before the alleged
incident, eliminating his standing to pursue a claim under this section.
(Comp., Ex. 1(B), Plaintiff’s Depo, 59:1-17, 60:5-10.)
 
Even
if Plaintiff had standing, Defendants state that Plaintiff’s claim still fails
because there is no evidence of severe or pervasive conduct based on gender, as
required by California Civil Code Section 51.9(a)(2). The statute mandates
proof of unwelcome conduct of a sexual or hostile nature that is both severe
and pervasive. Here, the evidence shows that Ms. Portillo was merely cleaning
the restroom and had a brief verbal exchange with Plaintiff, which was not of a
sexual nature or based on Plaintiff's gender. Plaintiff himself admitted that
Ms. Portillo's actions, including taking a photograph, might have been innocent.
(UMF 10, 11, 15.) Additionally, Plaintiff's claim is based on a single
interaction with Ms. Portillo and his speculation that the photograph taken
might have captured his private parts. However, Plaintiff acknowledged he does
not know what the photograph shows, and there is no evidence that the
photograph captured any nudity. (Comp., Ex. 1(B), Plaintiff’s Depo, 66:11-17,
85:5-86:16.) The interaction does not meet the threshold of being sufficiently
severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of employment or create a hostile
work environment. (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.App.4th 1035, 1043
(2009).)
 
The
Fair Employment and Housing Act prohibition on harassment states: “It is an
unlawful employment practice. . . .[f]or an employer, labor organization,
employment agency, apprenticeship training program or any training program
leading to employment, any other person, because of race, religious creed,
color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability,
medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender
identity, gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or military veteran
status, to harass an employee, an applicant, an unpaid intern or volunteer, or
person providing services pursuant to a contract.” (Govt. Code, § 12940(j)(1).)
A hostile work environment is a recognized form of harassment. To establish a hostile
work environment, harassment must be so severe or pervasive as to alter the
conditions of the victim’s employment and create an abusive working environment
based on the protected characteristic. (See Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46
Cal.4th 1045, 1043.) Harassment must be of a repeated, routine, or generalized
nature when the harassing conduct is not severe. (See Lyle v. Warner Bros.
Television Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 283.) Harassment that is
occasional, isolated or sporadic is insufficient. (See id.)  
 
The
Court finds that Defendants have demonstrated that Plaintiff’s third cause of
action for sexual harassment under Section 51.9 fails because this statute
applies only to specific business relationships outside the workplace, such as
relationships with physicians, attorneys, or landlords, where a party cannot
easily terminate the relationship. Plaintiff admits that there was no prior
relationship or association with ERMC or Ms. Portillo, which eliminates his
standing to pursue a claim under this section. Even if Plaintiff had standing, it
appears that there is no evidence of severe or pervasive conduct based on
gender. The incident in question involved a brief interaction in which Ms.
Portillo was cleaning the restroom and engaged in a brief verbal exchange with
Plaintiff that was not of a sexual nature or based on Plaintiff's gender.
Plaintiff himself admitted that Ms. Portillo’s actions, including taking a
photograph, might have been innocent, and he does not know what the photograph
captured. There is no evidence that the photograph depicted any nudity or that
the conduct was of a sexual or hostile nature. The Court also finds that the
conduct described does not rise to the level of being sufficiently severe or
pervasive to alter the conditions of employment or create a hostile work
environment, as required by the Fair Employment and Housing Act. The interaction
was a single, isolated incident that does not meet the threshold of harassment
necessary to support a claim. Plaintiff fails to provide an arguments in
opposition. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication motion as to the
sexual harassment claim. 
 
            Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress (IIED) should be dismissed because it fails for the same
reasons as his claim under Section 51.9 of the California Civil Code. Since the
Section 51.9 claim is not viable, Plaintiff’s IIED claim, which is based on the
same alleged facts, also lacks merit. To establish an IIED claim, Plaintiff
must show that ERMC’s conduct was outrageous, intended to cause severe
emotional distress, or acted with reckless disregard for causing such distress.
However, the only conduct Plaintiff points to is the incident in which Ms.
Portillo allegedly took a photograph of him in the restroom. Plaintiff admitted
he had no knowledge of what the photograph showed and cannot prove that Ms.
Portillo acted with ill intent. (UMF 10, 11; Comp., Ex. 1(B), Plaintiff’s Depo,
61:1-65:22, 165:14-24.) Furthermore, Defendants assert that Plaintiff has not
identified any outrageous conduct by any other employee at ERMC. Although he
criticized ERMC manager Mr. Bitar for allegedly not responding to a detective
in a timely manner, Plaintiff conceded that he has no knowledge of whether or
when Mr. Bitar actually responded. (Comp., Ex. 1(B), Plaintiff’s Depo, 95:1-13,
101:17-21.) Defendants state that Plaintiff’s accusations against Mr. Bitar are
undermined by Plaintiff’s own threatening and inappropriate behavior, including
a statement wishing sexual assault on Mr. Bitar’s children. (Comp., Ex. 1(G).)
Plaintiff showed no remorse for these comments, which he admitted were intended
to cause distress. This conduct illustrates that Plaintiff himself engaged in
behavior that is extreme and outrageous, rather than ERMC or its employees. 
 
            To state
a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress, a plaintiff must
allege “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention
of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional
distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and (3) the
defendant’s extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause
of the severe emotional distress.” (Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center of
Santa Ana, Inc. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 994, 1007.)
 
The
Court finds that Defendants have established that Plaintiff’s fourth cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED) should be
dismissed because it relies on the same facts as the failed claim under Section
51.9 of the California Civil Code. Since Plaintiff's Section 51.9 claim is not
viable, the IIED claim, which is grounded in the same alleged facts, also lacks
merit. There is no evidence to show that Defendants’ conduct was extreme and
outrageous, with the intention of causing severe emotional distress or with
reckless disregard for the probability of causing such distress. The only
conduct cited by Plaintiff is the alleged incident where Ms. Portillo took a
photograph of him in the restroom. Plaintiff admitted that he has no knowledge
of what the photograph shows and cannot prove that Ms. Portillo acted with any
ill intent. Furthermore, there is no evidence of any other outrageous conduct
by any ERMC employee. Plaintiff’s additional allegations against ERMC manager
Mr. Bitar also do not support an IIED claim. Plaintiff criticized Mr. Bitar for
allegedly not responding to a detective in a timely manner, but he admitted to
having no knowledge of the details of Mr. Bitar's response. 
 
Therefore,
the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication motion as to the
IIED claim.
 
            Punitive Damages
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages should be dismissed because
there is no evidence of malicious, fraudulent, or oppressive conduct by ERMC or
its employees. Under California law, punitive damages are only warranted with
clear and convincing evidence of malice, fraud, or oppression. (Civ. Code §
3294(a).) Courts apply a stringent evidentiary standard to such claims, and in
this case, Defendants state that Plaintiff lacks the necessary evidence to meet
that standard. (American Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter &
Hampton (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 1017, 1046-54.) Plaintiff has admitted that
he does not know what was captured in the photograph taken by Ms. Portillo, and
the only evidence, as confirmed by Mr. Abarca, is that the photograph showed
Plaintiff's face and covered torso, not nudity. (Comp., Ex. 3, Abarca Decl., ¶
3.) This does not rise to the level of “despicable” conduct required to justify
punitive damages. Additionally, Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot prove by
clear and convincing evidence that any managing agent of ERMC acted with
malice, oppression, or fraud. Under California law, a “managing agent” is
defined as an employee who exercises substantial independent authority and
judgment in corporate decision-making, influencing corporate policy. (White
v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 566-67 (1999).) Ms. Portillo, a
janitor, had no authority to affect corporate policy, draft or implement
corporate policies, or supervise other employees. (UMF 16.) Similarly,
Plaintiff’s allegations against Mr. Bitar, including his alleged untimely
follow-up with law enforcement, do not amount to vile or despicable conduct,
nor does Mr. Bitar have the authority to influence or determine corporate
policy. (UMF 14, 17.) 
 
Punitive
damages are available in non-contract actions where a defendant is guilty of
malice, fraud, or oppression. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is
“despicable conduct with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or
safety of others.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
3294, subd. (c)(1).)  Malice is “conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
3294, subd. (c)(2).) Malice may be proved either expressly through direct
evidence or by implication through indirect evidence from which the jury draws
inferences. (Angie M. v. Superior Ct. (1995) 37 Cal. App. 4th 1217, 1228) Fraud
is “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury. (Code Civ. Proc. § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
 
The
Court finds that Defendants have demonstrated that Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages should be dismissed due to a lack of evidence of malicious,
fraudulent, or oppressive conduct by ERMC or its employees, as required under
California law. (Civ. Code § 3294(a).) Plaintiff has admitted that he does not
know what was captured in the photograph allegedly taken by Ms. Portillo, and
the only evidence available, as confirmed by Mr. Abarca, indicates that the
photograph showed Plaintiff's face and covered torso, not nudity. This evidence
does not meet the standard of “despicable” conduct required to justify punitive
damages. Moreover, Defendants sufficiently show that Plaintiff cannot prove by
clear and convincing evidence that any managing agent of ERMC acted with
malice, oppression, or fraud. Under California law, a “managing agent” is
defined as an employee with substantial independent authority and judgment in
corporate decision-making that affects corporate policy. Ms. Portillo, a
janitor, does not have such authority to affect or determine corporate policy,
nor does she supervise other employees. Similarly, Plaintiff’s allegations
against Mr. Bitar, including his alleged delay in responding to law
enforcement, do not rise to the level of vile or despicable conduct required
for punitive damages. Additionally, Mr. Bitar does not have the authority to
influence or establish corporate policy. Given the lack of evidence of malice,
oppression, or fraud, and the absence of any conduct by a managing agent of
ERMC that meets the required legal standard, the Court concludes that
Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages is not supported by the facts. 
 
Therefore,
Defendants’ request to dismiss Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages is
granted.
 
Therefore,
the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion for summary judgment.