  Case Number:  21STCV18722    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  71  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CARROLL H. CASWELL, JR., et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
WWC HOLDINGS, LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  21STCV18722
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  November 6, 2023



 
Cross-Defendants Raymond Wang’s,
Victor Wang’s, Sherry Wang’s, Cyrus Investment, LLC’s, Optimal Property, LLC’s,
Cub Capital, LLC’s, and SRS Infrastructure, LLC’s demurrer to Cross-Complainant
WWC Corp.’s fourth amended cross-complaint is: 
(1) overruled as to the 1st
cause of action as to Victor Wang only; 2nd cause of action; 3rd cause of
action as to Victor Wang only; 4th cause of action; 5th cause of action; 6th
cause of action; and 7th cause of action; and
(2) sustained without
leave to amend as to the 1st cause of action as to Cyrus Investment, LLC,
Optimal Property, LLC, Cub Capital, LLC, and SRS Infrastructure, LLC; 3rd cause
of action as to Cyrus Investment, LLC, Optimal Property, LLC, Cub Capital, LLC,
and SRS Infrastructure, LLC; and 8th cause of action. 
 
Cross-Defendants Raymond Wang (“Raymond”), Victor Wang (“Victor”),
Sherry Wang (“Sherry”), Cyrus Investment, LLC, (“CIL”), Optimal Property, LLC
(“OPL”), Cub Capital, LLC, (“CCL”) and SRS Infrastructure, LLC (“SRS,”) (collectively
“Cross-Defendants”) demur to each cause of action in Cross-Complainant WWC
Corp.’s (“WWC”) fourth amended cross-complaint (“4AXC”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pg. 1; C.C.P. §§430.10(e),
(f); §581(f).)[1]
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
Cross-Defendants’ 10/11/23 request for judicial notice of Exhibits
A-J is denied, as the Court does not need to take judicial notice of documents
filed in the instant case.
Cross-Complainant’s 10/23/23 request for judicial notice of Exhibits
A-D is denied, as the Court does not need to take judicial notice of documents
filed in the instant case.
 
Background
WWC filed its initial verified cross-complaint (“CC”) against the
Wang Defendants on June 1, 2021. Cross-Complainant lodged a first amended
cross-complaint (“FAXC”) April 1, 2022, but it was not filed. WWC filed a
Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SAXC”) on April 25, 2022. The Court sustained
a demurrer to the SAXC on November 17, 2022. WWC then filed its Third Amended
Cross-Complaint (“TAXC”) on December 19, 2022. 

On July 11, 2023, this Court ruled on Cross-Defendants’ demurrer
to the TAXC as the following: (1) overruling the 1st cause of action as to Raymond;
2nd cause of action; 3rd cause of action as to Raymond; 5th as to Raymond and Victor;
6th cause of action; 7th cause of action; and 9th cause of action as to Raymond
and Victor; (2) sustaining with leave to amend the 1st cause of action as to
the remaining cross-defendants; 3rd cause of action as to the remaining
cross-defendants; 5th cause of action as to the remaining cross-defendants; 8th
cause of action; and 9th cause of action as to the remaining cross- defendants;
and (3) sustaining without leave to amend as to the 4th and 10th causes of
action.  (7/11/23 Ruling.)
On September 8, 2023, Cross-Complainant filed the operative 4AXC
alleging eight causes of action: (1) intentional concealment of material facts
and constructive fraud (Civil Code §1573) [against Raymond, Victor, CIL,
SRS, CCL, and OPL]; (2) conversion [against Raymond and Victor]; (3)
breach of fiduciary duty [against Raymond, Victor, CIL, SRS, CCL, and OPL];
(4) intentional interference with prospective economic relations [against
Raymond and Victor]; (5) declaratory relief [against Raymond, Victor,
and SRS]; (6) accounting [against Cross-Defendants]; and (8) voidable
transfer [against Raymond, Victor, CIL, CCL, and OPL].
On October 11, 2023, Cross-Defendants filed the instant
demurrer.  On October 23, 2023, Cross-Complainant
filed its opposition.  On October 30,
2023, Cross-Defendants filed their reply.
 
Summary of Demurrer
Cross-Defendants demur to the entire 4AXC for failure to amend the
pleading within the time allowed by this Court’s prior demurrer ruling.  Cross-Defendants demur to Cross-Complainant’s
1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th causes of action on the basis they fail
state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action.  (Demurrer, pgs. 2-4; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)  Cross-Defendants demur to the 8th cause of
action on the basis the cause of action is uncertain and ambiguous.  (Demurrer, pg. 4; C.C.P. §430.10(f).)  
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a).)  A declaration must be filed with a demurrer
regarding the results of the meet and confer process.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Cross-Defendants’ counsel’s declaration states he met and
conferred with Cross-Complainant’s counsel on August 23 and 28, 2023, and
September 7 and 12, 2023, addressing deficiencies in the 4AXC and parties could
not resolve the issues in this motion outside of court.  (Decl. of Jazayeri ¶¶2, 4, Exh. A.)  However, Cross-Defendants’ counsel does not
declare that he met and conferred either in person or by telephone.  Nevertheless, Defendants’ counsel’s
declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Timeliness
Dismissal of an action pursuant to C.C.P. §581(f) for failure to
amend a complaint within the time allowed by the court is required unless the
plaintiff establishes an excuse for the failure to amend.  (Dumm v. Pacific Valves (1956) 146
Cal.App.2d 792, 795; Daniels v. Daniels (1955) 136 Cal.App.2d 224, 228.)  
Here, Cross-Defendants were given notice of the Court’s demurrer
ruling granting them 20 days leave to amend on July 18, 2023, via email, making
their 4AXC due on August 9, 2023.  Cross-Complainants’
4AXC was electronically received on August 10, 2023, at 9:11 a.m.  However, the 4AXC was not filed until
September 8, 2023.  The Court declines to
dismiss the 4AXC pursuant to C.C.P. §581(f). 
Cross-Complainant sufficiently establishes an excuse for the failure to
amend, namely that the corrected caption page for the 4AXC was cause for the
delayed acceptance of the document by the Court.
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer on the basis of
untimeliness is overruled.
 
Failure to State a Claim
Concealment of
Material Facts (1st COA) [against Raymond, Victor, CIL, SRS, CCL, and OPL]
“[T]he elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on a
concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material
fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed
the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have
been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or
suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.”  (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.) 
“A cause of action for concealment must be pled specifically;
general and conclusory allegations will not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  This requirement of
particularity necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means any fraudulent representations were tendered.  (Hamilton v. Greenwich Investors XXVI, LLC
(2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1602, 1614.)
In Casey v. United States Bank National Association, the
Court of Appeal held that liability may be imposed on one who aids and abets
the commission of an intentional tort if the person (1) knows the other’s
conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial assistance or
encouragement to the other to act, or (2) gives substantial assistance to the other
in accomplishing a tortious result and the person’s own conduct, separately
considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third person.  (Casey v. United States Bank National Association
(2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1144.)
Cross-Complainant fails to allege CCL, CIL, or OPL either (1) knew
of Raymond’s conduct constituting a breach of duty and gave substantial
assistance or encouragement to Raymond to act, or (2) gave substantial
assistance to Raymond in accomplishing a tortious result and their own conduct,
separately considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third person.  (See Casey, 127 Cal.App.4th at
pg. 1144.)  Cross-Complainant’s
allegation in ¶38 that “[Raymond] breached his fiduciary duties to
Cross-Complainants when he, among other things, requested greater access to and
control over WWC’s finances and bank accounts and the governing documents of
the LLCs while concealing the material fact that he intended, through the
substantial assistance of other co-conspirators and/or aiders and abettors
described herein, to exploit, and did in fact exploit his position of access
and control through WWC over the LLCs and their respective bank accounts, by
illicitly transferring the monetary and real property assets of WWC and/or the
joint ventures to which it was a party with homeowners to himself, to his
family (including [Victor]), and/or to entities which he owned and/or
controlled (including CIL, SRS, CCL, and OPL),” is insufficient to demonstrate
they gave substantial assistance or encouragement to Raymond to act.  (See 4AXC ¶38.)
Cross-Complainant sufficiently alleges Victor knew Raymond’s
conduct constituted a breach of duty and Victor gave substantial assistance or
encouragement to Raymond to act by alleging in ¶27(f), “on or about March 1, 2021,
at [Raymond’s] direction, [Victor] executed Grant Deeds under his own name and
signature purporting to transfer, without receipt of reasonably equivalent
consideration, the real properties described in Paragraphs 23 and 24, held in
trust by the LLCs for the benefit of WWC’s real estate renovation and resale
business, to SRS which was formed the following day (March 2, 2021) and not to
further the completion of the WWC Incomplete Projects. Upon information and
belief, [Victor] knew at the time he executed these Grants Deeds on March 1,
2021, to the real properties described in Paragraphs 23 and 24, that neither he
nor [Raymond] had the authority to convey the real properties, and that doing
so was in violation of the rights, duties, and obligations [Raymond] owed to
the LLCs and WWC. With [Victor’s] unauthorized transfer of the real properties
held by the LLCs to SRS, the LLCs were effectively rendered insolvent as they
each lacked an asset or other thing of value to pay their debts.”  (FAXC ¶27(f).)  Such allegations are sufficient to allege
Victor aided and abetted Raymond. 
However, Cross-Complainant’s allegations in ¶27(f) explicitly state the abovementioned
actions occurred the day before SRS was formed, and therefore fails to
allege SRS had knowledge of Raymond’s actions because it did not exist at the
time.
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s 1st
cause of action for concealment of material facts is overruled as to Victor and
sustained without leave to amend as to SRS, CCL, CIL, and OPL.
 
          Conversion (2nd
COA)
Cross-Defendants’ notice of demurrer states it demurs to the 2nd
cause of action for failure to state a claim but presents no argument.  (See Demurrer, pg. 3.)
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s 2nd
cause of action for conversion is overruled.
 
Breach of
Fiduciary Duty (3rd COA) [against Raymond, Victor, CIL, SRS, CCL, and OPL]
A cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty requires the
following elements: (1) the existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2) its
breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach.  (Knox v. Dean (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th
417, 432-433.)
For the same reasons stated in the Court’s reasoning on the 1st
cause of action, Cross-Complainant sufficiently alleges Victor aided and
abetted Raymond in his alleged breach of fiduciary duty, but fails to allege
CIL, SRS, CCL, and OPL gave substantial assistance or encouragement to Raymond.
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s 3rd
cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty is overruled as to Victor and
sustained without leave to amend as to SRS, CCL, CIL, and OPL.
 
          Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Relations (4th COA)
“Intentional interference with prospective economic advantage has
five elements: (1) the existence, between the plaintiff and some third party,
of an economic relationship that contains the probability of future economic
benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the relationship;
(3) intentionally wrongful acts designed to disrupt the relationship; (4)
actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm proximately caused
by the defendant’s action.”  (Roy
Allan Slurry Seal, Inc. v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th
505, 512.) 
Cross-Defendants’ argument that Cross-Complainant’s failure to
plead a contract claim dooms all of its claims is unavailing.  The 4th cause of action is a tort claim that
does not require the existence of a contract claim.  A demurrer takes all facts alleged to be true.  (Aubry,
2 Cal.4th at pg. 967.)  At this juncture,
Cross-Defendants’ argument that ¶17’s allegation of an “‘oral and/or implied
agreement’ between Raymond and Clark/WWC resulted in: (1) Raymond becoming a shareholder,
director and officer of WWC, (2) WWC owning the LLCs, which in turn purchased
various real properties that were held in trust for WWC, and (3) Raymond making
secured loans to WWC and the LLCs, which WWC would pay back with interest,” is
taken to be true.  A demurrer is not the
proper mechanism to challenge such allegations, rather, summary judgment is. 
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s 4th
cause of action for intentional interference with prospective economic
relations is overruled.
 
Declaratory Relief (5th COA)
A cause of action for declaratory relief requires the following
elements: (1) a person interested under a written instrument or a contract; or
(2) a declaration of his or her rights or duties; (a) with respect to another;
or (b) in respect to, in, over or upon property; and (3) an actual controversy.  (C.C.P. §1060.)
Cross-Complainant alleges a judicial declaration is required to
determine the parties’ respective rights, duties, and obligations under WWC.  (4AXC ¶73.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges despite Raymond’s role in WWC as a director
and/or officer, the parties dispute the actions taken by Raymond, including the
taking of corporate funds owned by WWC and the actions taken by Raymond, and
his affiliates, as to the LLCs.  (4AXC
¶73.)
Cross-Complainant alleges a judicial declaration is required to
determine who were the proper owners and managers of the LLCs, whether the
managers of record for those LLCs owed a concurrent fiduciary duty to WWC in
connection with the overarching real property renovation and sale business
financed by Raymond and conducted by WWC, and limitations upon the scope of appropriate
discretion and authority to be exercised on behalf of those LLCs in light the
purpose of forming and managing the LLCs as holding companies for properties
for renovation and resale activities by WWC.  (4AXC ¶74.) 
Cross-Complainant alleges a judicial declaration is necessary and
appropriate at this time under the circumstances in order for the parties to
ascertain their respective rights, duties, and obligations with respect to the
LLCs, as these issues are crucial to the determination of whether the
Cross-Defendants’ actions of diverting properties to SRS was a proper exercise
of Raymond’s and Victor’s duties owed to Cross-Complainants.  (4AXC ¶74.)
Cross-Complainant sufficiently alleges a cause of action for
declaratory relief.  Cross-Defendants’
argument that Cross-Complainant’s failure to allege a written contract claim is
of no consequence, as Cross-Complainant sufficiently alleges it seeks a
declaration of its rights or duties for a live controversy.  Further, the Court overruled
Cross-Defendants’ previous demurrer to this cause of action.
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s 5th
cause of action for declaratory relief is overruled.
 
Accounting (6th COA)
Accounting is an independent cause of action in equity.  (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 156, 180.)  A cause of action
seeking an accounting may be maintained when (1) a relationship exists between
a plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and (2) some balance is
due to the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting.  (Id. at pg. 179.)  No fiduciary relationship is required.  (Id.)  
Cross-Complainant sufficiently alleges a cause of action for an
accounting.  Further, the Court overruled
Cross-Defendants’ previous demurrer to this cause of action.
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s 6th
cause of action for accounting is overruled.
 
Slander of Title (7th COA) [against Raymond and Victor]
A cause of action for slander of title requires the following
elements: (1) defendant made a statement or performed a specific act that cast
doubts about plaintiff’s ownership of the property; (2) the statement was made
to a person other than plaintiff/or some other form of publication; (3) the
statement was untrue and plaintiff did in fact own the property; (4) defendant
knew that/acted with reckless disregard of the truth or falsity as to whether
plaintiff owned the property; (5) defendant knew or should have recognized that
someone else might act in reliance on the statement/e.g., deed, causing
plaintiff financial loss; (6) plaintiff did in fact suffer immediate and direct
financial harm because someone else acted in reliance on the statement/e.g.,
deed/ or by incurring legal expenses necessary to remove the doubt cast by the
statement/e.g., deed and to clear title; and (7) defendant’s conduct was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. 
(CACI 1730.)
Cross-Complainant sufficiently alleges this cause of action.  Further, the Court overruled
Cross-Defendants’ previous demurrer to this cause of action.
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s 7th
cause of action for slander of title is overruled.
 
Voidable Transfer (Civ. Code §3439 et seq.) (8th COA)
Cross-Complainant added a new 8th cause of action for voidable
transfer for which it was not granted leave from the Court to assert.
Cross-Defendant concedes in its opposition that Cross-Defendants’
demurrer to the 8th cause of action should be granted.  (Opposition, pg. 7.)
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s 8th
cause of action for voidable transfer is sustained without leave to
amend.
 
Conclusion
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to Cross-Complainant WWC Corp.’s fourth
amended cross-complaint is: 
(1) overruled as to the 1st cause of action as to Victor only; 2nd
cause of action; 3rd cause of action as to Victor only; 4th cause of action;
5th cause of action; 6th cause of action; and 7th cause of action; and
(2) sustained without leave to amend as to the 1st cause of
action as to CIL, OPL, CCL, and SRS; 3rd cause of action as to CIL, OPL, CCL,
and SRS; and 8th cause of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  November _____, 2023
                                                                             





  