  Case Number:  18NWCV00201    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  F LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT v. HANES GEO COMPONENTS, et
al.
CASE
NO.:  18NWCV00201
HEARING:
  09/25/23
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant
Hanes Geo Components’ unopposed motion to continue trial and all trial-related
dates is GRANTED.  All pre-trial cut-off dates will correspond with the new trial
date.

 
Moving
Party to give NOTICE.
 
No
Opposition(s) filed as of September 21, 2023. 
 
This
matter was initially heard on August 18, 2023, and continued to this date. No
additional/supplemental briefs were ordered to be filed, and none have been
filed or lodged with the Court since the August 18, 2023 hearing. 
 
This action was filed on December 28, 2018. The Complaint alleges
that Defendant Hanes Geo Components was negligent in the failure of an
underground storm water detention system as part of a project to construct a
new high school in Huntington Park, California. 

 
Defendant
Hanes Geo Components moves to continue trial pursuant to CRC Rule
3.1332 for the following reasons: 
 
1.    The
current trial date of October 13, 2023 and related dates do not leave
sufficient time for the parties to take relevant and material depositions
notwithstanding the parties’ diligence; 
2.    Three
new parties have been added to this action. Plaintiff LAUSD’s Motion for Leave
to File a Third Amended Complaint was GRANTED on August 29, 2023. 
3.    Two
additional parties were added as Cross-Defendants. Hanes Geo Components’ Motion
for Leave to File a First Amended Cross-Complaint was GRANTED on August 29,
2023. 
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for
a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.  Circumstances that may
indicate good cause include… …. (5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party’s
involvement in the case. (6) A party’s excused inability to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result
of which the case is not ready for trial.” (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)
 
The
Court, in making its determination to continue the trial should consider the
following factors: (1) The proximity of the trial date; (2) Whether there was
any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party
(3) The length of the continuance requested; (4) The unavailability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) The court’s calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; (10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application.” (CRC Rule 3.1332(d).) 
 
Defendant is seeking a continuance to
conduct necessary discovery.  (Mijanovic Decl.,
¶¶ 1-3.) Moreover, after this Motion was initially heard, new parties were
named in this action and new pleadings filed.  As indicated above, there is no opposition to
the motion.
 
Accordingly, the Motion is GRANTED.  The Court finds that a trial continuance to
late-February 2024 (depending on the Court and parties’ availabilities) is
reasonable due to the outstanding discovery, the addition of newly add-parties,
and the filing of a Third Amended Complaint and a First Amended
Cross-Complaint. All pre-trial deadlines will correspond with
the new trial date. Court will confer with the parties at the hearing in order
to select the new FSC and trial dates.
 