  Case Number:  23STCV12209    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



LEON FAYNSOD, et al., 
 
                                 
  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV12209
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 22, 2024
 Calendar Number:  2



 
 
 
Defendant City of Los Angeles (the “City”) seeks leave to
file a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs Leon Faynsod and Diana Shian-Ling
Wang Chao, individually and as Trustee of the Diana Chao Living Trust
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) and fellow Defendants Leo Pustilnikov (“Leo”) and
Katherine Pustilnikov (“Katherine”) (all except for the City, collectively, the
“Homeowners”) for equitable indemnity, apportionment, and declaratory relief.  (The Court uses the Pustilnikovs’ first names
for clarity and means no disrespect.)
 
The City separately moves to contest Plaintiffs’ application
for determination of good faith settlement with regards to the settlement
entered between Plaintiffs and the Pustilnikovs.
 
The Court GRANTS the City’s motion contesting the
Homeowners’ application for determination of good-faith settlement. 
 
The Court DENIES the Homeowners’ application for
determination of good-faith settlement.
 
The Court GRANTS the City’s motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint. The City shall file and serve the proposed cross-complaint
within 30 days of the issuance of this order.
 
Background
 
This case concerns a landslide that damaged the homes of the
Homeowners. 
 
Plaintiffs own homes that are adjacent to, and uphill from
the Pustilnikovs’ home. Faynsod owns the property at 1101 Las Lomas Avenue,
Pacific Palisades, California (the “Faynsod Property”). Chao owns the property
at 1105 Las Lomas Avenue, Pacific Palisades, California (the “Chao Property”).
The Pustilnikovs own the property at 949 Las Lomas Avenue, Pacific Palisades,
California (the “Pustilnikov Property”). 
 
On March 26, 2023, a landslide following a rainstorm damaged
each of the three homes. 
 
The Faynsod Property and Pustilnikov Property have been
red-tagged by the City, indicating severe structural damage to the degree that
the structure is too dangerous to inhabit. Portions of the Chao Property are
yellow-tagged, indicating moderate damage to the degree that habitability is
limited.
 
Plaintiffs filed an action against the City and the
Pustilnikovs. The Pustilnikovs filed an action against Plaintiffs and the City.
Those actions have now been joined into the instant action by stipulation.
 
The Homeowners allege that subsurface water infiltrated from
a street maintained by the City because the street was severely cracked and
disjointed, allowing runoff coming down the public roads to pool. The
Homeowners allege that this water then migrated underneath the upslope
properties along the bedding planes, resulting in the landslide. The Homeowners
contend that the City is primarily responsible for the damage caused by the
landslide.
 
Plaintiffs allege that the Pustilnikovs were contributorily
negligent, asserting that a retaining wall on the Pustilnikov Property was
defective and that the home was constructed too close to the toe of the slope.
 
The Pustilnikovs allege that Plaintiffs’ properties changed
the natural surface water drainage and diverted water onto the slope,
contributing to its instability during the heavy rainstorm.
 
On December 29, 2023, the Homeowners filed an Application
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement amongst themselves, wherein they
settled for the limits of their insurance policies.
 
The City moved for leave to file a cross-complaint on
January 19, 2024. Defendants Leonid and Katherine filed an opposition, joined
by Plaintiffs Faynsod and Chao.
 
The City filed its motion contesting the good faith of the
settlement on January 19. Plaintiffs filed an opposition. The Pustilnikovs
filed a separate opposition. The City filed a reply to each opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
Determination of Good-Faith Settlement
 
When analyzing a motion for determination of good faith
settlement, the trial court should consider several factors, including “whether
the amount of the settlement is within the reasonable range of the settling
tortfeasor's proportional share of comparative liability for the plaintiff's
injuries.” (Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates
(1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt).) Such factors
(the “Tech-Bilt Factors”) are summarized as follows: 
 
1.     A
rough approximation of the plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; 
2.     The
amount paid in settlement; 
3.     The
allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; 
4.     A
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than it would if it
were found liable after a trial; 
5.     The
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of the settling defendants;
and 
6.     The
existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of the non-settling defendants. 
 
(Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.)
 
“[O]nly when the good faith nature of a settlement is
disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to consider and weigh the
Tech-Bilt factors. That is to say, when no one objects, the barebones motion
which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration which
sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.” (City of Grand
Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) In light of
the non-opposition to the application, the Court need not consider and weigh
the Tech-Bilt factors.
 
Leave to File Cross-Complaint
 
Where a defendant wishes to bring a cross-complaint against
a plaintiff who already filed a complaint against said defendant, the defendant
should file said cross-complaint before or at the same time as it files the
answer to the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50 (a).) Otherwise, the
defendant shall apply for leave to file its permissive cross-complaint, which
the court may grant “in the interest of justice at any time during the course
of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 426.50, 428.50.)
 
If such a cross-complaint is compulsory rather than
permissive, the court must grant the motion for leave, unless it is
determined that the defendant/cross-complainant seeking to file the compulsory
cross-complaint is operating in bad faith. (Ibid.; see also Silver
Orgs. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99 [section 426.50 must be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action].)
 
Any cause of action which is related to a complaint that a
plaintiff already filed and served against the defendant qualifies as a
compulsory cross-complaint so long as it existed at the time the
defendant/cross-complainant served its answer to the complaint. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 426.30, 426.10.) Causes of action that qualify as compulsory
cross-complaints are waived if not asserted. (Ibid.)
 
Discussion
 
Determination of Good-Faith Settlement
 
1. A rough approximation of the plaintiff’s total recovery and the
settlor’s proportionate liability
 
The parties
anticipate damages in excess of $5,000,000.
 
 
2. The amount paid in settlement; 
 
Each of the Homeowners pays their insurance policy limits
into the proposed settlement. Faynsod provides $500,000, the policy limit of
his homeowner’s insurance policy with Travelers Insurance Company. Chao
provides $100,000, the policy limit of her homeowner’s insurance policy with
Farmers Insurance Company. The Pustilnikovs provide $1,000,000, the policy
limit of their homeowner’s insurance policy with State Farm General Insurance
Company. None of the homeowners have any other liability insurance. The combined
total is $1,600,000. Thus, the proposed settlement would cover about 32% of the
theorized damages.
 
This amount is likely disproportionately small. As the
City’s expert points out, it is unlikely that water infiltration through street
cracks was a major cause of the landslide. (See generally Hadidi Decl. ¶ 13-6.)
The slope surface in question is not covered. As a result, surface water,
including rainwater and irrigation water, is able to seep into the ground
there. There are green vegetation and trees in the area of the Homeowners’
properties and neighboring properties, indicating active irrigation in and near
the area of the landslide. Furthermore, infiltration from the cracked street,
which is 100 feet away from the slope, is likely to be low, because available
geological information indicates that the area is underlain by interbedded
fine-grained units such as shale, claystone, siltstone, and silty sandstone,
which would have low permeability. Thus, water entering the soil from the
immediate area on and around the slope would vastly outweigh the effect of
rainwater infiltrating from the nearby road.
 
It is unclear whether all of the claimed damage can be
attributed to an at-fault party – it may well be that no reasonable amount of
care would have prevented the landslide, aside from paving over the entire
area. In such a case, it is possible that all of the parties’ liability would
be low compared to the actual damage suffered. However, that factual
determination has not been made, and it would thus be unjust to leave the City
‘holding the bag’ if it were to be found liable, as its liability is likely comparable
to, if not exceeded by, that of the homeowners.
 
3. The allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; 
 
The parties do not
dispute this factor.
 
4. A recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than it would
if it were found liable after a trial; 
 
The parties do not dispute this factor.
 
5. The financial conditions and insurance policy limits of the settling
defendants
 
The fact that the settlement is based on the parties’
insurance policy limits, without considering other assets owned by the parties,
also suggests that it is somewhat arbitrary.
Moreover, the lack of discussion of
the parties’ other assets raises concerns about the settlement.
 
6. The existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure
the interests of the non-settling defendants. 
 
The City argues that the settlement was designed to leave it
with the remaining liability and protect the Homeowners from any claims for
contribution by the City.
 
The City argues that it was not invited to the settlement
discussions between the Homeowners. The City also points out that the
Homeowners have expressly stated their intent to settle their claims with each
other and continue pursuing damages against the City. These facts are not
inherent indicators of bad faith – a party has a right to settle with one party
and continue litigating against another. Thus, it follows that stating one’s
intent to do so also should not be treated as inherently suspect.
 
However, given the apparent lack of proportionality
discussed above, combined with the City’s stated intent to file a
cross-complaint for contribution, it appears premature to approve the
settlement and thereby foreclose any cross-claims by the City.
 
The Court therefore denies the Homeowners’ application for
determination of good-faith settlement.
 
Leave to File Cross-Complaint
 
          The parties dispute whether the City’s
cross-complaint is permissive or compulsory. The Court does not need to resolve
this dispute at this time, because the Court determines that it is in the
interest of justice to permit the filing of the cross-complaint so that the
parties may litigate their proportional liability.
          The Court therefore grants the City’s
motion for leave to file a cross-complaint.