 Case Number:  23STCV18279    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JUPITER WAREHOUSE AND
  DISTRIBUTION, INC., 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
HARBOR GREEN DEVELOPMENT, L.P., et
  al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV18279
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 22, 2024
 Calendar Number:  3



 
 
 
Defendant Miller Miller Gerber LLP (“MMG”) moves for an
order granting interpleader of funds, dismissing it from this case, and
discharging it of all liability.
 
The Court CONTINUES this motion and orders Jupiter and Lai
to show cause why this action should not be stayed pending the resolution of
Case No. 23STCV08242 or, alternatively, why a notice of related case should not
be filed in Case No. 23STCV08242.
 
Background
 
This action (the “Jupiter Action”) arises out of allegations
by Plaintiff Jupiter Warehouse and Distribution, Inc. (“Jupiter”) that
Defendant Billy Lai (“Lai”) improperly used Jupiter’s funds to satisfy the
settlement of a lawsuit (the “Harbor Action”).
 
On February 4, 2019, Defendant Harbor filed the Harbor Action
against Defendants B & O Express (“B&O”) and Lai alleging a series of
contract claims. MMG represented Harbor in the Harbor Lawsuit.
 
The Harbor Action reached a settlement under which B&O
and Lai have paid $141,000.00. MMG still holds $131,253.67 of that amount in
trust for Harbor because the prior owner of Harbor, who was MMG’s contact,
passed away and MMG has been unable to establish further contact with Harbor.
(Miller Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
Jupiter filed this action, the Jupiter Action, on August 1,
2023, raising claims for (1) declaratory relief; and (2) claim and delivery.
Jupiter alleges that Lai improperly used Jupiter’s funds to pay the settlement
in the Harbor Action. Jupiter joined MMG in this action as a stakeholder and
necessary party only. (Complaint at p. 2:8.)
 
MMG filed this motion for interpleader on November 8, 2023. The
Court continued the motion to February 22, 2024 so that MMG could make further
attempts to give notice to Harbor of this action and of MMG’s interpleader
motion.
 
On November 14, 2023, MMG was relieved as counsel for Harbor
in the Harbor action. (RFJN, Exh. A at p. 52.) On January 5, 2024, Judge
Wasserman set an Order to Show Cause Re: Sanctions Including Dismissal for
Plaintiff’s Failure to Appear and Prosecute for February 23, 2024 in the Harbor
Action. (RFJN, Exh. B.)
 
On February 7, 2024, Defendant Billy Lai filed an opposition
to the motion. MMG filed a reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Lai’s request for judicial notice and takes
notice of the Court records in question.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Any person, firm,
corporation, association or other entity against whom double or multiple claims
are made, or may be made, by two or more persons which are such that they may
give rise to double or multiple liability, may bring an action against the claimants
to compel them to interplead and litigate their several claims.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 386, subd. (b).)
 
“An interpleader action is
traditionally viewed as two suits: one between the stakeholder and the
claimants to determine the stakeholder's right to interplead, and the other
among the claimants to determine who shall receive the funds interpleaded ...
As against the stakeholder, claimants may raise only matters which go to
whether the suit is properly one for interpleader; i.e., whether the elements
of an interpleader action are present.”  (State Farm Fire & Cas.
Co. v. Pietak (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 600, 612.) 
 
If the stakeholder claims no interest in the funds
or property held, he or she need not file an interpleader cross-complaint.¿He
or she may simply apply to the court for permission to deposit the money or
property with the court clerk, and for an order discharging him or her from
further liability to the adverse claimants. Such an order will also substitute
the adverse claimants as parties to the action; or, if only money is involved,
simply dismiss the stakeholder.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 386(a), 386.5.) 
 
The motion must be supported
by an affidavit by the stakeholder establishing the ground for interpleader.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (a).) The supporting affidavit must
also state that the moving party is “a mere stakeholder with no interest in the
amount or any portion thereof and that conflicting demands have been made upon
him for the amount by parties to the action…”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
386.5.) Notice of the motion must be served on each of the adverse
claimants to the funds or property. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 386, subd. (a),
386.5.)   
 
“Where a deposit has been
made pursuant to Section 386, the court shall, upon the application of any
party to the action, order such deposit to be invested in an insured
interest-bearing account.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 386.1.) 
 
Discussion
 
Service
 
Notice of the motion was served on Jupiter and Lai. B&O
does not appear to make any claim to the funds. 
 
Because MMG represents Harbor, formal service on Harbor is
not necessary. However, MMG reports that it is unable to contact Harbor (and
furthermore, Harbor appears not to have been served in this action at all). The
Court previously requested that MMG make further efforts to contact Harbor and
notify it of this action and the instant motion before the Court rules on the
motion.
 
          Following
the Court’s request, MMG hired a process server to serve Harbor with the
motion. On January 18, 2024, the process server attempted to serve Harbor at
its principal mailing address at 13181 Crossroads Parkway North, Suite 200,
City of Industry, CA 91746, which is also the address for service of process.
The process server was unable to effectuate service and reported that a
different business is currently at the address. MGG has been unable to locate
any other address or contact for Harbor. (See Peterson Decl. ¶¶ 4-7.)
 
          The
Court finds that MMG has made a diligent effort to locate and serve Harbor. As
Harbor is a named, but un-served, defendant in this case, Jupiter will still
ultimately need to effectuate service of process on Harbor for any judgment in
this case to be valid as against Harbor.
 
Grounds for Interpleader
 
MMG seeks leave to interplead funds and deposit the amount
of $131,253.67 with the Court pursuant to Civil Code, sections 386, 386.5, and
386.6 on the grounds that multiple parties claim conflicting interests in the
funds.
 
The affidavit of Adam Miller filed with the initial motion lays
out the grounds for interpleader as set forth in the background above. Miller
avers that MMG is a mere stakeholder with no interest in any portion of the
funds. (Miller Decl. ¶ 7.) Miller further declares that MMG is holding the
funds in trust for Harbor and that Jupiter has claimed an interest in the
funds. (Miller Decl. at ¶¶ 4, 6.)
 
Conflicting Claims
 
Lai argues that there are no conflicting claims for the
funds in MMG’s possession because JWD is the only party who has claimed
entitlement to those funds. Lai does not claim any entitlement to the funds
that were paid to MMG (notwithstanding his position that JWD is not entitled to
recover money from Lai in compensation for Lai’s use of those funds to settle
the Harbor action).
 
However, because MMG took the funds at issue into its
possession as part of a settlement that its former client Harbor consented to,
Harbor de facto must claim an interest in those funds, and the Court cannot
simply rule otherwise on the basis that Harbor has not yet been successfully
served.
 
Jupiter’s Separate Action
 
Lai argues that the motion is only necessary because MMG
lost contact with its former client, resulting in the money being in limbo. Lai
contends that, but for the loss of contact, the money would be in Harbor’s
hands, and Jupiter’s only – and appropriate – remedy would be to sue Lai for
the money instead.
 
In fact, it appears that Jupiter has filed a separate
action, Case No. 23STCV08242 (the “Lai Action”) against Lai and a number of
other Defendants, apparently seeking repayment for the funds used in settlement
of the Harbor Action.  The Lai Action is
the earlier-filed, lower-numbered case.  Lai
brings this case to the Court’s attention in his opposition. Although both the current
case and the Lai Action involve the same primary right of Jupiter, no notice of
related case has been filed in either this action or the Lai Action. This state
of affairs raises concerns that Jupiter may obtain a double recovery.
 
The Court therefore continues this motion and orders Jupiter
and Lai to show cause why this action should not be stayed pending the
resolution of the Lai Action or, alternatively, why a notice of related case
should not be filed in the Lai Action.