 Case Number:  21STCV39861    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposing papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 29, 2021, Plaintiff Daniel Reygosa (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Charlesetta Grant (“Grant”), City of Santa Monica (“City”),
City of Santa Monica Big Blue Bus, and Does 1-20 for motor vehicle
tort, general negligence, and negligence of government entity (Gov. Code, §§
815.2, subd. (a), 820, subd. (a)). 
On
September 15, 2022, the City filed an answer. 
On
July 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Grant to produce documents requested in a deposition notice and for sanctions, to be heard on October 4, 2023.
On September 20, 2023, the City filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for December 7, 2023. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court compel Grant to produce documents requested in a deposition notice and impose sanctions. 
The
City requests that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.480 provides in part: 
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. 
“(b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of this motion shall be given to all
parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or by subsequent
service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally, the deposition
officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the court at the time
specified in the notice. 
* * *
  “(h) Not less than five days prior to the hearing on
this motion, the moving party shall lodge with the court a certified copy of
any parts of the stenographic transcript of the deposition that are relevant to
the motion. If a deposition is recorded by audio or video technology, the
moving party is required to lodge a certified copy of a transcript of any parts
of the deposition that are relevant to the motion. 
“(i) If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition. 
“(j) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or
production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (h), (i), (j).)  
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
The
Court denies the City’s request for judicial notice.
DISCUSSION 
On
May 1, 2023, Plaintiff served a Notice of Taking Deposition of Defendant City
of Santa Monica Employee Charlesetta Grant and Request for Production of
Documents.  Plaintiff served the notice
on counsel for the City. 
On May
19, 2023, the City served an Objection to the Notice of Deposition to MCO Charlesetta
Grant and Request for Production of Documents. 
On
May 22, 2023, Grant attended and testified at her deposition. 
Plaintiff
now moves to compel Grant to produce documents which, Plaintiff asserts, Grant
should have produced at her May 22, 2023 deposition. 
Grant,
however, has not appeared in this action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 1014 [“A defendant appears in an action when the
defendant answers, demurs, files a notice of motion to strike, files a notice
of motion to transfer pursuant to Section 396b, moves for reclassification
pursuant to Section 403.040, gives the plaintiff written notice of appearance,
or when an attorney gives notice of appearance for the defendant”]; Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 1.6(15) [“ ‘Party’ is a person appearing in an action”];
Declaration of Karen S. Duryea ¶ 2.)  
When
a party moves to compel production of documents from a non-party deponent, “[a] written notice and all moving papers supporting [the] motion . . . must be
personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees
to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic
service address specified on the deposition record.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.) 
The proof
of service attached to Plaintiff’s motion does not show personal service (or
any service) on Grant.  Plaintiff has not
shown that Grant agreed to accept service at another address. 
The
Court denies the motion for lack of proper service. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Daniel Reygosa’s motion to compel Defendant Charlesetta
Grant to produce documents requested in a deposition notice and for sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.