 Case Number:  23STCV17782    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 28, 2023, Plaintiffs Lilit Hakobyan and Khachatur Aspoyan  filed this action against Defendants Uber
Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), Lashane Philips (“Philips”), and Does 1-10 for (1)
negligence, (2) negligent hiring, retention, supervision
and training, (3) assault and battery, and (4) intentional infliction of emotional
distress.  On September 12, 2023, the
Court dismissed Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages against Uber without
prejudice at Plaintiffs’ request. 
On
September 8, 2023, Uber filed a demurrer to be heard on October 4, 2023. On
September 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On September 27, 2023, Uber
filed a reply. 
Trial
is scheduled for January 3, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Uber
requests that the Court sustain the demurrer to the first, third and fourth causes
of action for failure to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action. 
Plaintiffs
request that the Court overrule the demurrer. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Demurrer 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
“(a) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the pleading. 
“(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have
the legal capacity to sue. 
“(c) There is another action pending between the same
parties on the same cause of action. 
“(d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties. 
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. 
“(g) In an action founded upon a contract, it cannot
be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is oral, or
is implied by conduct. 
“(h) No certificate was filed as required by Section
411.35.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25,
emphasis omitted.) 
B.   Vicarious liability 
“[A]
principal who personally engages in no misconduct may be vicariously liable for
the tortious act committed by an agent within the course and scope of the
agency. [Citation.] Agency is the relationship which results from the
manifestation of consent by one person to another that the other shall act on
his behalf and subject to his control, and consent by the other so to act . . .
.[Citation.]” (Barenborg v. Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity (2019) 33
Cal.App.5th 70, 85.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
Plaintiffs
allege the following: 
On
September 25, 2022, Plaintiffs ordered a ride from Uber. During the ride,
Plaintiff Lilit Hakobyan became nauseous and vomited in the back seat of the
vehicle.  Plaintiffs apologized and
offered to pay Philips, the driver, compensation to clean the vehicle. Philips became
aggressive and refused to take Plaintiffs home. Plaintiffs protested and begged
Philips to take them to their destination. 
Philips, however, refused to transport Plaintiffs any further.  Philips then stabbed Plaintiffs with a knife,
severely injuring them. 
Philips
was Uber’s employee and was acting in the scope of Philips’ employment.  Uber knew or should have known about Philips’ violent
propensities before the attack.  Uber’s
negligence and negligent hiring, retention, supervision and training of Philips
caused the attack and Plaintiffs’ injuries. 
Uber is also vicariously liable for Philips’ acts under the doctrine of
respondeat superior. 
B.   The demurrer 
1.    “Independent” driver 
Uber
asserts that Plaintiffs’ claims for negligence, assault and battery, and
intentional infliction of emotional distress (the first, third, and fourth
causes of action) fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action because, as a matter of law, Uber cannot be held vicariously liable for
assaults committed by an independent driver.  
The
complaint alleges that Philips was Uber’s employee.  Uber has not asked the Court to take judicial notice of any information establishing
that, as Uber argues, Philips was really “independent” of Uber. Therefore, the Court
assumes for purposes of the demurrer that Philips was Uber’s employee. 
2.    Scope of employment 
Even
if Philips was Uber’s employee, Uber argues, Uber cannot be vicariously liable for purposes of the first, third, and fourth causes of action because Philips’ assault of Plaintiffs fell outside the scope of Philips' employment. 
“In Lisa
M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 48
Cal.Rptr.2d 510, 907 P.2d 358 [(Lisa M.)], our Supreme Court outlined
the principles applicable to determining whether an employer may be held
liable, on a theory of respondeat superior, for the intentional tort of an
employee: ‘The rule of respondeat superior is familiar and simply stated: an
employer is vicariously liable for the torts of its employees committed within
the scope of the employment. [Citation.] Equally well established, if somewhat
surprising on first encounter, is the principle that an employee's willful,
malicious and even criminal torts may fall within the scope of his or her
employment for purposes of respondeat superior, even though the employer has
not authorized the employee to commit crimes or intentional torts. [Citations.]
What, then, is the connection required between an employee's intentional tort
and his or her work so that the employer may be held vicariously liable? [¶] It
is clear, first of all, that California no longer follows the traditional rule
that an employee's actions are within the scope of employment only if
motivated, in whole or part, by a desire to serve the employer's interests. [Citation.]
. . . . [¶] While the employee thus need not have intended to further the
employer's interests, the employer will not be held liable for an assault or
other intentional tort that did not have a causal nexus to the employee's work.
This rule, too, can be traced to [Carr v. Wm. C. Crowell Co. (1946) 28
Cal.2d 652 (Carr)]. There the court acknowledged that “[i]f an employee
inflicts an injury out of personal malice, not engendered by the employment,
the employer is not liable.” [Id. at p. 656.] We further explained that in the case under consideration the attack was,
indeed, “an outgrowth” of the employee's work: “Not only did the altercation
leading to the injury arise solely over the performance of [the employee's]
duties, but his entire association with plaintiff arose out of his employment
on the building under construction.” [Id. at p. 657.] ’ ” (Flores
v. AutoZone W., Inc. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 373, 379-380 (Flores),
quoting Lisa M., supra, 12 Cal.4th at pp. 296–298, fns. omitted.) 
“The
court [in Lisa M.] went on to make clear that ‘The nexus required for
respondeat superior liability—that the tort be engendered by or arise from the
work—is to be distinguished from “but for” causation. That the employment
brought tortfeasor and victim together in time and place is not enough. We have
used varied language to describe the nature of the required additional link
(which, in theory, is the same for intentional and negligent torts): the
incident leading to injury must be an “outgrowth” of the employment [Carr,
supra, 28 Cal.2d at p. 657]; the risk of tortious injury must be ‘
“inherent in the working environment” ’ [id. at p. 656] or “ ‘ typical
of or broadly incidental to the enterprise [the employer] has undertaken’ “ [Hinman
v. Westinghouse Elec. Co. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 956, 960].  [¶] ... The employment, in
other words, must be such as predictably to create the risk employees will
commit intentional torts of the type for which liability is sought.’ ” (Flores, supra, 161 Cal.App.4th at p. 380,
quoting Lisa M., supra, 12 Cal.4th at pp. 298–299, fn.
omitted.) 
“The
question, then, is whether an employee's physical eruption, stemming from his
interaction with a customer, is a predictable risk of retail employment. Our
Supreme Court has suggested it may well be: ‘Flare-ups, frustrations, and
disagreements among employees are commonplace in the workplace and may lead to “physical
act[s] of aggression.” [Citations omitted.] “ ‘In bringing [people] together,
work brings [personal] qualities together, causes frictions between them,
creates occasions for lapses into carelessness, and for fun-making and
emotional flareup.... These expressions of human nature are incidents inseparable
from working together. They involve risks of injury and these risks are
inherent in the working environment.’ [Citations.]” [Citations omitted.]’ ” (Flores, supra, 161 Cal.App.4th at p. 380,
quoting Torres v. Parkhouse Tire Service, Inc. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 995,
1008–1009.) 
“Although
the courts in both Carr and Parkhouse Tire Service were
addressing the risk of violence between coworkers, rather than between an
employee and customer, we cannot draw a meaningful distinction between the two
scenarios. The workplace stresses and strains which might cause an employee to
erupt in anger are not dependent upon whether the person who happens to be
standing in the line of fire is a coworker or a retail customer. (See Greenfield
v. Spectrum Investment Corp. (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 111, 118, 219 Cal.Rptr.
805, overruled on other grounds in Lakin v. Watkins Associated Industries (1993)
6 Cal.4th 644, 664, 25 Cal.Rptr.2d 109, 863 P.2d 179 [Budget Rent–A–Car
customer severely beaten by employee following a dispute about the amount of a
required deposit]; Stansell v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (1941) 44 Cal.App.2d
822, 113 P.2d 264 [store manager assaulted customer in dispute about grocery
order]; Hiroshima v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (1936) 18 Cal.App.2d
24, 63 P.2d 340 [utility employee assaulted customer following dispute about
payment.] In either scenario, as the foregoing authorities establish, ‘flare-ups
[and] frustrations’ are commonplace for employees during the course of their
work.” (Flores, supra, 161
Cal.App.4th at pp. 380-381.) 
In Flores,
the defendant argued that the altercation between its employee and the customer
could not be viewed as an “outgrowth[ ] of employment” because it was not attributable to “work-related events
or conditions.”  The defendant argued it was not until after the
employee “had completed the appointed task of directing the [customer] to the
location where the price for motor oil was displayed,” that “a spark of malice
... was suddenly and unexpectedly ignited after [the employee] heard he should
not have come to work.” The defendant argued that spark was “purely personal,”
and “had nothing to do with the price of oil, or retrieving a case off the
shelf for [the customer.]” (Flores,
supra, 161 Cal.App.4th at p. 381, citations omitted.) 
The
Court of Appeal reversed the trial court’s order granting summary judgment: “In
our view, the anger generated during the interaction between [the customer] and
[the employee] cannot be so tidily compartmentalized—at least not as a matter
of law. While it may be true that [the employee] did not develop his malicious
“spark” until the moment [the customer] made his last comment, a jury could
certainly infer from his prior comments that his anger had been ‘sparked’ at an
earlier point. ‘Ordinarily, the determination whether an employee has acted
within the scope of employment presents a question of fact; it becomes a
question of law, however, when ‘the facts are undisputed and no conflicting
inferences are possible.’ [Mary M. v. City of Los Angeles (1991) 54
Cal.3d 202, 213.] Here, even if
the ‘facts’ could be characterized as undisputed, the possible inferences to be
drawn from those facts cannot.” (Flores, supra,
161 Cal.App.4th at p. 381; see also id. at pp. 381-382.) 

Applying
the analysis set out in Flores, the Court overrules Uber’s demurrer to
the first, third, and fourth causes of action.  A jury could infer from the facts pleaded in Plaintiffs’
complaint that Philips’ assault on Plaintiffs was an outgrowth of Philips’
employment with Uber, exposing Uber to potential vicarious liability. 
3.    Negligent infliction of emotional distress
Uber
challenges what it refers to as Plaintiff’s claim for negligent infliction of
emotional distress.  Plaintiffs have not
asserted such a claim.  The Court
overrules Uber’s demurrer on this point. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court OVERRULES Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.’s demurrer. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.