 Case Number:  21STCV13947    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 13, 2021, Plaintiff Patricia Avila (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendant Chris Brown (“Brown”) and Does 1-50 for premises liability,
negligent infliction of emotional distress, and strict liability. On October
25, 2021, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Black Pyramid,
LLC (“Black Pyramid”) as Doe 1. 
On
February 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Brown,
Black Pyramid, and Does 2-50 for premises liability, negligent infliction of
emotional distress, and negligence. On May 23, 2022, Brown and Black Pyramid
(“Defendants”) filed an answer. 
On
July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel third
party witness Maria Avila’s compliance with Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena for
production of business records and remaining document production and for
sanctions, to be heard on October 4, 2023. 
No opposition has been filed. 
Trial
is currently set for July 15, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court order third-party witness Maria Avila (“Third Party”)
to produce all documents requested in Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena for
production of business records and document production. Plaintiff also requests
that the Court impose $2,256.65 on Third Party’s counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A
party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the action may
obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena
for production of business records. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.)  A deposition subpoena may command the
attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business
records, other documents, electronically stored information, and tangible
things. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.) The Court may order a third party to
comply with a deposition subpoena upon any terms or condition that the court
declares. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.480 provides in part: 
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. 
“(b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of this motion shall be given to all
parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or by subsequent
service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally, the deposition
officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the court at the time
specified in the notice. 
* * *
“(i) If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition. 
“(j) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (i), (j).) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a), provides that “[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.” Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision
(d), provides that misuse of the discovery process includes “making . . .
unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or to
limit discovery.” 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Service 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1346, provides: “A written notice and all moving papers
supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel
production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be
personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees
to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic
service address specified on the deposition record.” 
Plaintiff
served her motion on Third Party’s counsel, not on Third Party personally.  As an attachment to her counsel’s
declaration, Plaintiff provided an email from Third Party’s counsel to
Plaintiff’s counsel dated July 7, 2023 stating: “[Third Party] is a party
to a related action and you are NOT allowed to have any contact with her. All
communication must be through me or my office. Moving forward please do NOT
have any contact with my client, whether through correspondence or process
servers.”  (Murphy Dec. Exh. 5.)  Based on this directive, Plaintiff's service of the motion on Third Party’s counsel was proper
under rule 3.1346. 
B.   The deposition subpoena 
On
June 21, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel issued a deposition subpoena for production
of business records to Third Party with a production deadline of July 21, 2023.
 On June
29, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel’s attorney service served the deposition subpoena
on Third Party at her home.  On July 5,
2023, Plaintiff’s counsel served a copy of the deposition subpoena for
production of business records and a
deposition notice to take Third Party’s deposition on August 3, 2023, on Third Party's counsel's office. 
C.   Third Party does not produce responsive documents and asserts
that she is not available for deposition 
On
July 7, 2023, Third Party’s counsel wrote to Plaintiff’s counsel stating that
Third Party was “not available for deposition so it will have to be
rescheduled.”  Third Party’s counsel
added: “I would prefer not to put [Third Party] through the trauma of a
deposition and relieve this nightmare, and her testimony will be detrimental to
your client's case. Please withdraw the deposition notice immediately.” (Murphy Dec. Exh. 5.) 
Plaintiff’s
counsel responded that he would not withdraw the subpoena and he requested
alternative dates for the deposition. (Murphy
Dec. Exh. 5.)  Third Party’s counsel
emailed back: “My client will not appear for deposition on the date you have
chosen, as I am not available. I am urging to reconsider your position, her
testimony will not be favorable to your client and you will confirm your client
has no damages, why would you do this? My client has been through enough.
Please withdraw the request to depose her. In either event we are not available
on the date you chose. I will file a motion for protective order to preclude
her deposition but prefer to meet and confer with you further in the hopes of
securing your cooperation.” (Murphy Dec.
Exh. 5.) 
Plaintiff’s
counsel again asked for alternative dates for Third Party’s deposition.  Counsel warned that, unless he received alternative
dates, the deposition would go forward and counsel would take a non-appearance
and file a motion to compel. 
On
July 21, 2023, the deadline for the document production, Third Party did not
produce any documents. 
On
July 25, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel told Third Party’s counsel: “I’ll give your
client until this Friday, July 28, 2023, to produce her documents in response
to our subpoena and then we’ll be filing motions to compel and seeking
sanctions against your office.”  (Exh.
8.) 
On
July 27, 2023, Third Party served objections to the August 3, 2023 deposition
stating Third Party and her counsel were not available that day.  (Murphy Dec. ¶ 15 &
Exh. 9.)  The objection stated: “[Third
Party’s] counsel is willing to meet and confer with Plaintiff Patricia Avila’s
counsel. [Third Party] will be produced for a remote deposition on a mutually
agreed upon date and time. There is NO refusal to proceed with deposition.
There is NO refusal to produce [Third Party] for deposition.”  (Exh. 9.) 
Third
Party has not provided an alternative date for the deposition and has not
produced the documents requested in the deposition subpoena. (Murphy Dec. ¶ 15.) 
D.   Analysis 
In
her lawsuit, Plaintiff alleges that she perceived Third Party – Plaintiff’s
sister – being attacked and injured by a dog at Defendants’ home.  Plaintiff could
reasonably conclude that the documents requested in
Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena served on Third Party are subject to
discovery.  
Third
Party has filed a separate lawsuit, which remains pending.  Third Party’s lawsuit, however, does not relieve
Third Party of her obligation to comply with Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena
and request for production of documents. 
The Court grants the motion. 
Plaintiff
requests monetary sanctions of $2,256.65 based on five hours of attorney time
to prepare the moving papers and one hour to prepare for and attend the hearing
at a rate of $350 per hour, $15.00 to e-file the motion, a filing fee of $61.65,
and about $80.00 to have paper copies delivered to Department 28. 
The
Court grants $561.65 in sanctions based on two hours of attorney time at a
reasonable rate of $250 per hour and one filing fee. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Patricia Avila’s motion to compel
Third Party witness Maria Avila’s compliance with Plaintiff’s deposition
subpoena for production of business records and remaining document production
and for sanctions.  Third Party Maria
Avila is ordered to produce code-compliant, verified responses to Plaintiff’s requests for production Nos. 1-21, 24-38, and 40-47 by November 3, 2023. 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Patricia Avila’s
request for sanctions and orders Third Party Maria Avila and her attorney to pay Plaintiff $561.65 by November 3,
2023. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.