  Case Number:  20STCV07988    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  28  



DEPARTMENT


28




HEARING DATE


October
  4, 2023




CASE NUMBER


20STCV07988




MOTION


Motion to compel further responses to special
  interrogatories, set 4, and requests for sanctions




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Morreco R. Coleman




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Parsec, Inc.



 
On
February 27, 2020, Plaintiff Morreco R. Coleman (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendant Parsec, Inc. (“Parsec”) for motor vehicle negligence and
general negligence. Plaintiff later amended the complaint to include Defendant
Leverne D. Davis (“Davis”). On March 23, 2020, Parsec filed an answer. On May
7, 2021, Davis filed an answer. 
Plaintiff
moves the Court for an order compelling Parsec to provide further responses to the
following discovery request and for sanctions: 
Special interrogatories,
set four, Propounded to Defendant Parsec, Inc., numbers 78 and 80 a.     Propounded:     December
5, 2022 b.    Responded:       January 13 and 20, 2023 c.     Motion filed:     February
22, 2023 
On May 2, 2023, Parsec filed an opposition and request
for $1,250 in sanctions.  On May 8, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a reply. 
On September 6, 2023, the Court continued the hearing
to October 4, 2023.  On September 28,
2023, Parsec filed a supplemental declaration. 
Procedural RequirementS 
 A.  
Informal
Discovery Conference 
          The Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the
Personal Injury Hub Courts Effective October 10, 2022 (filed September 20, 2022),
¶ 9E, provides: “PI Hub Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further
Discovery Responses to Discovery until the parties have engaged in an Informal
Discovery Conference (IDC).  PI Hub
Courts may deny or continue a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Discovery
if parties fail to schedule and complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on
a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Discovery.”   
          Plaintiff complied with the Standing Order by scheduling
and attending an IDC with Parsec on April 18, 2023 and August 7, 2023.  
          B. Timeliness of Motion 
          A notice of motion to compel further responses must be
given within 45 days of the service of the responses, or any supplemental
responses, or on or before any specific later date to which the parties have
agreed in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c), 2031.310, subd.
(c).)  Failure to file such a motion
within this time period constitutes a waiver of any right to compel further
responses to interrogatories.  (Ibid.) 
Parsec
does not contest the timeliness of the motion. 
          C. Meet and
Confer 
          “A motion to compel must be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b)(1);
2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)  “A meet and
confer declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and good-faith attempt
at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  
          Plaintiff has provided evidence that he met and conferred
with Parsec. 
D.  Separate Statement 
          California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, requires that any
motion involving the content of discovery contain a separate statement with the
text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal
reasons for why an order compelling further responses is warranted.  
          Plaintiff has filed a separate statement accompanying the
motion.    
APPLICABLE LAW 
A.   Interrogatories 
 Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.220 provides:   
“(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories
shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably
available to the responding party permits. 
“(b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered
completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible. 
“(c) If the responding party does not have personal
knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so
state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.220.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a), provides:         
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the
propounding party deems that any of the following apply: 
“(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is
evasive or incomplete. 
“(2) An exercise of the option to produce documents
under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate. 
“(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit
or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (a).) 
B.   Discovery sanctions 
“The
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. The court may also impose this sanction on one
unsuccessfully asserting that another has engaged in the misuse of the
discovery process, or on any attorney who advised that assertion, or on both.
If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court
shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The motion to compelPlaintiff moves to compel further responses to two interrogatories:  SPECIAL
INTERROGTORY NO. 78: State the last known residential and business address, and
phone number for Jovan Cebreros, Employee No. 116485. 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 80: State the last known residential and business address,
and phone number for Alberto Gonzalez, employee no. 113678. 
Jovan
Cebreros and Alberto Gonzalez are Parsec’s former employees.  Plaintiff argues their testimony is relevant
to the issue of prior notice to Parsec of “its dangerous and unsafe work
practices and negligent training of Parsec’s drivers, as well as Parsec’s
failure to take reasonable and necessary steps to correct those dangerous and
unsafe conditions prior to the occurrence of the subject Incident.” 
Parsec
asserts the former employees’ contact information is protected private
information.  Both former employees have
objected to disclosure of their contact information.  
Plaintiff
states: “Defendant provided contact information for the two other witnesses
named in Special Interrogatories (Set 4), who either did not formally object to
disclosure of their contact information or who consented to disclosure.
Defendant’s reliance on Pioneer Electronics, supra, as justification for
continued refusal to provide contact information for the remaining two
witnesses is misplaced.”  (Separate
Statement p. 6.)   
On September
6, 2023, the Court continued the hearing on this motion to October 4, 2023, and
ordered the parties to submit supplemental declarations stating whether Parsec
identified Jovan Cebreros and Alberto Gonzalez as
witnesses in discovery. 
On September
28, 2023, Parsec filed a declaration by its counsel stating that Parsec has not identified Jovan Cebreros and Alberto
Gonzalez as witnesses in discovery. 
Plaintiff has not disputed Parsec’s assertion. 
The
Court has weighed the privacy rights of Jovan Cebreros and Alberto Gonzalez against
Plaintiff’s asserted need for their contact information.  The Court concludes the privacy rights of Jovan
Cebreros and Alberto Gonzalez outweigh Plaintiff’s right to these individuals’
contact information because Jovan Cebreros and Alberto Gonzalez have stated
they do not wish to be contacted about this case and Plaintiff has not shown that
Jovan Cebreros and Alberto Gonzalez have or are
likely to have discoverable information in light of Plaintiff's offer to stipulate to vicarious liability for any negligent driving by Davis. 
B.   Parsec’s request for sanctions 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (d), provides: 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further
response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subdivision (d).) 
Parsec
requests $1,250 in sanctions based on 4.5 hours of attorney time to prepare the
opposition papers and .5 hours to review the reply and appear for the hearing
at counsel’s billing rate of $250.00 per hour. 
The Court grants sanctions of $500 based on two hours of attorney
time. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion of Plaintiff Morreco R. Coleman
to compel Defendant Parsec, Inc. to provide further responses to special
interrogatories, set four, numbers 78 and 80. 
The Court
orders Plaintiff Morreco R. Coleman and his counsel to pay Defendant Parsec, Inc.
$500 in sanctions by November 3, 2023. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file a proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.