 Case Number:  22STCV19488    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  30 GILBERT GUERRERO vs FRANKLIN VLADIMIR LOPEZ ALAS, et al.TENTATIVEPlaintiff’s motion to quash the subpoena is DENIED as moot. Both parties’ request for sanctions is DENIED.  Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED. Defendant is ordered to file an answer to the complaint within 10 days.Each moving party to give notice.DiscussionMotion to Quash SubpoenaBecause the subpoenas were modified as Plaintiff requested, the motion is MOOT.  The court may award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing a motion to quash, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2(a).)The court exercises its discretion not to award sanctions. First, Defendant appears to have resolved the issue and agreed to modify the subpoena. Thus, the motion did not need to be filed and/or could have been taken off calendar. Moreover, Defendant has opposed with substantial justification.In turn, Defendant request sanctions against Plaintiff under § 2023.010.Defendant’s request for sanctions under CCP section 2023.010 for the alleged misuse of discovery is also denied, as "sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 do not independently authorize the trial court to impose monetary sanctions for misuse of discovery.” (City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 504.)Motion to StrikeMeet and ConferCode of Civil Procedure section 435.5 requires that, before filing a motion to strike, the moving party shall meet and confer¿in person or by telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject of the motion for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the issues to be raised in the motion. The party must also file and serve a declaration detailing the meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)The motion to strike is accompanied by the declaration of defense counsel, and thus, satisfies the meet and confer requirements. (Herme Decl.)DiscussionDefendant argues the factual allegations of the complaint do not rise to the level of “malice” as defined in Civil Code § 3294.As an initial matter, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has filed two oppositions, one on April 26, 2024, and one on January 2, 2024, after the stay was lifted. The Court only considers Plaintiff’s first opposition.To state a claim for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) A motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.)“Malice” is defined in section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.)To prove that a defendant acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.) Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id. at 90). Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined as “base, vile or contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725.)The Court notes that Donnelly v. Southern Pacific Co. (1941) 18 Cal.2d 863, 869-870 and Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 90 both hold that driving recklessly can support a prayer for punitive damages.Although Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82 was a DUI case, the Court noted that the circumstances constituted more than the “ordinary driving while intoxicated,” where there was a probable risk of injury to others due to the defendant running a stop sign, at a high rate of speed, zigzagging through traffic, in the middle of the afternoon on a Sunday in summer, and in a crowded beach recreation area. (Id. pp. 88-89.) It was these aggravating circumstances that made the risk of injury to others probable.Here, the FAC alleges sufficient facts showing Defendant was guilty of malice. The FAC alleges the following. Plaintiff heard what sounded like street racing outside of his residence Normandie Avenue and 15th Street. He heard tires screeching, engines revving, and people cheering. He went outside to investigate what was going on and saw cars and crowds of people using both bodies and cars to block off the streets and side streets. He saw yet more cars in what appeared to be drag racing. The only cars actually on Normandie and 15th at that point must have been involved in street racing because the were on the “inside” of the crowd and blockades. (FAC, ¶ 15.)Plaintiff called the police. A few moments later, he heard sirens, and saw the street racers, and those aiding, abetting, and facilitating the street racing by blocking off the streets and/or betting on the races, all scatter, clearly fleeing law enforcement. (FAC, ¶ 16.)Plaintiff was almost back to his residence, when two cars that appeared to be fleeing the scene collided at an extreme rate of speed, and spun off the road slamming into Plaintiff and another bystander who Plaintiff witnessed die at the scene from being hit by the cars. The subject vehicles were speeding and ignoring traffic signals in order to evade the police. Immediately after the collision, knowing that the subject vehicles were breaking the law before and during the subject incident, passengers jumped out of at least one of the subject vehicles and ran from the scene. Despite this, both Defendants Alas and Condoll told the police at the scene that there were no passengers in the car with them. (Id., ¶ 17.)Defendant ALAS was operating a 2014 BMW 3 Series, one of the cars that hit Plaintiff and killed the man next to him. (Id., ¶ 18.) Defendants were negligent unlicensed drivers with multiple prior citations, histories of engaging in street racing, drag racing, and/or speed contests. (Id., ¶ 42.)The facts alleged resemble the facts in Dawes very closely. As alleged here, Defendants were fleeing from the police, driving at an extreme rate of speed, in an area crowded with people, running traffic signals, when they collided and struck Plaintiff and another bystander. The facts show that Defendant intentionally drove his vehicle this way. As such, it reasonably might be said that Defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.The only potential distinction between Donnelly and Dawes and the instant case is the fact that, in 1987, the legislature amended § 3294’s definition of “malice” to include a requirement of “despicable conduct.” However, the facts alleged as to Defendant are certainly despicable. Defendant’s reprehensible driving in an area crowded by people caused the person Plaintiff was standing with to die and severely injured Plaintiff.