 Case Number:  22STCV40016    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


August
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV40016




MOTION


(1)
  Demurrer to Espinoza’s Cross-Complaint
(2)
  Motion to Strike Portions of Espinoza’s Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Target Corporation




OPPOSING PARTY


Cross-Complainant
  Enedino Espinoza



 
MOTION
 
On December 23, 2022, Plaintiff Joseph Buddenberg (“Plaintiff”) filed
a complaint against Defendants Target Corporation, Allied Universal, John Doe,
and Does 1 to 50 for various causes of action including, assault, battery, and
intentional infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff alleges that on October
18, 2022, he was exiting the premises at 735 S. Figueroa St. Los Angeles, when
John Doe, a security guard, physically attacked and assaulted him. (Complaint ¶
8.) 
 
On March 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint,
substituting Enedino Espinoza (“Espinoza”) as John Doe. 
 
            On April 26, 2024, Espinoza filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff, Target Corporation, and Roes 1 through 100.
Espinoza asserts causes of action for: (1) total and equitable indemnity; (2)
violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act; (3) Negligence; (4) Assault; (5)
Violations of Civil Code section 52.1; (6) Violations of Business and
Professions Code section 17200; (7) and Civil Code sections 1708.8(c), and (8)
1708.7. The first six causes of action are asserted against Target Corporation.
Espinoza alleges he was a security guard for Watermark Security Group Inc.,
which contracted with a Target store to provide security. (Cross Complaint ¶ 1,
4.) 
 
            Target Corporation (“Target”) now
demurs to the first six causes of action in the cross-complaint, arguing they
are uncertain and do not state sufficient facts. Target also separately moves
to strike references to punitive damages, treble damages, labor code penalties,
civil penalties, attorneys fees, and preliminary and permanent injunctions.
Espinoza opposes and Target replies.
            
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. 
It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the
opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint).  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 422.10, 589; see Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true.  (Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.)
 
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter
of pleading, even as against a special demurrer, is that his complaint set
forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable precision and with
sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source and
extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149,
156-157.) 
 
On demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to
“determine whether or not the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a
cause of action under any legal theory.” (Das v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.) Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
A
demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading is so bad
that the responding party cannot reasonably respond, i.e., he or she cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are
directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Where a demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty,
the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why the pleading is
uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to page and line
numbers. (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135
Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)
 
            Where a demurrer is sustained, leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41 requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this
chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the
responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).)
 
The Declaration of Jessica Farley,
counsel for Target, states the following: “[o]n June 19, 2024, my office sent a
meet and confer letter outlining each of the deficiencies in the
Cross-Complaint and asked for a response on or before June 24, 2024. . . . As of
the date of filing this demurrer, Espinoza has still not responded to my meet
and confer efforts. (Farley Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. 2.) Therefore, the meet and confer
requirement is met. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
As an initial matter, upon reviewing the cross-complaint, the Court finds
that the pleadings are not so uncertain that Target cannot reasonably respond.
Therefore, the Court will address the argument that the causes of action do not
state sufficient facts. 
 
Here, the cross-complaint alleges that on the day of the incident,
Plaintiff was recording Espinoza with his phone at the Target store and refused
to leave the store. (Cross-complaint ¶12-13.) Espinoza alleges that Plaintiff
continued to follow Espinoza while aiming his phone towards Espinoza’s face.
Espinoza alleges that he never attacked Plaintiff. (Id. ¶ 13.)  
 

Total and Equitable Indemnity

 
“ ‘The elements of a cause of action for indemnity are (1) a showing of
fault on the part of the indemnitor and (2) resulting damages to the indemnitee
for which the indemnitor is ... equitably responsible. [Citation.]’
[Citation.]” (Bailey v. Safeway, Inc. (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 206, 217.) 
 
“[A] fundamental prerequisite to an action for partial or total equitable
indemnity is an actual monetary loss through payment of a judgment or
settlement.” (Christian v. County of Los Angeles (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d
466, 471.) Explained further, “[t]he right to indemnity depends upon the
principle that everyone is responsible for the consequences of his own wrong,
and if others have been compelled to pay damages which ought to have been paid
by the wrongdoer, they may recover from him.” (Id. at 471-72 [internal
quotations omitted].) 
 
Here, the cross-complaint states: “Cross-Defendant TARGET and its agent
Watermark, its insurer, and each of them, should be required to defend,
indemnify and hold harmless ESPINOZA for any and all damages asserted against
him and all costs, expenses for attorneys’ fees, and other incidental expenses
incurred in defending the actions and/or in prosecution of this
Cross-Complaint. By this action, ESPINOZA demands that Cross-Defendant TARGET,
and each of them, pay all costs or fees incurred by or on his behalf and
further indemnify ESPINOZA for all sums paid by way of judgment, settlement or
otherwise in this action.” (Cross-complaint ¶ 24.) 
 
In opposition, Espinoza argues that he has alleged sufficient damages by
stating he has incurred attorneys’ fees and costs for defending Plaintiff’s
action. In reply, Target discusses contractual indemnification but fails to
provide authority that an equitable indemnity cause of action cannot be
asserted in a cross-complaint. (See Evangelatos v. Superior Court (1988)
44 Cal.3d 1188, 1197-98 [“Subsequent cases established that under the
principles articulated in American Motorcycle, supra, 20 Cal.3d
578, 146 Cal.Rptr. 182, 578 P.2d 899, a defendant may pursue a comparative
equitable indemnity claim against other tortfeasors either (1) by filing a
cross-complaint in the original tort action or (2) by filing a separate
indemnity action after paying more than its proportionate share of the damages
through the satisfaction of a judgment or through a payment in settlement.”].)
 
Therefore, the demurrer is overruled. 
 

Violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act

 
The
California Consumers Legal Remedies
Act (CLRA), Civil Code section 1750 et seq., protects consumers from a broad
range of unfair or deceptive business practices. Under the Act, in order to sue
for money damages, a plaintiff must first provide the defendant with notice and
a 30-day opportunity to cure the issue. (Civ. Code § 1782 (a).)
 
The
necessary elements of a CLRA cause of action are: (1) a consumer; (2) who
suffers any damage; and (3) because of the use or employment by any person of a
method, act, or practice declared to be unlawful by Civil Code section
1770.  (Civ. Code, §1780 (a); Buckland v. Threshold Ent., Ltd.
(2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 798, 809, 811 [“actual reliance is an element of a CLRA
claim sounding in fraud”], overruled in other part by Kwikset Corp. v.
Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 326-327.) Under
the CLRA, a consumer is defined as “an individual who seeks or acquires,
by purchase or lease, any goods or services for personal, family, or household
purposes.” (Civ. Code § 1761 (d).) 
 
            Espinoza alleges: “Espinoza brings
this cause of action as a consumer of goods and services purchased from Target.
. . . Target did undertake the provision of their goods and services to Espinoza
and other consumers through unfair and deceptive practices.” (Cross-complaint ¶
26-27.) 
 
            Here, the cross-complaint fails to sufficiently
allege that Espinoza was acting as a consumer for purposes of the CLRA, but
rather alleges that he was acting as a security guard. Therefore, the demurrer
is sustained.  
 

Negligence

 
The elements of a cause of action for
negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of defendant toward plaintiff; (2)
defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm to the plaintiff caused by that
breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) “
‘Generally a person does not have a duty to control another's conduct or to
warn those who may be endangered by such conduct. However, a duty may arise
where a special relationship exists giving rise to a right to such protection.
[Citation.]’ [citation omitted.] Such a special relationship exists ‘between a
business establishment and its customers [which] as a matter of law places an
affirmative ‘duty’ on the proprietor to take reasonable precautions to protect
patrons from reasonably anticipative criminal conduct of unknown third parties.
[Citations.]’” (Balard v. Bassman Event Security, Inc. (1989) 210
Cal.App.3d 243, 247.) The duty “is applicable to the agents and employees of
the business establishment.” (Id.)
 
Here, Espinoza alleges: 
“Cross-Defendant
TARGET permitted ESPINOZA to be victimized, threatened with unreasonable and
un-consented to force, stalked, assaulted, threatened and harassed. TARGET knew
that this unreasonable conduct, constituting a assault was being committed,
that further assault was going to be committed, substantially assisted
BUDDENBERG to assault ESPINOZA and participated in the misconduct by permitting
the conduct to continue giving the parties access to ESPINOZA, who they knew
would be at the door and thereby would be having further contact with
instigators, with no reprimand, restriction or removal from the premises.
Cross-Defendant TARGET permitted ESPINOZA to be threatened with unreasonable
and un-consented to force and threats constituting crimes. ESPINOZA is informed
and believes that Cross-Defendant TARGET’s manager was there and permitted the
assault to occur, as well as BUDDENBERG’s subsequent conduct of screaming false
statements that ESPINOZA had attacked him, which were provably false by them,
as depicted in their surveillance video, yet they did nothing to assist
ESPINOZA.” 
(Cross-complaint
¶ 35.)
 
The
cross-complaint alleges that Target breached a duty by failing to stop the
alleged interaction with Espinoza and Plaintiff. Espinoza also alleges he was
injured as a result of the breach. Therefore, the demurrer to the third cause
of action for negligence is overruled. 
 

Assault 

 
The
essential elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted
with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch
plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed
[he or] she was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it
reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the
threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was
harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.)
 
Here, Espinoza
alleges: “Cross-Defendant TARGET permitted ESPINOZA to be threatened with
unreasonable and un-consented to force and threats constituting crimes.
ESPINOZA is informed and believes that Cross-Defendant TARGET’s manager was
there and permitted the assault to occur, as well as BUDDENBERG’s subsequent
conduct of screaming false statements that ESPINOZA had attacked him, which
were provably false by them, as depicted in their surveillance video, yet they
did nothing to assist ESPINOZA.” (Cross-complaint ¶ 40.) 
 
Espinoza
fails to state sufficient facts showing that Target acted with the requisite
intent. Therefore, the demurrer for the fourth cause of action is
sustained.  
 

Violation of Civil Code section 52.1

 
Civil Code, section 52.1 (the “Bane Civil Rights Act”) provides a civil remedy for
persons whose exercise of constitutional rights has been interfered with by
“threats, intimidation, or coercion.” (Civ. Code, § 52.1(a).)  Section 52.1 requires “an attempted or completed act of interference
with a legal right, accompanied by a form of coercion.”  (Jones v.
Kmart Corp. (1998) 17 Cal.4th 329, 334.)  Bane Act liability occurs
when a defendant’s threats, intimidation or coercion interferes or attempts to
interfere “with the exercise or enjoyment by any individual of rights secured
by the Constitution or laws of the United States, or of the rights secured by
the Constitution or laws of this state.” (Civil Code § 52.1(a); see City of Simi
Valley v. Superior Court (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1077, 1082, 1085-86
[plaintiff must allege and prove that defendant interfered with plaintiff’s
rights under federal or state law].)  “Although initially enacted ‘to stem
a tide of hate crimes’ [Citation], ‘a plaintiff need not allege the defendant
acted with discriminatory animus or intent; a defendant is liable if he or she
interfered with the plaintiff's constitutional rights by the requisite threats,
intimidation, or coercion’ [Citation.]”  (Simmons v. Superior Court
(2016) 7 Cal.App.5th 1113, 1125.)   
 
The essence of a Bane Act claim is that the defendant, by
the specified improper means (i.e., “threats, intimidation or coercion”), tried
to or did prevent the plaintiff from doing something he or she had the right to
do under the law or to force the plaintiff to do something that he or she was
not required to do under the law.  (Austin B. v. Escondido Union School
Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 882-883; see also Shoyoye v. County of
Los Angeles (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 947, 959 [Bane Act was intended to address
only egregious interferences with constitutional rights, where the act of
interference with a constitutional right must itself be deliberate or spiteful,
beyond just any tort, such as negligence].) 
 
Here, the cross-complaint alleges: “As stated herein,
Cross-Defendants have interfered with ESPINOZA’ s rights by assaulting him,
permitting dangerous conditions at their premises, refusing to permit them to
be addressed, through coercion and intimidation.” (Cross-complaint ¶ 46.) 
 
However, the cross-complaint
fails to allege facts that Defendant used threats, intimidation, or coercion to
prevent Espinoza from exercising his constitutional or statutory rights, and
does not specify the constitutional or statutory rights. The demurrer is
sustained.
 

Violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200

 
“Unfair competition” means “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising and any act prohibited by Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 17500)
of Part 3 of Division 7 of the Business and Professions Code.” (Bus. & Prof.
Code, § 17200.) “ ‘[S]ection 17200 is written in the disjunctive [and]
establishes three varieties of unfair competition—acts or practices which are
unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.” [Citation.] The three prongs of the law
have different thresholds. Under its ‘unlawful’ prong, ‘the UCL borrows
violations of other laws ... and makes those unlawful practices actionable
under the UCL.’ [Citation.] Thus, a violation of another law is a predicate for
stating a cause of action under the UCL's unlawful prong. In a consumer case,
determining whether a business practice is ‘unfair’ involves ‘weigh[ing] the
utility of the defendant's conduct against the gravity of the harm to the
alleged victim.’ [Citation.]” (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1133.) 
 
“A
plaintiff alleging unfair business practices under these statutes must state
with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of
the violation.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619 [sustaining demurrer because the
pleading did not identify a particular section of the statutory scheme which
was violated and failed to describe with any reasonable particularity the facts
supporting violation].)
 
            Espinoza alleges: “Cross-Defendants’ their agents’ and employees’ acts,
as specifically stated herein, constitute unfair business practices . . . .”
(Cross-complaint ¶ 50.) 
 
Here, the cross-complaint fails to identify a specific section of the
statutory scheme that was violated and fails to sufficiently describe the facts
supporting a violation. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained. 
 
Motion
to Strike
 
Target also moves to strike various portions of the cross-complaint.
Because the demurrer to the second, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action
is sustained, the motion to strike language in those causes of action is denied
as moot. Therefore, the remaining issues to strike are:
 
3. Pg. 14, para. 56 (“Cross-Defendants’ actions were willful,
reckless, and exhibited a conscious disregard of the rights of ESPINOZA.  Accordingly, ESPINOZA is entitled to punitive
damages, according to proof.”) 
4. Pg. 15, para. 59 (“Cross-Defendants’ actions were malicious,
despicable, fraudulent, willful, reckless and exhibited a conscious disregard
of the rights of ESPINOZA.  Accordingly,
ESPINOZA is entitled to punitive damages according to proof, as provided by
California Civil Code §§ 52 and 3294.”) 
5. Pg. 16, para. 5 (“For labor code penalties, punitive and exemplary
damages according to prooof [sic], which for the purposes of any future default
proceedings shall not exceed $1,000,000.00.”) 
6. Pg. 16, para. 6 (“For statutory damages, civil penalties, and
treble damages pursuant to Civil Code § 52 according to prooof [sic], which for
purposes of any future default proceedings shall not exceed $1,000,000.”) 
7. Pg. 16, para. 7 (“For attorneys fees, which for the purposes of any
future default proceedings shall not exceed $1,000,000.00.”) 
8. Pg. 16, para. 10 (“For a preliminary and permanent injunction.”)
 
Legal Standard
 
California law authorizes a party’s motion to strike matter from an
opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper. (Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 435; 436(a).) Motions may also target pleadings or parts of pleadings
which are not filed or drawn in conformity with applicable laws, rules or
orders. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) A motion to strike is used to address
defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from judicially noticed matter
but that are not grounds for a demurrer. (Pierson v Sharp Memorial Hospital
(1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342.)
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is conduct intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “‘Punitive damages are proper only
when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the
plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’
[Citation.]” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)
 
“As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294]
plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’
requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’
interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) (emphasis
added.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new
substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Ibid.) Despicable conduct
is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or
loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent
people. Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage
frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co.
(1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) Further, “[t]here must be evidence that
defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to
plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.” (Flyer’s
Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
1149, 1155.)
 
A motion to strike punitive damages is properly granted where a
plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, including
allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Turman
v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
“Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an
award” for punitive damages. (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank
(1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.) Moreover, conclusory allegations are not
sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages. (Brousseau v. Jarrett
(1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) Lastly, “[t]he mere allegation an intentional tort was committed
is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  Not only must
there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be
alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.) 
 
When
seeking damages from an employer, an employer is not liable for punitive
damages arising from an employee’s actions pursuant to Civil Code section
3294(a) unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
(Civ. Code § 3294(b).) With respect to a corporate employer, the advance
knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of
oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation. (Id.)
 
Analysis
 
First, Target moves to strike
language about punitive damages in paragraphs 56 and 59 that are not asserted
against Target. As they relate to “Cross-defendants” which includes Target, the
Court finds that Espinoza fails to plead sufficient facts. Nevertheless,
because these paragraphs are asserted against Plaintiff, who has not joined in
the motion, the motion to strike paragraphs 56 and 59 are denied. 
 
Next, the Court grants the motion to strike the following paragraph:
 
5. Pg. 16, para. 5 (“For labor code penalties, punitive and exemplary
damages according to proof [sic], which for the purposes of any future default
proceedings shall not exceed $1,000,000.00.”) 
 
Espinoza has not alleged Labor Code violations within the
Cross-complaint. Therefore, he fails to provide a statutory basis for the
damages. 
 
Regarding the following: 
 
6. Pg. 16, para. 6 (“For statutory damages, civil penalties, and
treble damages pursuant to Civil Code § 52 according to proof [sic], which for
purposes of any future default proceedings shall not exceed $1,000,000.”) 
7. Pg. 16, para. 7 (“For attorneys fees, which for the purposes of any
future default proceedings shall not exceed $1,000,000.00.”)
 
This prayer for relief pertains to causes of action asserted against
other parties including Target. The Court grants the motion to strike to the
extent that these paragraphs relate to Target for failing to allege sufficient
facts of oppression, fraud, or malice by an officer, director, or managing
agent, but otherwise denies the motion to strike. Any amended pleading may
clarify the cross-defendant against whom relief is sought. 
 
Turning to the prayer for injunctive relief, “[t]o obtain a
preliminary injunction, a plaintiff ordinarily is required to present evidence
of the irreparable injury or interim harm that it will suffer if an injunction
is not issued pending an adjudication of the merits.” (White v. Davis
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 554.) Similarly, “[t]o qualify for a permanent
injunction, the plaintiff must prove (1) the elements of a cause of action
involving the wrongful act sought to be enjoined and (2) the grounds for equitable
relief, such as, inadequacy of the remedy at law.” (City of South Pasadena
v. Department of Transportation (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1280, 1293.) 
 
In opposition, Espinoza does not discuss the propriety of seeking
injunctive relief in this case and fails to set forth that money damages would
be inadequate. Therefore, the motion to strike Pg. 16, para. 10 (“For a
preliminary and permanent injunction.”), is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court overrules Target’s demurrer to the first and
third causes of action in the cross-complaint. The Court sustains the demurrer
to the second, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action with leave to amend. 
 
The Court grants in part Target’s motion to strike with leave to
amend. 
 
Moving party shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a
proof of service of such. 