 Case Number:  23PDUD02994    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



HRAYR BRIAN DER VARTANIAN, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
JAYDON
   DOUGLAS PAULL,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23PDUD02994
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SANCTIONS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
August 1,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Defendant Jaydon Douglas Paull
(“Defendant”) moves for an order imposing sanctions against Plaintiff Hrayr
Brian Der Vartanian (“Plaintiff”) and Plaintiff’s counsel, Dennis P. Block (“Mr.
Block”), pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 128.5 and 128.7. Defendant
also requests the Court order the Complaint withdrawn or stricken and dismiss
the action with prejudice with a judgment of dismissal in Defendant’s favor. 
On July 2, 2024, the Court struck the
Complaint from the record and continued the hearing on this motion so that defense
counsel, William D. Bowen (“Mr. Bowen”), could file a supplemental declaration
and provide more detail substantiating Defendant’s request for attorney’s fees.
A supplemental declaration was filed on July 12, 2024. On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an “opposition” to Mr. Bowen’s supplemental declaration, prompting
Defendant to file a response and supplemental declaration on July 29, 2024.
Having reviewed the original and supplemental papers, the Court now issues its
ruling. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A.  
Code
of Civil Procedure § 128.5
“A trial court may order a party, the
party’s attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s
fees, incurred by another party as a result of actions or tactics, made in bad
faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (a).) The term “frivolous” is defined as “totally
and completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing
party.” (Id., subd. (b)(2).) If warranted, the court may award to the
party prevailing on the motion the reasonable expenses and attorney’s fees
incurred in presenting or opposing the motion. (Id., subd. (f)(1)(C).) “In
determining what sanctions, if any, should be ordered, the court shall consider
whether a party seeking sanctions has exercised due diligence.” (Id.,
subd. (f)(1).) 
B.  
Code
of Civil Procedure § 128.7
“Every pleading, petition, written
notice of motion, or other similar paper shall be signed by at least one
attorney of record in the attorney’s individual name, or, if the party is not
represented by an attorney, shall be signed by the party. Each paper shall
state the signer’s address and telephone number, if any. Except when otherwise
provided by law, pleadings need not be verified or accompanied by affidavit. An
unsigned paper shall be stricken unless omission of the signature is corrected
promptly after being called to the attention of the attorney or party.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (a).) 
“By presenting to the court, whether by
signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading, petition, written
notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or unrepresented party is
certifying that to the best of the person’s knowledge, information, and belief,
formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of the
following conditions are met:
(1) It is not being presented primarily for an improper
purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase
in the cost of litigation.
 
(2) The claims, defenses, and other legal contentions
therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of
new law.
 
(3) The allegations and other factual contentions have
evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have
evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or
discovery.
 
(4) The denials of factual contentions are warranted on the
evidence or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of
information or belief.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b).) 
          If the court
determines that subdivision (b) has been violated, the court may “impose an
appropriate sanction upon the attorneys, law firms, or parties that have
violated subdivision (b) or are responsible for the violation. In determining
what sanctions, if any, should be ordered, the court shall consider whether a
party seeking sanctions has exercised due diligence.” (Id., subd. (c).) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
Defendant seeks sanctions for
Plaintiff’s repeated attempts to evict him from 631 Caleb Street, Glendale,
91202 (the “Property”). Defendant emphasizes that the present unlawful detainer
action is the fifth one brought by Plaintiff, who dismissed all four prior
actions voluntarily. 
First, Defendant argues that this most
recent unlawful detainer action is legally baseless because Plaintiff asserts
that the Property is exempt from the Tenant Protection Act of 2019 (“TPA”) even
though the Court previously held that the TPA applied and the notice of
exemption had to have been provided by August 1, 2020. This argument is
unpersuasive because the eviction is based on “no-fault just cause” due to an
intent to substantially remodel the Property. Therefore, although the Complaint
alleges that the Property is exempt from the TPA, the notice underlying the
unlawful detainer cites to the TPA’s definition of just cause as a basis for
eviction and the claim of exemption is irrelevant.
Second, as evidence of bad faith, Defendant
points out that the Complaint was verified by Plaintiff in late July 2023 but
never signed by counsel, who filed it in August. Defendant contends that
Plaintiff brought this action in retaliation only after Defendant moved to
recover costs from Plaintiff’s prior unlawful detainer action in Case No.
22PDUD01479. This evidence is unpersuasive. A review of the docket from this
earlier case shows that Defendant filed a memorandum of costs on March 23,
2023, and that Plaintiff filed a motion to tax costs on April 10, 2023, which
predates the filing of the complaint in this action by several months. 
Rather, Defendant’s strongest arguments
in favor for sanctions and a finding of bad faith are premised on the lack of
any legal or factual basis for this action. Defendant points out that “simple,
key facts such as the amount of rent agreed upon are wrong.” Defendant additionally
argues that the Complaint is totally without merit and “lacks an evidentiary
factual basis” because he denies ever receiving the 60-day Notice, and notice
is a requisite element for an unlawful detainer. Defendant also argues that any
intent to commence substantial remodeling is disingenuous because Defendant has
made numerous complaints over the years regarding repairs which Plaintiff has
ignored.
          In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the TPA and TPR are irrelevant because under
the City of Glendale’s eviction ordinances, intent to undertake a substantial
remodel is a legitimate basis for a no-fault just cause eviction. However, this
argument is unavailing because the Complaint did not indicate that the Property
was subject to those ordinances nor does the Notice that was served reference
them. The Court additionally notes that if Plaintiff was intending to argue
that Glendale’s ordinance applied, the notice provided to Defendant was
defective because it did not include “the permit to demolish the unit or the
permit for capital improvements, along with any construction estimates and
schedule for performing the work” as required by section 9.30.031 of the
Glendale Municipal Code. 
Critically, even if no-fault just cause
evictions are permitted under either the TPA or Glendale’s eviction ordinances
for substantial remodeling, Plaintiff submits no evidence supporting his
purported intent to commence substantial repairs, nor does he provide any
evidence that those repairs would require Defendant to leave the property for
more than 30 or 45 days. 
          Accordingly,
the Court concludes that sanctions are warranted and imposes them upon
Plaintiff pursuant to sections 128.5 and 128.7 for this factually frivolous
complaint which can have no conceivable purpose other than to harass Defendant
in violation of sections 128.5(a) as well as section 128.7(b)(1) and (b)(3). 
Mr. Bowen states in his supplemental
declaration that he has expended 95 hours in the prosecution of this case up to
and including the filing of this sanctions motion on May 22, 2024, amounting to
$33,250. (Supp. Bowen Decl., ¶ 3.) He also states that he has billed 132 hours
subsequent to the filing of this motion, for a total of $46,200, although the
request for sanctions is limited to 95 hours of time. (Id.) Although Mr. Bowen does not explicitly state his hourly rate,
it appears that it is $350 per hour. 
          Plaintiff
takes exception to the amount of time Mr. Bowen spent on this action and argues
that a reasonable amount for fees would be no more than $7,500 based on an
hourly rate of $300. Plaintiff broadly argues that all of defense counsel’s
billing entries are “padded” or inflated. (7/24/2024 Opp., pp. 11-18.) 
Plaintiff correctly states that sanctions
imposed pursuant to sections 128.5 and 128.7 must be limited to what is
sufficient to deter repetition of the misconduct or comparable misconduct by
others similarly situated. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 128.5, subd. (f)(2);128.7(d).) The
determination of the amount of attorney's fees to award as sanctions under
section 128.5 is within the judge's discretion, which is not necessarily bound
by the moving party's calculation of hours and fee rates. (West Coast Dev. V. Reed (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 693, 699, n. 2.
[citing Dwyer v. Crocker Nat. Bank
(1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 1418, 1438].)
Here, in calculating the appropriate
sanctions amount, the Court is cognizant of the fact that Plaintiff has
initiated six other lawsuits against Defendant, four of which he has
voluntarily dismissed and two which have been dismissed by court order. Therefore,
Plaintiff’s suggested amount of $7,500 in sanctions hardly seems like an
effective deterrent to bringing frivolous suits such as this one. 
Nevertheless, the Court agrees that the
amount of time spent on discovery motions in September and October 2023 is
excessive. Defendant claims that it took 19.6 hours to prepare 4 motions to
compel responses, 4 hours to review Plaintiff’s opposition briefs, and 6 hours
to prepare reply briefs.  This aggregate
amount is reduced to 8 hours. Therefore, the Court imposes sanctions upon
Plaintiff in the amount of $30,450, consisting of 87 hours at an hourly rate of
$350. 
          Sanctions are
not imposed against Plaintiff’s counsel, Mr. Block. Plaintiff cites to Primo
Hospitality Group, Inc. v. Haney (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 165, in which the
court refused to impose sanctions on an attorney who did not present the
complaint to the court before the sanctions motion was served, but merely
substituted in afterwards. (Id., p. 175.) Like in Primo Hospitality,
Defendant contends that the complaint was filed for an improper purpose.
However, Mr. Block did not file the complaint. Although the party seeking
sanctions in Primo Hospitality claimed that opposing counsel “certified
the merit of the case every time [the attorney] filed a paper or appeared for
plaintiffs and spoke to the court,” the Primo Hospitality court
disagreed. (Primo Hospitality, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 172.) The
court also noted that the motion for sanctions did not specify conduct taken by
opposing counsel but was premised entirely on the filing of the complaint. Here
too, Defendant’s motion for sanctions only describes the initiation of this
action as the conduct deserving of sanctions.
IV.       
CONCLUSION
The motion for sanctions is GRANTED in
part in the amount of $30,450 against Plaintiff Hrayr Brian Der Vartanian. 
 
Dated
this 1st
day of August, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 