 Case Number:  22STCV32207    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




alan m. bagamaspad

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
sergio moreno morales

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV32207




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


April
   24, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ demurrer to operative complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Sergio Moreno Morales,
Michael Yuan Lee, ASE Construction, Inc., Fremont Cabinet Imports, Inc., Francisco
Puertas, and Sandy Segovia                       
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Plaintiffs Alan M. Bagamaspad, individually
and as trustee of the Bagamaspad Revocable Living Trust, and Elenita A.
Bagamaspad, individually and as trustee of the Bagamaspad Revocable Living
Trust
Demurrer to Operative Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this demurrer.  
DISCUSSION
Plaintiffs Alan M. Bagamaspad, individually and as trustee of the
Bagamaspad Revocable Living Trust, and Elenita A. Bagamaspad, individually and
as trustee of the Bagamaspad Revocable Living Trust (“Plaintiffs”) filed the
operative First Amended Complaint in this action on July 5, 2023. 
Defendants Sergio Moreno Morales (“Morales”), Michael Yuan Lee
(“Lee”), ASE Construction, Inc., Fremont Cabinet Imports, Inc., Francisco
Puertas, and Sandy Segovia (“Segovia”) (collectively, “Defendants”) now move
the court for an order sustaining their demurrer to Plaintiffs’ sixth through
eighth, 11th, and 14th causes of action. 
The court overrules defendant Morales’s demurrer to the sixth cause of
action for intentional misrepresentation because it states facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs have alleged, with the requisite
particularity, that (1) “[s]ometime in 2019,” Morales represented that he was a
licensed contractor to Plaintiffs (FAC ¶¶ 23, 96 ); (2) Morales proposed a
business agreement wherein Plaintiffs and Morales would create a construction
company to invest in construction projects together (FAC ¶ 24) and Morales
would transfer all of his properties into the corporation’s name (FAC ¶¶ 25,
100); (3) Morales’s representations were false (FAC ¶ 103); (4) Plaintiffs
reasonably relied on those representations (FAC ¶¶ 99, 105); and (5)
Plaintiffs have been damaged as a result of his misrepresentations (FAC ¶¶ 99,
106).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e); Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93
Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245 [elements of intentional misrepresentation]; Apollo
Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226,
242 [“Pleading facts in ordinary and concise language is as permissible in
fraud cases as in any others, and liberal construction of the pleading is as
much a duty of the court in these as in other cases”] [internal quotations and
citations omitted].) 
The court sustains defendant Segovia’s demurrer to the sixth cause of
action for intentional misrepresentation because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs have not pleaded
this cause of action against her with particularity.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Aton
Center, Inc., supra, 93 Cal.App.5th at p. 1245 [elements of
intentional misrepresentation]; Foster v. Sexton (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th
998, 1028 [fraud must be pleaded with particularity].)  Although the court recognizes that Plaintiffs
have alleged that Segovia was acting as an agent of Morales (FAC ¶ 13),
Plaintiffs have not pleaded any facts setting forth when and how Segovia made
the subject misrepresentations to Plaintiffs, and instead have only generally
alleged that Segovia misrepresented that Morales was a licensed contractor
(FAC ¶ 96) and that Morales would, pursuant to the agreement between
Plaintiffs and Morales, take certain actions (FAC ¶ 100).  For example, while Plaintiffs have alleged
that they met with defendant Morales “[s]ometime in 2019” when he and an
acquaintance of Plaintiffs visited Plaintiffs’ properties, during which Morales
“represented himself to Plaintiffs as a licensed contractor” (FAC ¶ 23) and
“proposed a business agreement”(FAC ¶ 24), Plaintiffs did not allege (1) that
Segovia was present on that day, or (2) facts establishing her
involvement.  Thus, the court finds that
Plaintiffs have not alleged this cause of action against Segovia with the
particularity required by California law. 
(Foster, supra, 61 Cal.App.5th at p. 1028.) 
The court overrules defendant Morales’s demurrer to the seventh cause
of action for negligent misrepresentation because it states facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs have alleged, with the requisite
particularity, the facts establishing the elements of this cause of action for
the same reasons as set forth in connection with the court’s ruling on the
demurrer to the seventh cause of action. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Borman v. Brown (2021)
59 Cal.App.5th 1048, 1060 [elements of negligent misrepresentation]; Foster,
supra, 61 Cal.App.5th at p. 1028 [negligent misrepresentation must be
pleaded with particularity].) 
The court sustains defendant Segovia’s demurrer to seventh cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs have not pleaded
this cause of action against her with requisite particularity for the same
reasons as set forth in connection with the court’s ruling on the demurrer to
the sixth cause of action.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Borman, supra, 59 Cal.App.5th at
p. 1060 [elements of negligent misrepresentation]; Foster, supra,
61 Cal.App.5th at p. 1028 [negligent misrepresentation must be pleaded with
particularity].) 
The court overrules defendant Morales’s demurrer to the eighth cause
of action for conversion because it states facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since Plaintiffs have alleged that Moreno trespassed onto
Plaintiffs’ property and stole their personal property, including trucks,
machinery, and tools, which he used for his own personal use (FAC ¶ 127).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Lee
v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240 [elements of conversion].)  
The court sustains defendant Lee’s demurrer to the eighth cause of
action for conversion because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action since (1) “[m]oney cannot be the subject of a cause of action
for conversion unless there is a specific, identifiable sum involved,” and (2)
Plaintiffs have alleged only that Lee “converted and used the funds deposited
by Plaintiffs for their own personal use” and did not allege that Lee converted
a “specific, identifiable sum” of money. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); PCO, Inc. v. Christensen,
Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 384, 395 [internal quotations and citations omitted]; Ibid.
[“A ‘generalized claim for money [is] not actionable as conversion’”]; Lee,
supra, 61 Cal.4th at p. 1240 [elements of conversion].)
The court overrules defendants Morales and Lee’s demurrer to the 11th
cause of action for quiet title because it states facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs have alleged that (1) Plaintiffs
have an equitable right to ownership of the properties described in the First
Amended Complaint (FAC ¶ 147), (2) defendants Morales and Lee (i) used the
funds fraudulently obtained from Plaintiffs to purchase or improve the subject
real properties (FAC ¶ 146) and (ii) have an adverse claim against the
Subject Properties (FAC ¶ 148), and therefore (3) Plaintiffs seek to quiet
title against defendants Morales and Lee’s adverse claims.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Orcilla
v. Big Sur, Inc. (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 982, 1010 [“‘An element of a cause
of action for quiet title is “[t]he adverse claims to the title of the
plaintiff against which a determination is sought”’”] [internal citations
omitted].) 
The court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the 14th cause of action
for declaratory relief because it states facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action since Plaintiffs (1) seek a judicial declaration that Defendants are
jointly and severally liable “for all past, present, and future payments for
all loans obtained through fraudulent means, including” the loan encumbering on
the Maemurray Properties in the amount of at least $2,400,000 (FAC ¶ 167),
and therefore (2) have alleged the existence of a proper subject of declaratory
relief that seeks “prospectively to declare future rights” and obligations regarding
the liability of the subject loans and does not seek only “to redress past
wrongs.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 872, 909.) 
ORDER
The court overrules in part and sustains in part defendants Sergio
Moreno Morales, Michael Yuan Lee, ASE Construction, Inc., Fremont Cabinet
Imports, Inc., Francisco Puertas, and Sandy Segovia’s demurrer to the Frist
Amended Complaint as follows.
The court overrules defendant Sergio Moreno Morales’s demurrer to the
sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action. 
The court sustains defendant Sandy Segovia’s demurrer to the sixth and
seventh causes of action. 
The court sustains defendant Michael Yuan Lee’s demurrer to the eighth
cause of action. 
The court overrules defendants Sergio Moreno Morales and Michael Yuan
Lee’s demurrer to the 11th cause of action. 
The court overrules defendants Sergio Moreno Morales, Michael Yuan
Lee, ASE Construction, Inc., Fremont Cabinet Imports, Inc., Francisco Puertas,
and Sandy Segovia’s demurrer to the 14th cause of action for declaratory
relief. 
The court grants plaintiffs Alan M. Bagamaspad, individually and as
trustee of the Bagamaspad Revocable Living Trust, and Elenita A. Bagamaspad,
individually and as trustee of the Bagamaspad Revocable Living Trust, 20 days
leave to file a Second Amended Complaint that cures the deficiencies in the
sixth and seventh causes of action against defendant Sandy Segovia and the
eighth cause of action against defendant Michael Yuan Lee as set forth in this
ruling.
            The court orders plaintiffs Alan M.
Bagamaspad, individually and as trustee of the Bagamaspad Revocable Living
Trust, and Elenita A. Bagamaspad, individually and as trustee of the Bagamaspad
Revocable Living Trust to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  April 24, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court