  Case Number:  21VECV00692    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  T 21VECV00692 AKHOUNDZADEH V
KHATIBI
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendant Karen Dr LLC’s Motion for
Attorneys’ Fees against Cross-Defendant Richard Khatibi is GRANTED in Part and
reduced to $117,536.75.
Cross-Complainant Richard
Khatibi’s Request for Judicial Notice is DENIED.
INTRODUCTION
Cross-Defendant Karen Dr LLC
(LLC) moves for $146,545.25 in attorneys’ fees as the prevailing party against
Cross-Complainants Richard Khatibi (Richard), Melica Khatibi (Melica), and
Faezeh Afchehe’s (Faezeh)  Third Amended
Cross-Complaint (TAXC).  Fees are
requested to be levied against Richard only. 
LLC’s motion does not move for attorneys’ fees against Melica or Faezeh.

 Despite the fees being only requested against
Richard, an opposition was filed by Faezeh and Melica.  Richard filed his own separate
opposition.  LLC filed a reply in
response.  The Court considered both
oppositions’ briefs and the reply brief.
PROCEDURE
The Court file reflects that LLC
preliminarily filed a motion for attorneys’ fees on May 30, 2024 with a June
27, 2024, hearing date.  On June 10,
2024, LLC then filed a notice of continuance of the fees motion asserting the
new hearing date to be July 12, 2024. 
The July 12, 2024, hearing was vacated by the Court and never
heard.  On June 20, 2024, LLC filed a
“Continued” fees motion that asserted the instant hearing date.  The Court noted that the Points and
Authorities of both motions were verbatim copies of each other.  So that there is no ambiguity in the Court
record, the May 30, 2024, motion was not considered on the merits.  The Court’s analysis is based upon the
“Continued” fees motion, filed on June 20, 2024.
DISCUSSION
LLC asserted that “[a]n
attorneys’ fees provision in both written and oral contracts may be enforced
pursuant to Civil Code sec. 1717.”  (Cano
v. Glover (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 326, 331.) 
Richard argued that oral agreements without explicit provisions for fees
cannot form the basis for a fee recovery. 
(Khajavi v. Feather River Anesthesia Med. Grp. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 32
(Khajavi).)  However, Khajavi is
factually distinguishable from the allegations and/or facts presented in the
instant motion.  The facts in Khajavi
provided that there was never any oral agreement as to fees or no mutual
consent as to fees because the parties never discussed it.  (Khajavi, supra, 84 Cal.App.4th at p. 60.)  In the instant action, as discussed below,
LLC presented facts/evidence from Richard’s own testimony that the parties
orally agreed to a fees agreement. 
Richard’s reliance upon Khajavi is unpersuasive because the opinion is
inapplicable.
A non-signatory defendant seeking
to recover attorneys’ fees must establish (1) it was sued “on a contract” with
an attorney fee provision; (2) it prevailed on the contract claim(s) and/or
tort claims arising from the contract; and (3) the opponent would have had a
right to recover fees had it prevailed. (Reynolds Metals Co. v. Alperson (1979)
25 Cal.3d 124, 128-129; Brown Bark III, L.P. v. Haver (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th
809, 818-820 (Brown Bark).) 
 
In the TAXC relevant to LLC,
Richard alleged the third COA for breach of covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, the fifth COA for Unfair Business Practices violation (UCL), the sixth
COA for accounting, the seventh COA for open book account, the eighth COA for
quantum meruit, the tenth COA for dissolution of the joint venture and AEK;
Faezeh alleged the sixteenth COA for quiet title, and all Cross-Complainants
alleged the seventeenth COA for declaratory relief.   These COAs were, in part, grounded on the allegation
that the Joint Venture Agreement required LLC to convey the Karen Property to
Richard’s daughter, Melica, upon reaching age 18.  (TAXC par. 34.)  In the TAXC, Richard requested attorneys’
fees under the third COA for breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing
(Prayer pg. 38:9); the fifth COA for the UCL violation (TAXC par. 109); the
sixth COA for accounting (TAXC par. 127); and the eighth COA for quantum meruit
(Prayer pg. 38:9).  The Prayer also
included a “catch-all” request for fees. 
(TAXC Prayer pg. 38:19-20.) Richard’s request for fees were grounded on
several tort claims, equitable remedies, and a single statutory claim (i.e.,
UCL violation).  The motion only raised a
request for fees under Civil Code, section 1717 (contract basis) and did not
argue or request fees under any statutory grounds, including the UCL COA.  In that the motion was silent as to any
statutory basis for fees, the Court finds any fee request under the UCL
waived.  A judge in a civil case is not
“'obligated to seek out theories [a party] might have advanced, or to
articulate for him that which … [a party] has left unspoken.'”  (Mesecher v. County of San Diego (1992) 9
Cal.App.4th 1677, 1686.)  “Contentions
are waived when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and
citations to authority.” (Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111
Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.) 
At the outset, Richard did not
expressly name LLC in the second COA for breach of contract.  Without pleading the breach of contract COA
against LLC, there is insufficient grounds to show that LLC was sued “on a contract”
– the first factor listed above. 
However, LLC argued that Ebrahim was either the agent or alter ego of
LLC.  (TAXC pars. 15 and 17.)  The alter ego and agency allegations in the
TAXC are sufficient grounds for LLC to request contractual fees.   Richard argued that the agency and alter ego
theories were not merited.  However, LLC
is not required to show that the claim was merited.  The merit of the claim is irrelevant.  The pertinent inquiry is whether LLC would
have been liable to Richard for fees in a hypothetical situation in which
Richard prevailed on his claim.  (Brown
Bark, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at p. 827.) 
As such, LLC has shown sufficient facts to show that Richard’s claim
against LLC was “on a contract,” at least as to the second COA for breach of
contract.   
Specifically as to the tort and
equitable claims, “[S]ection 1717 does not apply to tort claims; it determines
which party, if any, is entitled to attorney[ ] fees on a contract claim only.
[Citations.] As to tort claims, the question of whether to award attorney[ ]
fees turns on the language of the contractual attorney[ ] fee provision, i.e.,
whether the party seeking fees has ‘prevailed’ within the meaning of the
provision and whether the type of claim is within the scope of the provision.
[Citation.] This distinction between contract and tort claims flows from the
fact that a tort claim is not ‘on a contract’ and is therefore outside the
ambit of section 1717. [Citations.]” [Internal citations omitted.]  Section 1717 's reciprocity principles
therefore make a unilateral attorney fee provision reciprocal only on contract
claims; they do not make a unilateral provision reciprocal on tort claims.
[Internal citations omitted.] A party may recover attorney fees on a tort claim
only if an attorney fee provision broad enough to cover tort claims expressly
identifies that party as a party entitled to its benefits.  [Internal citations omitted.]”  (Brown Bark, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at pp.
827-828.)  The Brown Bark Court further
held that the scope of the fees provision is only half the analysis.  The other half of the analysis is to
determine whether the fee agreement/provision identified LLC as a party
entitled to the benefit of the fee agreement/provision.  LLC provided that a fees provision was
included in the oral Joint Venture Agreement, which involved Richard, on the
one hand, and Aliasghar Khatibi (Aliasghar), and Ebrahim Khatibi (Ebrahim),
jointly, on the other hand, (who later became AEK Global Investments LLC
(AEK)).  Through the deposition testimony
of Richard, LLC provided facts to show that Richard, Aliasghar, and Ebrahim’s
discussions during the formation of the Joint Venture included an agreement to
include an attorneys’ fees provision. (Shelly Shafron (Shafron) Supp. Decl.
par. 3, Exh. 1.)  However, Richard’s
deposition testimony was limited to showing that a fees provision was agreed
upon.  Richard’s testimony did not
provide what was actually stated or the exact wording used for the fees
agreement/provision.  Without the
specific words used to form the actual attorneys’ fees provision, there is
insufficient evidence to show that the attorneys’ fees agreement was broad or
narrow in scope and whether tort claims would be covered in the fees
agreement.  Also, without any evidence of
what exactly was said at the meetings, it cannot be determined if LLC was
expressly identified as a beneficiary of the fee agreement/provision. Because
there is insufficient evidence as to the exact wording of the fees agreement to
show scope and identity of the beneficiary, LLC failed to meet its burden to
show that attorneys’ fees for the tort and equitable claims are “on a
contract.” 
Moving forward to the second
factor of the test, limited to the requested fees incurred by LLC against
Richard in defending the second COA for breach of contract, LLC must show that
LLC prevailed on the second COA for breach of contract.  Based upon the granting of the summary
judgment and entry of judgment, LLC sufficiently provided that it prevailed on
this COA.  To the extent that the second
COA alleged that Ebrahim, as the director/shareholder of LLC, was required to
convey the Karen Property to Richard’s daughter, Melica upon her reaching age
18 (see TAXC par. 34,) the Court’s ruling on the MSJ/MSA expressly held that
there was no triable issue of fact that Shabnam Akhoundzadeh (Shabnam) was the
“100% owner of LLC.” (See April 16, 2024, Order at pg. 6 of 8.)  With there being no triable issue of fact as
to the owner/member of the LLC, the allegation to support any breach of
contract claim against LLC based upon Ebrahim being an agent, representation,
and/or employee of the LLC or the alter ego of LLC is unpersuasive.  The ruling on the MSJ and entry of judgment
in favor of LLC shows that LLC prevailed on any contract claim alleged against
it.  LLC persuasively argued the second factor
of the test.
Richard disputed LLC’s prevailing
party status because LLC quitclaimed Karen Property prior to filing the
MSJ/MSA, divesting itself of any interest from the Karen Property.  However, the ruling on the MSJ/MSA remains
and the quiet title and declaratory relief COAs were dismissed.  Richard failed to present any legal authority
to support its contention that LLC cannot be a prevailing party when the Court
ruled in favor of its MSJ/MSA.  Richard’s
dispute as to prevailing party status is unpersuasive.
The third factor of the test
requires LLC to show that the opponent (i.e., Richard) would have had a right
to recover fees had it prevailed.  As
analyzed above, Richard made a claim for attorneys’ fees under the breach of
contract COA and alleged that Ebrahim was an agent, representative, or employee
of LLC.  Hypothetically, had Richard
prevailed on this claim, LLC would be a party to the Joint Venture and liable
for attorneys’ fees to Richard.  LLC met
its burden to show that Richard would have had a right to recover fees had it
prevailed. 
LLC is found to be entitled to
attorneys’ fees provision of the oral Joint Venture Agreement.
LLC argued that the fees incurred
by Shabnam should be included as fees awarded to LLC. (Bell v. Vista Unified
School Dist. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 672, 687; Douglas E. Barnhart, Inc. v. CMC
Fabricators, Inc. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 230; Abdallah v. United Savings Bank
(1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1101; Wagner v. Benson (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 27,
37.)  However, the legal authority cited
by LLC is inapplicable because none of the cases involve a party requesting to
include fees incurred by a separate party. 
LLC’s attempt to boot-strap fees incurred by Shabnam and/or attempt to
seek fees incurred prior to actively defending this action is
unpersuasive.  As asserted by Richard,
fees added to LLC’s request that were incurred by Shabnam prior to February 20,
2023 are improper.  (See Proof of Service
filed February 22, 2023.)  Fees incurred
by Shabnam prior to February 20, 2023 are DENIED.
Richard again argued that LLC was
administratively dissolved and not properly before this Court.  However, this issue was reviewed and ruled
upon in favor of LLC.  The Court did not
consider the opposition argument as to LLC’s capacity, or lack thereof, to
defend.
Lastly, Richard’s opposition to
the motion for attorneys’ fees objected to items/other costs requested in LLC’s
Cost Memo.  Opposition to a motion for
attorneys’ fees is not the proper procedural vehicle to object to a Cost
Memo.  Raising Cost issues in the
opposition results in Richard’s failure to provide LLC with proper notice and
opportunity to be heard.  The Court did
not consider Richard’s arguments regarding LLC’s Cost Memo. 
Because LLC is not entitled to
fees incurred by Shabnam and the fees incurred in defending the tort COAs,
LLC’s request for $145,545.25 fees is improper and excessive.  The court awards LLC its fees at a reduced
and reasonable amount.  The Court reduces
LLC’s fees to $117,536.75.
The motion for attorneys’ fees is
GRANTED in Part and reduced to $117,536.75.
NOTES:
1.         To avoid confusion, the Court refers
to the parties using their first names. 
The Court means no disrespect.
2.         Richard’s and LLC’s evidentiary
objections do not affect the court's analysis and they are overruled.  LLC’s evidentiary objections against
Richard’s RJN are sustained.
3.         LLC’s argument related to fees
incurred by Shabnam started with legal authority involving apportionment or
allocation of fees between distinct causes of action (i.e., fees incurred
between tort COAs and contract COAs). 
(See Motion pg. 10:9-15.) 
However, LLC then proceeded to ask for fees incurred by Shabnam.  LLC did not ask the Court to not
apportion/allocate its fees between the distinct COAs.  So the issue was not reviewed by the court.
4.         Attorneys’ fees were also requested in
the sixteenth COA for quiet title (TAXC par. 171).  However, this is irrelevant because Richard
did not allege the quiet title COA.  It
was only alleged by Faezeh.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.
 
 
 