  Case Number:  20STCP04290    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



DAVID
  SEYDE,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BRIAN KENNEDY, et
  al.,   
                                                                         
  
                        Defendants.    


 


      CASE NO.: 20STCP04290
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTIONS TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL
 
Date:  April 23, 2024
Time:
  8:30 a.m.
Dept.
  56
 



AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Regency Outdoor Advertising, Inc. (“Regency”) and Brian Kennedy (“Brian”)[1]
(collectively, “Moving Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
David Seyde (“Seyde”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers.
THE
MOTION
On March 7, 2024,
Moving Defendants filed the instant motion (the “Motion”) to disqualify the law
firm of Miller Barondess LLP (“Miller”) from any further representation of
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Seyde and Cross-Defendant Porter 24, LLC
(“Porter”).  On April 4, 2024, Plaintiff
Seyde filed an opposition to the Motion. 
On April 10, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply to the opposition
papers.
 
BACKGROUND
The currently
operative fifth amended complaint (the “5AC”) alleges, in relevant part: Plaintiff
Seyde worked for brothers Defendants Brian and Drake Kennedy (“Drake”) (sometimes
collectively, the “Kennedys”), Regency Outdoor Advertising, Inc. (“Regency”) and
other entities referred to in the 5AC as the Kennedys’ billboard “empire” (the “Companies”).  (See 5AC ¶¶ 4, 21, 24.)  Brian and Drake had a contentious
relationship, and in 2013, Drake sued Brian, among others, for involuntary
dissolution of the Kennedys’ business, which included Defendants Regency,
Skyline Outdoor Media LLC (“Skyline”) and NTGS Acquisition LLC (collectively,
the “Assets”), and other claims (the “Kennedy Lawsuit”).  (See 5AC ¶¶ 30, 34.)  
 
On April 1, 2017, a
settlement agreement was reached in the Kennedy Lawsuit through a mediation
before Judge Dickran Tevrizian (U.S.D.C.- C.D. CA ret.) (“Judge Tevrizian”).
(5AC  ¶ 35.) The settlement resulted in
the execution of a binding term sheet (the “BTS”) that included terms for the
forced sale of the Assets.  The BTS provided
for Plaintiff’s compensation during the sale. 
(See 5AC ¶¶ 3, 35, Exhibit A.)  Brian,
Drake and Stephanie Kennedy (“Stephanie”), as well as Plaintiff Seyde,
“individually and on behalf of any related parties or entities in which they
have an ownership interest,” signed the BTS. 
(5AC, Exhibit A, p. 1.)  The BTS
was modified on October 9, 2017 (the “First Amendment to the BTS”), March 2,
2018 and June 14, 2018.  (See 5AC ¶¶ 41,
50, 59, Exhibits B-D.)  After the First
Amendment to the BTS, Seyde alleges in this lawsuit that the Kennedys decided
that they would not pay Plaintiff his promised two percent bonus, despite
separate representations to Plaintiff made through the Fall of 2018 that he
would be paid this amount.  (See 5AC ¶¶
42-44.)   
 
The 5AC alleges
that Plaintiff helped the Kennedys make a sale of some of the Assets to Netflix
(the “Sale”), which Netflix conditioned on Plaintiff’s continuing to manage the
transition of those assets after the Sale. 
(5AC ¶ 68.)  The Kennedys
thereafter decided to stop paying Plaintiff money he was owed under the
BTS.  (See 5AC ¶¶ 69-73.)  Regency also stopped paying Plaintiff his
monthly salary that he was entitled to until all of its assets were sold and
the terms of the BTS were fulfilled. 
(5AC ¶ 74.)
 
The Court notes
that the 5AC is extremely vague as to the timing of the activities of the
parties from the time of the execution of the BTS on April 1, 2018 through August
2018 and thereafter, especially as to the relationship between Plaintiff Seyde
and the Kennedys, which is of particular significance in light of the
assertions in the Motion. (Complaint, ¶ ¶ 63-75.)  Also unclear is the role of Judge Tevrizian
after the signing of the BTS, although the 5AC does allege that “[o]n September
25, 2018, Judge Tevrizian resigned as both an independent director of the
Companies and as an arbitrator overseeing the Sales Process.” (5AC  ¶ 77.) 
            
            The Declaration of Brian (the
“Kennedy Declaration”) states that “in 2017 and 2018, Seyde was tasked with
reviewing various Regency contracts,” and thereafter received documents from the
law firm then representing Brian and Regency, i.e., Manatt, Phelps &
Phillips (“Manatt”).  The Kennedy
Declaration states that Seyde’s review of these documents was in connection
with the BTS and the sale of the Assets, and that Manatt “was permitted to
discuss with Seyde about [sic] issues related to the legal work.”  (Kennedy Decl., ¶ 6.)  During this period of time, Regency, the
Kennedys and Seyde were involved in the Kennedy Lawsuit and all of them were parties
to the BTS.  Brian declares that he
“never gave Seyde or Manatt permission to waive the attorney-client privilege.”  (Kennedy Decl., ¶ 7.)  The Kennedy Declaration is vague as to Seyde’s
exact position with Regency or the Companies at any relevant time, and as to
whether Manatt represented any party in the instant lawsuit at any time or in
any lawsuit, or if and when they were terminated.  
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            The parties’ evidentiary objections
are OVERRULED, except insofar as they purport to state legal conclusions, in
which case they are SUSTAINED.
 
THE MOTION
            The
Motion and its supporting declarations are far from clear regarding the nature
and source of the allegedly privileged and confidential documents held by Seyde
which form the basis of the Motion.  The
Court understands the document categories to be:
            
1.    
The
Manatt Documents - Manatt voluntarily
gave its fee agreement (the “Fee Agreement”) and certain of its invoices for
legal fees (the “Invoices”), together with other documents, to Seyde in
connection with his work on the BTS and the Kennedy Lawsuit (the “Manatt
Documents”).  Seyde was known to be a
separate party to the BTS and to be an interested party in the Kennedy Lawsuit;
however, Brian and Regency assert that he was only given the Manatt Documents
in his capacity as a representative of Regency. 
This makes no logical sense, as it appears from the evidence that Seyde
was known by the parties to have interests in the BTS and the Kennedy Lawsuit
separate and apart from his alleged role as a representative of Regency.  In any event, this was an intentional
disclosure and not an inadvertent one, and Seyde has agreed not to use the
Manatt Documents further in this case.
2.    
The
JAMS Documents – The
Declaration of Sarah A. Swanson (“Swanson Decl.”)[2]
declares: “[W]hile I was in deposition, [Judge] Tevrizian’s counsel
inadvertently served privileged documents.” (Swanson Decl., ¶ 5.)  Although this statement is far from clear,
the Court assumes for the purpose of this Motion that Swanson is declaring that
while she was at an unrelated deposition, the attorney for Judge Tevrizian, who  acted at various times as a mediator, then
apparently an arbitrator, then an independent director of Regency in connection
with the Kennedy Lawsuit, produced his file on the Kennedy Lawsuit held by his
employer, JAMS (the “JAMS Documents”). 
(Swanson Decl., Exhibit A, p. 4.) 
The Swanson Declaration states that certain of the JAMS Disclosure Documents
were stamped or otherwise labeled “CONFIDENTIAL AND PRIVILEGED” [Swanson Decl.,
¶5]; however, it is impossible
to tell from the moving papers how JAMS obtained those documents, who held the
privilege asserted or whether their being held by JAMS and Judge Tevrizian
constituted a waiver of that privilege. 
In any event, it does appear that the JAMS Documents were inadvertently
produced.  Miller attorney Amnon Z.
Siegel (“Siegel”) described in his declaration (the “Siegel Decl.”) how at 4:50
p.m. the day of the inadvertent production, Brian and Regency’s counsel advised
Miller by email that counsel for Seyde and NTGS should not review any of the
documents until the privilege claim was resolved. (Siegel Decl., ¶ 22.)  Although Swanson asserts in her declaration
that “according to a letter [she] received from Miller, an undisclosed number
of individuals at Miller accessed the document production, downloaded the
documents, and sent the documents containing known confidential and privileged
information to Seyde.”   (Swanson Decl. ¶5.)  The document which Swanson attaches to her
declaration to support this claim does not, however, so state, but instead
states: We have not reviewed deleted was to oh it [sic] we look forward to a
prompt production from Regency’s counsel, Kaedian, of these Tevrizian-produced documents.
If Regency’s counsel withholds any documents based on privilege, a privilege
log must be produced.”  (Id.,
Exhibit S-4.)  In his declaration, Siegel
declares that at 5:52 p.m., “Judge Tevrizian’s counsel requested that [Miller]  delete the link and not review the
documents.  At 6:04 p.m. that day
(November 28, 2023), [Miller] confirmed that it and Seyde had deleted the
production completely from their systems. (Siegel Decl., ¶22.)  Siegel declares under penalty of perjury that
“Neither I nor anyone at [Miller] reviewed the Tevrizian Production.” (Id.)  The Motion does not identify any
documents now held by Miller or Seyde that are traceable to Judge Tevrizian’s
inadvertent production.
3.    
The
Seyde Documents - The
third category of documents addressed by the Motion are Plaintiff Seyde’s own
documents [the “Seyde Documents”], which Moving Defendants claim are privileged
and should be returned to them.  (Swanson
Decl., ¶ ¶ 8-10.)  Moving Defendants assert that on
January 18, 2024, after reviewing Miller’s Declaration in Support of Seyde’s
Opposition to Defendants’ Motion to Quash the Manatt Subpoena, Defendants’
counsel became aware that Miller was once again in possession of Moving Defendants’
privileged documents, i.e., a Fee Agreement and Manatt Invoices. (Ibid.)
Immediately upon discovering this fact, Moving Defendants’ counsel demanded
Miller remove the relevant exhibit from the public record, delete the
privileged documents in Seyde’s document production, and stop reviewing all
privileged information in Seyde’s possession. (Id. at Exh. S-8.) After Moving
Defendants’ counsel sent Miller the email reiterating the documents were
privileged, Miller continued to review the Fee Agreement and even quoted from
it in a follow up email. (Ibid.) During the same exchange Miller made it appear
Seyde might have received other privileged communication from Gordon Brava, the
lead attorney at Manatt and entities hired by Manatt in connection with their
representation of Defendants.  Although it is far from clear from the papers,
it appears that Seyde was given these documents intentionally, as part
of his activities on behalf of Regency and also as a party to the BTS and the Kennedy
Lawsuit. In other words, the Seyde Documents were not inadvertently produced to
Seyde, they were deliberately sent to him, probably by Manatt and/or Moving
Defendants, at a time that they were presumably working together on the BTS or
other Regency matters.  
 
DISCUSSION            
“Every court shall have the power … to
control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and
of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before
it, in every matter pertaining thereto.” (code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd.
(a)(5).) The authority to disqualify an attorney stems from the trial court's
inherent power “[t]o control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its
ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a
judicial proceeding before it, in every matter pertaining thereto.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 128; see also Zador Corp. v. Kwan (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1285,
1292-93.) 
 
In considering a motion to disqualify
counsel, “[t]he paramount concern must be to preserve public trust in the
scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of the bar. The
important right to counsel of one’s choice must yield to ethical considerations
that affect the fundamental principles of our judicial process.” (Kirk v.
First American Title Ins. Co.¿(2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 776, 792 [internal
citation and quotations omitted].) The trial court in a civil case has the
power to order disqualification when necessary for the furtherance of justice.
(William H. Raley Co. v. Superior Court¿(1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1042, 1048
(“Raley”).) The exercise of that power, however, “requires a cautious
balancing of competing interests. The court must weigh the combined effect of a
party’s right to counsel of choice, an attorney's interest in representing a
client, the financial burden on a client of replacing disqualified counsel and
any tactical abuse underlying a disqualification proceeding against the
fundamental principle that the fair resolution of disputes within our adversary
system requires vigorous representation of parties by independent counsel
unencumbered by conflicts of interest” (Ibid.)¿
 
“[W]henever a lawyer seeks to hold another
lawyer accountable for misuse of inadvertently received confidential materials,
the burden must rest on the complaining lawyer to persuasively demonstrate
inadvertence.” (State Comp. Ins. Fund v. WPS, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th
644, 657 (“State Fund”).)  State
Fund is therefore only potentially applicable to the JAMS Documents,
because it only covers situations involving “inadvertently received
confidential materials.” 
 
The court in State Fund  held “that the obligation of an attorney
receiving privileged documents due to the inadvertence of another is as
follows: When a lawyer who receives materials that obviously appear to be
subject to an attorney-client privilege or otherwise clearly appear to be
confidential and privileged and where it is reasonably apparent that the
materials were provided or made available through inadvertence, the lawyer
receiving such materials should refrain from examining the materials any more
than is essential to ascertain if the materials are privileged, and shall
immediately notify the sender that he or she possesses material that appears to
be privileged.” (Id. at p. 656.) 
 
Attorneys receiving these obviously
privileged documents must seek to resolve the situation by agreement with the
sender or resort to the court for guidance if necessary. (Rico v. Mitsubishi
Motors Corp.¿(2007) 42 Cal.4th 807, 818.) Failure to do so is ground for
disqualification where the review of the privileged
documents places the adverse side at a great disadvantage or could affect the
outcome of the proceedings. (See ibid.; Clark v. Superior Court
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 37, 55.)
 
Here, the JAMS Documents were apparently inadvertently
produced by Judge Tevrizian’s counsel by email on November 28, 2023.  Swanson asserts that Seyde and his counsel,
Miller, reviewed those documents after being informed that they contained
privileged items. (Swanson Decl., ¶7, Exh. S4.)  This supposition is not confirmed by the
exhibit to which Swanson refers, and is directly contradicted by the Siegel
Declaration.  
 
The Court finds that Miller and Seyde have
complied with their obligations under State Fund with regard to the JAMS
Documents and that the handling of those documents does not constitute a valid
ground for Miller’s disqualification based on their inadvertent disclosure.
 
With regard to the Manatt Documents and the
Seyde Documents, which were sent intentionally and not inadvertently to Initially,
the authority cited in the Motion, including State Farm, is inapposite
because it applies to documents that were inadvertently produced or surreptitiously
obtained and then used by an opposing party. 
Here, the documents were intentionally given to Seyde at a time when he
not only was acting on behalf of Regency but he also was known to be acting on his
own behalf as a separate party to the BTS and an interested party in the
Kennedy Lawsuit.   The question here is therefore whether counsel’s
review of intentionally disclosed documents that another party now claims are
privileged disqualifies that counsel. 
This Court finds that it does not.
 
Moving Defendants have submitted no authority
to support their contention that a party that has received allegedly privileged
or confidential documents in a legitimate manner while it had interests in line
with another party is under a duty or obligation to return those documents in
subsequent litigation where they are on opposite sides.  Here, Seyde had possession of certain
allegedly privileged or confidential documents which he obtained through
legitimate means.  When asked to produce
all documents in his possession, custody or control on certain subjects, he rightly
responded with some of those allegedly privileged and confidential documents.  The instant case is about the business
relationships between Seyde and Moving Defendants.  The issue of the privilege or confidentiality
of those documents is not before this Court on the Motion – only the issue of
whether their possession by Plaintiff or his counsel is a valid ground for that
counsel’s disqualification is in issue here.
 
In this regard, the Court finds the case of Fox
Searchlight Pictures, Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294
(Fox”) to be particularly instructive. 
In Fox, plaintiff sued its former in-house attorney, for disclosure
of confidential and privileged information, upon learning that defendant
planned to sue for wrongful termination. 
In response to an anti-SLAPP motion by defendant, plaintiff moved to
disqualify her counsel on the ground that defendant possessed and could use
privileged and confidential information obtained while defendant worked for
plaintiff. 
 
            The
Court in Fox noted that:
Fox contends the fact [defendant’s] attorneys have been
exposed to Fox’s confidential and privileged information provides an
independent basis for disqualifying them. California courts have previously
addressed the question whether attorneys should be disqualified after being
exposed to the opposing party’s confidential information by their client.  In each case the court held disqualification
was not warranted. (Fox at 302.) 

 
If an attorney representing a
former in-house counsel against her employer must be disqualified because the
client might divulge confidential or privileged information, then it must
logically follow the in-house counsel also cannot represent herself against her
former employer because she possesses the employer’s confidential information.
In other words, if we accepted Fox’s view the disqualification rules would
effectively ban any litigation by a former in-house counsel against the
employer as well as bar in-house counsel from defending actions brought by the
employer….[S]uch a result is contrary to the decision in General Dynamics
Corp. v. Superior Court [(1997)
7 Cal.4th 116] in which our Supreme Court held a former in-house
counsel may sue her employer for wrongful termination so long as she does not
publicly disclose information the employer is entitled to keep secret.” (Fox at 304.)
 
Because the Court finds that Seyde’s and/or
Miller’s alleged exposure to either the Manatt Documents or the JAMS Documents
or the Seyde Documents constitutes a valid ground for the disqualification of
Miller as counsel for Seyde or Porter. 
The Motion is therefore DENIED.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of
this ruling. 
 


 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar. 
 
     Dated this 23rd day of April 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 



 


