 Case Number:  21STCV16066    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LAUREN FLORES,  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
AMWEST, INC., et al., 
 
                        Defendants.
 





     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV16066
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO LIFT
  STAY AND COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Date:  April 23, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56



 
MOVING PARTIES: Plaintiff
Lauren Flores 
 
RESPONDING PARTIES: Defendants
Amwest Inc., Russell Kingsford, and Jeffer Agoncillo 
            
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition, and
reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
 This action arises out of an employment
relationship between Plaintiff and Defendants. Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges:
(1) sexual harassment; (2) failure to prevent harassment; (3) retaliation; (4)
wrongful constructive termination; (5) intentional infliction of emotional
distress; and (6) representative action for civil penalties pursuant to the
Private Attorney General Act (“PAGA”). With regard to Plaintiff’s PAGA claim,
she alleges that she is an “aggrieved employee” within the meaning of Labor
Code § 2699(c) and is the proper representative to pursue a PAGA claim on her
own behalf and on the behalf of others. (Compl. ¶ 87.)
 
On
November 29, 2021, the Court ruled on a motion to compel arbitration filed by
Moving Defendants and ordered that Plaintiff’s non-PAGA claims be sent to
binding arbitration on the basis that during her employment Plaintiff signed a
valid and binding arbitration agreement (the “Arbitration Agreement”). On March
21, 2022, the Court granted Moving Defendants’ unopposed motion to stay the
PAGA proceeding pending the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Viking River
Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906 (“Viking River Cruises”).
 
On
September 9, 2022, Moving Defendants filed a motion to compel arbitration of
Plaintiff’s personal PAGA claims in light of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision
in Viking River Cruises, in which the Court held that a plaintiff’s
individual PAGA claims could be severed from their representative claims and
ordered to arbitration. This motion additionally requested that the Court
dismiss Plaintiff’s representative PAGA claims. In consideration of this
motion, on October 4, 2022, the Court exercised its discretion in the interest
of judicial economy and stayed the entire action pending the California Supreme
Court decision in Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Case No. S27467.
 
On
April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to lift the stay on the
ground that abatement of this action no longer exists and to compel the entire
PAGA action to arbitration. Alternatively, Plaintiff requests that her
individual PAGA claims proceed in arbitration and that the representative PAGA
claims proceed in court. 
 
On
April 10, 2024, Defendants filed their opposition to the instant motion.  On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed her reply.

 
DISCUSSION
A.   
Legal Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure § 1281.4 provides that “[i]f a court of competent
jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a
controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending
before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is
pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the
action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order
to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1281.4.) The stay may be lifted prior to completion of the arbitration
“only under circumstances in which lifting the stay would not frustrate the
arbitrator’s jurisdiction.” (KJA, Inc. v. 123 Fit Franchising, LLC
(2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 643, 660.)
 
B.   
Discussion
                                
i.        
Procedural Issues
Defendants
argue that the Court should disregard the instant motion on the grounds that:
1) it was untimely served and service was improper (Opposition at pp. 1-2); and
2) the motion amounts to an untimely request for reconsideration of the Court’s
November 29, 2021 order. 
With
regard to the first issue, the court has broad discretion to overlook late-served papers and to
resolve the matter on the merits.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d).) Because Defendants were able to file a
substantive opposition to the motion, the Court exercises its discretion to
consider the motion on its merits. 
 
As
to the second issue, the Court finds that the issues in this motion are not
identical to those in the previous motions. 
Plaintiff now seeks to lift the stay previously imposed in order to
pursue her entire PAGA claim in arbitration or, in the alternative, to pursue
her representative claim in court.  The
Court does not find that the instant motion seeks reconsideration of a prior
ruling. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court shall determine the motion on its merits. 
 
                               
ii.        
Lifting the Stay
Here,
Plaintiff seeks to lift the stay issued on March 21, 2022 in order to pursue
her entire PAGA claim in arbitration. Plaintiff contends that the
representative PAGA claim may be compelled into arbitration along with her
individual PAGA claim. (Motion at pp. 3-4, relying on Viking River, supra,
142 S.Ct, at 1916, Barrera v Apple (2023) 95 Cal 5th 63, 85-86, and Diaz
v. Macy's West 2022 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 212825. 
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue that the Court lacks authority to determine
whether Plaintiff’s representative PAGA claims should be compelled into
arbitration because the arbitration agreement includes a delegation clause that
expressly states that the arbitrator will determine what claims are encompassed
within the agreement. (Opposition at pg. 5.) 
 
In
reply, Plaintiff contends that the delegation clause is not effective because
it was not clear and unmistakable. (Reply at pg. 3, relying on First Options
of Chi., Inc. v. Kaplan (1995) 514 U.S. 938, 944.) As to this argument, the
Court finds that the opposite is true. The arbitration agreement between the
parties expressly states: “The arbitrator shall have the exclusive authority to
resolve any dispute relating to the formation, interpretation, applicability,
or enforceability of this Agreement, including, without limitation, any Claim
that all or any party of this Agreement is void or voidable.” (Hewgill Decl.,
Exh. A at pg. 2.) Thus, because the agreement states that the arbitrator has
exclusive authority in determining the applicability of the agreement, the
delegation was clear and unmistakable. 
 
As
noted above, there was no opposition to the motion that Plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claims be compelled into arbitration as determined in Viking River
Cruise. (See October 4, 2022.) Within its ruling, the Supreme Court did not
reach a determination as to whether a plaintiff would lose standing to assert
their representative claims if compelled to submit their individual PAGA claims
to arbitration. (Viking River Cruises, Inc., supra, 142 S.Ct. at
p.1925.) 
 

In
her concurring opinion, Justice Sotomayor observed that “The state courts are
the final arbiters of their meaning and appropriate application, subject only
to review by [SCOTUS] if such construction or application is appropriately
challenged on constitutional grounds.”  (Beal v. Missouri Pac. R. R.
Corp.¿(1941) 312 U.S. 45, 50; see Shams v. Revature LLC (N.D. Cal.
2022) 621 F.Supp.3d 1054, 1059, [“Although the Supreme Court suggests that
under PAGA, Moriana lost standing to pursue her non-individual PAGA claims,
because the California Supreme Court is the final arbiter of California law,
this Court applies¿Kim’s interpretation of PAGA standing to this
case.”].)  Recently, the California Supreme Court has definitively and
conclusively answered this question in Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023)
14 Cal.5th 1104. 
 
As
concluded by the California Supreme Court, “a worker becomes an ‘aggrieved
employee’ with standing to litigate claims on behalf of fellow employees upon
sustaining a Labor Code violation committed by his or her employer.
[Citations.] Standing under PAGA is not affected by enforcement of an agreement
to adjudicate a plaintiff's individual claim in another forum. 
Arbitrating a PAGA plaintiff's individual claim does not nullify the fact of
the violation or extinguish the plaintiff's status as an aggrieved employee…” 
(Adolph, supra, 14 Cal.5th at p.1121.)  Thus, “where a plaintiff
has filed a PAGA action comprised of individual and non-individual claims, an
order compelling arbitration of individual claims does not strip the plaintiff
of standing to litigate non-individual claims in court.”  (Adolph,
supra, 14 Cal.5th at p.1123.)  
 
Here,
Plaintiff has alleged Labor Code violations while working for Defendants.
“[Plaintiff]'s allegations that Labor Code violations were committed against
h[er] while [s]he was employed by [Defendants] suffice to confer standing to
bring a PAGA action.” (Adolph, supra, 14 Cal.5th at p.1121.)  The
fact that the individual PAGA claims were being compelled to arbitration does
not deprive Plaintiff of standing to pursue her representative PAGA claims. 
(Adolph, supra, 14 Cal.5th at p.1123.) 
As
to the question of whether Plaintiff’s representative PAGA claims should be
compelled into arbitration, Plaintiff relies on the unpublished federal
district court decision in Diaz v. Macy's West 2022 U.S. Dist. LEXIS
212825 to achieve such a result because the arbitration agreement does not
disavow PAGA or collective actions. (Motion at pp. 3-4.) Although Diaz
is only persuasive authority, the Court will follow it because while the
arbitration agreement in this case lacks a provision that Plaintiff expressly
agrees to submit her claims to class arbitration, Plaintiff herself is seeking
this relief and therefore has expressly agreed to submit her claims to class
arbitration.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s
request to submit her representative PAGA claims to arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s motion to the extent
that both her individual and representative PAGA claims are ordered compelled
into arbitration.  The Court sets a
Status Conference re status of arbitration for October 23, 2024 at 8:30
a.m.  The parties are ordered to file a
Joint Status Report at least seven court days before that Status Conference
date.
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
        
 Dated this 23rd day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



