 Case Number:  22STCV38729    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LEOBARDO
  SEGURA-MEZA and MIRIAN SANCHEZ, 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
AGOURA HILLS MARBLE AND GRANITE, INC.,
  et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV38729
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEFENDANT STYLENQUAZA, LLC’S MOTION TO
  QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS
 
Date: April 23, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Specially
Appearing Defendant Stylenquaza, LLC (“Moving Party”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Leobardo Segura-Meza and Mirian Sanchez (“Plaintiffs”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On November 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the
operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Agoura Hills
Marble and Granite, Inc., et al. (“Defendants”), including Moving Party for:
(1) Negligence; (2) Strict Liability – Warning Defect; (3) Strict Liability –
Design Defect; (4) Fraudulent Concealment; (5) Breach of Implied Warranties;
and (6) Loss of Consortium.
            On 
December 4, 2023, Moving Party filed the instant Motion to Quash Service
of Summons (the “Motion”). On January 11, 2024, Moving Party filed an Amended
Notice of Motion. On April 3, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the
Motion. On April 9, 2024, Moving Party filed a reply to the opposition.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
             In support of their opposition, Plaintiffs’ filed
the declaration of Raphael Metzger. Moving party objects to portions and
exhibits of this declaration. The objections are SUSTAINED.
 
DISCUSSION
            Under California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 418.10, a defendant, on or before the last day of their time
to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow,
may serve and file a notice of motion to quash service of summons on the ground
of lack of jurisdiction over them. (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).) A
court lacks jurisdiction over a party if there has not been proper service of
process. (Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.)
Compliance with the statutory procedures for service of process is essential to
establish personal jurisdiction. (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.) The filing of a proof of service creates a
rebuttable presumption that the service was proper but only if it complies with
the statutory requirements regarding such proofs. (Id. at 144142.) When
a defendant moves to quash service of the summons and complaint, the plaintiff
has the burden of proving the facts that did give the court jurisdiction, that
is the facts requisite to an effective service. (Coulston v. Cooper
(1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.)
 


 
Motion to Quash Service of Summons
            Moving Party moves for an order
quashing service of summons of the SAC and dismissing the action against it for
lack of personal jurisdiction. Moving Party asserts that the SAC makes several
unverified jurisdictional assertions in a purported attempt to tie Moving Party
to California but that each of these assertions is insufficient to establish
jurisdiction. In fact, Moving Party argues that these assertions were
considered and rejected by Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Fahey last December
in a separate case, No. 22STCV31907 when he granted Moving Party’s motion to
quash. 
 
Furthermore,
Moving Party asserts that Plaintiffs do not and cannot establish general
jurisdiction exists over Moving Party because it is a Texas limited liability
company with its principal place of business in Dallas, TX. (Nguyen Decl. ¶ 3.)
Moving Party contends that none of its owners are California residents and that
Plaintiffs do not and cannot establish specific jurisdiction exists over Moving
Party because: (1) it did not purposefully avail itself to California’s
benefits; (2) Plaintiffs’ causes of action did not arise out of Moving Party’s
contact with California; and (3) exercise of personal jurisdiction over Moving
Party would not comport with traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice. 
 
Specifically,
Moving Party argues that it has not followed a course of conduct directed at
California because it has never been licensed to do business in California, has
no physical presence in California, and does not advertise in any media
directed at California. (Nguyen Decl. ¶¶ 8-21.) Moving Party also contends that
the extremely attenuated contacts it has had with California purportedly
referenced in Plaintiff’s unverified SAC consist of an irrelevant website that
does not belong to Moving Party that lists regional distributors of another
defendant, and not Moving Party. (Compl. ¶¶ 355-359.) Additionally, Moving
Party contends that Plaintiffs make no attempt to allege any connection between
Moving Party’s rare contacts with California and the causes of action. 
 
Finally,
Moving Party argues that the inconvenience of litigating in a foreign state
would clearly weigh heavily on Moving Party, as its primary operations are
nowhere close to the West Coast.  Moving
Party asserts that it is difficult to see how California has an interest in
adjudicating a case against an out-of-state company without offices, agents, or
any meaningful business in California, where virtually all of Moving Party’s
products were sent to states that are nowhere close to California, so the quantity
of products from Moving Party that were shipped to California is extremely
limited. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that
Moving Party has been properly served at its principal place of business in
Dallas, TX and on Moving Party’s agent for service. Plaintiffs further contend that
on Moving Party’s website (https://us.vicostone.com) Moving party has
designated Integrated Resources Group, Inc., as its regional distributor for
Northern California at three locations and Architectural Surfaces Company as
its regional distributor for Southern California at two locations including one
in Los Angeles County. Thus, Plaintiffs argue, Moving Party has specifically
directed customers to its designated regional distributors in California so
that it may sell Vicostone products in this state, including Los Angeles
County. 
 
Plaintiffs
also contend since Plaintiff was exposed to Moving Party’s Vicostone sold by
its regional distributor in Los Angeles, Moving Party’s targeted sales of its
artificial stone products to California, specifically, Los Angeles, Moving
Party purposefully availed itself of the benefits of doing business in this
state. Furthermore, Plaintiffs contend Moving Party is the direct distributor
in North America of Vicostone Joint Stock Co. (“Vicostone JSC”), a Vietnamese
company that engineered stone slabs that are the subject of this lawsuit, as
evidenced by three redacted distribution contracts. Plaintiffs assert that the
2018 Vicostone Annual Report makes no mention of any other West Coast suppliers
as part of its North American distribution plan. Similarly, Plaintiffs argue that
the declaration submitted by Moving Party in support of the Motion shows it has
done business in California by supplying the very product that caused
Plaintiff’s injury. Specifically, Plaintiffs assert in selling 22 stone slabs
directly to California and having no certainty that others were not sold prior
to 2018, Moving Party has purposefully availed itself of California’s economy
and consumers. (Declaration of An Nguyen (“Nguyen Decl.”),  ¶¶ 6-8.) In addition, Plaintiffs argue that Plaintiffs
were harmed by exposure to dust from Vicostone products sold by Moving Party in
California, which establishes that the claims arise out of Moving Party’s
contacts with California. 
 
            In reply, Moving Party argues that
An Nguyen (“Nguyen”) in his declaration and deposition established that
Vicostone JSC owns, controls, and operates the website Plaintiffs attribute to
Moving Party. Moving Party also argues that the Nguyen Declaration states that Moving
Party does not provide products to the California distribution centers listed
on the Vicostone JSC’s website. (Nguyen Decl. ¶ 21; Tr. 77:6-19, 78:2-21,
93:25-94:9.) Moving Party further provides evidence that it does not own,
operate or maintain the website (https://us.vicostone.com). (Teresi Decl. ¶,
Ex. 6 at No. 13.) Additionally, Moving Party asserts it did not designate the
California centers listed on this website as the regional distributors of
Vicostone JSC and does not directly provide products to these centers. (Nguyen
Decl. ¶ 21; Tr. 91:18-92:9; Morse Decl. ¶, Ex. C at 6.) Likewise, Moving Party
argues that Plaintiffs cannot establish jurisdiction over Moving Party by
referencing Vicostone JSC’s or Pental Marble & Granite’s or any other
entity’s activities because legal entities are generally treated as separate
persons for jurisdiction analysis. 
Furthermore,
Moving Party contends that the distribution contracts and purported printout of
Vicostone’s 2018 Annual Report are irrelevant because neither mention or
reference California at all. Also, Moving Party asserts that the 22 stone slabs
supplied to California via six shipments where the products only accounted for
0.0001% of product Moving Party ever distributed are insufficient to establish
purposeful availment. Lastly, Moving Party reiterates that Plaintiffs fail to
establish that their causes of action arose out of or related to Moving Party’s
contacts with California and cannot establish that the exercise of personal
jurisdiction would comport with traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice. 
 
            The Court finds that Plaintiffs have
not met their burden of proof that the Court has personal jurisdiction over
Moving Party. Plaintiffs have not proffered evidence to rebut Moving Party’s
showing that its distribution area does not include the West Coast.
Furthermore, Plaintiffs have not provided evidence demonstrating that Moving
Party is licensed to do business in California, has its principal place of
business in California, has any distribution centers in California, directly
advertises or markets business in California, owns the purported website,
operates the purported website, maintains/controls the purported website, or that
the owners are domiciled in California. In fact, the evidence submitted by
Plaintiff supports the present Motion and at minimum suggests that Moving Party
is a mere distributor for Vicostone JSC, whose product only incidentally enters
California, and who has insufficient contacts with this state to support the
exercise of jurisdiction over it. 
 
            Therefore, Stylenquaza LLC’s Motion
to Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the
instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 23rd day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



