 Case Number:  22NWCV00221    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  C VANG, ET AL. v. LEE,
ET AL.
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00221
HEARING:  10/24/23 @
9:30 a.m.
 
#2
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
I.            
Plaintiff BURLEE VANG, ABEL VANG, and UNCANNY
PRODUCTIONS, LLC’s motion for terminating sanctions is GRANTED as to
Defendant FILM 102 PRODUCTIONS LLC and DENIED without prejudice as to
Defendant CARR LEE.  
 
II.           
Plaintiff BURLEE VANG, ABEL VANG, and UNCANNY
PRODUCTIONS, LLC’s motion in the alternative for evidentiary or issue sanctions
is DENIED as MOOT as to Defendant FILM 102 PRODUCTIONS LLC and DENIED
without prejudice as to Defendant CARR LEE. 

 
 
The Court strikes Defendant FILM 102 PRODUCTIONS,
LLC’s Answer and Cross-Complaint.
 
The Court enters default judgment against Defendant FILM 102
PRODUCTIONS, LLC in favor of Plaintiff BURLEE VANG, ABEL VANG, and UNCANNY
PRODUCTIONS, LLC. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
This misappropriation action was filed by Plaintiff BURLEE
VANG, ABEL VANG, and UNCANNY PRODUCTIONS, LLC (Plaintiffs) on March 28, 2022.
Plaintiffs’ operative first amended complaint (FAC) was filed on June 27, 2022
and asserts the following causes of action: (1) intentional breach of fiduciary
duty; (2) negligent breach of fiduciary duty; (3) conversion; (4) accounting;
(5) breach of written contract; (6) intentional interference with contractual
relations; (7) breach of oral contract; (8) defamation per se; and (9)
declaratory relief.
 
Plaintiffs move for terminating sanctions and alternatively,
evidentiary or issue sanctions. 
 
Plaintiffs’ motion for terminating sanctions and
alternatively, evidentiary or issue sanctions:
 
          Legal
Standard
 
If
anyone engages in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process, the court
may impose monetary sanction, issue sanction, evidence sanction, terminating
sanction, and contempt sanction. (CCP §§ 2023.030, 2030.290, 2031.320.) The
sanctions the court may impose are such as are suitable and necessary to enable
the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks,
but the court may not impose sanctions which are designed not to accomplish the
objects of discovery but to impose punishment. (Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers
Ins. Exchange (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 481, 487.)  A prerequisite to the imposition of the
dismissal sanction is that the party has willfully failed to comply with a
court order. (Ibid.) Terminating sanctions should only be ordered when
there has been previous noncompliance with a rule or order and it appears a
less severe sanction would not be effective. (Link v. Cater (1998) 60
Cal.App.4th 1315, 1326.) A terminating sanction issued solely because of a
failure to pay a monetary sanction is never justified. (Newland v. Sup.Ct.
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 615.)
 
“The court may impose a terminating sanction by one of the
following orders:
 
(1)  An
order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process.
(2)  An
order staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed.
(3)  An
order dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party.
(4)  An
order rendering a judgment by default against that party.”
 
(CCP § 2030.030(d).)
 
Discussion
 
Here, Plaintiffs move for terminating sanctions against
Defendants CARR LEE and FILM 102 PRODUCTIONS, LLC (Defendants) for failing to
obey this Court’s June 22, 2023 orders. Plaintiffs specifically request the
Court (1) strike Defendants’ Answer to Plaintiffs’ FAC, (2) strike Defendants’
cross-complaint, and (3) issue default judgment against Defendants in favor of
Plaintiffs. Alternatively, Plaintiffs move for evidentiary or issue sanctions
prohibiting Defendants from introducing any evidence, oral or written, at trial
regarding alleged injuries and damages associated with the cross-complaint. 
 
On December 13, 2022, Plaintiffs served Requests for
Production of Documents (RPDs) (Set One) and Special Interrogatories (SROGS)
(Set One) on Defendants via electronic service. (Rosen Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Exhs.
1-2.) A month later, former defense counsel Navid Soleymani filed a
Substitution of Attorney and negotiated a continuance of the discovery
deadlines almost six weeks out. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Defendants’ new counsel
still failed to respond to the discovery requests. (Id.) As such, on
March 31, 2023, Plaintiffs filed motions to compel responses to RPDs (Set One)
and SROGS (Set One). (Id. at ¶ 8.)
 
On June 22, 2023, this Court ordered Defendants to provide
verified responses and documents, without objection, to Plaintiffs’ RPDs (Set
One) and SROGS (Set One), no later than 10 days from the issuance of the order.
(Min. Order 6/22/23.) This Court also ordered Defendants to pay Plaintiffs
monetary sanctions in the amount of $990.00, no later than 30 days from the
issuance of the order. (Id.) Plaintiffs state that as of the time of
this instant motion, they have not received any responses, documents, or payment
of sanctions. (Rosen Decl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiffs also state that former defense
counsel offered to supplement discovery responses, but Defendants would not
cooperate. (Id. at ¶ 14.)
 
The Motion is DENIED without prejudice as to Defendant CARR
LEE. On September 1, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Bankruptcy re: Debtor
Carr Lee. To date, no Notice of Bankruptcy Stay has been filed in this case.
Regardless, the automatic stay is triggered by the filing of a Bankruptcy
Petition and becomes effective with or without a court order. There is a Status
Conference Re: Bankruptcy of Defendant(s) set for Hearing on March 25, 2024.
 
The Court finds that terminating sanctions are warranted as
to Defendant FILM 102 PRODUCTIONS, LLC because Defendant has not provided
responses and documents to Plaintiffs’ RPDs (Set One) and SROGS (Set One). This
Court already imposed monetary sanctions in this case in the amount of $990.00
and Defendant has failed to comply with such order. Moreover, Defendant has not
filed an opposition to the motions to compel, which resulted in the present motion
at issue. Additionally, Defendant was served with notice of this instant motion
and again did not file an opposition. Therefore, it is clear that Defendant is disinterested
in litigating this case.  Accordingly,
the Motion for Terminating Sanctions is GRANTED as to Defendant FILM 102
PRODUCTIONS, LLC.  
 
The Court strikes Defendant FILM 102 PRODUCTIONS,
LLC’s Answer and Cross-Complaint.
 
The Court enters default judgment against Defendant FILM 102
PRODUCTIONS, LLC in favor of Plaintiff BURLEE VANG, ABEL VANG, and UNCANNY
PRODUCTIONS, LLC. 
 