 Case Number:  23NWCV02650    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  C WMB
Group LLC v. Excellence Platinum Real Estate 
CASE
NO.: 23NWCV02650
HEARING: 
10/24/23 
 
#9
 
TENTATIVE
ORDER 
 
Defendant’s
Demurrer is OVERRULED.
Background 
 
On August 1, 2019, Plaintiff WMB Group LLC (“Plaintiff”)
and Defendant Excellence Platinum Real Estate (“Defendant”) entered into a
written two-year lease agreement wherein which Defendant agreed to pay rent in
the amount of $2,800.00 each month on the first of the month for the purpose of
leasing the Premises. Upon the expiration of the two-year term, the tenancy
became a month-to-month tenancy, and the latest rent increase raised the rent
to $3,200.00 each month. 
On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff caused to be served on
Defendant a 3-day notice to pay rent or quit. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
failed to pay the past-due rent and failed to quit and deliver possession of
the Premises by the expiration of the 3-day period. 
On August 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against
Defendant. On August 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a FAC alleging unlawful
detainer.
On September 15, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer alleging
that Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action for unlawful detainer and
that the notice is fatally defective. 
On September 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Opposition.  On the same day, Defendant filed his
Reply.  On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a supplemental Opposition. 
 
Analysis 
Meet and Confer 
A
party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with
the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 430.41(a).)
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the
responsive pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at
least five days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring
party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to
file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on
which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury
that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the
reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.” (Code Civ. Proc., section
430.41(a)(2).) A failure to meet and confer does not constitute grounds to
sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections 430.41 (a)(4).) 
 
Defendant’s demur
states that it includes a declaration of counsel. However, no such declaration
has been attached.  Additionally, on the
face of the demur, there includes no statement that Defendant has attempted to
meet and confer with Plaintiff. Although, no meet and confer has occurred in
the effort of judicial efficiency the Court will consider the demur on its
merits.
 
Legal
Standard 
Demurrer 
 
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action.  (Hahn v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read
the allegations liberally and in context.  In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
968, 994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.30, 430.70.)  At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the
claim against him.  (Semole
v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) 
A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of
fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments
pleaded, or facts impossible in law.”  (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen
(1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 (internal citations omitted).)  
 
Discussion 
A tenant is guilty of unlawful detainer when he continues
in possession of the property, without the permission of the landlord, after
default in the payment of rent, and three days’ notice, in writing, requiring
its payment, stating the amount which is due, the name, telephone number, and
address of the person to whom the rent payment shall be made, and, if payment
may be made personally, the usual days and hours that person will be available
to receive the payment. (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code, § 1161(2).)
Defendant argues that the
Notice failed to comply with CC 1161(2) because it does not state that the period
to pay is “excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial holidays” as
required under the statute. Defendant argues that the missing clause failed to
inform Defendant of its rights when it would be the last day to pay and thus,
the Notice is fatally defective.
 
In Opposition,
Plaintiff argues that it substantially complied with the CCP § 1161(2), because
it includes all the information necessary to state a cause of action for
unlawful detainer based on non-payment of rent. Plaintiff contends there is no
requirement to include the language of “...excluding Saturdays and Sundays and
other judicial holidays...” in the Notice itself.  Plaintiff points to the fact that the
exclusion of Saturdays and Sundays and judicial holidays is necessary in
computing the amount of time within which Defendant has to pay the past-due
balance before the notice expires. Plaintiff argues that the calculation in the
Notice shows that it considered the exclusion of Saturdays and Sundays when
creating the three-day notice. 
 
In Reply, Defendant
again argues that the phrase “excludes Saturday, Sunday and Other Judicial
Holidays” needs to be included in the notice.
 
The summary proceeding
is an expedited proceeding in which the landlord must strictly adhere to the
statutory requirements of the unlawful detainer. Tenant is entitled to
three-days’ notice to pay rent or quit which may be enforced by summary legal
proceedings, but such notice is valid and enforceable only if lessor strictly
complies with specifically described notice conditions. (Lamey v. Masciotra
(1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 709.) The rule that the three-day’s notice to quit or pay
rent must contain the amount of rent which is due ensures that landlord will
not be entitled to regain possession in an unlawful detainer action unless
tenant has had an opportunity to pay the delinquent rent. (Bevill v. Zoura
(1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 694.) 
 
The Court determines
that Defendant was given the statutorily authorized amount of time within which
to pay the past-due balance.  The three-day
notice to pay rent or quit was delivered on August 10, 2023. Since August 10, 2023,
fell on a Thursday, Defendant had three (3) full days to pay: Friday August 11,
Monday August 14, and Tuesday August 15, 2023 (excluding Saturdays and Sundays
and judicial holidays).  The Notice
clearly indicates the last day to pay rent in order to continue tenancy.  Moreover, the Notice includes all other
required information, namely: the amount which is due, the name, telephone
number, and address of the person to whom the rent payment shall be made and,
if payment may be made personally, the usual days and hours that person will be
available to receive the payment per CCP § 1161(2). 
 
Based on the foregoing,
the fact that the notice does not explicitly state “...excluding Saturdays and
Sundays and other judicial holidays...” does not render the notice defective. Defendant was given the statutorily authorized amount of
time within which to pay the past-due balance.

 
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s Demurrer is OVERRULED.

 