  Case Number:  21STCV07600    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  C KHOSHROZEH DENTAL CORPORATION, et
al. v. S&P LEE INVESTMENT, INC., et al.
CASE NO.:  21STCV07600
HEARING:  10/24/23 at 10:30 a.m.
 
#6
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant VII Commercial Corp.’s motion for summary judgment, or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication is DENIED. 
 
Opposing party to give
Notice.
 
 
Complaint
 
Plaintiffs Khoshrozeh
Dental Corporation and Mehrdad Khoshrozeh, DDS, allege that Defendants
maintained the “premises and the electrical systems therein, including the ‘plenum’
[attic], in such a manner that created a dangerous, defective and hazardous
condition… [that] cause[d] a fire to initiate and ignite on May 30, 2020.”  (Complaint, ¶ 19.)  Based thereon, the Complaint asserts causes of
action for:
 
1.   
General
Negligence
2.   
Premises
Liability
3.   
Insurance
Agent/Broker Liability
 
The Complaint was
brought against S & P Lee Investment, LLC (“S & P”), Pacific Western
Insurance Services, Inc., Nima “Nick” Golbad, Newridgee Insurance Management
Agency, and Does 1-50. Plaintiffs later filed an amendment to the Complaint
adding VII Commercial Corp. (“Defendant”) as Doe 26. Only the first two causes
of action apply to Defendant. 
 
Procedural Background
 
Defendant VII
Commercial Corp. moves for summary
judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication pursuant to CCP § 437c.
 
On September 12, 2023,
the hearing on this motion was continued because no exhibits were attached to
Defendant’s Notice of Lodgment of Evidence filed on January 27, 2023 and
Amended Notice of Lodgment of Evidence filed on January 30, 2023. Therefore,
the Court was unable to render a ruling on the motion and continued the motion
to October 24, 2023, at 10:30 am in Dept. C. 
Defendant was ordered to immediately file the exhibits.
 
Later that day,
September 12, 2023, Defendant filed an Amended Notice of Lodgment of Evidence.
Defendant’s evidence includes: 1) a copy of the Complaint, 2) copy of Plaintiffs’
Doe 26 amendment naming VII Commercial Corp. as a defendant, 3) a copy of the
lease agreement entered into between Plaintiffs and owners Defendant S & P
Investments, LLC, 4) a copy of the property management agreement entered into
between S & P Investments, LLC and VII Commercial Corporation, 5) copies of
portions of the deposition transcript of Fabian Munoz, an employee of
Defendant, 6) copies of portions of the deposition transcript of Keith Corneliuson,
Vice President of property management for Defendant, and 7) copies of portions
of the deposition transcript of Samuel Lee, co-owner of S & P Investments,
LLC. 
 
Defendant’s Undisputed
Material Facts
 
S & P owns the
premises. [UMF No. 1.] On September 1, 2016, S&P 
entered into a contract
wherein Plaintiff leased the premises from S&P (the “Lease Agreement”).
[UMF No. 2.] The Lease Agreement imposed a duty onto Plaintiff, as the tenant,
to professionally maintain the Premises including heating, air conditioning,
electrical, plumbing and water systems, if any, and keep glass, windows, doors,
and outdoor signage in operable and safe conditions. [UMF No. 3.] The Lease
Agreement also stated that S & P retained the duty to maintain the roof,
foundation, exterior walls, and common areas. [UMF No. 4.] 
 
On April 1, 2020, S &
P subcontracted managerial duties for the Premises to Defendant (the “Manager Agreement”).
[UMF No. 5.] The Manager Agreement notes that Defendant has a duty to monitor
and attend to the physical condition of the Premises and in connection
therewith: to cause the common areas of the Premises to be maintained and kept
in good condition and repair. [UMF No. 6.] Fabian Munoz (“Munoz”), Defendant’s
agent and supervisor for the Premises, monitored and inspected the common areas
by walking around the common area to ascertain if there were physical defects
readily apparent to the naked eye, and to attend to tenants’ concerns regarding
the Premises. [UMF No.7.] Defendant did not owe a duty to Plaintiff to install,
build, configure, repair, modify, or otherwise preserve the Premises. [UMF No.
8.]
 
On May 30, 2020, a fire
erupted in the “plenum” area of the Premises. [UMF No. 9.] Defendant did not
have access to the plenum area of the Premises and did not inspect or otherwise
visit the plenum area between April 1, 2020 and May 30, 
2020. [UMF No. 10.]
There were no complaints involving the electrical systems at the Premises made
by any of the tenants, including Plaintiffs, to Defendant between April 1, 2020
and May 30, 2020. [UMF No. 11.] 
 
 
I.        Legal Standard for MSJ/MSA
 
A party seeking summary
judgment has the burden of producing evidentiary facts sufficient to entitle
him/her to judgment as a matter of law. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c).)  The
moving party must make an affirmative showing that he/she is entitled to
judgment irrespective of whether or not the opposing party files an
opposition.  (Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 733, 742-743.)  Thus, “the
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” 
(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519
(citing Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
 
When a plaintiff seeks
summary judgment, he/she must produce admissible evidence on each element of
each cause of action on which judgment is sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).)  When a defendant seeks summary judgment,
he/she has the “burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the
party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not
separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense
to the cause of action.”  (Code of Civ.
Proc. § 437c(p)(2).) 
 
The opposing party on a
motion for summary judgment is under no evidentiary burden to produce rebuttal
evidence until the moving party meets his or her initial movant’s burden.  (Binder v. Aetna Life Insurance Company
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 840.)  Once
the initial movant’s burden is met, then the burden shifts to the opposing
party to show, with admissible evidence, that there is a triable issue
requiring the weighing procedures of trial. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p).)  The
opposing party may not simply rely on his/her allegations to show a triable
issue but must present evidentiary facts that are substantial in nature and
rise beyond mere speculation.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68¿Cal.App.4th 151, 162.) 
Summary judgment must be granted “if all the evidence submitted, and
‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7¿Cal.App.4th¿1110, 1119.)  
 
As to any alternative
request for summary adjudication of issues, such alternative relief must be
clearly set forth in the Notice of Motion and the general burden-shifting rules
apply but the issues upon which summary adjudication may be sought are limited
by statute.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿437c(f)(1).)  “A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)
 

II.       Application
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs cannot present a triable issue
of material fact regarding the two causes of action pled against it: 1) general
negligence and 2) premises liability. Specifically, Defendant contends that
Plaintiffs cannot support the elements of duty and causation.
 
i. First Cause of Action: Negligence 
 
          1. Duty
 
Defendant first contends that the cause of action for negligence
fails because Plaintiffs do not put forth evidence demonstrating Defendant owed
Plaintiffs a legal duty to inspect the area of the Premises where the fire
allegedly started. 
 
Defendant contends it is undisputed that the property management
contract limited Defendant’s inspection duties to the common areas. [UMF No. 5.]
Defendant also contends that the lease agreement that plaintiff signed imposed
a duty onto tenant (Plaintiffs) to maintain the premises including heating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing and water systems. Defendant also contends
that without the permission of the tenant and Premises owner, it had no access
to the plenum area where the fire started. Finally, Defendant contends that it
received no complaints about the electrical system or any other condition of
the plenum area in the brief time it had managerial duties. 
 
i. Management Agreement Did Not Expressly
Limit Defendant’s Duty of Care to Common Areas
 
In support of its position that the Management Agreement limited
Defendant’s duty to inspection of the common areas, Defendant relies on the
following language in the Management Agreement: 1) "Manager shall use
commercially reasonable efforts to manage the Property on a day-to-day basis in
accordance with such management practices as are normal and customary for
commercial property substantially similar to the Property as of the date of
this Agreement" (Defs. Exhibit D, paragraph 3); and 2) the definition of
repair and maintenance was to "monitor and attend to the physical
condition of the Property" (Defs. Exhibit D, paragraph 3b). 
 
This language alone does not expressly limit the duty of care to
inspection of common areas. Instead, it states that the Defendant, as
“Manager”, owes a duty to manage the “Property”, which presumably includes the
whole Premises. Defendant does not point to any language in the Management
Agreement limiting the scope of the “Property” to the common areas. 
 
ii. The Lease Agreement Did Not Expressly
State that it was Soley Plaintiffs’ Duty to Inspect the Electrical System
 
In support of its position that Plaintiffs, as tenants, had the
duty to inspect the electrical system, Defendant relies on the following
provision of the Lease Agreement that Plaintiffs entered into with S & P:
“Tenant… shall professionally maintain the Premises including heating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing and water systems, if any, and keep glass, windows,
doors and outdoor signage in operable and safe conditions.” (Notice of Lodgment
of Evidence, Ex. C, para. 17.) Defendant thus contends that the Lease Agreement
expressly shifted the duty to maintain the electrical system onto Plaintiffs. 
 
However, Plaintiffs contend that the “Premises” referred to in the
Lease Agreement was limited to their rented space and did not include the
electrical system contained in other parts of the property. Plaintiffs contend
that their rented space constituted 15.780% of the rentable space on the entire
property that comprised the Premises and that the fire was started in the
plenum area, which is located above and outside of Plaintiffs’ rented space.
Therefore, Plaintiffs contend that the Lease Agreement did not state that it
was Plaintiffs’ duty to maintain the electrical system where the fire begun. 
 
iii. There is a Triable Issue of Fact as
to Whether Defendant’s Duty to Inspect was Limited by the Requirement for Permission
to Enter Plaintiffs’ Rented Spaces
 
Defendant states that it could not enter Plaintiffs’ rented spaces
without permission from Plaintiffs and S & P and thus could not be
responsible for maintaining those parts of the Premises. However, Plaintiffs
point to paragraph 20 of the Lease Agreement, which states that "Tenant
shall make Premises available to Landlord or landlord's agent for the purpose
of entering to make inspections, necessary or agreed repairs, alterations, or improvements,
etc." (Defendant’s Supporting Evidence (“DSF”), Ex. C, para. 20.)
Plaintiffs also contend that the plenum space is only accessible through
Plaintiffs’ rented space, so Defendant was required to access Plaintiffs’ space
to perform its duties of ensuring the safety of the entire Premises. 
 
Given the conflicting evidence presented, the Court finds that the
Lease Agreement did not conclusively relieve Defendant of its duty to inspect
the electrical system by requiring Defendant to gain permission to enter
Plaintiffs’ rented spaces.
 
iv. The Lack of Complaints Regarding
Electrical System Problems Did Not Limit Defendant’s Duty. 
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs never complained of the
electrical conditions at the premises. However, Defendant provides no specific
evidence of this contention. Nor does Defendant explain how this alleged fact
relieved it of the duty to maintain the Premises in safe condition. Therefore,
this is insufficient grounds to find that Defendant did not have a duty to
maintain the electrical system on the Premises. 
 
Given that Defendant does not put forth adequate evidence to
support its contention that Plaintiffs cannot support the element of duty in
their negligence claim against Defendant, the Court finds that Defendant fails
to meet its initial burden as the party moving for summary judgment. 
 
v. Plaintiffs’ Evidence in Opposition
Creates an Issue of Material Fact as to the Element of Duty
 
However, even if Defendant were to meet its initial burden on
summary judgment, Plaintiffs submit sufficient evidence in opposition to create
a triable issue of material fact as to the element of duty. 
 
Specifically, Plaintiffs attach the Declaration of E. Robert
Miller, Plaintiff’s expert, to support their position that Defendant’s staff
owed a duty of care under the Management Agreement entered into with S & P
to “monitor and attend to the physical condition of the property” and breached
their duty of care by failing to properly train the onsite manager, failing to
prepare a fire safety management plan, failing to inspect the electrical
system, and failing to perform more than a visual inspection from the exterior
of the property, among other things. According to the Miller Declaration, Ely
Miller is a certified specialist in property management issues, including property
damage, security, industry standards of care, due diligence, ethics and
liability. (Miller Decl. para. 1.) Miller recorded his declaration after
reviewing the depositions of Munoz and Corneliuson. (Miller Decl. para. 20.) 
 
Miller’s expert opinion is that Defendant had a duty to properly
manage the Premises and its onsite property supervisor, Munoz, was not properly
trained for management and maintenance and did not have sufficient training to
become a “property supervisor”. (Miller Decl. para. 22.) Regarding the extent
of the duties of a professional property management team such as Defendant,
Miller states that it is his opinion that it was the duty of Defendant to require
a complete inspection of the electrical system by a qualified electrician upon
retaining management responsibilities over the Premises and that, had Defendant
done so, it would more likely than not have prevented the fire from ever having
occurred. (Miller Decl. para. 43.) Considering that electrical fires are the
leading cause of commercial fires, the building was 29 years old, and there had
never been an inspection of the electrical system by a qualified electrician,
Miller concludes that Defendant owed and breached a duty of care of a property
owner/manager by failing to require that a complete inspection of the
electrical system be performed by a qualified electrician at any time during its
ownership of the Premises. (Miller Decl. para. 42.) Miller further states that
his opinions are reinforced by the fact that a second fire occurred two years
after the subject fire, and no electrical inspection was performed before the
second fire. (Miller Decl. para. 44.)
 
Miller also disputed Defendants’ claim that Defendants had no duty
to inspect the plenum area because they could only access it by entering
Plaintiffs’ rental space. (Miller Decl. para. 41.) Miller points to Section 20
of the Lease Agreement, and contends that this is a typical clause in lease
agreements and is widely used to gain access to tenant spaces under reasonable
conditions to perform inspections or repairs and is also consistent with
California law. (Ibid.)
 
Therefore, the Court finds that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to whether or not Defendant owed a duty to inspect the entire
property, including the electrical wiring system. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s request for summary adjudication for the
negligence cause of action based on the issue of duty is denied. 
 
          2. Breach and Causation
 
Defendant’s moving papers contend that Plaintiffs cannot prove the
elements of breach and causation because they failed to show that Defendant
owed a duty of care. 
 
Given that the Court found that Plaintiffs do create a triable
issue of material fact as to whether they owed a duty of care to inspect the
area of the Premises where the fire occurred, the Court finds that Defendant’s
argument regarding breach and causation fails. 
 
Moreover, in opposition, Plaintiffs provide substantial evidence
regarding the elements of breach and causation. First, to show the cause of the
fire, Plaintiffs attach the declaration of Nathan Siahpush, the fire
investigator. Siahpush concluded that the fire was accidental in nature and the
source of the ignition was an electrical fault or failure of the electrical
lines above the ceiling within the plenum spaces. (Siahpush Decl., p. 12, l.
10-12.) 
 
Additionally, in the Miller Declaration, Miller contends that
Defendant breached its duty of care in numerous ways, leading to the fire and
ensuing damage. Miller bases this opinion on excerpts of the Munoz Declaration,
including that Munoz started with the company as an administrative assistant
whose job was collecting the mail, making copies, real basic stuff, making sure
the printer had paper, "clerical stuff,” and went directly from “clerical
stuff” to property management without earning certificates from any
professional management organization. (Miller Decl. para. 21.) Miller relies
heavily on Munoz’s testimony regarding his training under Corneliuson.
Allegedly, Corneliuson taught Munoz to "just go out there and look at the
properties and the common areas to see if anything, you know, what is visible,”
did not mention water sprinklers, fire alarms, fireproofing, fire extinguishers,
fire doors, and told Munoz, "You know, we are just there to kind of see
anything that is visible, and then we try to take care of the problems if
tenants call.” (Ibid.) Miller contends that the inadequate training by
Corneliuson led Munoz to be unable to understand the extent of his duties as
property supervisor and in turn to inadequate inspections and monitoring of the
Premises. (Miller Decl. para. 25.) Miller further contends the failure to
adequately train and instruct Munoz was a breach of Defendant’s duty to assign
properly trained individuals to properties under its management, including the
Premises. (Miller Decl. para. 26.) 
 
Miller pointed to the following excerpts of Munoz’s testimony to
highlight the extent of Munoz’s insufficient management practices: 
·       
Munoz stated that he “never” enters the
tenants’ spaces and that he performed inspections by simply walking the
exterior of the property 
·       
Munoz made clear that part of his duties
did not include inspection of the electrical system 
·       
Munoz stated that he never saw or read
through the Management Agreement 
·       
Munoz admitted that he did not know where
most of the electrical wiring in the building was, or that there was an attic
in the building (which is where the fire started), or how to access the attic
·       
Munoz stated that he received no training
regarding possible sources or causes of fires in commercial buildings or any
instructions or any recommendations from Defendant to look for possible sources
of fire in commercial buildings
 
This evidence is sufficient to create a triable issue of material
fact as to whether Defendant breached its duty and caused the fire. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s request for summary adjudication for the
negligence cause of action based on the issue of breach and causation is
denied. 
 
ii. Second Cause of Action: Premises Liability
 
          1. Duty
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs’ premises liability cause of
action fails because Plaintiffs cannot establish that Defendant owned,
possessed, or controlled the Premises and thus cannot establish that Defendant
owed a duty. 
 
It is undisputed that Defendant is not the owner of the Premises as
S & P is the owner of the Premises. However, the parties dispute whether
Defendant possessed or controlled the Premises. 
 
The Management Agreement entered into between Defendant and S &
P, states that “Owner hereby appoints and grants Manager the exclusive right to
rent, lease, operate and manage the Property on a day-to-day basis, and
Manager hereby accepts such appointment, on the terms and
conditions
set forth in this Agreement.” (Property Management Agreement, page
1, para. 1.) Furthermore, under Management Duties, the agreement states that “In
its capacity as Manager hereunder, Manager shall use commercially reasonable
efforts to manage the Property on a day-to-day basis in accordance with such management
practices as are normal and customary for commercial property substantially
similar to the Property as of the date of this Agreement.” (Property Management
Agreement, page 1, para. 3.) 
 
Therefore, according to the plain language of the Management
Agreement, Defendant appeared to have control over the Premises. Even if Defendant
didn’t have control over Plaintiffs’ rented space, there is at least a triable
issue of material fact as to whether Defendant “controlled” the space above
Plaintiffs’ rented space where the fire occurred. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s request for summary adjudication for the
premises liability cause of action is denied. 