 Case Number:  23CHCV02813    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43Date: 10-2-24Case # 23CHCV02813, Elliott Wolfe vs. Judith Wolfe, et al.Trial Date: N/ADEMURRER TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINTMOVING PARTY: Defendants Jodi Rosen, David Rosen, Michelle Fluke, and Michael FlukeRESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Elliott WolfeRELIEF REQUESTEDDemurrer to the Second Amended Complaint· 1st Cause of Action for Assault· 2nd Cause of Action for Battery· 3rd Cause of Action for Trespass to Chattels· 4th Cause of Action for Conversion· 5th Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress· 6th Cause of Action for Elder AbuseRULING: Demurrer sustained with leave to amend.SUMMARY OF ACTIONOn September 19, 2023, Plaintiff Elliott Wolfe (Plaintiff) filed a complaint with six causes of action for Assault, Battery, Trespass to Chattels, Conversion, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and Elder Abuse. This demurrer was filed by Defendants Jodi Rosen, David Rosen, Michelle Fluke, and Michael Fluke (Defendants). According to the Second Amended Complaint (SAC), Jodi Rosen is Plaintiff’s stepdaughter, David Rosen is Jodi’s husband, Michelle Fluke is Plaintiff’s stepdaughter, and Michael is Michelle’s husband. (SAC, ¶ 2.)Plaintiff’s SAC, filed on July 24, 2024, alleges that on March 5, 2022, at a wedding, Michael Fluke shouted at Plaintiff and approached him aggressively, and on October 3, 2022, Jodi Rosen aggressively approached Plaintiff and put out her arms towards Plaintiff in preparation for pushing him. (SAC, ¶ 7.) Next, the SAC alleges that Michael Fluke pushed Plaintiff forcefully on March 5, 2022, after approaching him, and Jodi Rosen aggressively pushed Plaintiff on October 3, 2022. (SAC, ¶ 9.)The SAC also alleges that Jodi, David, Michelle, and Michael intentionally interfered with Plaintiff’s use or possession of items by taking them from Plaintiff’s residence and damaging the items on October 7 through 10, 2022. (SAC, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff next alleges that they refused to return the items and that he was harmed as a result. (SAC, ¶ 13.)Plaintiff also alleges that the above actions caused him emotional distress. (SAC, ¶ 15.) Finally, he alleges that the above action constituted elder abuse. (SAC, ¶ 17.)Defendants filed their demurer on August 21, 2024. Plaintiff opposes Defendants’ demurrer. However, Plaintiff’s opposition contains no substantive arguments is basically a verbatim copyof Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC. Additionally, as Defendants point out in their reply, Plaintiff has failed to address Defendants’ arguments that all of the Defendants should not have been lumped into the same assault and battery causes of action.ANALYSISA demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)First Cause of Action for AssaultFor the First Cause of Action for Assault, the essential elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed he was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm. (CACI No. 1301; Carlsen v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879.)Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action only alleges that Michael and Jodi approached Plaintiff aggressively at a wedding and at the hospital, respectively. (SAC, ¶ 7.)While Plaintiff has added some details to this cause of action and added that Defendants’ acts were intentional since his FAC, there are still not enough facts to support the harm element of an assault cause of action. Plaintiff has failed to allege how he was harmed by the actions of Michael and Jodi. He only alleges that they approached him in an aggressive and threatening manner but does not say what harm resulted from their approach.Defendants also raise the issue that this cause of action is uncertain because Plaintiff has alleged several different acts of assault by different parties at different times under the same cause of action. The Court agrees that this makes this cause of action fatally uncertain, and Plaintiff may need to separate the allegations for assault against the different Defendants into separate causes of action.Plaintiff has not pled fact sufficient to maintain a cause of action for assault against Defendants Michael and Jodi. Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action is sustained with leave to amend.Second Cause of Action for BatteryThe essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant's conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff's position would have been offended by the touching. (CACI No. 1300; So v. Shin (2013) 202 Cal.App.4th 652, 669; Rest.2d Torts §16(1).)Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for battery only alleges that Michael Fluke pushed Plaintiff forcefully and that Josen Rosen aggressively pushed Plaintiff after reaching for him aggressively. (SAC, ¶ 9.) There is no context given for these allegations, such as what the sequence of events was that led to the alleged battery. While Plaintiff does generally allege that Defendants’ acts were intentional, he has not alleged with any particularity the harm that he faced as a result of the alleged battery.Defendants also raise the issue that this cause of action is uncertain because Plaintiff has alleged several different acts of battery by different parties at different times under the same cause of action. The Court agrees that this makes this cause of action fatally uncertain, and Plaintiff may need to separate the allegations for battery against the different Defendants into separate causes of action.Plaintiff has not stated facts sufficient to maintain a cause of action for battery. Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action is sustained with leave to amend.Third Cause of Action for Trespass to ChattelsTrespass to chattels “lies where an intentional interference with the possession of personal property has proximately caused injury” (Thrifty-Tel, Inc. v. Bezenek (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1566), but the interference is “ ‘not sufficiently important to be classed as conversion’ ” (Intel Corp. v. Hamidi (2003) 30 Cal.4th 1342, 1350). “Though not amounting to conversion,” in an action for trespass to chattels “the defendant's interference must ... have caused some injury to the chattel or to the plaintiff's rights in it.” (Ibid.; see Plotnik v. Meihaus (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1590, 1605, 1606–1608 (owner of dog could sue for trespass to chattels for the intentional striking of the dog with a bat); Jamgotchian v. Slender (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1400–1402 (owner of horse injured in race could sue for trespass to chattels based upon track steward's refusal to remove the horse from the race).)Plaintiff’s SAC does not state what each Defendant’s role was in the trespass to his chattels. It only says that they took the items from Plaintiff’s residence and/or damaged the items. The SAC does not state which Defendant took which items, or which items have not been returned. (SAC, ¶ 11.)Accordingly, the SAC does not state facts sufficient to maintain a cause of action for trespass to chattels. Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action is sustained with leave to amend.Fourth Cause of Action for ConversionThe essential elements of conversion are: (1) the plaintiff owned or had the right to possess the personal property; (2) the defendant disposed of the property in a manner inconsistent with theplaintiff's property rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Voris v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1141, 1150–1151.) The defendant’s conduct “must be knowingly or intentionally done,” but a “wrongful intent” or motive is not a requirement. (Taylor v. Forte Hotels International (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1119, 1124.)Similar to the previous cause of action, Plaintiff’s cause of action for conversion does not say what each Defendant’s role was in the conversion, which items were taken by which Defendant, and which items have not been returned. (SAC, ¶ 13.)These allegations are insufficient for Plaintiff to maintain a cause of action for conversion. Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of action for conversion is sustained with leave to amend.Fifth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional DistressA cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress must allege that (1) the defendant engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, severe emotional distress to the plaintiff; (2) the plaintiff actually suffered severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) the outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the emotional distress. (Cervantez v. J.C. Penney Co. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 579, 593.)The only things that Plaintiff alleges in support of his cause of action for IIED against Defendants are the allegations that Michael and Jodi pushed him and that Defendants took some items from Plaintiff’s home. He does not allege any facts that would indicate that there was extreme or outrageous conduct on the part of Defendants. Nor does he allege that there was any intent to cause distress or reckless disregard of causing distress. He has also failed to allege what the emotional distress was that he suffered as a result of Defendants’ actions.Accordingly, Plaintiff has not stated facts sufficient to maintain this cause of action against Defendants. Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action is sustained with leave to amend.Sixth Cause of Action for Elder AbuseThe Elder Abuse Act’s purpose was to protect a particularly vulnerable portion of the population from gross mistreatment in the form of abuse and custodial neglect. (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 33.) Furthermore, nursing homes and custodial health care facilities were among the primary targets of The Elder Abuse Act. (Id. at 41.)To plead Elder Abuse, a plaintiff must allege “facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness).” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407.) A plaintiff must also allege…that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering.” (Id. at 407.) “[T]he facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury ‘must be plead with particularity,’ in accordance with the pleading rules governing statutory claims.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.)The only facts that Plaintiff has alleged in support of his cause of action for Elder Abuse against Defendants are his previous allegations regarding the assault and battery, and the trespass to chattels and conversion. Plaintiff has not alleged that Defendants had any responsibility for meeting his basic needs or that Defendants knew that Plaintiff was unable to provide for his own basic needs. Plaintiff has also not alleged how Defendants denied or withheld goods or services that were necessary for Plaintiff’s needs. He has also not alleged any facts to support a contention of oppression, fraud, or malice. Finally, Plaintiff has not alleged any physical harm, pain, or mental suffering.Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to maintain a cause of action for Elder Abuse. Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s Sixth Cause of Action is sustained with leave to amend.CONCLUSIONDefendants’ demurrer is sustained with leave to amend for Plaintiff’s First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action.Plaintiff has 30 days to file an Amended Complaint.Moving party to give notice.