  Case Number:  23CHCV02662    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43Date: 10-2-24Case #23CHCV02662, Golden Hammer Ops, LLC vs. JETNET, LLC, et al.Trial Date: N/AMOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDERMOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Golden Hammer Ops, LLC and Gregory RowleeRESPONDING PARTY: Defendants JETNET, LLC, and ADSBexchange.com, LLCRELIEF REQUESTEDPlaintiffs request that the Court amend the Stipulated Protective Order between the parties to include additional source code protections.RULING: Motion for protective order is granted.SUMMARY OF ACTIONThis action involves the misappropriation of trade secrets pertaining to software. Plaintiffs Golden Hammer Ops, LLC, (Golden Hammer) and Gregory Rowlee (collectively Plaintiffs) have alleged Defendant ADSB-X took Plaintiffs’ confidential software and sold it to Defendant JETNET.Because this case involves software and trade secrets related to that software, Plaintiffs are now arguing that greater protections are needed during the discovery process, and they seek to amend the parties’ stipulated protective order. Specifically, they seek to add greater protections to discovery involving the source code of the software because the parties will need to examine each other’s source code during discovery. Plaintiffs wish to add restrictions on the time, place, and manner of review. They also want to ensure that a reviewing party sufficiently safeguards any copies or printouts of the source code.Plaintiffs argue that these protections are standard in model orders of federal districts such as the Northern District of California. Plaintiffs also argue that the provisions are narrowly tailored and do not add any significant burden on the reviewing party. Finally, Plaintiffs argue that because there is the risk of inadvertent disclosure, the Court should adopt Plaintiffs’ requested amendment.Defendants JETNET, LLC (JETNET) and ADSBexchange.com (ADSB) filed separate oppositions to Plaintiffs’ motion. In their oppositions, Defendants argue that the proposed amendments to the protective order are unnecessary, burdensome, and premature. Both Defendants also argue that the Court should deny Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions.Plaintiffs argue in their reply that good causes exists to add additional software protections because Defendants failed to allege any serious harm arising from the amendment, and any serious harm to Defendants is outweighed by the risk that Plaintiffs could lose their trade secrets due to an inadvertent disclosure.ANALYSISThe Discovery Act (CCP § 2016.010 et seq.) gives this Court the power to enter protective orders to protect a party or deponent from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression or undue burden and expense. (Perez v. Santa Clara (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 671, 678.) Recognizing that discovery procedures are subject to misuse, the Civil Discovery Act authorizes the trial court to supervise and limit discovery where appropriate. (Beverly Hospital v. Superior Court, supra, 19 Cal.App.4th at 1294; citing, People v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 980, 991.)“Where a party must resort to the courts, ‘the burden is on the party seeking the protective order to show good cause for whatever order is sought.’” (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 318.) A party moving for a protective order must show good cause that the protective order will protect against “unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (CCP § 2031.060(b); CCP § 2025.420(a).)Cal. Civ. Code § 3426.5 directs courts adjudicating misappropriation claims to “preserve the secrecy of an alleged trade secret by reasonable means including by granting protective orders in connection with discovery proceedings, holding in-camera hearings, sealing the records of the action, and ordering any person involved in the litigation not to disclose an alleged trade secret without prior court approval.” A plaintiff in a trade secret case is permitted to seek a Protective Order even prior to conducting any discovery “relating to the trade secret.” (CCP § 2019.210 [noting that an alleging party’s obligation to identify its trade secrets with “reasonable particularity” prior to conducting discovery is “subject to” any protective orders under CUTSA].)Plaintiffs argue that it is more likely than not that each of the parties will need to produce or review each other’s source code to both prosecute and defend this case. Source code contains the actual implementation of the software’s functionality and therefore requires special care. (See Silvaco Data Sys. v. Intel Corp. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 210, 217 [explaining that “[o]ne who possess the source code for a program may readily ascertain its underlying design, and may directly incorporate it, or pieces of it, into another program.”].) Plaintiffs argue that this makes the source code sensitive material and that it should be subject to additional protections. Despite Defendants’ arguments to the contrary in their oppositions, there is good cause for additional protections for the source code.Plaintiffs indicate in their motion that they have modeled their proposed amendments to the protective order after the Northern District of California’s model order, which they argue strikes a balance between permitting Defendants to form and execute their defense while protecting Plaintiffs from inadvertent disclosure of their confidential software. They say that it does so by limiting access only to certain individuals, and only at certain facilities, and it encourages proper handling of materials by requiring their storage to be in secure facilities. (Motion at p. 8.)The additions to the protective order include the following: (1) a pre-notification provision, requiring that the reviewing party give the producing party at least seven days’ notice of when it will review the materials and who will be accessing them; (2) a restriction of the inspection of the materials to either the office of the producing party’s counsel, or at another location designated by the parties, and for the review to take place in an air-gapped machine (one withoutexternal access) with no copying of the files allowed; (3) restricts the use of the printouts to only this litigation; and (4) restricts the storage of the printouts to the reviewing party’s offices with proper security.Next, Plaintiffs argue that any inconvenience that these additions may cause is outweighed by the risk of inadvertent disclosure because disclosure of the source code could be very detrimental to the parties. Defendants argue that the additions would be burdensome, but any burden on Defendants is outweighed by the need for the protections.Plaintiffs also make several arguments regarding Defendants’ interpretation of CCP § 2019.210. Defendant JETNET argues in its opposition that in order to comply with CCP § 2019.210, Plaintiff needs to file a trade secret disclosure prior to amending the protective order. However, this makes little sense, as the purpose of the protective order is limit the circumstances under which the trade secrets can be disclosed. In fact, ADSB argues in its opposition that any arguments concerning Section 2019.210 are misplaced and irrelevant to this motion. Additionally, it does not appear that Plaintiffs are disputing that they should disclose their source code and other trade secrets in this action; instead, they are simply arguing for more protections for those trade secrets due to their sensitive nature.Defendants do raise the argument in their opposition that any experts who are used for consulting purposes only would be protected from disclosure by the work product privilege. If, during the course of discovery, there are any experts whose identities Defendants do not want to be disclosed, they make seek relief from the Court as to the identities of those experts.As for Defendants’ argument that the motion is procedurally improper because Plaintiffs did not give them proper notice of the notice, it appears that regardless of whether Plaintiffs gave proper notice, Defendants were both able to oppose the motion in a timely and substantive manner. (See Alliance Bank v. Murray (1984) 161 Cal.App.3d 1, 7 [holding “[i]t is well settled that the appearance of a party at hearing of a motion and his or her opposition to the motion on its merits is a waiver of any defects or irregularities in the notice of the motion”].) Assuming both Defendants appear at the hearing on this motion, that, coupled with Defendants’ oppositions, will be a waiver of any defects in the notice of the motion.No sanctions will be awarded at this time.It appears that there is good cause to adopt the amended protective order filed by Plaintiffs. The parties’ source codes are sensitive information and trade secrets, and they should be subject to additional protections during discovery.Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion for a protective order is granted. The Court adopts Plaintiffs’ proposed protective order as the new protective order in this case.Moving party to give notice.