 Case Number:  22STCV13462    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 



KCS WEST, INC.,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
5959 LLC, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV13462 [c/w 22TRCV00350; 22TRCV00639]




Hearing Date:


October 1, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:

 
MOTION OF KCS
  WEST, INC. FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED CROSS- COMPLAINT




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 



 
 
Background
On April 22, 2022, Plaintiff KCS West, Inc. (“KCS”) filed this action
against Defendants 5959 LLC (“5959”) and Koar Airport Associates, LLC. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) foreclosure of mechanic’s lien, (2)
breach of contract, (3) common count – quantum meruit, and (4) violation of
prompt payment statutes.  
On July 15, 2022, a Cross-Complaint was filed in this action by 5959
against KCS and Kajima U.S.A. Inc. (“Kajima”). 5959 filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint in this action on May 26, 2023 against KCS, Kajima, and Kohler
Co. (“Kohler”) alleging causes of action for 
(1)
breach of contract, (2) express indemnity, (3) statutory indemnity, (4)
recovery on guarantee agreement, (5) strict products liability, (6) breach of
implied warranty of merchantability, and 
(7)
breach of implied warranty of fitness for a particular
purpose.   
            In its First Amended Cross-Complaint,
5959 alleges, inter alia, that it “entered into a prime construction
contract dated March 29, 2018 (‘Contract’) with cross-defendants KCSW and Roes
1 through 10 (collectively referred to in the singular as ‘KCSW’) under which
KCSW agreed to serve as the general contractor for the construction of
extensive renovations to an existing commercial office building located at 5959
West Century Boulevard, Los Angeles, California, and conversation [sic] of the
building to a Hyatt Hotel facility (‘Project’).” (FACC, ¶ 7.) 5959 alleges that
“Kohler and ROES 21-30 (collectively referred to in the singular as ‘Kohler’)
designed, distributed, produced, manufactured, marketed, or sold the Kohler
Bellwether Shower Base (‘Shower Pans’) incorporated into the Project.” (FACC, ¶
29.) 5959 alleges that “[t]he Shower Pans contained a manufacturing or product
defect when they left the possession of Kohler,” and that “[t]he Shower Pans
and/or their component parts are defective and fail to perform their intended
use.” (FACC, ¶¶ 30-31.) 5959 further alleges that “KCSW has breached the
Contract by failing to perform all of its obligations under the Contract
including, but not limited to, failing to provide and install non-defective
shower pans in the guest room bathrooms at the Project, and failing to defend
and protect [5959] from and against mechanic’s liens and mechanic’s lien
foreclosure actions by various subcontractors of KCSW on the Project.” (FACC, ¶
9.) 
On August 30, 2022, KCS filed a Cross-Complaint against 5959 and
Johnson Diversified, Inc., dba Plumbing Solutions (“Plumbing Solutions”). KCS
filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint on September 16, 2022 against 5959 and Plumbing
Solutions, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2)
negligence, (3) breach of contract third party beneficiary, 
(4)
express indemnification, (5) implied indemnification, (6) declaratory relief,
(7) strict product liability, (8) breach of express/implied warranty of
merchantability, (9) breach of express/implied warranty of fitness for a
particular purpose, (10) strict product liability - failure to warn, and (11)
negligence - duty to warn. 
On July 5, 2023, Kohler filed a Cross-Complaint in this action against
KCS and Plumbing Solutions, alleging causes of action for (1) indemnification,
(2) apportionment of fault, (3) declaratory relief, and (4) express
indemnity.  
On October 3, 2023, KCS and Kajima filed a Cross-Complaint against Kohler.
The Cross-Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) equitable indemnity, (2)
contribution, and (3) declaratory relief. The Cross-Complaint alleges, inter
alia, that “[i]n equity and in good conscience, if 5959 recovers against
Cross-Complainants, then Cross-Complainants are entitled to equitable
indemnity, apportionment of liability, contribution among, and from,
Cross-Defendants, and each of them, according to their respective fault, for
the injuries and damages allegedly sustained by 5959, if any, by way of sums
paid by settlement, or in the alternative, any judgements rendered against
Cross-Complainants in the action herein based upon 5959’s FACC.” (Cross-Compl.,
¶ 10.)[1]
On March 6, 2023, the Court issued a minute order in this action
providing, inter alia, that “[t]he Court orders the following cases,
22STCV13462, 22TRCV00350, and…22TRCV00639, consolidated and assigned to
Department 50 in Stanley Mosk Courthouse for all purposes. The Court designates
22STCV13462 as the lead case.”  
KCS now moves “to amend its Cross-Complaint as against Kohler Co.,
only.” Kohler opposes. 
Discussion
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1),
“[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper,
allow a party to amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time
before or after commencement of trial. ((Id., § 576.) “[T]he court’s
discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the
pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in
which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” (Howard
v. County of San Diego (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 [internal
citations omitted].) “If the motion to amend
is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party, it is error to refuse permission to amend…” ((Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v.
Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments. (¿¿Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)¿¿ The motion must
also state what allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by page,
paragraph, and line number.  (¿Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd¿. (a).)
Finally, “¿[a] separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify: (1)¿The effect of the amendment; (2)¿Why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)¿When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4)¿The reasons why the request for amendment
was not made earlier.¿” (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).) 
Exhibit
N to KCS’s counsel’s declaration is a copy of KCS and Kajima’s
proposed “First Amended Cross-Complaint as to Kohler Co.” (the “FACC”). (Baghdassarian
Decl., ¶ 15(a), Ex. N.) KCS also provides a “copy of a redline of the proposed
amended Cross-Complaint against the original Cross-Complaint.” (Baghdassarian
Decl., ¶ 15(a), Ex. O.) The proposed FACC against
Kohler adds new causes of action for “rescission –
Civil Code Section 1689,” negligent misrepresentation, and
fraud/intentional misrepresentation. (Ibid.) 
In his supporting declaration, KCS’s counsel
states that “[t]he KCS West team appears to have first noticed issues
with the Shower Pans at the Project in or about December 2019 or January 2020.”
(Baghdassarian
Decl., ¶ 3(a).) KCS’s counsel further states
that “emails and letters from Kohler in 2020 and early 2021 show that
representatives of Kohler repeatedly sought to reassure KCS West that the
defects in the Shower Pans was merely ‘cosmetic.’” (Baghdassarian Decl., ¶ 3.) “In March 2021,
KCS West and Kohler entered into a Settlement Agreement.” (Baghdassarian
Decl., ¶ 4.) 
KCS’s counsel states that “[o]n
February 24, 2023, before Kohler was a party to this dispute, KCS West issued a
subpoena to Kohler with various requests for documents.” (Baghdassarian
Decl., ¶ 6.) KCS’s counsel asserts that “[o]n May 19, 2023, Kohler responded to
KCS West’s subpoena with boilerplate objections and a production of some 52
pages of documents,” and that “Kohler failed to produce all documents in
response to the subpoena, including those relating to a defect in the
manufacturing process and reports of damage to the Shower Pans on other
Projects.” (Baghdassarian Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.) 
KCS’s counsel states that
“[a]fter Kohler was joined in the action, KCS West served Kohler with party
discovery. Among these were KCS West’s Requests for Production of Documents,
Set One, which were served on Kohler on December 14, 2023. After extensions,
Kohler responded to KCS West’s discovery on February 15, 2024.” (Baghdassarian
Decl., ¶ 9.) 
On June 14, 2024, an Informal Discovery
Conference (“IDC”) was held. (Baghdassarian Decl., ¶ 11.) The Court’s
June 14, 2024 minute order provides, inter alia, that “[t]he parties attended
the Informal Discovery Conference. The parties agreed and the Court ordered as
follows: On or before July 10, 2024, Cross-Defendant Kohler Co., will serve
further verified code compliant responses to the written discovery described in
the June 12, 2024 email from Plaintiff and Cross-Complainant KCS West to Ms.
Stone on behalf of Kohler, except no further response is required as to request
for production numbers 12 and 22 propounded to Kohler by KCS West and special
interrogatory numbers 25 and 27 propounded to Kohler by KCS West.” 
KCS’s counsel states that “[o]n
July 10, 2024, Kohler served further responses and produced further documents,”
and asserts that “the new production contained many highly probative documents
regarding the same defects showing up on Kohler shower pans at different
locations throughout North America.” (Baghdassarian Decl., ¶ 12.) KCS’s counsel
further states that “over the past several months, I learned that KCS West
Consultants Gerald Zamiski and Anthony B. Lum held the opinion that the
substantial cracking in the porcelain was due to constant residual tensile
stress in the Shower Pan enamel created during the cooling process, and was a
defect, not a ‘cosmetic’ condition.” (Baghdassarian Decl., ¶ 14.) 
KCS’s counsel indicates
that “[t]he proposed amendment to KCS West’s Cross-Complaint against Kohler
would add three new causes of action to KCS West’s Cross-Complaint based on these
new discoveries: (1) Rescission of the parties’ Settlement Agreement; (2)
Negligent Misrepresentation; and (3) Fraud/Intentional Misrepresentation.” (Baghdassarian
Decl., ¶ 15(a).) KCS’s counsel asserts that “[t]he proposed amendment is
necessary and proper because KCS West only recently received the
above-described highly probative evidence from Kohler indicating that Kohler
knew that the Shower Pans suffered from a serious manufacturing defect and
therefore intentionally or recklessly misrepresented the defect in the Shower
Pans as ‘cosmetic’ in the lead-up to the execution of the Settlement Agreement.”
(Baghdassarian Decl., ¶ 15(b).) KCS’s counsel also asserts that “KCS West
has suffered monetary damage in an amount in excess of $100,000 in having to
defend the cross-complaint by 5959 to have all the Shower Pans at the Property
replaced, which is estimated to cost more than $2 million. KCS West has also
incurred consultants’ fees and costs to investigate and test Kohler’s Shower
Pans to determine the cause of the deterioration of their ceramic coating.
Absent amendment to KCS West’s Cross-Complaint, KCS West would be deprived of
meritorious grounds to recover for these damages.” (Baghdassarian
Decl., ¶ 15(b).)
KCS’s counsel states that “[t]he
facts giving rise to the amended allegations in KCS West’s Proposed Amended
Cross-Complaint were discovered on or about July 2024, after KCS West reviewed
Kohler’s newly produced documents and discovered ample evidence of Kohler’s
knowledge of a serious manufacturing defect.” (Baghdassarian Decl., ¶ 15(c).) KCS’s
counsel further states that “KCS West did not request amendment earlier because
it was not aware of the above-described grounds to pursue the misrepresentation
and rescission causes of action until Kohler produced its new documents in July
2024, which it had failed to produce for some eighteen (17) months since KCS
West’s original February 2023 subpoena requesting said documents.” (Baghdassarian
Decl., ¶ 15(d).)
In the opposition, Kohler asserts that
“leave to amend should be denied due to KCS West’s unwarranted delay.” (Opp’n
at p. 8:16-17.) Kohler asserts that “KCS West claims that it just found
out about other hotels experiencing the same issues with the shower pans when
Kohler produced documents in July 2024, but this is certainly not new
information…This information was known to KCS West at least 4 years ago.”
(Opp’n at pp. 8:26-9:2.) In support of this assertion, Kohler appears to rely
on a September 28, 2020 email authored by Kohler representative Amanda
Hildebrand. (Cotter Decl., ¶¶ 4, 10, Ex. H.) The September 28, 2020 email indicates
inter alia, that “[w]e have a call into the GM from a hotel near
Riverside who recently had corner crazes repaired on some of their cast iron
receptors. Once we receive approval to share their contact information, we will
do so.” (Cotter Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. H.) 
            Kohler also asserts that “as
outlined from the emails and letter authored by Jon Staabs…KCS West knew about
the ‘defective’ condition of Kohler shower pans…as early as 2020 – long before
KCS West ever entered into a settlement agreement with Kohler, long before KCS
West filed the instant lawsuit against 5959, long before KCS West filed its
Cross-Complaint against Kohler, and certainly long before the present motion
for leave to amend.” (Opp’n at p. 9:3-9.) Kohler provides a September 9, 2020
email from Jon Staabs providing, inter alia, that “I do have information
from Thursday and Friday inspection that I wanted to share. 90 of 207 were
found to have corner craze. 18 pans were found to have drop damage found at the
feet. This is a crack in the enamel down to the cast iron caused by dropping the
shower pan. I have attached the Kohler drop test for your reference. This is
not a manufacturing defect and can be repaired.” (Cotter Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. C.) 
Kohler also indicates that on July 29, 2020, Jon Staabs sent an email
stating, inter alia, “[t]he corner craze was not on all receptors.
Different machines run the receptor and at different times. Either a receptor
had it or it didn’t. It will not develop over time. It will not get worse over
time. They are not being resurfaced. The corner craze are thin surface cracks
in the glass like enamel finish on top of the cast iron. Many don’t go all the
way through and are not visible without a couple inch away inspection with the
eye. They will be taped off, repaired and warrantied.” (Cotter Decl., Ex. J.)[2]  
Kohler also argues in the opposition that “while
KCS West’s counsel claims in his declaration that he first learned about Mr.
Zamiski and Mr. Lum’s opinions ‘over the past several months’…we know that this
is untrue. The opinions of KCS West’s experts have been known to Kohler for
more than a year. They were certainly known to KCS West and their attorneys
long before that.” (Opp’n at p. 9:16-21, emphasis omitted.) Kohler submits the Declaration of Chad Jorgensen, who has “been
employed by Kohler Co since August 2006...” (Jorgensen Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Jorgensen
states that “I personally participated in several joint laboratory examinations
and testing of two shower pans which were removed from the LAX Hyatt hotel.
They took place at Vollmer-Gray Engineering Laboratories and both Mr. Zamiski
and Mr. Lum were present. The first of these occurred on September 14, 2022,
and additional inspections took place on January 4th, 5th, 17th, and 18th of
2023.” (Jorgensen Decl., ¶ 4.) Mr. Jorgensen further states that “[o]n
September 12, 2023, I attended a joint expert roundtable discussion with
counsel and experts for all parties. The main purpose of the meeting was for
Mr. Zamiski and Mr. Lum to present their findings and opinions following the
several rounds of destructive testing that occurred in January 2023. There were
several other representatives present on behalf of KCS West, Inc. including one
expert, Shant Markarian, and two attorneys, Lisa Dal Gallo and Edgar Navarrete.”
(Jorgensen Decl., ¶ 5.) Mr. Jorgensen states that “[d]uring this call, Mr.
Zamiski and Mr. Lum opined that the shower pans contained manufacturing defects
due to tensile residual stress in the enamel, carbon flecks, and glass layer
bubbles.” (Jorgensen Decl., ¶ 6.)
In the reply, KCS counters that it “promptly sought to assert its
proposed cross-claims after receiving a long-delayed production of documents
revealing Kohler’s knowledge, an essential element of misrepresentation.”
(Reply at p. 3:17-19.) As discussed, KCS’s counsel asserts that the documents
served on July 10, 2024 “contained many highly probative documents regarding
the same defects showing up on Kohler shower pans at different locations
throughout North America.” (Baghdassarian Decl., ¶ 12.) KCS points to a September
22, 2020 email from a Kohler representative with the subject line “Doubletree
Westside LA Kohler Bellwether Receptor,” providing, inter alia, that “[c]ertainly
it is your choice to allow for the repairs or not, but we do want to make sure
that everyone is clear that we cannot guarantee that the cracking found in the
corners of the bases will not get worse over time. It is possible they could
become too damaged to repair and would no longer be able to be handled under
our warranty. We want to make sure all involved are satisfied with the bases
today and over time…” (Baghdassarian Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. M.) 
KCS asserts that it “did not know that Kohler told at least one other
hotel that the ‘cracking’ in the corners might actually get worse when Kohler
had informed KCS West of exactly the opposite just months before.” (Reply at p.
4:2-4, emphasis omitted.) KCS points to the July 29, 2020 email from Jon Staabs
providing, inter alia, “[t]he corner craze was not on all receptors.
Different machines run the receptor and at different times. Either a receptor
had it or it didn’t. It will not develop over time. It will not get worse over
time. They are not being resurfaced. The corner craze are thin surface cracks
in the glass like enamel finish on top of the cast iron. Many don’t go all the
way through and are not visible without a couple inch away inspection with the
eye. They will be taped off, repaired and warrantied.” (Baghdassarian Decl., ¶
3(b), Ex. B.) KCS also provides a May 13, 2020 email from Jon Staabs providing,
inter alia, that “[w]hile on site visit, he found some receptors had
craze in the corner. This is a cosmetic issue on the surface of the receptor
and will not impact the form or function of the receptor itself.” (Baghdassarian
Decl., ¶ 3(a), Ex. A.) As discussed, KCS argues that Kohler “misrepresented the
defect in the Shower Pans as ‘cosmetic’ in the lead-up to the execution of the
Settlement Agreement.” (Baghdassarian Decl., ¶ 15(b).) 
Based on a consideration of the foregoing, the Court finds that KCS
has sufficiently shown that there was not unwarranted delay in bringing the
instant motion. 
Kohler’s counsel also states in his supporting declaration that “[t]he
three new causes of action proposed by KCS West are for (1) rescission of the
settlement agreement, (2) intentional misrepresentation / fraud, and (3)
negligent misrepresentation. There has been zero discovery into these issues in
this litigation to date.” (Cotter Decl., ¶ 14.) Kohler’s counsel states that “Kohler
would be required to propound written discovery and to take depositions into
the issues of who, when, how, and to whom each alleged misrepresentation was
made, into issues regarding contract formation of the subject settlement
agreement, and into issues of KCS West’s alleged damages.” (Cotter Decl., ¶
16.) In addition, Kohler’s counsel asserts that “Kohler would also be greatly
prejudiced if it is not afforded an opportunity to file motions for summary
judgment or adjudication into the intentional misrepresentation, negligent
misrepresentation, and rescission causes of action…These causes of action
involve highly prejudicial claims, such as claims for punitive damages, and the
rescission cause of action in particular involves questions of law for the
Court to decide. As such, Kohler would be greatly prejudiced if such claims were
allowed to go to a jury trial…on short notice.” (Cotter Decl., ¶¶ 17-18.) 
In the reply, KCS asserts that “there is no undue prejudice to Kohler
in granting the motion.” (Reply at p. 8:5.) KCS asserts that “[t]he parties
have not conducted any depositions thus far and KCS
West has agreed in a meeting with counsel to produce KCS West’s key decision
maker at the time of these misrepresentations for deposition.” (Reply at p.
8:17-19.) KCS also argues that “KCS West has been diligently pursuing discovery
on defects in Shower Pans at other locations since February 2023. Kohler waited
until less than 5 months before trial to release highly probative documents
regarding the pervasiveness and severity of manufacturing defects in the Shower
Pans, and only after being ordered by the Court after the IDC hearing. It is
because of Kohler that KCS West is forced to file this Motion at this time.”
(Reply at p. 8:6-11.) 
In the opposition, Kohler also asserts that “opinions or predictions
about future performance of the shower pans cannot form the basis of a
misrepresentation claim.” (Opp’n at p. 11:1-3.) In addition, Kohler argues that
“public policy dictates that the settlement agreement should not be undone.”
(Opp’n at p. 12:4-5.) Further, Kohler argues that “neither KCS West’s motion
for leave to amend, nor the proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint, provide any
competent or admissible evidence of the exact alleged misrepresentation made by
Kohler, to whom the alleged misrepresentation was made, or how the unnamed
representative of KCS West specifically relied upon such alleged
misrepresentation in being induced into entering the settlement agreement.”
(Opp’n at p. 13:9-13.) However, in Kittredge Sports
Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048, cited by KCS in the motion, the Court of
Appeal noted that “the preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and
allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for
judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.” Thus, the Court does not find that the asserted
legal deficiency of the proposed FACC warrants denial of leave to amend.            
Based on a consideration of the foregoing, the Court finds that KCS
has demonstrated good cause to file the proposed FACC. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, KCS’s motion for leave to file a first amended
cross-complaint is granted. The Court orders KCS to file and serve the first
amended cross-complaint within 3 days of the date of this Order.¿¿
///
///
///
KCS is ordered to give notice of this Order.¿¿ 
 
DATED:  October 1, 2024                             ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


