  Case Number:  22TRCV00051    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
                                      Thursday, March 14, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 10 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Go
Nakasone v. Takee International, Inc., et al. 
            22TRCV00051
1.      Go
Nakasone’s Motion to Vacate Dismissal     
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Go
Nakasone’s Motion to Vacate Dismissal is granted.  
       
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on January 31, 2022. Plaintiff alleges the following facts.
Plaintiff was a former employee of Defendants. Plaintiff was discriminated
against based on a disability. Plaintiff was misclassified as an exempt
employee. Plaintiff was not paid all required wages, including overtime pay.
Plaintiff was not provided the required rest and meal breaks during his
employment with Defendants. Plaintiff was not provided with accurate payroll
records. Plaintiff was not compensated for using his cell phone and personal
vehicle for the benefit of Defendants. Plaintiff was ultimately constructively
terminated.  
 
            Request
for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant’s
request for judicial notice is granted in part. The Court takes judicial notice
of the existence of documents within the court’s records pursuant to Evidence
Code section 452(d). The Court does not take judicial notice of the truth of
any such matters and the taking of judicial notice is not a finding that any of
those matters have any relevance to the issues presented by the instant motion.
 
            Motion
to Vacate Dismissal
 
            CCP §
473(b) states, in relevant part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. 
. . .  Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. . ..”
 
            Plaintiff
has adequately established that the dismissal was entered due to the mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect of Plaintiff’s counsel. Plaintiff’s counsel
states that he failed to properly calendar the July 13, 2023, Post-Mediation
Status Conference. Therefore, Plaintiff’s counsel did not attend the hearing
resulting in the dismissal of the action. (Decl., Patrick D. Martinez, ¶¶ 7-24.)
 Plaintiff’s counsel sufficiently shows
that the dismissal occurred due to the attorney’s neglect.
 
            Defendant
filed a written opposition. The written opposition consists of detailing the
alleged numerous instances of delays in proceeding with procedural requirements
regarding the management of this case by Plaintiff. However, these are not the
reasons why the case was dismissed. The case was dismissed solely due to the
failure to appear on July 13, 2023. In addition, the reference to failure to
prosecute in the Court’s minute order simply referred to the consequence of the
failure to appear on July 13, 2023, as that specific act could be considered an
act demonstrating not continuing to “prosecute” this action.
 
            Thus,
the motion to vacate the dismissal is granted and the case is restored to the
active calendar.
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 