 Case Number:  22TRCV01511    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                        Thursday, March 14, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 11   



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Irina
Jodzio, et al. v. KLM, Inc., et al.
22TRCV01511
1.      KLM, Inc., et al.’s Demurrer to Second Amended
Complaint
2.      KLM, Inc., et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Second
Amended Complaint   
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            KLM,
Inc., et al.’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint is sustained without leave
to amend, in part, and overruled, in part.
 
KLM, Inc., et al.’s Motion
to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint is denied.  
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on December 16, 2022, the
First Amended Complaint was filed on March 24, 2023, and the Second Amended
Complaint was filed on November 6, 2023. Plaintiffs allege the following facts.
Plaintiffs retained Defendants to do work regarding Plaintiffs’ residential
remodel project including shoring, grading, and excavation. Defendants
misrepresented the scope and cost of their work. Defendants fraudulently
induced Plaintiff into entering into a contract. Defendants walked off the job
without completing the work. Defendants negligently referred an incompetent
company to do concrete work. Defendant Kent L. McKeown is alleged to be an
officer, director, and shareholder of Defendant KLM. Plaintiffs alleges the
following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Fraud; (3) Breach of
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (4) Money Paid by Mistake; (5)
Business & Professions Code § 17200; (6) Negligent Misrepresentation; (7) Negligent
Referral. 
 
Meet and Confer
             
Defendants set forth meet and confer declarations in sufficient
compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP § 435.5. 
(Decls. William K. Crowe.) 
 
Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
Defendants demur to the Second Amended Complaint. Both
Defendants demur to all the causes of action brought by Plaintiff Derek Jodzio.
Defendant McKeown demurs to all causes of action brought by both Plaintiffs. Finally,
both Defendants demur to the second and seventh causes of action brought by
both Plaintiffs. 
 
Demurrer as to All Causes of Action Brought by Derek
Jodzio
 
The demurrer as to the first through sixth causes of
action brought by Plaintiff Derek Jodzio is sustained without leave to amend.
Plaintiff Derek Jodzio fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of
action. 
 
The demurrer to the seventh cause of action as brought
by Plaintiff Derek Jodzio is overruled. 
 
“Where, as here, it is alleged that a party lacks
standing to sue, the complaint can be challenged by general demurrer for
failure to state a cause of action in this plaintiff.” County of
Fresno v. Shelton (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 996, 1009 (emphasis in original). Plaintiffs
admit that Derek Jodzio is not the owner of the subject real property. (SAC, ¶
16.)  In addition, contrary to
Plaintiffs’ arguments in opposition, Derek Jodzio is not alleged to be a
contracting party as evidenced by the specific language of the contract which
states: “This AGREEMENT is hereby made and entered into on 6/28/2022. by and
between KLM GENERAL ENGINEERING CONTRACTORS. CA State License No. 646478 /
Class A. hereinafter “KLM” .. and Irina Jodzio hereinafter .. “Irina Jodzio” or
“Prime Contractor/ Owner.” (Plaintiffs’ SAC, Ex. 2, page 1.) 
 
CCP § 367 states that “[e]very action must be
prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise
provided by statute.” “It follows that [s]omeone who is not a party to [a]
contract has no standing to enforce the contract or to recover extra-contract
damages for wrongful withholding of benefits to the contracting party.” Gantman
v. United Pacific Ins. Co. (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 1560, 1566 (internal
quotation omitted). 
 
The first and third causes of action are
contract-based causes of action that cannot be alleged by Derek Jodzio. Plaintiffs
argue that the non-contractual causes of action should still be allowed to be
stated by Derek Jodzio. However, as freely admitted by Plaintiffs and as
confirmed by the allegations of the SAC, the second, fourth, fifth, and sixth
causes of action are either based on the wrongful conduct pursuant to the
contract or misrepresentations and damages in being induced to enter into a
contract.  Derek Jodzio has no damages
for inducement to enter into a contract because he did not enter into a
contract. The party allegedly induced to enter into a contract was Irina
Jodzio. 
 
The seventh cause of action is, however, based on a
separate duty independent of the contract. 
Thus, the ruling of the demurrer as to that cause of action will be more
fully detailed below.  The Court cannot
state simply from the face of the allegations that Derek Jodzio has no standing
to pursue that cause of action.
 
The demurrer as against the first through sixth causes
of action brought by Derek Jodzio is sustained without leave to amend. The
demurrer to the seventh cause of action is overruled and will be addressed
below.
 
Demurrer of McKeown as to All Causes of Action
 
“In California, two
conditions must be met before the alter ego doctrine will be invoked.  First, there must be such a unity of interest
and ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate
personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality
exist.  Second, there must be an
inequitable result if the acts in question are treated as those of the
corporation alone.”  Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523,
538.
 
Among the factors to be
considered in applying the alter ego doctrine are commingling of funds and
other assets of the two entities, the holding out by one entity that it is
liable for the debts of the other, identical equitable ownership in the two
entities, use of the same offices and employees, and use of one as a mere shell
or conduit for the affairs of the other. 
See Id. at 538-539.  Other factors include inadequate
capitalization, disregard of corporate formalities, lack of segregation of
corporate records, and identical directors and officers.  See Id.
at 539.  No one characteristic
governs.  The courts must look at the
totality of the circumstances to determine whether the doctrine should be
applied.  See Id.
 
Plaintiffs have now pled sufficient facts to at a
minimum withstand a demurrer. The allegations regarding alter ego liability are
made on information and belief. “[P]laintiff may allege on information and
belief any matters that are not within his personal knowledge, if he has
information leading him to believe that the allegations are true and thus a
pleading made on information and belief is insufficient if it merely assert[s]
the facts so alleged without alleging such information that lead[s] [the plaintiff]
to believe that the allegations are true.” 
Gomes v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th
1149, 1158–1159 (internal citations and quotations are omitted; emphasis in
original.) 
 
As to the allegations made on “information and
belief,” Plaintiffs have now alleged adequate facts to at least place into
issue as a factual matter whether McKeown and KLM, Inc. are alter egos of each
other. Plaintiffs have now gone beyond merely providing a list of previous
corporations that Defendant was allegedly involved in. Plaintiffs have also
alleged facts that the office and his residence are treated the same and that
there is commingling of personal and corporate funds. (SAC, ¶¶ 10-12.)  These facts are sufficient to, as stated
earlier, at a minimum, establish that the issue of alter ego cannot simply be
adjudicated on the face of the pleadings but must be adjudicated through the
evaluation of evidence and facts.
 
Therefore, the demurrer as to all causes of action as
directed against McKeown made solely on the grounds that he is not an alter ego
of the corporation is overruled.  
 
Second Cause of Action for Fraud 

Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action is overruled.
Plaintiffs state facts sufficient to state a cause of action. 
            
“A complaint for fraud must allege the following
elements: (1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant; (2) an intent
to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and
(4) resulting damages.”  Service by
Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816. “[T]he
elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he has known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.
 
The circumstances that could support a duty to
disclose are as follows: “(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship
with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material
facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.” Heliotis v.
Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651.
 
“Every element of the cause of action for fraud must
be alleged in the proper manner and the facts constituting the fraud must be
alleged with sufficient specificity to allow defendant to understand fully the
nature of the charge made.”  Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.  Plaintiffs must state facts which “show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.”  Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.
 
“[T]he economic loss rule provides: [W]here a
purchaser's expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought
is not working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has
suffered only ‘economic’ losses. This doctrine hinges on a distinction drawn
between transactions involving the sale of goods for commercial purposes where
economic expectations are protected by commercial and contract law, and those
involving the sale of defective products to individual consumers who are
injured in a manner which has traditionally been remedied by resort to the law
of torts. The economic loss rule requires a purchaser to recover in contract
for purely economic loss due to disappointed expectations, unless he can
demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise. Quite simply,
the economic loss rule prevent[s] the law of contract and the law of tort from
dissolving one into the other.” Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp.
(2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
“[C]onduct amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious only when it also
violates a duty independent of the contract arising from principles of tort
law. An omission to perform a contract obligation is never a tort, unless that
omission is also an omission of a legal duty.” Erlich v. Menezes (1999)
21 Cal.4th 543, 551 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
Plaintiffs specifically allege that the theory of
fraud is based on fraudulent inducement. Plaintiffs contend that they were
fraudulently induced to enter into a contract by Defendants’ misrepresentations
regarding the scope of work. Plaintiffs argue that Defendants did not perform
work that they stated that they would perform under the contract. However, the
contract specifically includes language with respect to exclusions for “Fine
Grading/Over Ex [over excavation].” (SAC, Ex. 2, page 1.)  In addition, the contract includes an
integration clause stating: “This agreement constitutes the entire agreement
between the parties with respect to the subject matter set forth above, and
supersedes all previous oral and written agreements, communications,
representations and commitments.” (SAC, Ex. 2, page 5.)  Plaintiffs argue that Defendants’
representations did not match what was ultimately included in the written
agreement. 
 
First, the parole evidence rule does not establish a
complete bar to the cause of action. Code Civ. Proc., § 1856(g) states: “This
section does not exclude other evidence of the circumstances under which the
agreement was made or to which it relates, as defined in Section 1860, or to
explain an extrinsic ambiguity or otherwise interpret the terms of the
agreement, or to establish illegality or fraud.” “Our conception of the rule
which permits parol evidence of fraud to establish the invalidity of the instrument
is that it must tend to establish some independent fact or representation, some
fraud in the procurement of the instrument or some breach of confidence
concerning its use, and not a promise directly at variance with the promise of
the writing.” Riverisland Cold Storage, Inc. v. Fresno-Madera Production
Credit Assn. (2013) 55 Cal.4th 1169, 1175.
 
The Court finds that with the allegations of the SAC,
Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient specific facts to support the element of
justifiable reliance. More precisely, for purposes of pleading, Plaintiffs have
alleged facts to at a minimum withstand demurrer and allow for a factual determination
of whether the purported reliance was or was not justifiable.
 
“California law, like the Restatement, requires that
the plaintiff, in failing to acquaint himself or herself with the contents of a
written agreement before signing it, not have acted in an objectively
unreasonable manner. One party's misrepresentations as to the nature or
character of the writing do not negate the other party's apparent manifestation
of assent, if the second party had “reasonable opportunity to know of the
character or essential terms of the proposed contract.” (Rest.2d Contracts, §
163.) If a party, with such reasonable opportunity, fails to learn the nature
of the document he or she signs, such “negligence” precludes a finding the
contract is void for fraud in the execution. (C.I.T. Corporation v. Panac,
supra, 25 Cal.2d at p. 549, 154 P.2d 710.) [¶] It follows that one party's unreasonable
reliance on the other's misrepresentations, resulting in a failure to read a
written agreement before signing it, is an insufficient basis, under the
doctrine of fraud in the execution[.]” Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 423.
 
Here, Plaintiffs have alleged that based on their
inexperience with the industry and unfamiliarity with the technical language
utilized in the contract they justifiably relied upon the oral representations
made by Defendants. Plaintiffs allege that this induced them into entering into
the contract despite the existence of language in the contract that appears to
be contrary to those oral representations. 
 
Thus, Plaintiffs have pled adequate facts to support
the element of justifiable reliance. The demurrer to the second cause of action
is overruled. The Court notes, as noted above, while both Plaintiffs make
allegations within this cause of action, this cause of action can now only be
pursued by Irina Jodzio. 
 
Seventh Cause of Action for Negligent Referral
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh cause of action is
overruled. Plaintiffs state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
The elements of a negligence cause of action are duty
to use due care and breach of duty, which proximately causes injury.” Lopez
v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 675, 685. 
 
“Although [a]s a general principle, a defendant owes a
duty of care to all persons who are foreseeably endangered by his conduct, with
respect to all risks which make the conduct unreasonably dangerous, it also is
well established that, as a general matter, there is no duty to act to protect
others from the conduct of third parties. But as explained below, courts have
recognized exceptions to the general no-duty-to-protect rule, one of which—the
“special relationship” doctrine—is dispositive in this case. A
defendant may owe an affirmative duty to protect another from the conduct of third
parties if he or she has a “special relationship” with the other person.” Delgado
v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 234–35 (internal citations
and quotations omitted).
 
Plaintiffs alleged that Defendants negligently
recommended Herns Construction Inc. (“Herns”) for their concrete work and that
Herns’ work caused damage to Plaintiffs. However, Plaintiffs have now alleged the
existence of a duty of care separate and apart from the duty that exists in the
contract. Plaintiffs have alleged that Defendants had special knowledge with
respect to the qualifications and/or lack thereof of Herns Construction. The
allegations of the SAC are now more specific: 
 
“Defendants were aware that Herns was unqualified to
take on the work for which they recommended Herns, and further knew, based on
their experience in the construction industry, that Herns’ known pattern of
deficient work represented a significant risk of foreseeable physical damage to
the Property and the persons who traversed the Property, including but not
limited to, physical injury which could be caused by foundation failure, load
transfer failure, inadequate support, settlement issues (including shifting
and/or unequal settlement), unequal support, and/or lateral movement of
foundation. Defendants knew or should have known, based upon their experience
in the construction industry, that recommending Herns to work on the Property
was very likely to cause significant structural damage to the residential
remodel project Plaintiffs were engaged in. Further, the foundational issues
that were likely to occur from Herns’ deficient work were also reasonably
likely to cause potential physical damage to Plaintiffs and/or persons on the
Property, as uneven foundation creates a significant and foreseeable risk of a
slip and fall incident.” (SAC, ¶¶ 23-24.) 
 
In Randi W. v. Muroc Joint Unified School Dist.
(1997) 14 Cal.4th 1066, a former employer school district sent letters of
recommendation regarding a former employee. However, the letters did not
disclose that the former employee was the subject of complaints regarding
sexual misconduct.  Another school
district eventually hired the former employee and the employee sexually
assaulted plaintiff. The Court did find the existence of a duty in that case
based primarily on a specific examination of all the factors set forth in Rowland
v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.
 
The Court stated: “Although policy considerations
dictate that ordinarily a recommending employer should not be held accountable
to third persons for failing to disclose negative information regarding a
former employee, nonetheless, liability may be imposed if, as alleged here, the
recommendation letter amounts to an affirmative misrepresentation presenting a
foreseeable and substantial risk of physical harm to a third person.” Randi
W. v. Muroc Joint Unified School Dist. (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1066, 1070. In the
instant action, Plaintiffs have now alleged facts to show that there was a
foreseeable and substantial risk of harm by the representations. 
 
Thus, the demurrer to the seventh cause of action is overruled.

 
 
Motion to
Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
CCP § 436(a).  The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  CCP § 436(b). 
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant,
false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  CCP § 436. 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Defendants move to strike the following: (1) 1.
Paragraph 9 starting at page 3, line 5, through page 4, line 1; (2) 2a - (SAC,
¶51, p. 18, lines 7-9.); 2b - (SAC, ¶55, p. 18 line 26 – p. 19, line 6.); 2c - (SAC,
Prayer for Relief, ¶4, p. 24, line 4.) 
 
As to Item 1, the motion to strike is denied. As
stated above, Plaintiffs have now alleged adequate facts to state a claim
against McKeown based on alter ego liability.
 
As to Items 2a, b, and c, the motion to strike is
denied. The motion to strike allegations and prayer seeking punitive damages is
denied. 
 
Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for damages
pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer,
unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect
to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.
(c) As used in this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.
(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person's rights.
(3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
 
To state a claim for punitive damages, Plaintiffs must
allege specific facts rather than conclusions that Defendant’s conduct
constitutes oppression, fraud, or malice. Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.  Here, as noted
above, in the Court’s ruling to the demurrer to the second cause of action,
Plaintiffs now stated sufficient specific facts to allege that Defendants acted
fraudulently to support Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages. 
 
The motion to strike is denied. 
 
Defendants are ordered to file and serve an Answer
within 10 days of this date.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 