 Case Number:  23TRCV03015    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                       Thursday, March 14, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 13  



 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Stephanie
Gauss v. David De Wispelaere, et al.  
23TRCV03015
1.     
David De
Wispelaere (“Wispelaere”), Annie Maes (“Maes”) and Maes Capital’s Demurrer to
Complaint  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
David De Wispelaere (“Wispelaere”), Annie Maes
(“Maes”) and Maes Capital’s Demurrer to Complaint is sustained with 20 days
leave to amend, sustained without leave to amend, in part, and overruled, in
part.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on September 12, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. In September 2020, Plaintiff purchased
real property commonly known as 8301 Wiley Post Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90045
(“8301 Wiley Post”). Plaintiff made a down payment of 25% of the purchasing
price and obtained a loan for the balance with FCI Lender Services, Inc. Plaintiff
decided to build a duplex. Plaintiff obtained a loan from David De Wispelaere
for $1,500,000.00. The duplex has common addresses: 8303 and 8305 Wiley Post
Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90045. As part of the loan, De Wispelaere was to pay off
the existing FCI loan. Unbeknownst to Plaintiff, De Wispelaere changed the
lender from himself to Defendant Annie Maes (“Maes”). The loan amount was also
changed. DeWispelaere and Maes are not licensed to accept consumer loans. During
the loan origination process, Plaintiff was never asked to complete a 1003 Loan
Application or provide a copy of her credit report, or income or asset
verification. Plaintiff alleges that the loan is in violation of federal
lending laws and that the loan charges usurious interest.
 
Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1.
Violations of the Truth in Lending Act; 2. Violations of the Real Estate
Settlement Procedures Act; 3. Violations of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act;
4. Usury; 5. Violations of Cal. Business & Professions Code § 17200, et
seq; 6. Financial Abuse of Elder; 7. Injunctive Relief; 8. Negligence. 
 
Meet and Confer
             
Defendants set forth a meet and confer declaration in
sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41. 
(Decl. Jacoby Perez.)   
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendants’ request for judicial notice is granted
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(h).
 
Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
Defendants demur to the first through eighth causes of
action for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
CCP § 430.10(e). 
 
As to the demurrer brought by Defendants David De
Wispelaere and Maes Capital, the demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend, in part, and without leave to amend, in part. 
 
Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient factual
allegations against these Defendants. The factual allegations are related to
alleged aspects and wrongdoing concerning the subject loan. Plaintiff has
specifically alleged that these demurring Defendants were not the lenders, but
that only Defendant Annie Maes was the lender. 
 
Thus, Defendants David De Wispelaere and Maes Capital’s
demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the first through sixth
and eighth causes of action. The demurrer to the seventh cause of action is
sustained without leave to amend.
 
As to Defendant Annie Maes, the Court makes the
following ruling.
 
First Cause of Action for Violations of the Truth in
Lending Act (“TILA”)
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action is
overruled. Plaintiff states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
Under 12 CFR §1026.3, TILA exempts “(a)n extension of
credit primarily for a business, commercial or agricultural purpose.”  Here, Plaintiff has alleged facts within the
Complaint and the Court has taken judicial notice of factual matters which may
show that the loan was primarily for a business purpose, namely, to demolish
and rebuild the structure for rental purposes. (Complaint, ¶¶ 13-19; RJN, Ex. 1.)
However, Plaintiff has also interspersed within the Complaint numerous
allegations contending that the loan was for a household, family, and personal
purpose and that the property was Plaintiff’s primary residence. (Complaint, ¶¶
19, 39, 75, 78, 90, 97, 102, 112.) 
 
The Court determines that factual issues exist as to
this question and such factual disputes cannot be a basis for sustaining a
demurrer. 
 
The demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled.

 
Second Cause of Action for Violations of the Real
Estate Settlement Procedures Act (“RESPA”)
 
The demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend.  Plaintiff
fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
 Defendants
argue that RESPA applies only to “federally related mortgage loans” as defined
in 12 U.S.C. § 2602. “For purposes of RESPA, a “federally related mortgage
loan” is one involving any loan that is secured by a mortgage on residential
real estate where the proceeds are used to pay an existing loan secured by the
same property and the loan is made by a federally-insured lender or another
agency of the federal government through an housing or urban development
program. 12 U.S.C.A. § 2602(1)(A),(B).” Miller & Starr § 6:15. The Real
Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA), 2 Cal. Real Est. § 6:15 (4th ed.).
 
Here, Plaintiff merely argues that nearly every
transaction can constitute a federally related mortgage loan but has not
alleged specific facts to demonstrate that this particular loan would, in fact,
qualify as a federally related loan.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Third Cause of Action for Violations of the Equal
Credit Opportunity Act (“ECOA”)
 
The demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
 
The ECOA makes it unlawful “for any creditor to
discriminate against any applicant, with respect to any aspect of a credit
transaction [] on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex or
marital status, or age (provided the applicant has the capacity to contract)”
15 U.S.C. § 1691(a). Here, Plaintiff has failed to allege any facts to show
that she was discriminated against due to any protected class as defined in the
statute.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Usury
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
overruled. Plaintiff states facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
Defendant argues that the cause of action cannot be
stated because the usury laws do not apply to a loan arranged by former
Defendant Ime Inyang Oduok. Defendant states that this is because Oduok is a
licensed real estate broker. However, here, Plaintiff has alleged that Oduok
did not act as a real estate broker with respect to arranging the loan on the
property. (Complaint, ¶¶ 17, 34.)  Thus,
a factual issue is raised with respect to whether the usury law would apply in
this instance. 
 
The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
overruled. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Violations of Cal. Business
& Professions Code § 17200, et seq.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action is
overruled. Plaintiff states facts sufficient to state a cause of action.  
 
“California Business and Professions Code Sections
17000, et seq., and 17200, et seq., states [sic] that unfair competition shall
mean and include unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices.” Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 618–19. “By
proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business act or practice, the UCL “borrows” rules
set out in other laws and makes violations of those rules independently
actionable. [Citation.] However, a practice may violate the UCL even if it is
not prohibited by another statute.” Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum Com. v.
Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803, 835. “The unfair competition
law is independent of the Unfair Practices Act and other laws. Its remedies are
“cumulative ... to the remedies or penalties available under all other laws of
this state” (§ 17205), but its sanctions are less severe than those of the
Unfair Practices Act. Prevailing plaintiffs are generally limited to injunctive
relief and restitution. (§ 17203; see ABC Internat. Traders, Inc. v.
Matsushita Electric Corp. (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1247, 1268 [61 Cal.Rptr.2d
112, 931 P.2d 290].) Plaintiffs may not receive damages, much less treble damages,
or attorney fees.” Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular
Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 179.
 
Based on the underlying allegations in support of the
first and fourth causes of action noted above, Plaintiff has alleged sufficient
facts and pled a viable cause of action that would demonstrate unlawful and/or
unfair business practices on the part of demurring Defendant. 
 
Thus, the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is
overruled. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action for Financial Abuse of Elder
 
Defendant’s demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave
to amend. Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30 states, in relevant
part: “(a) “Financial abuse” of an elder or dependent adult occurs when a
person or entity does any of the following:
(1) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains
real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or
with intent to defraud, or both.
(2) Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating,
obtaining, or retaining real or personal property of an elder or dependent
adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
(3) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or
retains, or assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or
retaining, real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult by undue
influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.”
 
Pleading a claim for elder abuse requires specific
facts of intentional or, at a minimum, reckless conduct.  See Worsham v. O’Connor Hospital
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 331, 338. To state the statutory cause of action for
Financial Elder Abuse, Plaintiff must plead specific facts.  See, Covenant Care v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790. 
 
Plaintiff has failed to state the requisite specific
facts to state a cause of action. Plaintiff attempts to allege an elder abuse
cause of action based on financial abuse. However, there are no facts to show
that demurring Defendant herein took, secreted, appropriated, obtained, or
retained real or personal property, or assisted in doing so. 
 
Plaintiff’s opposition appears to concede this point. After
acknowledging that the claim is, in part, based on an attempted foreclosure and
not an actual foreclosure, Plaintiff states the following. “Plaintiff also
alleges in her financial elder abuse claim that Defendants (1) changed the
terms of the agreement and committed violations on State and Federal law, (2)
are wrongfully attempting to appropriate her property, and (3) engaged in
improper conduct in connection with the loan.” 
(Opposition, page 9, lines 4-7.)  Attempted
foreclosure, changing terms and violating state and federal law (without
actually showing a taking of property), and engaging in ‘improper conduct,’
fail to demonstrate an actual taking of Plaintiff’s personal property. 
 
Defendant’s demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave
to amend.
 
Seventh Cause of Action for Injunctive Relief
 
The demurrer to the seventh cause of action is
sustained without leave to amend. “Injunctive relief is a remedy, not a cause
of action.” Guessous v. Chrome Hearts, LLC (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 1177,
1187. A remedy for injunctive relief can be maintained within the prayer for
relief.
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the seventh cause of action
is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Eighth Cause of Action for Negligence
 
The demurrer to the eighth cause of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Leave to amend is provided to either
attempt to allege a duty separate and apart from the duty imposed within the
contract or to amend to delete the negligence cause of action and add a cause
of action for breach of contract.
 
“[T]he economic loss rule provides: [W]here a
purchaser's expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought
is not working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has
suffered only ‘economic’ losses. This doctrine hinges on a distinction drawn
between transactions involving the sale of goods for commercial purposes where
economic expectations are protected by commercial and contract law, and those
involving the sale of defective products to individual consumers who are
injured in a manner which has traditionally been remedied by resort to the law
of torts. The economic loss rule requires a purchaser to recover in contract
for purely economic loss due to disappointed expectations, unless he can
demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise. Quite simply,
the economic loss rule prevent[s] the law of contract and the law of tort from
dissolving one into the other.” Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp.
(2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
“[C]onduct amounting to a breach of contract becomes
tortious only when it also violates a duty independent of the contract arising
from principles of tort law. An omission to perform a contract obligation is
never a tort, unless that omission is also an omission of a legal duty.” Erlich
v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551 (internal citations and quotations
omitted). Here, the alleged duties stem directly from the obligation imposed
within the alleged contract between the parties. “Pursuant to the Agreement,
DEFENDANTS were to make all payments directly to PLAINTIFF; however DEFENDANTS
made an unauthorized payment of $150,000.00 directly to John Byrne, the
contractor PLAINTIFF hired.” (Complaint, ¶ 133 (emphasis added).) 
 
Thus, here, Plaintiff fails to allege facts to state
Defendant’s duty separate and apart from the duty imposed within the contract.  Plaintiff argues that she did not allege a
breach of contract cause of action. However, as noted above, the scope of leave
to amend is to add a breach of contract cause of action and omit a negligence
cause of action if appropriate. The Court further notes that the bulk of the
allegations appear to be directed against former co-defendant Oduok. Thus, it
is not entirely clear whether this cause of action was actually directed against
demurring Defendant in the first place. 
 
The demurrer to the eighth cause of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.