  Case Number:  21STCV27613    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December
5, 2023                                          TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Jeff Baoliang
Zhang, Ph.D v. Los Angeles Police Department, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV27613
 





















 
MOTION:
PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR A TRIAL SCHEDULE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Jeff Baoliang Zhang, Ph.D.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant City of
Los Angeles, et al.
-
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On July 28, 2021, Plaintiff, Jeff Baoliang Zhang, Ph.D., who
is self-represented, filed this action against the City of Los Angeles (sued as
the “Los Angeles Police Department”).  On
January 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”).  The FAC alleges the following
causes of action: (1) Willful Perjuries, the Serious Violation of the Federal
Laws; (2) Violation of the United States Constitution; (3) Theft and Robbery of
Plaintiff’s Property; and (4) Elder Abuse.  The FAC also adds Kenneth
Bryant, Jesse Hinchman, Albert Delarocha, Charlie Beck, and Michel Moore as defendants.
 
            On February
9, 2023, Defendants, City of Los Angeles, Jesse Hinchman, Michel Moore, and
Kenneth Bryant filed a Demurrer to the FAC. 
The Court sustained Defendants’ Demurrer without leave to amend.  The FAC was dismissed on the same day.
 
            On October
26, 2023, the Court reconsidered its ruling sustaining Defendants’ Demurrer and
overruled it as to the Second Cause of Action.
 
            On November
6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion requesting a trial schedule for this case.[1]
 
            Defendants
filed an opposition.  Plaintiff replied.
 
            
II.        DISCUSSION
 
            As
Defendants point out, there is no statute authorizing or otherwise recognizing
a motion for a trial schedule.  A case
management conference or trial setting conference are the proper vehicles to
address Plaintiff’s request.  Plaintiff
does not address this point.  
 
            Defendants further
argue a case management conference is premature because the FAC is fatally
uncertain.  The only remaining cause of
action is the Second Cause of Action for “Violation of the United States
Constitution” which was reinstated by the Court on October 26, 2023.  Defendants state they are unable to determine
whether this Court has proper jurisdiction over the claim, whether removal is appropriate,
or generally, how to answer or prepare a defense.  For this reason, Defendants have reserved a
hearing date of February 14, 2024 for a motion for judgment on the pleadings.  Defendants also request the Court set a case
management conference for a date after February 14, 2024 so that its motion for
judgment on the pleadings may be heard first. 

 
            Although
not ruling here on any potential motion for judgment on the pleadings, the
Court observes that a motion for judgment on the pleadings is
proper after a defendant
has filed an answer to the complaint and the time for the defendant to demur to
the complaint has expired.  (Code. Civ.
Proc., § 438, subd. (f)(2).)  Here, Defendants
already demurred to the FAC.  As
mentioned above, the Court sustained, then overruled the Demurrer as to the
Second Cause of Action on October 26, 2023. 
Since then, Defendants have not filed their Answer to the FAC.  Absent Defendants identifying some other
basis to address the current procedural status of the case, the Court denies
the current motion for a “trial schedule” as well as a request to set a case
management conference.  Whether and when
a case management conference is appropriate can be discussed on February 14,
2024.  Should Defendants not proceed with
their motion for judgment on the pleadings, the Court hereby sets a status
conference for February 14, 2023, at 8:30 am., to discuss the procedural
posture of the case.  
            
III.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The motion
is denied.  The Court sets a status
conference for February 14, 2023 at 8:30 am. 

 
Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  
 
 
Dated:   December 5,
2023                                      




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 


