 Case Number:  23STCV17236    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December
5, 2023                                          TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Haig Barsegian
v. Scan Health Plan
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV17236
 





















 
MOTION
FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Scan Health Plan
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Haig
Barsegian
 
 
I. 
MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE
 
BACKGROUND
            On
July 24, 2023, Plaintiff Haig Barsegian filed complaint against Defendant Scan
Health Plan, alleging seven causes of action for: (1) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy; (2) disability discrimination: failure to
accommodate in violation of Government Code section 12940(m); (3) disability
discrimination: retaliation – failure to accommodate in violation of Government
Code section 12940(m)(2); (4) disability discrimination – failure to engage in
interactive process – Government Code section 12940(n); (5) retaliation in
violation of Government Code section 12940(h); (6) failure to prevent
discrimination and retaliation in violation of Government Code section
12940(k); and (7) Labor Code section 1102.5.
            On September 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for trial preference. On October
5, 2023, Defendant filed an opposition. On October 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
reply.

LEGAL STANDARD
            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 36(a), “A party to a civil action who is
over 70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court
shall grant if the court makes both of the following findings: 
(1) The party has
a substantial interest in the action as a whole. 
(2) The health of
the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the
party’s interest in the litigation.” Code Civ. Proc. § 36(a).  
            To
make the findings required by CCP section 36(a), evidence must be provided
with the motion for preference establishing Plaintiff’s age and the relevant
conditions of her health warranting a preference.
            An
affidavit submitted in support of section 36(a) “may be signed by the attorney
for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief as to the
medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 36.5.) 
            “Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, the court may in its discretion grant a motion for
preference that is supported by a showing that satisfies the court that the
interests of justice will be served by granting this preference.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 36(e).)
            If a motion for preference based on
a party’s age is granted, the matter must be set for trial not more than 120
days from the date the motion is granted. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 36(f).)  

DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff moves for trial preference, arguing that
Plaintiff has a substantial interest in the case, that Plaintiff is 85 years
old, and his health is in decline. Plaintiff states he has been diagnosed with
Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma. Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma is a type of blood cancer that
affects his white blood cells called lymphocytes. Lymphocytes are an important
part of his immune system. (Barsegian Decl., ¶¶ 2-6.) In addition to
Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma, Plaintiff has also been recently diagnosed with a heart
condition wherein his heart experiences both premature ventricular contractions
and premature atrial contractions. Essentially, when he sleeps, his heart
stops. His heart stops for up to six seconds at night. (Barsegian Decl., ¶¶
2-6.) Plaintiff also suffers from shortness of breath and fatigue, as well as
acid reflux. (Barsegian Decl., ¶ 7.) 
            Plaintiff
has not met his burden under CCP section 36(a) to show that his health is such
that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing Plaintiff’s interest. Plaintiff’s evidence in the form of his declaration that
his physical condition is continuing to decline,
is devoid of facts and details regarding the progression of Plaintiff’s
diagnoses. Thus, the evidence is not enough, without more detail, to show that
the health of the party is such that a preference is necessary.
Plaintiff’s counsel cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 36.5, but this
section specifically states that the affidavit has to contain a medical prognosis
of the party.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 36.5.)
            The
Court thus finds that Plaintiff has not satisfied the requirements to support a
claim for trial preference.  Specifically, Plaintiff has failed to show
that Plaintiff’s health is such that a trial preference is necessary to avoid
prejudice.  Plaintiff’s declaration fails to provide the Court with any
evidence as to Plaintiff’s prognosis and condition moving forward.  The
evidence currently presented does not suggest that Plaintiff’s interests
in the litigation will be prejudiced.  
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff has failed to make a satisfactory showing under CCP section 36(a).

CONCLUSION

            Accordingly, the motion for
trial preference is DENIED.
II. 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
INTRODUCTION
            On
July 24, 2023, Plaintiff, Haig Barsegian, filed a complaint against Defendant,
Scan Health Plan, alleging seven causes of action for: (1) wrongful termination
in violation of public policy; (2) disability discrimination: failure to
accommodate in violation of Government Code section 12940(m); (3) disability
discrimination: retaliation – failure to accommodate in violation of Government
Code section 12940(m)(2); (4) disability discrimination – failure to engage in
interactive process – Government Code section 12940(n); (5) retaliation in violation
of Government Code section 12940(h); (6) failure to prevent discrimination and
retaliation in violation of Government Code section 12940(k); and (7) Labor
Code section 1102.5.
            On
August 24, 2023, Defendants filed this motion to compel arbitration and stay
the proceedings. On September 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On
September 27, 2023, Defendant filed a reply. 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            California law incorporates many of
the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including
a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th
951, 971-72.) Under
both the FAA and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding
a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The petitioner bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the
preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate
that there should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial court sits
as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)
The Court is empowered by Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 to compel
parties to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement to do so.   
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 states that: 
 
The court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
  
(a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the
petitioner; or  
(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.  
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to
a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of
the same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. For
purposes of this section, a pending court action or special proceeding includes
an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to arbitrate after the
petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or before the date of the
hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be applicable to an
agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional negligence of a health
care provider made pursuant to Section 1295. 
 
(Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)  
 
            The party
petitioning to compel arbitration under written arbitration agreement bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, and party opposing petition must meet the same
evidentiary burden to prove any facts necessary to its defense. The trial court
acts as the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2; Provencio v. WMA
Securities, Inc. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant moves to compel
arbitration and stay the proceedings in this matter.
            
A. 
Existence of Arbitration Agreement
            Plaintiff was employed with
Defendant as a Mental Health Specialist from on or about December 2, 2013 to
April 4, 2022. (Rodriguez Decl. ¶ 6.) On December 19, 2019, Plaintiff signed a
valid and enforceable Arbitration Agreement wherein he agreed to arbitrate any
claims that arose out of his employment with Defendant. (Rodriguez Decl. at ¶
6, Exh. A.) The Agreement is between Plaintiff and SCAN Group, its affiliates,
and The SCAN Foundation. (Id.) Defendant SCAN Health Plan is a wholly
owned subsidiary and an affiliate of SCAN Group and is therefore also a party
to the Arbitration Agreement. (Id. at ¶ 12.) Pursuant to the Arbitration
Agreement, Plaintiff and Defendant agreed to “binding individual arbitration.”
(Id. at Exh. C.) Specifically, Plaintiff and Defendant voluntarily
agreed that: 
I and SCAN Group, its affiliates, and The SCAN Foundation (“the
Company”) agree to utilize binding individual arbitration to resolve all
disputes that might arise out of or be related in any way to my employment by
the Company. Such disputes include, but are not limited to, claims I might
bring against the Company for wrongful termination, discrimination, harassment,
retaliation, breach of contract, wage and hour violations, and torts such as
invasion of privacy, assault and battery, or defamation. Such disputes also
include claims that the Company might bring against me such as, for example,
theft of money or trade secrets, breach of a confidentiality agreement, or
breach of a contract. I and the Company each specifically waive our respective
rights to bring such claims against the other in a court of law and to have a
trial by jury. 
(Rodriguez Decl.,
¶ 6, Exh. A.) 
            As such, Defendant has shown that a
valid agreement to arbitrate exists. Plaintiff does not present any arguments to
the contrary.
B.  Federal
Arbitration Act
            The¿FAA¿applies to contracts that
involve interstate commerce (9 U.S.C. §§ 1,¿2), but since arbitration is a
matter of contract, the¿FAA¿also applies if it is so stated in the agreement.¿ (See¿Victrola
89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC¿(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355 [260 Cal.
Rptr. 3d 1]¿(“[T]he presence of interstate commerce is not the only manner
under which the¿FAA¿may apply. … [T]he parties may also voluntarily elect to
have the¿FAA¿govern enforcement of the Agreement”].) 
            Here, the Arbitration Agreement
states that “any arbitration proceeding under this agreement shall proceed
under and be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act, in conformity with the
procedures of the California Arbitration Act . . .” (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 6, Exh.
A.) 
            As such, the FAA applies to this
matter. 
C. 
Unconscionability   
            The FAA
governs written arbitration agreements in the employment context.  (Circuit
City Stores, Inc. v. Adams (2001) 532 U.S. 105, 109, 113.)  The FAA
provides, “A written provision in any . . . contract evidencing a transaction
involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising
out of such contract or transaction, or the refusal to perform the whole or any
part thereof . . . shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.” 
(9 U.S.C. § 2.) Thus, under the FAA state courts may “decline to enforce
arbitration clauses on the basis of ‘generally applicable contract defenses, such as fraud,
duress or unconscionability.’ ” (Erickson
v. Aetna Health Plans of California, Inc. (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 646,
650-651.) 
 
            In
general, the doctrine of unconscionability refers to “ ‘
“an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together
with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.” ’ ”
(Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1133.) In
other words, the doctrine consists of procedural and substantive components, “ ‘the
former focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the
latter on overly harsh or one-sided results.’ ” (Ibid.) 
 
            If
unconscionable, the arbitration agreement is not a valid contract and therefore
is unenforceable.  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p.
114.)  Although both components of unconscionability must be present to
invalidate an arbitration agreement, they need not be present in the same
degree.  (Id.) “ ‘Essentially
a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural
process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the
greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.
[Citations.] In other words, the more substantively unconscionable the contract
term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’ ” (Ibid.) 
 
i. Procedural Unconscionability 
 
            Procedural unconscionability has to
do with matters relating to freedom of assent. (Kinney v. United Healthcare
Servs. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.) The procedural element focuses on
two factors: oppression and surprise.  (Id.) “Oppression” arises
from an inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and
an absence of meaningful choice. (Id.) “Surprise” involves the extent to
which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms. (Id.)  
            A
“contract of adhesion” creates some amount of procedural unconscionability –
the term signifies a standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the
party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only
the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it. (Neal v. State Farm
Ins. Cos. (1961) 188 Cal.App.2d 690, 694.) In addition, a lack of effort to
highlight the presence of an arbitration provision, such as through bold
lettering, larger font, or capitalization, has been found to indicate
procedural unconscionability. (See Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1238.)   However, when
there is no other indication of oppression other than the adhesive aspect of an
agreement, the degree of procedural unconscionability is low. (Serpa v.
California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.)   
            “[T]he
fact that the arbitration agreement is an adhesion contract does not render it
automatically unenforceable as unconscionable. Courts have consistently held
that the requirement to enter into an arbitration agreement is not a bar to its
enforcement.” (Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 165, 179; see also AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion
(2011) 563 U.S. 333, 346-47 [“the times in which consumer contracts were
anything other than adhesive are long past”].) 
 
1.      Contract of Adhesion 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the
agreement was drafted without input by Plaintiff, was presented on a take it or
leave it basis, there is no evidence that the person issuing the
arbitration agreement to Plaintiff was even qualified to explain the company’s
arbitration provision, and Plaintiff had a limited
time to review the agreement.  
 
            However,
as explained above, the fact that it is an adhesion contract does not render it
automatically unenforceable as unconscionable. Further, the requirement to
enter into an arbitration agreement is not a bar to the agreement’s
enforcement.  (Serafin, 235 Cal.App.4th at p. 179.)   As such, the Court finds that
there was a low degree of procedural unconscionability.
 
                        2.
 Provision of Applicable Arbitration
Rules 
 
            Plaintiff
argues he was not given the arbitration rules.
 
            “The
failure to attach a copy of the arbitration rules could be a factor supporting
a finding of procedural unconscionability where the failure would result in
surprise to the party opposing arbitration.” (Lane v. Francis Capital
Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 690.)  In Lane, the
Court concluded, “The failure to attach a copy of the arbitration rules could
be a factor supporting a finding of procedural unconscionability where the
failure would result in surprise to the party opposing arbitration.” (Id.)
The Lane Court ultimately determined that “the failure to attach a copy
of the AAA rules did not render the agreement procedurally unconscionable.
There could be no surprise, as the arbitration rules referenced in the
agreement were easily accessible to the parties—the AAA rules are available on
the Internet.” (Id. at p. 691.)   
 
            Ultimately,
determining whether an agreement is unconscionable requires evaluating “the
totality of the agreement’s substantive terms as well as the circumstances of
its formation to determine whether the overall bargain was unreasonably
one-sided.” (Sonic, supra, 57 Cal.4th at p. 1146.)   
 
            Plaintiff has not stated he was
surprised, and thus, this only provides a minimal showing of procedural
unconscionability. 
 
            ii.
Substantive Unconscionability                   
 
            In
assessing substantive unconscionability, courts generally focus on the terms of
the agreement and look for terms that are unfairly one-sided such that they
“shock the conscience.” (Nyulassy, supra, 120 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1281.) The “paramount consideration” is mutuality of the obligation to
arbitrate. (Id. at pp. 1281, 1287.) Courts also consider whether the
plaintiff seeks redress for violations of certain statutory rights. Arbitration
agreements that encompass unwaivable statutory rights, such as those provided by the FEHA, are
subject to particular scrutiny. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p.
100.)   
 
            To be enforceable, an arbitration
agreement in an employment contract must comply with the requirements of Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83. The Armendariz
requirements are that: “(1) the arbitration agreement may not limit the damages
normally available under the statute; (2) there must be discovery sufficient to
adequately arbitrate their statutory claim; (3) there must be a written
arbitration decision and judicial review sufficient to ensure the arbitrators comply
with the requirements of the statute; and (4) the employer must pay all types
of costs that are unique to arbitration.” (Little v. Auto Stiegler, Inc.
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1076.) 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
the requirements of Armendariz have
not been met. Specifically, Plaintiff argues his remedies are limited to
violation of the requirements set forth in Armendariz because the
Agreement does not guarantee him the “remedy” of trial preference under CCP §
36.  Plaintiff relies on Vinokur v.
Superior Ct. (1988) 198 Cal. App.3d 500 for the proposition that trial
preference is a legislatively acknowledged substantive right of older litigants
that cannot be constrained by arbitration. 
 
            The Court finds that the Arbitration
Agreement complies with the Armendariz requirements. As Defendant
argues, Plaintiff misunderstands the meaning of “remedy” pursuant to Armendariz.
 Armendariz specifically focuses
on “the principle that an arbitration agreement may not limit statutorily
imposed remedies such as punitive damages and attorney fees.”  As such, remedies refer to punitive damages
and attorney fees, and other remedial provisions that are available under a
statutory cause of action, and not a remedy in the broader sense of the word.  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th
at p. 103.)  
            Further, Plaintiff’s reliance on Vinokur
is misplaced.  In Vinokur, the
Court of Appeal resolved a conflict between the trial preference statute (CCP §
36(a)) and the statutorily-mandated arbitration statute for controversies
which, in the opinion of the court, will not exceed  a specific amount for each plaintiff (CCP §
1141.11).  The Court held that, in this
context, a case cannot be compelled into statutorily-mandated arbitration when
the plaintiff has filed a meritorious motion for trial preference.  
            Here, the Court has found that
Plaintiff does not justify trial priority. 
More importantly, even if Plaintiff merited trial preference, that
analysis is irrelevant to whether the case should be compelled to arbitration
pursuant to a written contractual agreement between the parties.  (See Laswell v. AG Seal Beach, LLC (2010)
189 Cal.App.4th 1399, 1410-11 [holding “Laswell’s advanced age and the trial
court’s decision to grant her trial preference have no relevance to whether
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c), applies and, given it
does not, whether to grant the petition to compel arbitration.”].)  In Laswell, notwithstanding the plaintiff’s
advance age of 93 years, the Court of Appeal ordered the matter to
arbitration.  
            Moreover, Plaintiff does not
establish that the arbitration agreement limits Plaintiff’s ability to seek an
expedited arbitration hearing. As such, Plaintiff has not shown he would be deprived
of a remedy in the broader sense of the word.
            As such, Plaintiff has not shown any
substantive unconscionability. Because both substantive and procedural
components of unconscionability need to be present, Plaintiff has not shown the
contract was unconscionable. 


D.  FAA
Preemption
            Plaintiff also generally argues,
without any legal authority, that the contract is illegal because arbitration
does not afford any safeguards that ensure his substantive rights are
guaranteed by CCP section 36. Plaintiff argues contracts contrary to express
statutes or to the policy of express statutes are illegal. 
            The
FAA preempts these arguments. Under the FAA, “any doubts concerning the scope
of arbitrable issues should be resolved in favor of arbitration ….”  (Moses H. Cone Memorial Hospital v.
Mercury Constr. Corp.¿(1983) 460 U.S. 1, 24-25.)  This federal policy favoring arbitration
preempts any state law impediments to the policy’s fulfillment.  If a state law interferes with the FAA’s
purpose of enforcing arbitration agreements according to their terms, the FAA
preempts the state law provision, no matter how laudable the state law’s
objectives. (AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion, 563 U.S. at p. 352;¿Iskanian
v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC¿(2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 384.)¿Under
the¿supremacy clause of the United States Constitution (art. VI, cl. 2), the
FAA requires any conflicting state law to give way. (Nitro-Lift
Technologies, L. L. C. v. Howard¿(2012) 568 U.S. 17, 21-22). 
            “Concepcion held that because class proceedings
interfere with fundamental attributes of arbitration, a class waiver is not
invalid even if an individual proceeding would be an ineffective means to
prosecute certain claims.” (Iskanian, 59 Cal.4th at p. 365, citing AT&T
Mobility LLC, supra, 563 U.S. at p. 351.) 
            Because the parties do not dispute
that the FAA applies to the instant agreement, Plaintiff’s argument that the
arbitration agreement violates public policy or is illegal is unavailing. 


E.  Grounds For Rescission Are Not Shown 
 
            Plaintiff
argues for rescission pursuant to Civil Code §1689(b).  Section 1689(b) states: 
 
(1) If the
consent of the party rescinding, or of any party jointly contracting with him,
was given by mistake, or obtained through duress, menace, fraud, or undue
influence, exercised by or with the connivance of the party as to whom he
rescinds, or of any other party to the contract jointly interested with such
party. 
(2) If the
consideration for the obligation of the rescinding party fails, in whole or in
part, through the fault of the party as to whom he rescinds. 
(3) If the
consideration for the obligation of the rescinding party becomes entirely void
from any cause. 
(4) If the
consideration for the obligation of the rescinding party, before it is rendered
to him, fails in a material respect from any cause. 
(5) If the
contract is unlawful for causes which do not appear in its terms or conditions,
and the parties are not equally at fault. 
(6) If the
public interest will be prejudiced by permitting the contract to stand. 
 
            Plaintiff argues he can rescind the
arbitration agreement under Civil Code §1689 if he shows that public interest
will be prejudiced by permitting the contract to stand. Plaintiff argues
enforcing this arbitration agreement will violate the public interest.
Plaintiff also argues that the consideration is illusory.
 
            However, Plaintiff fails to identify
portions or specifics in the agreement that limit Plaintiff’s ability to seek
an expedited arbitration hearing.  As
such, Plaintiff has not shown the consideration is illusory or that the public
interest is prejudiced by permitting the contract to stand.
 
F.  Stay
 
            CCP §
1281.4 provides: 
 
If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State
or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in
an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in
which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to
such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration
is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as
the court specifies. 
 
            Thus, Defendant’s motion to
stay the action pending arbitration is granted.  



 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Based on
the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.  The
action is stayed as to all parties pending the arbitration.  
 
 
Dated:   December 4,
2023                             




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 