  Case Number:  23STCV00319    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  73 11/07/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
JOSEPH F. FARIVAR INVESTMENT GROUP,
INC., et al. v. HPC VINEBURN, LLC, et al. (23STCV00319)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/moving party:  Kenneth Ehrlich
(Elkins Kalt Weintraub Reuben Gartside LLP) 
Counsel for Defendants
HPC Vineburn, LLC and Highpoint Capital LLC/opposing party: Brian Ledger
(Gordon Rees Scully Mansukhani, LLP)
 
DEFENDANT HPC VINEBURN, LLC AND
CROSS-DEFENDANT HIGHPOINT CAPITAL LLC’S MOTION TO SET ASIDE DETERMINATION OF
GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT (filed on 10/15/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant
HPC Vineburn, LLC and Cross-Defendant Highpoint Capital LLC’s Motion to Set
Aside Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 6, 2023, Plaintiffs Joseph
F. Farivar Investment Group, Inc. (“FIG”) and Bordan Shoe Company, Inc. (“Bordan”)
filed this action against Defendants HPC Vineburn, LLC (“HPC Vineburn”); Nardon
Liquidating Corp.; Meruelo Maddux Properties – 1919 Vineburn Street, LLC  (“Meruelo Maddux”); Vineburn Property, LLC;
Benedetta Nardon, as an individual and as a Trustee of the Nardon Family Trust
dated October 27, 1982 and as Trustee of the
M Nardon Marital Trust; Marilyn N. Knoop, as an individual; and Patricia J.
Minni, as an individual and as Trustee of the Minni Family Trust dated April
18, 1996 f/b/o the Minni Family and as Trustee of the Minni Family Bypass
Trust.
 
HPC
Vineburn filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff Joseph
F. Farivar Investment Group, Inc. On September 26, 2023, the Court
sustained Plaintiff’s demurrer to that Cross-Complaint, and HPC Vineburn did
not file an amended Cross-Complaint.
 
On June 28,
2024, Plaintiffs dismissed their claims against Defendants Marilyn N. Knoop and
Benedetta Nardon. 
 
On September
3, 2024, the Court granted Defendants Benedetta Nardon and Marily Knoop’s Notice
of Settlement and Application to Determine Good Faith Settlement.
 
On February 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging the following causes of
action:
1.    
Continuing Nuisance;
2.    
Permanent Nuisance;
3.    
Continuing Trespass;
4.    
Permanent Trespass;
5.    
Negligence;
6.    
Negligence Per Se;
7.    
Contribution;
8.    
Equitable Indemnity; and 
9.    
Declaratory Relief.
 
On September 24, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Summary Adjudication as to the First, Third, Fifth, Sixth, and Ninth causes of
action in Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint against Defendants HPC Vineburn,
LLC and Meruelo Maddux Properties - 1919 Vineburn Street, LLC.
 
On October 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a request for dismissal as to
the following remaining claims against HPC and Maddux: permanent nuisance,
permanent trespass, contribution, and indemnity.
 
On October 24, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Entry of Final Judgment In Conformance with Grant of Summary Adjudication. The
Court found Plaintiffs established that an entry of final judgment is
appropriate in the total amount of $12,245,108.42 against Defendants HPC
Vineburn, LLC and Meruelo Maddux Properties – 1919 Vineburn Street, LLC,
jointly and severally. (Court’s 10/24/24 Minute Order.)
 
A.     Allegations
in the FAC
 
The FAC
alleges the following. 
 
Plaintiff
Joseph F. Farivar Investment Group, Inc. is the owner of real property located
at 4335 Valley Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90032 ("4335 Valley
Boulevard" or "Farivar Property"). Plaintiff Bordan Shoe
Company, Inc. is the current lessee and occupant of 4335 Valley Boulevard.
 
Defendants
are current and former owners and/or operators of the real property at 1919
Vineburn Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90032 (the "Nardon
Facility"). The Nardon Facility is the former location of the Nardon
Manufacturing Company, which conducted on-site metal fabrication. The Nardon
Facility is physically adjacent to 4335 Valley Boulevard. The Nardon Facility
is also upgradient from 4335 Valley Boulevard, meaning that groundwater flows
from the Nardon Facility toward 4335 Valley Boulevard.
 
Defendants
and/or their predecessors in interest caused or permitted hazardous substance
contamination to the soil, soil vapor, and groundwater at the Nardon Facility.
Contaminated groundwater at the Nardon Facility then migrated, and continues to
migrate, to the groundwater beneath the Farivar Property.
 
Plaintiffs
bring this action to recover damages and other appropriate relief resulting
from the migration of contamination from the Nardon Facility to the Farivar
Property.
 
B.     Motion to Set
Aside Determination of Good Faith Settlement
 
On
October 15, 2024, Defendant HPC Vineburn, LLC and Cross-Defendant Highpoint
Capital LLC (collectively “HPC”) filed a Motion to Set Aside Determination of Good Faith Settlement, arguing: 
·      
HPC moves the Court for an order to set vacate its Order Granting
the Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement by Defendants Benedetta
Nardon and Marily Knoop because HPC
did not receive notice until after the Court granted the Application. 
o   Counsel for
Nardon/Knoop states in her Declaration that notice of the Application was
“served by certified mail, return receipt requested” on August 5, 2024. The
return address on the envelope indicates the notice was sent from Los Angeles,
California. (Exhibit “B” to Declaration of Brian Ledger.) This Court granted
the Application on September 5, 2024. However, the Application was not received
by counsel for HPC until September 9, 2024, after this Court had already
granted the Application. (Exhibit “A” to Declaration of Brian Ledger.) 
o   It is clear
that there was a mishap in service of the Application.
o   Even if the Nardon/Knoop
timely deposited the notice as they claim, HPC was not actually given notice.
·      
Further, counsel for HPC has been informed by counsel for
Plaintiffs and counsel for Co-Defendant and Cross-Complainant Meruelo Maddux
Properties – 1919 Vineburn Street, LLC that none of those parties received
notice of the Application prior to the Court granting the Application. All
parties should be given an opportunity to object to the Application.
·      
Based on the foregoing, HPC requests that this Court vacate its
Order Granting The Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement by
Defendants Nardon/Knoop for failure of notice to HPC and provide a date for a
hearing on the Settling Defendant’s Application and a briefing schedule for
Opposition and Reply regarding the same.
 
Defendants
Benedetta
Nardon and Marily Knoop filed an opposition, arguing:
·       HPC’s Motion should be denied.
·      
First,
the evidence conclusively proves the Nardon/Knoop timely and properly served
the Application and supporting papers on August 5, 2024, via certified mail,
return receipt requested, with the United States Postal Service (“USPS”). 
o   Under the law, service was completed
and effective on August 5, 2024. 
o   Nardon/Knoop should not be held
responsible or penalized for the USPS’s apparent delay, for whatever unknown
reason(s), of the delivery of the certified mail packages.
o   That is the very definition of a
matter outside the control of Nardon/Knoop
·      
Second,
HPC has significantly delayed in pursuing their requested relief. Their delay
will be highly prejudicial to the Nardon/Knoop if they are dragged back into
this action.
o   While HPC allege they did not know of
the Application until September 9, they certainly knew of it by September 5,
2024 when they were e-served with the Notice of Ruling, and quite possibly knew
long before that. Yet, they waited until September 17, 2024 to first raise the
issue, then waited until October 14, 2024 to file the Motion, which has a
November 11 hearing date - 11 days before the trial date.
·      
Finally,
the HPC does not have any viable basis to overturn the good faith
determination.
o   Plaintiffs realized Nardon/Knoop
had little or no liability to Plaintiffs, which is why these parties entered
into their arms-length, non-collusive settlement.
o  
There
is no evidence of fraud or collusion surrounding the settlement between
Plaintiffs and Nardon/Knoop.
 
HPC filed a reply, arguing:
·      
HPC
has provided proof that service was not timely or proper.
o   Defendants discovered the application
for good faith settlement (hereafter the “Application”) had been filed on
September 9, 2024, when it was received from the United States Postal Service
as indicated on the return receipt.
o   Defendants’ evidence that it did not
receive the Application until September 9, 2024, rebuts the presumption that
service was made as of August 5, 2024.
·      
The
interests of justice require the determination of good faith be set aside to
allow the nonsettling parties to challenge the proportionality of the
settlement.
·      
The
merits of whether the settlement was in good faith or not is not relevant to
this hearing as Defendants are requesting an opportunity to argue the merits of
the good faith settlement as is required to ensure their constitutional right
to Due Process.
·      
Defendants
Acted Diligently in Filing this Motion.
o  
Defense
counsel was set to file this matter ex parte on October 2, 2024, but received
notice that counsel for Settling Parties was on vacation in Europe. Defense
counsel agreed to wait until after October 7, 2024, to seek relief. After its
ex parte applications were denied on procedural grounds, Defendant felt it
would be beneficial to seek relief through a noticed motion. The November 7,
2024, hearing date was the first available hearing date as of October 7, 2024.
As such, it is clear that Defendant has been diligent in seeking relief.
 
On October 31, 2024, Defendant Meruelo Maddux Properties - 1919 Vineburn Street, LLC filed a
notice of joinder to HPC’s Motion to Set Aside Determination of Good Faith
Settlement.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
HPC Vineburn, LLC and Cross-Defendant Highpoint Capital LLC (collectively
“HPC”) moves the
Court to vacate its Order Granting the Application for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement by Defendants Nardon and Knoop because HPC asserts that they
did not receive notice until after the Court granted the Application.
 
A settling
party may give notice of settlement to all parties and the court through the
filing of an application for determination of good faith settlement. (Code of
Civil Procedure Section 877.6.) “The notice, application and proposed order
shall be given by certified mail, return receipt requested or by personal
service.” (Ibid.) The nonsettling parties are then afforded 25 days to
file a notice of motion to contest the good faith settlement. (Ibid.)
 
Here, on August 5, 2024, Defendants Nardon and Knoop contend that
they filed and served the Application and supporting papers by certified mail,
return receipt requested, and also filed the Proof of Service with the Court. (Def’s
Nardon and Knoop, Exs. 1-6.) No opposition was filed by the nonsettling parties
and on September 3, 2024, the Court granted
Defendants Nardon and Knoop’s Notice of
Settlement and Application to Determine Good Faith Settlement.
 
Therefore, Defendants
Nardon and Knoop argue in their opposition that the Application was properly
served.  Under California law, service of
the Application by certified mail is deemed complete and effective upon deposit
of the paperwork in a post office, mailbox or similar facility maintained by
the U.S. Postal Service – i.e., August 5, 2024. (See CCP § 1013(a); Berg v.
Darden (2004) 120 Cal. App. 4th 721, 733 (“Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1013, which governs the rules of service, service by mail is effected
upon deposit of the notice ‘or other paper’ in a post office, mailbox, or
similar facility maintained by the United States Postal Service, in a sealed
postage paid envelope, addressed to the person to be served at his last stated
business address.”).)
 
In reply, HPC
argues they have provided evidence that they did not
receive the Application until September 9, 2024. HPC’s counsel states that the
tracking information obtained from the Post Office’s website indicates their
regional facility received the settling Defendants’ Application on September 6,
2024. (Ledger Decl., ¶ 4.) He
further states the Postal Service’s website does not provide any information
that the Application was provided prior to that date. (Ledger Decl., ¶ 4.) HPC attached a printout from the USPS website indicating the
Application was delivered to his office on September 9, 2024. (Ledger
Decl., Ex. A.) In
addition, HPC attached a copy of the envelope and the certified mail receipt
also showing the Application was delivered on September 9, 2024.
(Ledger Decl., Ex. B.)
Further, HPC’s counsel states in his declaration that he spoke with counsel for
Plaintiff, Sean McCormick, and counsel for Meurelo Maddux Properties – 1919
Vineburn Street, LLC, Michael Shakouri, and both counsels informed him that
they were also not served with the Application prior to the Court granting the
order. (Ledger Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
Since HPC has submitted evidence that
they did not receive the Application until after it was granted on September 5,
2024, the Court is inclined to vacate
its Order Granting the Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
by Defendants Nardon and Knoop in order to give the HPC an opportunity to contest
the Good Faith Settlement. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the motion.
 

DISPOSITION 
 
Defendant HPC Vineburn, LLC and
Cross-Defendant Highpoint Capital LLC’s Motion to Set Aside Determination of
Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED.