  Case Number:  23CHCV00718    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 6-7-24
Case #23CHCV00718, Castaic Truck Stop, Inc. vs. David
Simon, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants David Simon dba ShanCor and
Virachai Pummarachai
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Village Fuel Stop, Inc., dba
Castaic Truck Stop
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Complaint
·        
2nd Cause of Action for Negligence
 
RULING: Demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
In September 2021, Defendant David Simon dba ShanCor
(ShanCor) entered into a contract with “Village Fuel Shop,” which was owned by
Vazgen Khirmian, to repair some fuel tanks for Village Fuel Shop. Khirmian and
Peter Pummarachai (aka Defendant Virachai Pummarachai), the project manager for
ShanCor, signed the contract. Defendants represented to Plaintiff that the work
was completed. Plaintiff filed this action after discovering that the work
performed by ShanCor on the property was allegedly incomplete and
unsatisfactory.
 
After a demurrer was sustained to Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint, Plaintiff filed its Second Amended Complaint (SAC) with two causes
of action for breach of contract and negligence on April 4, 2024.
 
Defendants David Simon and Virachai Pummarachai
(Defendants) filed their demurer on May 16, 2024. Plaintiff opposes Defendants’
demurrer.
 
ANALYSIS
Defendants demur to the Second Cause of Action for Negligence
on the basis that tort remedies for negligence are not permitted for a breach
of contract outside of certain circumstances, and on the basis that Defendant
Pummarachai owes no duties to Plaintiff outside of the contract. The Court
notes that while both Defendant David Simon and Defendant Virachai Pummarachai
have demurred to the Second Cause of Action, only Defendant Pummarachai is
named under the heading for the Second Cause of Action in the SAC.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
            Second
Cause of Action for Negligence
For the Second Cause of Action for Negligence, tort remedies
for negligence are not permitted for a breach of contract outside of certain
circumstances. (See Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543.) Plaintiff
argues in its opposition that it may maintain a negligence cause of action
where a defendant owes independent duties to a plaintiff. However, as discussed
below, Plaintiff has not alleged any duties independent of those under the
contract.
 
“‘Contract damages are generally limited to those within the
contemplation of the parties when the contract was entered into or at least
reasonably foreseeable by them at that time; consequential damages beyond the
expectation of the parties are not recoverable. [Citations.] This limitation on
available damages serves to encourage contractual relations and commercial
activity by enabling parties to estimate in advance the financial risks of
their enterprise.’” (Erlich, supra, at 550, citing Applied
Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 515.) A
mere negligent breach of contract is not sufficient to allow for a separate negligence
cause of action. (Id. at 552.)
 
Plaintiff also argues that because it has alleged the breach
of contract cause of action against ShanCor only and the negligence cause of
action against Pummarachai only, then Plaintiff may maintain the separate
causes of action. However, Defendants argue in their reply that Plaintiff’s
cause of action for negligence does not allege a separate and independent duty
unrelated to the duties raised by the contract.
 
Indeed, Plaintiff’s SAC alleges that “Defendant Pummarachai,
and DOES 1 through 15, inclusive, and each of them, as the designers,
engineers, contractors, and subcontractors, owed a duty to Plaintiff to design,
engineer, construct, and repair the subterranean fuel tanks in a good and
workmanlike manner, in compliance with all laws, codes, and regulations, and
free of defects and deficiencies.” (SAC, ¶ 25.) These duties that Plaintiff has
alleged would only have arisen because of the contract between Plaintiff and
ShanCor. Otherwise, Pummarachai would have had no duties to Plaintiff. While
not a party to the contract, Pummarachai is listed as the Project Manager on
the contract between the parties. (SAC, Ex. A.) Any duties he had to Plaintiff
would have arisen because of his position as Project Manager under the
contract.
 
Plaintiff has not shown that it could amend the complaint to
show a separate duty for Pummarachai. Therefore, the Court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action without leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendants’
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice.