 Case Number:  24STCV14230    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  56 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MIGUEL BLANCO-TORRES, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
B & I LOGISTICS, LLC, et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.





     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV14230
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION  TO BE ADMITTED PRO HAC VICE (RES ID 3781
  & 2790)
 
Date: 
  November 22, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Trial: January 26, 2026 



 
MOVING PARTIES: Attorneys
Janis E. Steck and Charles Andrewscavage
RESPONDING PARTY: None 
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers. No opposition
or reply papers were filed as of November 19, 2024. 
 
The
Court GRANTS the applications. 
 
BACKGROUND
            On June 6, 2024, Miguel Blanco-Torres and David Martinez Ruiz on behalf
of all other Aggrieved Employees filed their Complaint for enforcement under
the Private Attorneys General Act against B & I Logistics, LLC, DCN
Processing Services LLC, and OnTrac Logistics, Inc.
 
            On
October 7, 2024, DCN Processing Services LLC was dismissed. 
            On
October 18, 2024, attorneys Janis E. Steck and Charles Andrewscavage filed
their applications to be admitted pro hac vice for OnTrac Logistics, Inc.  As of November 19, 2024, both applications
are unopposed. 
 
DISCUSSION
CRC, Rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in
another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by way of
written application upon due notice to all interested parties, as well as
service on the State Bar in San Francisco with payment of a $50 fee, provided
that the attorney (a) is not a California resident, (b) does not work in
California, and (c) does not perform regular or substantial business,
professional or other activities in California.
 
An application for pro hac vice admission must set forth: (1) the
applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which
the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of admission; (3) a
representation that the attorney applicant is a member in good standing in the
courts of admission and is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;
(4) the title of each court and action in which the applicant attorney has
appeared pro hac vice in this State in the prior two years; and (5) the name,
address and phone number of the active California State Bar member with whom
the applicant is associated. (CRC, Rule 9.40(d).)
 
Under CRC, Rule 9.40(b), “[a]bsent special circumstances, repeated
appearances by any person under this rule is a cause for denial of an
application.”
 
Here, Ms. Steck attests to her Indiana residence and office address, and Mr.
Andrewscavage attests to his Illinois residence and office address. (Verified
Application of Janis E. Steck (“Steck App.”), ¶¶ 2-3; Verified Application of
Charles Andrewscavage (“Andrewscavage App.”), ¶¶ 2-3.) Both attorneys attest to
all the courts they have been admitted to with dates of admission; Mr.
Andrewscavage’s petition is missing Exhibit “A,” but it is included with the
Declaration of Christopher C. McNatt, Jr. in support. (Steck App., ¶ 4, Ex.
“A”; Andrewscavage App., ¶ 4, Ex. “A.”) Both attorneys also attest that they are
in good standing in the Bars of such courts and not currently suspended or
disbarred from practice in any court; again, Mr. Andrewscavage’s petition is
missing Exhibit “B,” but it is included with Mr. McNatt’s declaration. (Steck
App., ¶¶ 4-5, Ex. “B”; Andrewscavage App., ¶¶ 4-5, Ex. “B.”) 
 
Both attorneys submit the name and address of
the active California State Bar member with whom they are associated: Mr.
McNatt of Scopelitis, Garvin, Light, Hanson, & Feary, 2 North Lake Avenue,
Pasadena, California. (Steck App., ¶ 1; Andrewscavage App., ¶ 1.) In the
preceding two years, Ms. Steck has filed an application to appear as counsel
pro hac vice in California in a single case. (Steck App., ¶ 7; Ex. “C.”) Mr.
McNatt’s declaration provides that Mr. Andrewscavage has filed applications to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in California in four cases. (Declaration of
Christopher C. McNatt, Jr.; Ex. “C.”) Neither attorney is a resident of
California, regularly employed in California, or regularly engaged in
substantial business, professional, or other activities in California. (Steck
App., ¶ 10; Andrewscavage App., ¶ 10.) Lastly, both attorneys have paid the
requisite fee to the State Bar of California and caused the State
Bar of California to be served with a copy of their respective Application,
Notice of Hearing, Declaration of Christopher C. McNatt, Jr. and (Proposed)
Order. (Steck App., ¶ 8;
Andrewscavage App., ¶ 8.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Ms.
Steck and Mr. Andrewscavage satisfy the requirements to appear as counsel pro hac
vice pursuant to CRC, Rule 9.40. The
Court therefore GRANTS the applications. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  If the department does
not receive an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion
will be placed off calendar.
 
       
Dated this 22nd day of November 2024




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 
 