  Case Number:  23STCP04047    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  85 
Anthony Dennis v. Tony
Tseng et al., 23STCP04047


Tentative decision on
petition for writ of mandate:   denied



 
 
Petitioner Anthony Dennis
(“Dennis”) seeks a writ of mandate compelling Respondents Snapwize,
Inc., dba Tote&Carry, Totencarry, Inc., and Tony Tseng (“Tseng”) to permit him
to inspect and copy corporate records. 
The court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition,
and reply, and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the
Case
1. Petition
Petitioner Dennis commenced this lawsuit on November 2,
2023, against Respondents Tseng, Snapwize, Inc., dba Tote&Carry, and
Totencarry Inc.  The First Amended Petition
(“FAP”), filed on January 26, 2024, is the operative pleading and seeks mandamus
to compel inspection of corporate records. The FAP alleges in pertinent part as
follows.
This action is necessary because Respondents’ co-founder Tseng
has been hiding books, withholding dividends, and running the business afoul
without complete disclosure and in disregard of fiduciary duties owed to Dennis
as a stockholder.  
On July 20 and September 13, 2023, pursuant to Corporations
Code section 1601, Dennis demanded in writing that Respondents permit him or
his agents to inspect and copy the books and records of Snapwize, Inc. and
Totencarry, Inc. during usual business hours. 
Respondents refused and continue to refuse to provide the requested
books and records.  
Dennis requests the court to (1) issue a writ of mandamus
commanding that Respondents permit him or his agent to inspect and copy the
demanded corporate records or appear before this court and show cause why they have
not done so, or (2) issue an alternative writ of mandamus commanding
Respondents to provide the demanded corporate records or appear before this court
and show cause why they have not done so, (3) award him the costs of this
proceeding, including attorney’s fees, and (4) award him any other and further
relief the court considers proper.  
 
2. Course of Proceedings
On February 2, 2024 Respondents filed an Answer.  The first affirmative defense provides: “Respondent
alleges that the Petitioner lacks the requisite standing to bring this action
as the Petitioner is not a shareholder or owner of any of the companies.”
On February 2, 2024, Dennis propounded two discovery
requests: (1) Petitioner’s Request for Production of Documents to Snapwize—Set
One; and (2) Petitioner’s Request for Production of Documents of Totencarry,
Inc.—Set One.  On April 9, 2024, the
court granted Respondents’ motion for a protective order with respect to the discovery
requests.
 
B. Applicable Law
“A writ of mandate may be issued by any court to any
inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of
an act which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office,
trust, or station, or to compel the admission of a party to the use and
enjoyment of a right or office to which the party is entitled, and from which
the party is unlawfully precluded by such inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person.”  CCP §1085(a).
A traditional writ of mandate under CCP section 1085 is a
method of compelling the performance of a legal, usually ministerial duty.  Pomona Police Officers’ Assn. v. City of
Pomona, (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 578, 583-584. 
“Generally, a writ will lie when there is no plain, speedy, and adequate
alternative remedy; the respondent has a duty to perform; and the petitioner
has a clear and beneficial right to performance.”  Id. at 584 (internal citations
omitted).  When an administrative
decision is reviewed under CCP section 1085, judicial review is limited to an
examination of the proceedings before the agency to determine whether its
action was arbitrary, capricious, or entirely lacking in evidentiary support,
or whether it did not follow the procedure and give the notices required by
law.  Id.
 
C.
Inspection Rights
1. Director Inspection
Every director shall have the absolute right at any
reasonable time to inspect and copy all books, records and documents of every
kind and to inspect the physical properties of the corporation of which such
person is a director and also of its subsidiary corporations, domestic or
foreign.   Corp. Code[1]
§1602.  Inspection by a director may be
made in person or by agent or attorney and the right of inspection includes the
right to copy and make extracts.  Id.
Although a corporate director generally is presumed to act
in good faith, a court will defer to the business judgment only of a
disinterested director.  Tritek
Telecom, Inc. v. Superior Court, (“Tritek”) (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th
1385, 1390.  A corporate director owes a
fiduciary duty to the corporation and must serve “in good faith, in a manner
such director believes to be in the best interests of the corporation....”  §309(a). 
Section 1602 purports to create an absolute right for a director to
inspect corporate documents, but the inspection right may be denied where a
disgruntled director announces his or her intention to violate his or her
fiduciary duty to the corporation, such as using inspection rights to learn
trade secrets to compete with the corporation. 
Tritek, supra, 169
Cal.App.4th at 1391 (director’s filing of shareholder suit made him
corporate adversary with divided loyalties and was not entitled to examine
privileged documents) (citation omitted.).
 
2. Shareholder Inspection
The
accounting books and records of a corporation and minutes of proceedings of the
board of directors, committees of the board, and shareholders shall be open to
inspection upon the written demand of any shareholder for a purpose reasonably
related to such holder’s interests as a shareholder.  §1601(a). 
A shareholder of more than five percent of the corporation also has a
right to “inspection and copy the record of shareholders’ names, addresses, and
percentage of ownership.” Id.  The
inspection may be made in person or by agent or attorney, and the right of
inspection includes the right to copy and make extracts.  Id. 
The right of shareholders to inspect corporate records may not be
limited by a corporation’s articles or bylaws.  §1601(b). 
A corporation also must keep at its principal executive or business
office in California the original or a copy of its bylaws, which shall be open
for inspection by shareholders. 
§213.  
A
shareholder has only a limited right to access to corporate financial
records.  Thomas v. Gordon, (2000)
85 Cal.App.4th 113, 122.  Shareholder
status does not entitle and individual to unfettered access to corporate
confidences and secrets.  Id.  (Citation omitted.)  Section 1601 does not impose an affirmative
duty on the corporation to respond to written requests falling outside the
statute.  Singhania v. Uttarwar, (“Singhania”)
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 416, 431.  
A
shareholder’s statutory right to inspect corporate records is supplemented by a
common law right to inspect any corporate record or property if a proper and
reasonable purpose is shown.  Schnabel
v. Superior Court, (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 722-23.  A court has discretion to limit this common
law discovery.  Id.  A shareholder does not have expanded rights
to demand access to corporate records for the purpose of deciding whether to
exercise his or her dissenters’ right under section 1312 to require the corporation
to purchase his or her shares when the corporation merges or undergoes
reorganization.  Singhania, supra,
136 Cal.App.4th at 427.  Shareholder
inspection demands should be denied when it appears the shareholder is merely
on a fishing expedition.  Dandini v.
Superior Court, (1940) 38 Cal.App.2d 32, 35.
A
shareholder has recourse to the courts if a corporation does not comply with a
lawful demand for inspection of corporate records.  §1603. 
Upon refusal of a lawful demand for inspection, the court may enforce
the right of inspection with just and proper conditions.  §1603(a); Singhania, supra, 136
Cal.App.4th at 431, 432 (citing §1603, CCP §1085); Johnson v. Langdon,
(1902) 135 Cal. 624, 626 (mandamus is the appropriate remedy of a stockholder
who is refused his statutory right to inspect corporate documents); Webster
v. Bartlett Estate Co. (1917) 35 Cal.App. 283, 285 (stockholder’s right to
inspect corporate books may be enforced by writ of mandate).  
A
court may award reasonable expenses including attorneys’ fees against a
corporation where a shareholder must resort to court action as a result of a
corporation’s unjustified failure to comply with a proper demand.  §1604.
 
D. Statement of Facts 
1. Snapwize,
Inc.
Snapwize, Inc.
(sometimes, “Snapwize”) was incorporated on March 18, 2014.  Tseng Decl., ¶4; Tseng Decl., ¶5, Ex. A
(articles of incorporation).  Snapwize,
Inc. is a registered California corporation. 
Tseng Decl., ¶3.  Snapwize was
started by Tseng and Jay Cameron Hua (“Hua”) as a web design and marketing
company for social media. Tseng Decl., ¶6. 
Tseng was a 60% owner and Hua was a 40% owner of Snapwize. Tseng Decl.,
¶7.  They both invested capital into the
company to purchase their interests.  Tseng
Decl., ¶8.  Tseng and Hua intended for
Tseng to control the day-to-day affairs of the company.  Tseng Decl., ¶10.
The Articles of
Incorporation and Bylaws of Snapwize were ratified and adopted on April 3,
2014.  Tseng Decl., ¶9, Ex. B.  At that same time, Tseng was elected
President, CFO, Secretary, and CEO of the company.  Tseng and Hua did not realize that they needed
to submit a Statement of Information for Snapwize and this was not done until
2023. Tseng Decl., ¶11, Ex. C. 
In 2017, Hua
realized that Snapwize was not making any profitable ventures and released any
interest in Snapwize.  Tseng Decl., ¶22,
Ex. E.  23.  This left Tseng as the sole shareholder,
officer, and director of the corporation. 
There have been no other shareholders, officers, or directors of
Snapwize since Hua’s departure. Tseng Decl., ¶23.  Tseng is the sole shareholder of Snapwize,
Inc.  Tseng Decl., ¶2.  
 
2. The Parties’ Initial Meeting
Snapwize’s web
design and social media marketing did not gain much traction in the early
years, and Tseng was manufacturing hats and clothing out of China that were
being shipped directly to customers in New York. Tseng Decl., ¶12.
In 2015, Tseng was
operating a vendor’s booth at the MAGIC convention in Las Vegas, which is an
industry show for trends and young contemporary women’s fashion, where he met
Dennis.  Tseng Decl., ¶14.  Dennis approached Tseng’s booth and inquired
about the hats that I was manufacturing. 
They exchanged contact information but had no contact for a good while.  Tseng Decl., ¶15.
In or around 2016,
Dennis reached out to Tseng about a hat project.  Dennis traveled to Los Angeles to visit
Tseng’s store. During this visit, they were playing around with a sewing
machine and fabric and made various clothes, t-shirts, and a backpack
prototype.  During this time, the name
“totencarry” or “Tote&Carry” was born. 
Tseng Decl., ¶16.
Tseng proposed that
they do a test run of the bags because Dennis had stores to which he could
wholesale goods, but Dennis was not interested. 
He returned to Atlanta where he had a tailor shop in Atlanta and also
was doing well in the film industry. 
Tseng Decl., ¶17.  Tseng decided
to have the prototype bag sent to China and paid $35,000 to have a small run of
the bags.  The manufacturer produced
defective bags and they were not sellable. 
Tseng Decl., ¶18.
 
3. The Brand Agreement
Dennis has worked for the Tote&Carry brand since
2016.  Dennis Decl., ¶2.  
According to Tseng,
Tseng suggested that he and Dennis form an official partnership for Tote&Carry
and submitted a proposed partnership agreement to him.  Denniss wanted no part of it. He did not want
to invest any capital and did not want to incur any financial
responsibility.  The proposed partnership
agreement was never signed.  Tseng Decl.,
¶21, Ex. D.
According to Dennis, the parties entered into a Tote&Carry
Brand Agreement on an unstated date.  Dennis
Decl., ¶2, Ex. L.[2]  Tote&Carry was identified as a bag and
accessories brand registered under the subsidiary of Snapwize, Inc. and
Stitches Design Studio.  Ex. L.  Pursuant to the Brand Agreement, Dennis owned
40% of the Tote&Carry brand and Tseng owned 60% of the brand.  Dennis Decl., Ex. L.  The Brand Agreements referred to both Tseng
and Dennis as a “partner”.  Ex. L.  Pursuant to the Brand Agreement, Tseng would manage
the financial aspects while Dennis focused on creative development.  Id. 
Dennis would continue to receive a monthly salary as well as
bonuses.  Starting January 1, 2021, Dennis
would receive compensation for all development designs.  Id.
 
4. The Failed East Dove Investment
In some cases,
Tseng would send some of the bags to Dennis in Atlanta, who would pay a
wholesale price for the bags and resell them out of his tailor shop in
Atlanta.  Dennis kept the proceeds and
profits for selling the bags in excess of the wholesale price. Tseng Decl.,
¶28.
Later in 2019, a
friend of Tseng’s decided that he wanted to invest in the bags. Tseng Decl.,
¶29.  Tseng negotiated a plan in which
East Dove, Inc. (“East Dove”) would invest $200,000 to make Tote&Carry come
to life.  Tseng Decl., ¶30.  As part of the due diligence, East Dove flew
Tseng and Dennis to China to tour manufacturers.  Tseng Decl., ¶30.
At this point,
Tseng thought the business really could take off, so he and Dennis discussed
formalizing an agreement again. Tseng Decl., ¶31.  After realizing that a third party was going
to come in and fund the business, Dennis finally seemed to take an
interest.  Tseng Decl., ¶32.
As part of the
discussion, they circulated a proposed partner agreement for Tote&Carry to
move forward when East Dove invested the money. 
Tseng Decl., ¶33.  On April
2, 2019, the ownership interests were renegotiated and Tseng, Dennis, and East
Dove entered into a new Brand Agreement. 
The new Brand Agreement stated that Tseng owned 70% of the brand and
Dennis owned 30%.  Dennis Decl. ¶ 3, Ex.
A.  The new Brand Agreement referred to
both Tseng and Dennis as a “partner”. 
Ex. A.  The partners would be
permitted to sell or trade shares with six-months of notice and the consent of
the company.  Ex. A.  Tseng would be responsible for product
development, manufacturing, and company operation.  Ex. A. 
Dennis would be responsible for building the brand, including marketing
channels, web design, and all proprietary materials such as logos, copyrights,
trademarks, trade secrets, a confidential clientele database, branding
strategy, and product designs.  Ex.  A.  
The new Brand Agreement stated that East Dove would invest
$200,000 to fund the Tote&Carry brand company.  Ex. A. 
East Dove would be in charge of covering expenses such as product
manufacturing and advertising, and finances. 
Ex. A.  The new Brand Agreement
did not state what East Dove’s ownership percentage would be.  Ex. A. 
It further stated: “All financial reports should be accessible to all
partners…at any given time.”  Dennis
Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A.
East Dove’s
$200,000 investment never came to fruition. Ultimately, East Dove reneged on
its promise to provide the startup capital for the company.  Tseng Decl., ¶34.
 
5. Continued
Operation of Tote&Carry
After East Dove’s
failed investment, Dennis again refused to assist by contributing any capital,
or by paying any of the outstanding debts. 
Tseng Decl., ¶36.  He returned to
Atlanta and his tailor store and Netflix projects.  Tseng Decl., ¶37.
Snapwize continued
to operate by selling hats and clothing without any involvement from
Dennis.  In addition, Snapwize continued
to look for web design and marketing opportunities in the social media space.  Tseng Decl., ¶24.  Between 2016 and 2019, Tseng imported another
shipping container of bags which cost him $95,000.  This inventory was sold at a loss of $80,000
because Dennis refused to involve himself in the business. Tseng Decl., ¶20.
By early 2019,
Tseng had started to tinker with the idea of developing more bags, backpacks,
and luggage.  Tseng consulted with Dennis
on a few of the designs, but he remained the person picking colors, sourcing
fabric, and having the bags manufactured. 
Tseng Decl., ¶25.  According to
Tseng, there was still no official agreement in place.  Tseng Decl., ¶26.
 
6. Dennis’ Return
Between 2019 and
into 2020, Tseng built the Tote&Carry website, designed and manufactured
bags, and did the marketing, photography, and wholesale sales of the bags.  Tseng Decl., ¶38.  The bags were stored and shipped out of Tseng’s
mother’s house and he delivered them to the UPS store on a daily basis.  Tseng Decl., ¶39.  Any input by Dennis in the designs during
this period occurred only after he demanded to be paid upfront for his design
services, and to have all his travel expenses paid for coming to Los
Angeles.  Tseng Decl., ¶40.  Tseng was forced to borrow money to ensure
payment to vendors to the bag manufacturers. Tseng Decl., ¶41.
In 2020, the sale
of the Tote&Carry bags transitioned to more online. Tseng Decl., ¶42.  To facilitate the transition, Snapwize “was
directed” to create a website and begin social marketing campaigns for Tote&Carry.
Tseng Decl., ¶43.  The bags being sold
were largely the same designs as previously existed; they were different colors
and material variants of a handful of base designs.  Tseng Decl., ¶44.
After the COVID-19
Pandemic hit, the website started taking off. 
Tseng Decl., ¶45.  Snapwize was
gaining traction with the social media marketing and web design for Tote&Carry.  Tseng Decl., ¶46.  Dennis reached out to Tseng, stating that he had
started seeing traction for the brand on social media and wanted to come to Los
Angeles and be a part of the brand again. 
Tseng Decl., ¶47.  Dennis said he was
done with movies and Netflix, and he wanted to close his tailoring store and do
“it” (meaning Tote&Carry) full-time. 
Tseng Decl., ¶48.
In 2020 and 2021, Tote&Carry only advertised and sold
bags designed by Dennis.  Reply Dennis Decl.,
¶2.[3]  The Tote&Carry website promoted Dennis as
a co-founder and highlighted his contributions to the brand.  Dennis Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. C.  It featured statements like “Tote&Carry
co-founders Rey and Tony Dennis are working to protect the environment…[and]
[t]he dynamic duo also produces Tote&Carry bags at the highest caliber
quality.”  Ex. C.  
Tote&Carry received significant recognition, including
being featured in Oprah Winfrey’s “Oprah’s Favorite Things” 2021 quarterly
magazine where Dennis was acknowledged as a co-founder.  Dennis Decl., ¶6, Ex. D.  The brand was also showcased in the November
25-December 1, 2021 edition of Downtown Weekly in which Dennis was referred to
as the “Stitch Doctor” and co-founder of Tote&Carry.  Dennis Decl., ¶7, Ex. E.
There was still no
formal agreement signed between Tseng and Dennis because they could not agree
on specifics, but Dennis came to Los Angeles. 
Snapwize began paying Dennis’ Stitch Doctor for work performed on a situational
basis.  Tseng Decl., ¶49, Ex. F.  These payments were classified as outside
services and no taxes were withheld on behalf of Stitch Doctor or Dennis. Tseng
Decl., ¶50.  Dennis asked for payment
upfront for his design services and consulting. 
Tseng Decl., ¶53.  This is shown
by the inconsistent payment dates, the fact that the payments are in different
amounts and do not reflect a set salary, and there are no correlations between
these payments and any shareholder distributions from Snapwize.  Tseng Decl., ¶54.
In 2022, Dennis
received approximately $175,916 in payments. Snapwize reported only $29,822 in
taxable income.  This included officer
compensation of only $60,000 for Tseng. Tseng Decl., ¶51, Ex. G (Snapwize tax
return).  The 2022 Schedule K-1 shows
Tseng as the only shareholder of Snapwize. Tseng Decl., ¶52, Ex. H.
 
7. The Text Messages
Until January 5, 2022, Dennis operated as chief of marketing
and design while Tseng served as general manager.  Dennis Decl., ¶4.  Over
the course of their business relationship, Tseng tried to get something
formalized and in writing, but Dennis would never sign anything because he
refused to take on any of the responsibility and liabilities.  Tseng Decl., ¶65.  When the relationship started to deteriorate,
they exchanged text messages to try and resolve their differences.  Tseng Decl., ¶66.  At the time, Tseng was ignorant about the
legal meaning, definitions, and differences that exist between a corporation, a
partnership, and a company.  Tseng Decl.,
¶67.
On January 5, 2022, Tseng began questioning Dennis’s
compensation, sending a text message stating “really don’t think you get to do
no work and get a monthly salary every month of $10,000 what is that for?....Even
if you started the brand or designed the logo. No one gets a free check every
month.”  Dennis Decl., Ex. B.  Tseng suggested closing the business and
liquidating the assets, proposing that they take their respective “shares”.  Dennis Decl., ¶8, Ex. F.  Tseng also acknowledged that the business made
a profit and promised to provide Dennis with a detailed accounting.  Dennis Decl., ¶9, Ex. G.
 
8. The Shareholder Demand
In 2023, Dennis
began to interfere with the business operations at the warehouse by interfering with the employees working on
site.  Tseng Decl., ¶55.  Tseng attempted to formalize their
arrangement, but Dennis refused to officially agree to anything.  Tseng provided a independent contracting
agreement in 2023 that Dennis did not sign. 
Tseng Decl., ¶56, Ex. I.
On July 20 and September 13, 2023, Dennis made a written
request to inspect the following documents: 
1. A capitalization
table formally listing all of the names and contact information for every
shareholder of Snapwize, Inc., together with the contribution and the share in
profits and losses of each shareholder and transferee;
2. Accounting books
and records of the corporation, including but not limited to tax returns
federal, state, and local income tax or information returns and reports, all
corporate filings in any state where the corporation does business, corporate
check registers, corporate bank statements, records of real property (titles,
leases, mortgage documents), and equipment leases;
3. Annual reports
and accompanying financial statements of the corporation; and
4. Financial
statements of the corporation from the last fiscal year to the present. Dennis
Decl., ¶10, Ex. H; Tseng Decl., 57. 
 
Dennis’ stated purpose for requesting these documents was “to
properly evaluate the financial status and management of the company in light
of Mr. Tseng’s recent decisions to stop paying funds to Mr. Dennis, Mr. Dennis
being locked out of the El Monte warehouse, and Mr. Tseng’s request that Mr.
Dennis sign documents purported to ‘formalize the operations of Tote&Carry.’”  Ex. H. 
Tseng forwarded the
demand to Benjamin, an attorney he worked with at the time in New York.  Tseng Decl., ¶57.  Benjamin issued a letter attempting to
resolve the issue in settlement.  Tseng
Decl., ¶58; Dennis Decl., ¶11, Ex. I. There is no California State Bar
listing for Benjamin. Lee Decl., ¶3, Ex. A. 
In his letter, Benjamin expressly acknowledged that Dennis
is a shareholder: “[T]here has never been any dispute by [Tote&Carry] that
Anthony Dennis (“Mr. Dennis”) is in fact an owner of and holder of shares in
every company associated with the Tote&Carry brand.”  Dennis Decl., ¶11, Ex. I.  Benjamin added that, since the company’s
formation, Dennis has shown little to no interest in participating in any
ownership responsibilities, including capital contributions and the day-to-day managerial
responsibilities of the company.  Ex. I.  In response to the demand, Benjamin stated
that some of the requested documents would be provided and that others did not
exist. Ex. I.  
In August 2023, Tseng and Dennis entered into a
non-disclosure agreement for the documents that would be provided.  Dennis Decl., ¶12, Ex. J.   
Instead of a complete and accurate accounting, Tseng
produced a minimally detailed Excel sheet with Snapwize, Inc.’s profit and loss
numbers, lacking any financial statements, receipts, invoices, purchase orders,
accounts receivable, and other supporting documents.  Dennis Decl., ¶13, Ex. K.  “The short and incomplete Excel sheet did not
provide support behind the alleged numbers.” 
Id.
To date, Dennis has not received a complete set of documents
or been able to inspect the books and records as a rightful shareholder and
director of the companies.  Dennis Decl.,
¶14.  Further, he has not received
documents substantiating the alleged 5% profit margin through the detailed
accounting that Tseng promised to deliver. 
Id.
 
9. Snapwize
as a Corporation
Snapwize existed
prior to the creation of the Tote&Carry brand and has done business outside
of the Tote&Carry brand.  Tseng
Decl., ¶59.  Tote&Carry only has a
limited number of bag designs that they have been selling for years. The
principal designs have not changed much, except for the material and color schemes.  While Dennis may have helped contribute to
the designs, he was paid for his work. 
Tseng Decl., ¶60.
Tseng has
personally guaranteed millions of dollars in Shopify credit and loans in order
to get the Tote&Carry brand off the ground and running, while Dennis
refused to provide any personal guarantee or provide any capital.  Tseng Decl., ¶63.  Tseng holds all the working files and designs
for the bags, and Dennis only had limited involvement.  Tseng Decl., ¶64.
 
10. Totencarry, Inc.
Totencarry, Inc. is
a corporation created with the intention of moving forward had Dennis formally
agreed to the agreements that were circulated. 
Tseng Decl., ¶61.  Articles
of Incorporation and Statement of Information were filed for Tote&Carry,
Inc. in 2020 and 2021, respectively.  Lee
Decl., ¶6, J.  Totencarry, Inc. was never capitalized, funded, or conducted any
business because Dennis never acknowledged any financial responsibility, never
invested any capital, and did not want to co-sign any of the loans.  Tseng Decl., ¶62.
 
E. Analysis
Petitioner Dennis
seeks mandamus directing Respondents to permit his inspection of the
books and records of Snapwize, Inc. and Totencarry, Inc. as a shareholder.[4]  While Dennis seeks to inspect the records of
Totencarry, Inc., the evidence shows that entity is a corporate shell which
never conducted any business.  This case
turns on whether Dennis is a shareholder of Snapwize, Inc.  
Dennis contends that his declaration demonstrates that he
was a 40% shareholder in Snapwize, Inc. and subsequently became a 30%
shareholder.  Dennis Decl., ¶¶ 2, 3, Exs.
A, L.  As Respondents’ former attorney Benjamin
stated, Dennis is a shareholder of every company associated with the Tote&Carry
brand, including Snapwize Inc. and Totencarry, Inc.  Reply at 2.
Tseng’s theory that Dennis is not a shareholder relies on
the capital Tseng allegedly contributed but there are no records reflecting
those contributions.  Capital
contributions need not be monetary; they may also involve intangible
contributions such as intellectual property and human capital of marketing,
promoting, sourcing, and other forms of strategizing, as agreed upon in the
parties’ agreement when dividing shareholder interests.  Respondents cannot escape the fact that
intellectual property is undeniably a corporate asset.  Hernandez v. Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. of
San Francisco, (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 187, 208 (Streeter, Acting P.J.,
dissenting).  Frankly, the value added to
the company by Dennis’ intellectual property outweighed the value of the
outstanding invoices Tseng allegedly handled. 
Stripped of irrelevancies, the facts that matter is that Tote&Carry
was born through Dennis and Snapwize branded Tote&Carry and registered it
as a business in which Dennis had a significant shareholder interest.  Reply at 2-3.
Dennis argues that Tseng complains about East Dove reneging
on an anticipated investment, leaving Tote&Carry with outstanding invoices
from factories and “with no help from Mr. Dennis.” However, the new Brand
Agreement suggests that East Dove will invest but it does not condition
the agreement upon investment.  Dennis
Decl., ¶3, Ex. A, p. 2.  In fact, the new
Brand Agreement divides 100% of the shares between Dennis and Tseng without
delegating any shares to East Dove. Nothing in that agreement says that it is
void without East Dove’s investment. 
Prior to their entry into the new Brand Agreement, Tseng and Dennis already
had a Brand Agreement giving 40% ownership to Dennis without any reference to
any investment opportunity. At no time did Dennis relinquish his shares.  Reply at 3-4.
Dennis further argues that Tseng’s opposition inconsistently
asserts that Snapwize started as a hat company and also that Tseng used
materials from his t-shirts, various clothes and backpack prototype.  Opp. at 2. 
Whatever the product, Snapwize was not successful until Dennis joined
the company.  Moreover, the main products
sold by Tote&Carry are the handbags created by Dennis.  Dennis undisputedly contributed multiple
intellectual property designs that carried the company into the minority
community.[5]  Ultimately, through the pop culture and media
press, the company was grossing over $8 million in revenue.  Tseng’s arguments that he looked for media
advantages and platforms were merely his responsibility as the business
director.  Dennis created the designs
advertised on the website, including the designs currently advertised on the
website and Instagram.  Reply at 4-5.  
The court concludes that the undisputed evidence is that
Dennis has an ownership interest in Tote&Carry.  Respondents attempt to minimize that interest
by showing that Dennis refused to
contribute any capital or pay any of the outstanding debts (Tseng Decl., ¶36), Snapwize
operated for some time by selling hats and clothing without any involvement
from Dennis (Tseng Decl., ¶24) Tseng built the Tote&Carry website, designed
and manufactured bags, and did the marketing, photography, and wholesale sales
of the bags (Tseng Decl., ¶38), Dennis’ involvement in design occurred only
after he demanded to be paid for his design services up front, with all of his
expenses paid for trips to Los Angeles (Tseng Decl., ¶40), and after COVID hit,
Snapwize paid Dennis’ Stitch Doctor for work performed on a situational basis (Tseng
Decl., ¶49, Ex. F).  These facts may undermine
the percentage of Dennis’ ownership but not the fact of ownership unless Respondents
show that he contributed no unpaid effort to the business.  
Respondents do not do
so.  Tseng acknowledged Dennis’
ownership in his January 5, 2022 text admitting: “Even if you started the brand
or designed the logo. No one gets a free check every month.”  Dennis Decl., Ex. B.  Tseng further stated that he would close the
business and liquidate its assets, proposing that they take their respective “shares”
and that he would provide Dennis with a detailed accounting Dennis Decl., ¶¶ 8-9,
Exs. F, G.
The question for this case is: What is the nature of Dennis’
ownership?  Does he own an interest in a
corporation or something else?  Respondents
correctly argue that Dennis has a partnership interest, and more accurately a joint
venture interest.  Formation of a general partnership requires
no formalities other than the decision for two or more people to associate
together to carry on a business for profit. 
§16101(9).  A partnership
agreement can be implied, and if created, the agreement need not be in writing.
 §16101(10).
A joint venture is "an undertaking by two or more
persons jointly to carry out a single business enterprise for profit." Nelson
v. Abraham, (1947) 29 Cal.2d 745, 749. 
The elements necessary for its creation are: (1) joint interest in a
common business; (2) with an understanding to share profits and losses; and (3)
a right to joint control. County of Riverside v. Loma Linda University,
(1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 300, 313.  "Such
a venture or undertaking may be formed by parol agreement [citations], or it
may be assumed as a reasonable deduction from the acts and declarations of the
parties [citations]."  Nelson v.
Abraham, supra, 29 Cal.2d at 749-50.   Whether a joint venture actually exists
depends on the intention of the parties. 
County of Riverside v. Loma Linda University, supra, 118
Cal.App.3d at 313.
The Brand Agreement
and the new Brand Agreement relied upon by Dennis show that the parties entered
into a joint venture to sell Tote&Carry bags through their respective
entities, Snapwize and Stiches Design Studio. 
Dennis Decl., Exs. A, L.  Both
Brand Agreements state that “Tote&Carry, a bag and accessories brand
registered under the subsidiary of Snapwize, Inc. and Stitches Design Studio
was established in May of 2016 [or 2017] by Tony Tseng and Anthony Dennis.”  Id. 
Both state that the Tote&Carry brand was created by their talent and
resources, and both Tseng and Dennis own the brand, its products, website,
trademark, and future properties with the name “Tote&Carry”.  Id. 
Both Brand Agreements refer to Dennis and Tseng as partners.  They also state that Dennis and Tseng each
own a percentage of the Tote&Carry brand, trademark, the company shares,
intellectual properties, the stock…including profit and loss.”  Id. 
While the Brand Agreements do refer to “company shares” and “stock”, no
shares in any entity were ever issued.
Thus, Tseng and Dennis agreed to a joint interest in a common business (Tote&Carry), with an
understanding to share profits and losses. 
The parties also agreed to defined roles (CEO and Creative Director).  While there is no reference to joint control,
such control is implied.  
The conclusion that
the parties entered into a joint venture is supported by the fact that Snapwize
was founded before the dba Tote&Carry was created, it sold additional
products such hats and clothing without any involvement from Dennis, and Dennis
was involved in design of the bags sold by Tote&Carry but not Snapwize’s
broader business.  All the recognition
that Tote&Carry received was through the Tote&Carry website and
social marketing, which promoted Dennis as a co-founder of the Tote&Carry
brand, not as an owner of Snapwize.  
The conclusion also
is supported by Tseng’s efforts to memorialize the parties’ relationship
through the aborted Tote&Carry, Inc. 
There would be no reason to do so if Dennis owned a percentage of
Snapwize.  It is true that
Snapwize created the Tote&Carry website
and conducted social marketing campaigns for Tote&Carry (Tseng Decl., ¶43),
but that occurred because Tseng was performing his side of the joint venture
through his company Snapwize.  
The existence of a joint venture is not contradicted by
Tseng’s January 5, 2022 texts indicating that Dennis “started the brand or
designed the logo” (Dennis Decl., Ex. B), and that they should take their respective
“shares” with Tseng providing Dennis with a detailed accounting Dennis Decl., ¶¶
8-9, Exs. F, G.  This language is just as
consistent with the profit and loss of a joint venture as corporate ownership.
Benjamin’s statement is inconsistent with a joint venture that
“there has never been any dispute by [Tote&Carry] that Anthony Dennis (“Mr.
Dennis”) is in fact an owner of and holder of shares in every company
associated with the Tote&Carry brand.” 
Dennis Decl., ¶11, Ex. I.  A joint
venturer customarily does not hold shares in the joint venture company and
Snapwize is a company associated with the Tote&Carry brand.  Nonetheless, loose language by an attorney
not previously involved in the parties relationship is not dispositive of the
nature of Dennis’ ownership.[6]
In short, Tote&Carry is a joint venture to sell Tote&Carry bags through the
parties’ respective entities, Snapwize and Stiches Design Studio.  Dennis never owned stock or a beneficial interest
in Snapwize and has no right to inspect its records under section 1601.  The new Brand Agreement does state: “All
financial reports should be accessible to all partners…at any given time.”  Dennis Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A.  However, Dennis’ rights to inspect records as
a joint venturer are not within the scope of this shareholder action.
 
F. Conclusion
The Petition is
denied.  Respondents’ counsel is
ordered to prepare a proposed judgment, serve it on Petitioner Dennis’ counsel
for approval as to form, wait ten days after service for any objections, meet
and confer if there are objections, and then submit the proposed judgment along
with a declaration stating the existence/non-existence of any unresolved
objections.  An OSC re: judgment is set
for June 27, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.


