  Case Number:  23STCV22497    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ 1525 COLORADO, LLC, Plaintiff(s), vs. MANIBEN CORP., et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV22497 Hearing Date: October 2, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER (1) ADVANCING MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS, AND (2) GRANTING MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS AND FORM INTERROGATORIES  I.  BACKGROUND Plaintiff 1525 Colorado, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this quiet title action against Maniben Corp., et al. regarding the property commonly known as 1525 Colorado Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90041. The verified complaint sets forth five causes of action for (1) To Quiet Title To Express Easement; (2) To Quiet Title To Equitable Easement; (3) For Enforcement Of Easement Pursuant To CC § 809; (4) Nuisance; and (5) Declaratory Relief. On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed motions to compel defendants Maniben Corp. (“Maniben”) and Girish R. Patel (“Patel”) (collectively, “Defendants”) to provide further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, as to No. 17.1 in relation to Plaintiff’s request for admissions (“RFAs”) Nos. 12-16, set to be heard on October 2, 2024. At the same time, Plaintiff filed motions to compel Defendants to provide further responses to RFAs, set one, as to Nos. 8-16, set to be heard on October 3, 2024. The motions are opposed. Because the motions to compel further responses to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 cannot be decided without first ruling upon the motions to compel further responses to RFAs, the Court will advance the motion to compel further responses to RFAs to October 2, 2024.  II.  PROCEDURAL Meet and Confer Requirement A motion¿to compel further responses “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.”¿(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2033.290(b)(1), 2030.300(b)(1).)¿ The declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the motion.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.) The Court finds that Plaintiff met the requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2033.290(b)(1) and 2030.300(b)(1). Separate Statement A motion to compel further responses requires a separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).)¿¿ The Court finds that Plaintiff properly filed a separate statement for each motion to compel further. Informal Discovery Conference Pursuant to this Court’s department rules, the parties are expected and encouraged to informally resolve disputes. If an informal resolution is not reached after meeting and conferring, then either party may request that the court conduct an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) for the purpose of discussing discovery matters in dispute between the parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.080.) On August 23, 2024, the parties participated in the IDC, wherein the following were established: (1) the Court’s ruling will be limited to RFAs 12-16, and (2) Defendants to provide full and complete responses to all RFAs (except 12-16) and to all RFPs (except 19-25) by September 9, 2024. (Min. Order, Aug. 23, 2024.)  III.  DISCUSSION CCP § 2033.220(a) provides that each answer “shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.” Each answer shall follow at least one of the following: “(1) Admit so much of the matter involved in the request as is true, either as expressed in the request itself or as reasonably and clearly qualified by the responding party. (2) Deny so much of the matter involved in the request as is untrue. (3) Specify so much of the matter involved in the request as to the truth of which the responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.220 (b)(1)-(3).) Further, “If only a part of a request for admission is objectionable, the remainder of the request shall be answered.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.230.) CCP § 2033.290(a) states, “On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or both of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or incomplete. (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or too general.” Pursuant to the August 23, 2024 IDC, the Court’s review will be limited to RFA Nos. 12-16 only. RFA Nos. 12-16 propounded to Defendants are identical in request and in responses. The Court will therefore address them collectively. RFA Request No. 12 Request No. 12: “Admit that YOU did not attend public hearings of the East Los Angeles Planning Commission RELATING TO the Project prior to August 27, 2019.” Defendants’ Response to No. 12: “Objection: Relevance; the subject matter of the request is neither relevant not likely to lead to any relevant evidence and therefore is not the subject of discovery. Improperly suggests that there were public hearings of the East Los Angeles Planning Commission RELATING TO the Project prior to August 27, 2019. On that basis, Denied.” Plaintiff argues that the request is relevant, because the complaint alleges that the City of Los Angeles approved the Project and the conditions thereof. The Court agrees that it is relevant and the objection is without merit. Defendants also appears to have qualified the denial on their understanding that the request assumes there were in fact public hearings RELATING TO the Project prior to August 27, 2019 (which it does). Because it is unclear whether the deny “on that basis” refers also to the relevance objection or just to Defendants’ understanding of the call of the question to provide a qualified response, Plaintiff’s request for a further response is GRANTED as to No. 12. RFA Request Nos. 13-16 Request No. 13: “Admit that YOU never appealed the August 27, 2019 Letter of Determination (attached above as Exhibit 3) to the Los Angeles City Council.” Defendants’ Response to No. 13: “Objection: Relevance; the subject matter of the request is neither relevant not likely to lead to any relevant evidence and therefore is not the subject of discovery. On that basis, Denied.” Request No. 14: “Admit that YOU never appealed the August 27, 2019 Letter of Determination (attached above as Exhibit 3) to an California Courts of Appeal.” Defendants’ Response to No 14: “Objection: Relevance; the subject matter of the request is neither relevant not likely to lead to any relevant evidence and therefore is not the subject of discovery. On that basis, Denied.” Request No. 15: “Admit that YOU never filed a writ of mandate with the California Courts of Appeal RELATING TO the August 27, 2019 Letter of Determination (attached above as Exhibit 3).” Defendants’ Response to No. 15: “Objection: Relevance; the subject matter of the request is neither relevant not likely to lead to any relevant evidence and therefore is not the subject of discovery. On that basis, Denied.” Request No. 16: “Admit that YOU never participated in any City of Los Angeles municipal administrative challenge of any kind RELATING TO the PROJECT.” Defendants’ Response to No. 16: “Objection: Relevance; the subject matter of the request is neither relevant not likely to lead to any relevant evidence and therefore is not the subject of discovery. On that basis, Denied.” Plaintiff contends that the requests are relevant, because it is directly relevant to Plaintiff’s Complaint, Plaintiff’s Answer to Maniben’s Cross-Complaint, and one of the major theories of Plaintiff’s case. Defendants argue that there is no impact between the City of Los Angeles’ approval of the construction of the Project and its relation to any of Plaintiff’s causes of action. Here, the complaint alleges there exists an easement over Defendants’ properties in favor of Plaintiff for a right-of-way, and that the easement is the only means of ingress and egress between Dahlia Drive and 1529 Colorado Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90041 (“1525 Parcel”). (Compl. ¶ 14.) Plaintiff is in the process of developing the 1525 Parcel, and that the only means by which vehicles can enter the rear area of the Project and parking spaces off of Dahlia Drive is by using the easement. (Compl. ¶¶ 20-21.) The City of Los Angeles approved the Project. (Compl. ¶22; Exh. 4.) Defendants have refused to allow Plaintiff, its representative, agents, employees, contractors and tenants free and unfettered use of the easement to access Plaintiff’s Property. (Compl. ¶28.) Here, the relevance of City of Los Angeles’ approval of the Project and Letter of Determination appears to go towards Plaintiff allegation that it has a right a right-of-way, and that an easement was considered in the Findings to the Letter of Determination (“In addition, the project site does not have any significant slopes or easements that preclude the applicant from developing the property” (Compl. Exh. 4; Findings at ¶3(b).) As Plaintiff avers, the decision of the City Planning Commission was appealable to the City Council within 15 days of the mailing of the Letter. “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) “For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement ...”¿ (citation).” These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery. (Colonial Life & Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 785, 790). The Court cannot say that the requests related to Defendants’ response or lack of response to the Letter of Determination or the decision by the City of Los Angeles approving the Project is wholly irrelevant. As such, Defendants’ objections to the requests on the grounds of relevance is without merit. Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendants to provide further responses to RFA Nos. 13-16 are GRANTED. Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 Form Rog. No. 17.1: “Is your response to each request for admission served with these interrogatories an unqualified admission? If not, for each response that is not an unqualified admission: (a) state the number of the request; (b) state all facts upon which you base your response; (c) state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and (d) identify all DOCUMENTS and other tangible things that support your response and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT or thing.” Defendants’ Response to 17.1: “(a) Request 12-16; (b) the discovery sought is neither relevant not likely to lead to any relevant evidence and therefore is not the subject of discovery; (c) Girish Patel – through Counsel’s office; (d) the discovery sought is neither relevant not likely to lead to any relevant evidence and therefore is not the subject of discovery.” The Court refers to the above discussion regarding relevance. Because Plaintiff’s motions to compel further responses to RFA Nos. 12-16 were granted, the motions as it relates to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 necessarily follows in the same vein and is therefore GRANTED.  IV. CONCLUSION Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendants to provide further responses to (1) RFAs, Set One, as to Nos. 12-16, and (2) Form Interrogatories, Set One, as to No. 17.1 are GRANTED. Defendants are ordered to provide further responses to these requests within twenty (20) days. Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP §§ 2033.290(d); 2030.300(d).)¿Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions, but fails to provide his rate, support for the rate, or any calculation for the Court to determine whether the request for monetary sanctions is reasonable. Simply stating the time spent and the total amount sought is insufficient; the Court declines to award any uncalculated or unsupported requests for sanctions.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: October 1, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 