  Case Number:  22STCV01382    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:    January
30, 2024                                             
 
CASE NAME:           Hooman
Melamed, M.D., et al. v. California Physicians’ Service dba Blue Shield of
California
 
CASE NO.:                22STCV01382

 
DEMURRER TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
California Physicians’ Service dba Blue Shield of California
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Hooman Melamed, M.D.,
and Hooman Melamed, M.D., Inc.
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.     An
order sustaining the Demurrer as to all three causes of action in the SAC for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. CCP §
430.10(e).
2.     An
order sustaining the Demurrer as to the Second Cause of Action for uncertainty.
CCP § 430.10(f). 
3.     An
order striking various portions of the FAC that seek restitution and injunctive
relief. 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
The Demurrer is Sustained without leave to amend as to all three
causes of action.
 
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On January 12, 2022, Plaintiffs Hooman Melamed, M.D. and
Hooman Melamed, M.D., Inc., (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendant
California Physicians’ Service dba Blue Shield Of California
(“Defendant.”)  
 
On March 8, 2022, Plaintiffs filed the operative First
Amended Complaint. The FAC alleged five causes of action: for (1) Unlawful,
Fraudulent, and Unfair Business Practices; (2) Retaliation in Violation of
California Business and Professions Code § 2056; (3) Intentional Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage; (4) Negligent Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage; and (5) Willful Violation of California
Reimbursement Laws. The FAC alleges that Plaintiff, an orthopedic spine
surgeon, chose not to participate as a physician for defendant Blue Shield, and
therefore has been an out-of-network provider for Blue Shield members and
enrollees. Plaintiff has performed approximately a thousand procedures on
patients who are members of Blue Shield, who then submitted claims to Blue
Shield. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant engaged in a pattern of wrongfully delaying, adjusting,
and denying payments for legitimate claims.  
 
On February 22, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Request for
Dismissal as to the 5th cause of action, which was entered on
February 23, 2023.  
 
On April 11, 2022, Defendant filed a Demurrer. Plaintiffs’
Opposition was filed on February 22, 2023. Defendant’s Reply was filed on
February 28, 2023.  
 
On April 10, 2023, Department 45 issued a tentative ruling
and recused itself.  
 
On April 11, 2023, this matter was transferred to
Department 51.  
 
On May 1, 2023, the parties stipulated to file amended
demurrer papers, to address the tentative ruling issued by Department 45.  
 
On May 8, 2023, Defendant filed a Demurrer with a Motion to
Strike, which was SUSTAINED, in part, and OVERRULED, in part.  
 
On June 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended
Complaint.  
 
On July 18, 2023, Defendant California Physicians’ Services
dba Blue Shield of California filed a Demurrer with a Motion to Strike.
Plaintiff’s Opposition was filed on September 14, 2023. Defendant’s Reply was
filed on September 20, 2023.  
 
On September 28, 2023, the hearing on the Demurrer and
Motion to Strike came on for hearing. After hearing oral argument from both
sides, the court took the matter under submission.
 
On
October 30, 2023, the court ruled on the submitted matter and granted leave to
the parties to submit further briefing. The court vacated the submission on the
matter and set a hearing for January 30, 2024.
 
On
January 8, 2024, both parties submitted supplemental briefs in support and in
opposition to the Demurrer and Motion to Strike.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Demurrer 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Id.¿§¿437.)¿“When the defect
which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow
leave to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman¿(1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) 
 
Meet and
Confer:  
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
§430.41, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
§430.41(a)(2) & (3).¿The
Declaration of John Fogarty indicates that the parties met and conferred on
July 12, 2023, but were unable to resolve the issues. (Dec. Fogarty, ¶
2.) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Request for
Judicial Notice:
 
The court grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice as
to Exhibit A and Exhibit B (Evid. Code § 452(d) and (h); See Kalnoki v. First American Trustee Servicing
Solutions, LLC (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 23, 37.), the court only takes judicial notice of the foregoing
documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of public records
and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth
of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
1.     First
Cause of Action – Unlawful, Fraudulent, and Unfair Business Practices
Defendant argues that the SAC does not state a claim for a
violation of the UCL. Specifically, Defendant argues that the SAC alleges three
categories of conduct that are the basis for the UCL claim. However, only “one
could support a vested interest as needed for restitution, but Melamed now has
expressly and repeatedly disavowed that he is pursuing such claims in this
lawsuit.” (Demurrer 4: 16-19.) Since Plaintiff is not seeking payment of
benefits, then the allegations about wrongfully denying payments are
“extraneous” and thus, the basis restitution is gone. As such, Plaintiff has no
vested interest in money he has not earned or has already been paid; therefore,
these allegations would support damages, which are not recoverable under UCL.
(Demurrer 6: 8-18.) 
 
Plaintiff argues that this Court previously determined that
the UCL was sufficiently alleged and overruled the demurrer. Plaintiff contends
that Defendant is seeking a motion for reconsideration. The two reasons that
that Defendant demurred to the first cause of action are (1) SAC further
clarified the UCL and (2) Plaintiff Melamed made admissions. However, the
“clarification” was to delete paragraphs in line with the Court’s ruling and
the judicial admissions were known to the Court when it determined its ruling.[1]
 
Bus. & Prof. section
17200 prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.”
(Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200; see Clark
v. Superior Court (2010) 50 Cal.4th 605, 610.)  “An unlawful business
practice or act is an act or practice, committed pursuant to business activity,
that is at the same time forbidden by law.” (Klein v. Earth Elements, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969.) A
violation of other laws is deemed independently actionable under the UCL. (See Law Offices of Mathew Higbee v. Expungement
Assistance Services (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 544, 554.) “‘Virtually any
law—federal, state or local—can serve as a predicate for a section 17200
action.’” (Id. (quoting Troyk v. Farmers Group, Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1305, 1335).) “A plaintiff alleging unfair business practices
under these statutes must state with reasonable particularity the facts
supporting the statutory elements of the
violation.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 619). 
 
The court, on its own
motion, reconsidered its prior ruling overruling the Demurrer on the first
cause of action and intended to enter a new order sustaining the Demurrer
because it appears to the court that the legislative history of California
Business & Professions section 2056 was to codify the public policy to
allow for the tort of wrongful termination of employees or independent contractors.
 
a.     Does Section 2056 Apply Outside the
Employment or Contractual Context?
Defendant contends that the
legislative history of Bus. & Prof. section 2056 is limited to the
employment and/or contractual context and does not seek to regulate
out-of-network providers with no employment or contractual relationship.  Plaintiff argues that Bus. & Prof.
section 2056 is not limited to wrongful termination, employment or other contractual
claims because it does not express a contractual, employment or termination
requirement and it states “no person” meaning it applies to everybody and
“otherwise” means in any other way. Plaintiff also argues that because section
2056 is unambiguous, the court need not consider the legislative history or
other extrinsic aids.  
 
Bus. & Prof. section
2056(a) states: “The purpose of this section is to provide protection against
retaliation for physicians who advocate for medically appropriate health care
for their patients pursuant to Wickline
v. State of California 192 Cal.App.3d 1630.”[2]

 
Subsection (b) provides:
“It is the
public policy of the State of California that a physician and surgeon be
encouraged to advocate for medically appropriate health care for his or her
patients. For purposes of this section, ‘to advocate for medically appropriate
health care’ means to appeal a payor's decision to deny payment for a service
pursuant to the reasonable grievance or appeal procedure established by a
medical group, independent practice association, preferred provider
organization, foundation, hospital medical staff and governing body, or payer,
or to protest a decision, policy, or practice that the physician, consistent
with that degree of learning and skill ordinarily possessed by reputable
physicians practicing according to the applicable legal standard of care,
reasonably believes impairs the physician's ability to provide medically
appropriate health care to his or her patients.”
 
Subsection (d) provides:
“This section shall not be construed to
prohibit a payer from making a determination not to pay for a particular
medical treatment or service, or to prohibit a medical group, independent
practice association, preferred provider organization, foundation, hospital
medical staff, hospital governing body acting pursuant to Section 809.05, or
payer from enforcing reasonable peer review or utilization review protocols or
determining whether a physician has complied with those protocols.”
 
“[S]ection 2056 should be construed as its text reads: to
provide that the termination or penalization of a physician and surgeon
‘principally for advocating for medically appropriate healthcare . . . violates
the public policy of this state,’ whether or not the advocacy protests a
cost-containment decision.” (Khajavi,
supra, at p. 51.) 
 
At the October 30, 2023 hearing the Court noted that it was
going to revisit the purpose of section 2056. The Court indicated the
legislative history evinced the legislature’s intent to pronounce public policy
in order to elevate a wrongful discharge of an employe or contractor is into a
tort.[3]
Absent a legislative finding that the conduct violated public policy, the employment
action would remain a simple contract claim and not a tort.  The Court clearly articulated this view and
granted Plaintiff leave to further brief this issue. (See Reporter’s Notes of
October 30. 2023 hearing.) Plaintiff’s recent filings have not convinced the
Court to alter the Court’s interpretation. 
l
 
b.     Does the “or otherwise penalize”
language suggest non-employment or non-contractual retaliation to form the
basis for a cause of action under Section 2056?
The Court tasked Defendant to brief the “or otherwise”
language. Defendant maintains that this phrase does not expand the scope of the
statute to cover non-employment or non-contractual physicians but contemplates
the refusal to grant or extend clinical privileges to a physician, removing a
physician from an emergency call panel, or removing a physician from a payer’s
preferred provider network. Defendant contends this comports to the doctrine of
ejusdem generis. (See Armin v. Riverside
Commun. Hosp. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 810, 834-835.)  
 
Section 2056(c) provides:
“The application and rendering by any
person of a decision to terminate an employment or other contractual
relationship with, or otherwise penalize, a physician and surgeon principally
for advocating for medically appropriate health care consistent with that
degree of learning and skill ordinarily possessed by reputable physicians
practicing according to the applicable legal standard of care violates the
public policy of this state. No person shall terminate, retaliate against, or
otherwise penalize a physician and surgeon for that advocacy, nor shall any
person prohibit, restrict, or in any way discourage a physician and surgeon
from communicating to a patient information in furtherance of medically
appropriate health care.”
 
 
Plaintiff does not directly address the “or otherwise”
language in Section 2056, but reiterates his argument that Section 2056
provides a private cause of action outside of the employment context. The Court
finds the position advanced by Defendant not only is reasonable, but is also
consistent with the overall statutory basis for Section 2056. Plaintiff’s
failure to directly address any other interpretation as reasonable is telling. As
such, the Court concludes that the “or otherwise” language does not expand the
scope of protection beyond employee or contractual employment relationships.
Rather, subdivision (c) only delineates additional conduct that is prohibited against
these enumerated workers.  
 
In sum, Section 2056 pronounces public policy in order to
expand tort damages for adverse employment actions for employees or those with
a contractual relationship. Plaintiff admittedly has neither an employee-employer
relationship nor a contractual relationship with Defendant.  As such, the Court finds, as a matter of law,
that Section 2056 has no application to this controversy between Plaintiff and
Defendant.
 
 
            Demurrer
as to the 1st Cause of Action is SUSTAINED. 
 
2.     Second
Cause of Action – Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage
Defendant argues that this cause of action fails. First, the
Court should not make an unprecedented new law permitting tort liability, which
would be directly contrary to the Knox-Keene Act. Second, the SAC does not
allege any actual disruptions.[4]
On supplemental briefing, Defendant contends that Plaintiff has not alleged
“but for” proximate causation to support this cause of action and has
unambiguously alleged that Defendant treats all out-of-network providers the
same. Defendant additionally contends that the sham pleading doctrine prevents
Plaintiff from walking back his allegations to sidestep this issue. 
 
Plaintiff argues that this cause of action is sufficiently
alleged and the one element that was lacking in the FAC – actual disruption –
has been sufficiently alleged. The SAC states that Defendant disrupted the
relationships between Plaintiff and the patients by making false statements,
requiring Plaintiffs to respond to duplicative records, and fraudulently
seeking reimbursement of payments which caused patients to cease care. (SAC ¶
20(a-c).) In supplemental briefing, Plaintiffs argue that they may make
inconsistent allegations, that the sham pleading doctrine does not apply, and
that Plaintiffs have otherwise stated a cause of action under other legal
theories should Section 2056 fail.
 
“Intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage has five elements: (1) the existence, between the plaintiff and some
third party, of an economic relationship that contains the probability of
future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the
relationship; (3) intentionally wrongful acts designed to disrupt the
relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm
proximately caused by the defendant’s action.” (Roy Allan Slurry Seal, Inc. v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017)
2 Cal.5th 505, 512.)  There can be no
recovery unless the plaintiff shows that, except for the tortious interference,
there was a reasonable probability that the contract or profit would have been
obtained. (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed
Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1164 (Korea Supply Co.).)
 
Previously, this court determined that the cause of action
for intentional interference failed as it did not allege sufficient facts of an
actual disruption as the language was conclusory. The Court indicated to the
parties that it intended to grant the Demurrer as to the second cause of action
alleging Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage because
Plaintiff’s cannot satisfy the “proximate cause”” element as set forth in Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2003) 29 Cal.4t5h 1134, 1165-1166, because of the allegation in paragraph 11
of the SAC.  
 
At the October 30, 2023 hearing the Court noted a more
fundamental defect in the SAC. The Court pointed out that Plaintiff not only
failed to allege facts to indicate that “but for” the conduct of Defendant,
they would have received income, Paragraph 11 of the SAC completely undermines
this position. The Court had a robust discussion on this issue (See reporter’s
notes) and granted Plaintiff an extended opportunity to brief the issue. The
Court has reviewed the updated contentions submitted by Plaintiff in their
latest filings, but remains unconvinced. It remains clear to the Court that as
alleged, Paragraph 11 of the SAC, states quite emphatically that Defendants’
“retaliatory” conduct is founded upon Plaintiff’s “refusa[al] to contract with Blue
Shield as  an In-Network physician or
provider.”(SAC ¶ 11.) Plaintiff unabashedly alleges that Defendant’s practice
has always been and continues to be to retaliate against Plaintiff and all Out-of-Network
providers because of their status as Out-of-Network providers. In other words, regardless
of whether Plaintiff complained, Defendant would nonetheless engage in this
conduct because of Plaintiff’s status as an Out-of-Network provider. Therefore,
even if Plaintiff remained silent and did not complain, Plaintiff still would
not have obtained the complained about lost income as long as Plaintiff
remained an Out-of-Network provider. While acknowledging the plain meaning of
Paragraph 11, Plaintiff urges this Court to ignore the import of Paragraph 11.
The Court is aware of the obligation to liberally read pleadings. Nevertheless,
the Court cannot ignore this allegation that has remained in three versions of
the pleadings and whose truth Plaintiff still maintains.[5]
Accordingly, Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently allege that he did not
receive the expected income for these medical services “but for” Defendant’s
conduct. 
 
 
            Therefore,
Demurrer is SUSTAINED, as to the 2nd Cause of Action. 
 
3.     Third
Cause of Action – Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage
Defendant makes the same arguments as above for intentional
interference as for negligent interference. Additionally, Defendant argues that
Defendant cannot allege a duty to support a negligence claim. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the SAC sufficiently alleges a duty,
which the Court previously found was insufficiently alleged in the FAC.
Specifically, in paragraph 34, Plaintiffs allege that a duty of care existed
through statutes - Bus. & Prof. Section 2056(a)-(c). Additionally, a
relationship existed between Plaintiffs and Defendant due to the
“foreseeability of harm suffered by Plaintiffs.” (Opp. 12: 11 – 13: 6.) 
 
“The tort of negligent interference with prospective economic advantage is established where a plaintiff
demonstrates that (1) an economic relationship existed between the plaintiff and a
third party which contained a reasonably probable future economic benefit or advantage to plaintiff; (2) the
defendant knew of the existence of the relationship and was aware or should
have been aware that if it did not act with due care its actions would interfere with this relationship and cause plaintiff to lose
in whole or in part the probable future economic benefit or advantage of the relationship; (3) the
defendant was negligent;
and (4) such negligence caused
damage to plaintiff in that the relationship was actually interfered with or
disrupted and plaintiff lost in whole or in part the economic benefits or advantage reasonably expected from the
relationship.”  (Venhaus v. Shultz (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1078.)
 
Previously, this Court determined that Plaintiff did not
sufficiently allege any basis for a duty that would allow for a negligence
cause of action.[6]
Plaintiff’s reliance on section 2056 fails as a matter of law for the reasons
articulated above and in the Court’s May 31, 2023 ruling.[7]
Moreover, the conclusionary statement “foreseeability of harm” does not plead
facts sufficient to establish a new tort duty. Nonetheless, since the proximate
cause is also an element of the third cause of action for Negligent
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage the Demurrer for that cause of
action would also necessarily be sustained.
 
 
Leave to amend: 
 
Leave to amend should be liberally granted
if there is a reasonable possibility an amendment could cure the defect.  (County
of Santa Clara v. Superior Court (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 1018,1035.) The Plaintiff has the burden of
demonstrating that leave to amend should be granted, and that the defects can
be cured by amendment. (“Plaintiff must show in what manner he can amend his
complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”
Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.) Here, Plaintiff has not offered any explanation on how he could cure
the defects. Moreover, it does not appear to the Court that there is any
way Plaintiff can remedy the defects identified herein.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
The Demurrer is Sustained without leave to amend 
 
Pursuant to CCP § 581d, this written order of dismissal
constitutes a judgment and shall be effective for all purposes. The Clerk shall
note this judgment in the register of actions in this case.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              January 30, 2024                     __________________________________                                                                                                                        Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court
 


