  Case Number:  19STCP00482    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CITIZENS FOR
  AMENDING PROPOSITION L, VERNON PRICE, and J. KEITH STEPHENS,
                        Petitioners/Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
CITY OF POMONA, and DOES 1 through 50,
  inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Respondents/Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 19STCP00482
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
CITY OF POMONA’S 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
 
Date: 
  October 30, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept:  56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
Jury Trial: May 6, 2024




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 


 



 
 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant/Cross-Complainant
City of Pomona (the “City” or “Pomona”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Cross-Defendant
Regency Outdoor Advertising, Inc. (“Regency”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
This
action arises from a dispute over the City’s regulation of billboards and was
initiated by Plaintiffs on February 14, 2019.  The currently operative sixth amended
complaint (the “6AC”) alleges: (1) declaratory relief, injunctive relief, and
damages for deprivation of civil rights (First Amendment), (2) unfair business
practices, and (3) money had and received. 

 
In
relevant part, the 6AC alleges: In 1993, the City passed Proposition L, which
imposed restrictions on the erection of new billboards in the City.  (See 6AC ¶ 18.)  Plaintiff J. Keith Stephens, who owns and
operates billboards, has been denied permits to construct billboards in the
City.  (6AC ¶ 84.)  Despite Proposition L and the City’s refusal
to allow Stephens to operate billboards, the City has permitted
Real-Party-In-Interest Regency to operate ten billboards.  (6AC ¶ 85.)
 
On
November 17, 2022, the City filed its operative first amended cross-complaint (the
“FACC”) against Regency and Roes 1 to 20, inclusive, alleging: (1) implied
equitable indemnity; (2) contribution; (3) declaratory relief; (4) express
contractual indemnity; (5) breach of contract; (6) breach of contract; and (7)
declaratory relief.  
 
The
FACC alleges the following, among other things. 
On or about June 24, 1993, a development agreement (“Development Agreement”)
was entered between the City and Regency regarding the construction of various
new off-site outdoor advertising structures (“Billboards”).  (FACC ¶ 6; Exhibit A – a copy of the Development
Agreement.)  The first term of the Development
Agreement was to be 10 years, with an automatic extension for a second 10-year
term.  (FACC ¶ 7.)  The City and Regency attempted to extend the Development
Agreement beyond the second successive ten-year term, but that action was
challenged by the same plaintiffs in this action through a petition for writ of
mandate (Case No. BS150549) (the “Previous Action”).  (FACC ¶ 8.) 
The trial court granted the petition, finding that the Development
Agreement expired on June 24, 2014, and that the City and Regency’s efforts to
extend the agreement constituted a new agreement that violated Proposition
L.  (FACC ¶ 9.)  The City appealed that order, but the Court
of Appeal affirmed in or about November 2018. 
(FACC ¶ 10.)  After the remitter
was issued, Plaintiffs initiated this action, seeking to enforce the terms of the
Development Agreement requiring payment of fees (to the City) for maintenance
and/or operation of the Billboards after the expiration or termination of the agreement.  (FACC ¶ 11.) 
The Development Agreement includes an indemnification and “hold
harmless” provision (i.e., Section I.C of the agreement).  (FAC, ¶ 12.) 
The agreement also contains a provision (Section III.E), requiring
cooperation between Regency and City in defending any action instituted by a
third party challenging the validity of any provision.  (FAC, ¶ 13.)  Section I.C. and Section III.E require Regency
to fully release, defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City for any
damages, judgment, or other awards recovered by Plaintiffs against the City,
together with all costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees it incurs in the defense
of this action.  (FAC, ¶ 31.)  
 
On
May 5, 2023, the City filed a motion for summary adjudication, arguing that it
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law on the FACC’s third and seventh
causes of action for declaratory relief because it can prove each element of
those claims and Regency cannot show any affirmative defense. 
 
On
October 11, 2023, Regency filed its opposition, arguing (among other things)
that the City’s indemnity arguments contradict the indemnity clause in the
Development Agreement because this action does not involve injury or property
damage, and Plaintiffs do not seek to “challenge” the validity of the
Development Agreement.  In addition,
Regency continues, the City’s arguments regarding the removal of the Billboards
are nonsensical because the City expressly extended the Development Agreement,
through a document titled the Third Amendment, and promised that Regency could
continue to operate the billboards in question through at least 2026.  
 
On
October 20, 2023, the City filed a reply, arguing the following (among other
things).  There are no triable issues of
material fact concerning the third and seventh causes of action.  Relevant to the third cause of action, the
Development Agreement obligates Regency to indemnify the City for acts
challenging the Development’s validity or enforcement.  Plaintiffs’ operative complaint against the
City makes it clear they are challenging the City’s “enforcement” of the
agreement, specifically, the City purportedly allowing Regency to maintain the
billboards.  As for the seventh cause of
action, the Development Agreement provides that the billboards must be removed
on the agreement’s expiration.  Since the
“Third Amendment” is invalid, it no longer has any force or legal effect.  As a result, Regency’s obligation to remove
the billboards was triggered when the Second Amendment to the Development
Agreement expired in 2014 (as the trial court in the Previous Action ruled, and
the Court of Appeal affirmed).  None of
Regency’s asserted affirmative defenses create any triable issues of material
fact. 
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
            The City’s request for judicial
notice (filed May 5, 2023) is GRANTED.  (Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. d [providing that a court may take judicial notice of court
records].)  
 
Regency’s
request for judicial notice (filed October 11, 2023) is GRANTED.  (See Trinity Park, L.P. v. City of
Sunnyvale (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1014, 1027 [“The Evidence Code … expressly
provides for judicial notice of a public entity’s legislative enactments (Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (b)) and official acts (id., subd. (c)). Thus, we may take
notice of local ordinances [citation] and the official resolutions, reports,
and other official acts of a city [citation]”].)  
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Regency’s
objection to the Declaration of Scott W. Ditfurth number 1 is SUSTAINED.  
 
Regency’s
objection to the City’s Request for Judicial Notice number 1 (the Development
Agreement) is OVERRULED. (See Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 256, 265 [“a court may take judicial notice of the fact of a
document's recordation, the date the document was recorded and executed, the
parties to the transaction reflected in a recorded document, and the document’s
legally operative language, assuming there is no genuine dispute regarding the
document's authenticity”]; see also Serri v. Santa Clara University
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 856, cited in the City’s Reply, p. 7:4-6 [“The
Individual Defendants objected to these exhibits on authentication, foundation,
hearsay, and relevance grounds; the University objected that one was hearsay
and another was irrelevant.  Since
Defendants had relied on this very same evidence, there was no merit to these
objections and they should not have been sustained”].)
 
Regency’s
objections to the City’s Request for Judicial Notice, numbers 4-5, are also OVERRULED.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. d [providing that a
court may take judicial notice of court records].)
 
The
City’s objection numbers 1, 6, 9, 10, and 20 are SUSTAINED. Objection numbers
5, 7, 8, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23, and 24 are OVERRULED.  
 
The
City’s objection numbers 2, 3, 4, 11, and 12 are also OVERRULED.  Evidence Code “[s]ection 1521, subdivision (a)
provides, The content of a writing may be proved by otherwise admissible
secondary evidence.  The court shall
exclude secondary evidence of the content of [a] writing if the court
determines either of the following: [¶] (1) A genuine dispute exists concerning
material terms of the writing and justice requires the exclusion. [¶] (2)
Admission of the secondary evidence would be unfair.”  (Chambers v. Crown Asset Management, LLC
(2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 583, 593–594.) 
Here, there is no evidence from which the Court can conclude that a
genuine dispute exists concerning material terms of the Development Agreement,
justice requires the exclusion of Berardi’s testimony concerning the agreement,
or admission of his testimony would be unfair. 
 
DISCUSSION
            The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  California Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c) requires the judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence,
show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992)
7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
A
plaintiff moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication meets the burden
of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if the plaintiff has
proved each element of the cause of action entitling them to judgment on that
cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(1).)  Once the moving
party has met its burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paeikau (1998) 68 Cal.
App-4th 151, 166.)
 
Courts
liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of the opposing
party.  (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006)
39 Cal. 4th 384, 389.)  The Court cannot
weigh the credibility of witnesses or weigh other evidence, and where there is
a conflict in declarations presented by the parties on material issues of fact
or a conflict in the inferences to be drawn from that evidence, the Court must
deny the motion.  (Binder v. Aetna
Life. Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 840)
 
Regency’s
Procedural Challenges to the Motion
The
Court disagrees with Regency that the City’s separate statement is
improper.  (See Opposition, p. 1:21-24;
pp. 9:9-10:7 [arguing that the separate statement fails to specify the alleged
undisputed material facts].)  The Court
has reviewed the separate statement and notes that it contains some material
facts.  For example, disputed fact number
9 states: “The Development Agreement contains an indemnity provision in which
Regency promised to indemnify and hold harmless the City in a legal challenging
relating to the validity or enforcement of the Development Agreement.”  That fact is material to the City’s third
cause of action for declaratory relief. 
 
In
any event, a defective separate statement does not necessarily mean that the
motion should be denied.  (Varshock v.
Department of Forestry & Fire Protection (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 635,
652 [“Although a party moving for summary judgment must include a separate
statement that sets forth the material facts it contends are undisputed [citation],
a trial court is not required to deny a motion simply because the moving party
has not done so and may, in its discretion, consider evidence contained
elsewhere in the motion [citations]. In the exercise of this discretion, the
trial court should consider whether the facts are ‘relatively simple’ and were ‘clearly
called to the attention of court and counsel’; whether ‘evidence is not
referenced, is hidden in voluminous papers, and is not called to the attention
of the court at all’; and, most importantly, whether, despite the absence of a
proper separate statement, the opposing party has sufficient notice of the
evidence it must dispute to defeat the motion”].) 
 
As
for Regency’s argument that the City’s motion is based on unauthenticated
evidence, the Court has addressed that issue through its rulings on evidentiary
objections. 
 
Declaratory Relief
“Code
of Civil Procedure section 1060, which governs actions for declaratory relief,
provides: ‘Any person interested under a written instrument ..., or under a
contract, or who desires a declaration of his or her rights or duties with
respect to another ... may, in cases of actual controversy relating to the
legal rights and duties of the respective parties, bring an original action ...
for a declaration of his or her rights and duties in the premises, including a
determination of any question of construction or validity arising under the
instrument or contract.’”  (California
Public Records Research, Inc. v. County of Yolo (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 150,
185.) 
 
“A
complaint for declaratory relief must demonstrate: (1) a proper subject of
declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable
questions relating to the rights or obligations of a party.”  (Brownfield v. Daniel Freeman Marina
Hospital (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 405, 410.) 
“The ‘proper subjects’ of declaratory relief are set forth in Code of
Civil Procedure section 1060 and other statutes.  [Citation.]  The ‘actual controversy’ requirement concerns
the existence of present controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of
the respective parties pursuant to contract (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060), statute
or order.  [Citation.]  Where the allegations of the complaint reveal
the controversy to be conjectural, anticipated to occur in the future, or an
attempt to obtain an advisory opinion from the court, the fundamental basis of
declaratory relief is lacking.”  (Ibid.)
 
“Summary
judgment is appropriate in a declaratory relief action when only legal issues
are presented for the court’s determination.” 
(California Public Records Research, Inc. v. County of Yolo, supra,
4 Cal.App.5th at p. 185.)
 
As
an initial matter, Regency argues that the City cannot move for summary
adjudication of its third and seventh causes of action because they contain facts
alleged in other claims.  
 
That
argument is unpersuasive. (See Southern Cal. Edison Co. v. Superior Court
(1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 839, 846–847 [“The fact the same issue of contract
interpretation is also raised in other causes of action does not in itself bar
declaratory relief or summary adjudication of that cause of action.  Under [Code of Civil Procedure] section 1060,
the plaintiff ‘may ask for a declaration of rights or duties, either alone or
with other relief; and the court may make a binding declaration of these rights
or duties, whether or not further relief is or could be claimed at the time.’  Furthermore, section 1062 provides the remedy
of declaratory relief is ‘cumulative, and shall not be construed as restricting
any remedy, provisional or otherwise, provided by law for the benefit of any
party to such action, and no judgment under this chapter shall preclude any
party from obtaining additional relief based upon the same facts’”].)
 
Third
Cause of Action
Under
the third cause of action, the City alleges that Regency denies the following.
 
(a)   That, as between
the City and Cross-Defendants, responsibility, if any, for the damages claimed
by Plaintiffs in the underlying action rests entirely or partially on
Cross-Defendants; and 
(b)  That, as a result,
Cross-Defendants are obligated to contribute to and/or partially or fully
indemnify the City for any sums that the City may be compelled to pay as a
result of any damages, judgment, or other awards recovered by Plaintiffs
against the City.” 
 
(FACC, ¶ 22.)  Therefore, because of that controversy, the
City seeks “a determination of the respective rights and duties of the City and
Cross-Defendants with respect to the damages claimed in Plaintiffs’
Complaint.  In particular, … a
declaration regarding the responsibility of Cross-Defendants to indemnify the
City and/or to contribute to any amount in which the City may be compelled to
pay and for which the City is determined responsible, in whole or in part.”  (FACC, ¶ 23.) 
 
“It
would be an idle action on the part of a trial court to make a declaration of
the rights and duties of the parties where the controversy is or has become
moot and no actual controversy exists relating to their legal rights and duties
[citation].  An action for declaratory
relief should be dismissed where it appears that no justiciable controversy
exists.”  (Pittenger v. Home Sav. and
Loan Ass’n of Los Angeles (1958) 166 Cal.App.2d 32, 36.)
 
Here,
the Court granted the City’s motion for summary judgment on October 18, 2023,
after finding that there are no triable issues of material fact concerning Plaintiffs’
claims against the City.  
 
Therefore,
since the City cannot be found liable for Plaintiffs’ damages, the issue of whether
Regency is obligated to indemnify the City for those damages is moot and no
longer an “actual controversy” within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure
section 1060.   
 
Accordingly,
the request for summary adjudication of the third cause of action is moot and the
Court will consider whether this cause of action should be dismissed at the
time of the hearing. 
 
Seventh
Cause of Action
            Under the seventh cause of action
for declaratory relief, “the City desires a declaration regarding
Cross-Defendants’ obligation to remove the Billboards.”  (FACC, ¶ 54.) Specifically, the City seeks an
order declaring the following: 
 
(a)  
The Billboards are to be removed at the
expiration of the final ten (10) year term of the Development Agreement;
(b)  Cross-Defendants are required to remove the Billboards at
the expiration of the final ten (10) year term of the Development Agreement;
(c)  
If Cross-Defendants fail to remove the
Billboards on or before the last day of the final ten (10) year term of the
Development Agreement, the City has the right to remove the Billboards and
charge Cross-Defendants the cost of removal; and
(d)  Cross-Defendants waived any cause of action it may have
to postpone removal of the Billboards.
 
(FAC, ¶ 53.)  
In
interpreting a contract, California courts “give the words their ordinary and
popular meaning, unless the parties or usage have given the words a specialized
or technical meaning.” (Coral Farms, L.P. v. Mahony (2021) 63
Cal.App.5th 719, 727.)  “[T]he language
used controls if it is clear and explicit.”  (Segal v. Silberstein (2007) 156
Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)  In addition, a
court “‘“must interpret contractual language in a manner which gives force and
effect to every provision, and not in a way which renders some clauses
nugatory, inoperative or meaningless.”’  [Citation.]”
 (Salgado v. Carrows Restaurants, Inc.
(2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 356, 360.) 
 
            Here, the language at issue is
Section IV.J of the Development Agreement, which states:
 
The first term of
this Agreement shall expire ten (10) years from the earlier to occur of (i) the
construction of all of the New Structures, or (ii) twelve (12) month after the
Effective Date of this Agreement.  This
Agreement shall be automatically extended for a second ten (10) year term,
subject to the increase in fees set forth in Section I.B. above, unless such
term is otherwise terminated, modified or extended by circumstances set forth
in this Agreement or by mutual consent of the parties.
 
At least sixty
(60) days before the end of the final ten (10) year term, Developer shall apply
for a separate demolition permit for each New Structure.  Provided that City has timely issued
demolition permits, Developer shall remove all of the New Structures on or
before the last day of the final ten (10) year term of this Agreement.  In the event that Developer fails to remove
any of the New Structures by the end of the final ten (10) ear term of this
Agreement, City shall have the right to remove said remaining New
Structures and to charge Developer its actual costs of removal.  Developer hereby waives any causes of
action it may have to postpone removal of the New Structures under this
paragraph after the final ten (10) year term of this Agreement.
 
(The City’s
Request for Judicial Notice, Exhibit 1, pp. 30-31 [emphasis added]; FACC, ¶ 42.)
 
The
Court agrees with the City that the plain language of Section IV.J supports the
City’s interpretation that: (a)
the Billboards were to be removed at the expiration of the final ten (10) year
term of the Development Agreement; (b) Regency was required to remove the
Billboards at the expiration of the final ten (10) year term of the Development
Agreement; (c) if Regency failed to remove the Billboards on or before the last
day of the final ten (10) year term of the Development Agreement, the City had
the right to remove the Billboards and charge Cross-Defendants the cost of
removal; and (d) Regency waived any cause of action it may have to postpone
removal of the Billboards. 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that the City has
met its initial burden of proving that it is entitled to summary adjudication
of its seventh cause of action.  Therefore,
the burden shifts to Regency to show triable issues of one or more material
fact.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(1).)  
 
In
opposition, Regency argues that through the Third Amendment, the parties agreed
to extend the Development Agreement to June 24, 2026.  (Opposition, p. 15:2-11 [relying on the part
in Section IV.J that states the Development Agreement will expire “unless such
term is otherwise … modified or extended … by mutual consent of the parties”].)
 
The
Court of Appeal, however, in Citizens for Amending Proposition L v. City of
Pomona (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1159 (“Citizens”), invalidated the
Third Amendment. (See Request for Judicial Notice, filed May 5, 2023, Exhibit 3
– a copy of the 6AC, Exhibit C – ac copy of the opinion; Starr v. Ashbrook
(2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 999, 1014  [“Although
a court cannot take judicial notice of hearsay allegations in a court record, it
can take judicial notice of the truth of facts asserted in documents
such as orders, findings of fact and conclusions of law, and judgments”
(emphasis added)].)  
 
Specifically,
the Court of Appeal held that the Development Agreement “terminated by its
terms on June 24, 2014.  After that
point, there was no valid contract to amend, modify, or extend.”  (Id. at p. 1189.)  The Court explained, “‘[i]t is the general
rule that when a contract specifies its duration, it terminates on the
expiration of such period.’ 
[Citations.]  A contract that is
terminated ceases to bind the parties.  A
terminated contract cannot be extended or modified; both extension and
modification as those terms are commonly understood presuppose the existence of
a valid contract to extend or modify.”  (Ibid.)  The Court considered but then denied the
City’s arguments that its holding was (1) contrary to the City’s and Regency’s
intent to extend the Development Agreement, and (2) interpreted the Third
Amendment in such a way that it rendered it unlawful.  (Id. at pp. 1189-1190.)  The Court emphasized “there is no reasonable
way to construe the belatedly adopted July 7, 2014 written agreement as an
amendment to or extension of the original agreement, which by its terms had
terminated.”  (Id. at p.
1190.)  Therefore, according to the Court
of Appeal, the governing agreement is the Development Agreement and that agreement
expired by its terms on June 24, 2014. 
 
Accordingly,
Regency cannot rely on the Third Amendment to prove a triable issue. 
 
Regency
also argues that the City is not entitled to summary adjudication, given the
Regency’s affirmative defenses of waiver, estoppel, and unclean hands.  
 
As
for waiver, Regency argues that “[t]he City knowingly and intentionally
relinquished its right to possess or remove the Billboards by signing the Third
Amendment evidencing that very intent.” 
(Opposition, p. 17:24-27.)  
 
“Waiver
refers to the act, or the consequences of the act, of one side.  Waiver is the intentional relinquishment of a
known right after full knowledge of the facts and depends upon the intention of
one party only. Waiver does not require any act or conduct by the other party.”  (DRG/Beverly Hills, Ltd. v. Chopstix Dim
Sum Cafe & Takeout III, Ltd. (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 54, 59 (“DRG”).)  “‘“Waiver always rests upon intent. Waiver is
the intentional relinquishment of a known right after knowledge of the facts.’
[Citations]. The burden, moreover, is on the party claiming a waiver of a right
to prove it by clear and convincing evidence that does not leave the matter to
speculation, and ‘doubtful cases will be decided against a waiver.”’  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at p. 60.)
 
Here,
signing of the Third Amendment without more is not clear and convincing
evidence that the City intended to relinquish its rights under Section IV.J of
the Development Agreement.   Accordingly,
the Court finds that Regency has failed to meet its burden of showing that
there is a waiver defense to the seventh cause of action.
 
Regency
also argues that “the City is equitably estopped from preventing Regency from
maintaining and operating the Billboards until at least June 24, 2026,” for the
following reasons.  “First, the City knew
about Proposition L and the potential effects of failing to timely approve the
Third Amendment.  [Citation.]  Second, the City led Regency to believe that
it would allow Regency to continue to maintain and operate the Billboards and
would take any actions necessary to address any legal issues to ensure that
they could remain in place.  [Citation.] 
Third, Regency had no reason to believe that the City would fail to
timely adopt the Third Amendment to the Development Agreement, would not take
actions to resolve any potential legal issues relating to the operation of the
Billboards, or would intentionally or negligently cause the Third Amendment to
fail.  [Citation.]  Fourth, Regency relied on the City’s actions
and incurred substantial injuries and grave injustice, including the loss of
the ability to operate and maintain the Billboards, which are irreplaceable due
to Proposition L.”  (Opposition, p.
18:14-19:2.)
 
“Estoppel
is applicable where the conduct of one side has induced the other to take such
a position that it would be injured if the first should be permitted to
repudiate its acts.” (DRG, supra, 30 Cal.App.4th at p. 59.)  “Four elements must ordinarily be proved to
establish an equitable estoppel: (1) The party to be estopped must know the
facts; (2) he must intend that his conduct shall be acted upon, or must so act
that the party asserting the estoppel had a right to believe that it was so
intended; (3) the party asserting the estoppel must be ignorant of the true
state of facts; and (4) he must rely upon the conduct to his injury.”  (Gaunt v. Prudential Ins. Co. of America
(1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 18, 23.)
 
Here,
Regency has not shown at least one element of its equitable estoppel defense –
that it was ignorant of the true state of Proposition L and its effect at the
time it entered in the Third Amendment. 
(Gaunt v. Prudential Ins. Co. of America, supra, 255
Cal.App.2d at p. 23.)   Accordingly, the
Court finds that Regency has failed to meet its burden of showing that there is
an equitable estoppel defense to the seventh cause of action.
 
In
support of its unclean hands defense, Regency argues the City “acted
inequitably by delaying approval of the Third Amendment until after the term
had expired, all while knowing that Proposition L could affect the Billboards.”  (Opposition, p. 19:11-12.)  
 
“‘The
defense of unclean hands arises from the maxim, “‘“‘He who comes into Equity
must come with clean hands.’”’”  [Citation.]
 The doctrine demands that a plaintiff
act fairly in the matter for which he seeks a remedy.  He must come into court with clean hands, and
keep them clean, or he will be denied relief, regardless of the merits of his
claim.’  [Citation.]”  (Meridian Financial Services, Inc. v. Phan
(2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 657, 685.)  “‘Not
every wrongful act constitutes unclean hands.  But, the misconduct need not be a crime or an
actionable tort.  Any conduct that
violates conscience, or good faith, or other equitable standards of conduct is
sufficient cause to invoke the doctrine.’ 
[Citations.]”  (Ibid.)
 
            Here, the only evidence Regency puts
forth to show unclean hands is its CEO’s testimony “[t]he City held a hearing
on the Third Amendment on June 16, 2014, but then did not promptly approve the
agreement. In doing so, the City created a conflict with Proposition L—a law
that prohibits construction of new billboards in the City—and created a years-long
legal debate over Regency’s rights to continue to operate the Billboards.”  (Declaration of Philip Berardi, ¶ 10.)  
 
Berardi’s
conclusory testimony lacks facts proving that the City knowingly delayed
approval of the Third Amendment, let alone did so while knowing that
Proposition L could affect the billboards. 
There is simply no evidence that the City wanted to sabotage the Third
Amendment or, even what its motive would be for doing so, when the City
advocated for the validity of the agreement through two lawsuits and the
appeal.  Therefore, Regency has not
proven its unclean hands defense.  
 
For
those reasons, the Court finds that Regency has failed to meet its burden of
showing that there is a triable issue concerning the seventh cause of
action.  
 
Accordingly,
summary adjudication of the seventh cause of action is granted. 
 
            The Motion for Summary Adjudication
is GRANTED IN PART as follows.  The
request for summary adjudication of the third cause of action for declaratory
relief is moot and may be subject to dismissal. 
The request for summary adjudication of the seventh cause of action for
declaratory relief is GRANTED.
 
The
City is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
          
Dated this 30th day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 