  Case Number:  22STCV33223    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



ART CITY CENTER, LLC, a California limited liability company,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
THE GAP, INC., a Delaware corporation; and DOES 1 through 30,
  inclusive
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
THE GAP, INC., a Delaware corporation,
                        Cross-Complainant,
            v.
YEEZY SUPPLY LLC, and YE fka KANYE WEST, and ROES 1 through 10,
                        Cross-Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          22STCV33223
 Hearing Date:   September
  12, 2024
 Trial Date:        November
  26, 2024
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
The Gap, Inc.’s
  Motion to Compel Deposition of Person Most Knowledgeable of Yeezy Supply, LLC
  and Requests for Production of Documents (RES ID # 2605)
Art City Center
  LLC’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Yeezy Supply, LLC and Requests for
  Production of Documents (RES ID # 3659)
 
 
 



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
On October 11, 2022, Plaintiff Art
City Center, LLC (Art City) filed a Complaint against Defendants The Gap Inc.
(Gap) and Does 1 through 30 alleging causes of action for: (1) Holding Over;
(2) Breach of Contract; and (3) Unjust Enrichment. The claims arise from alleged
violations of a commercial lease agreement for a property rented by Gap and owned
by Art City Center (the Premises). 
On April 3, 2023, Gap filed a
Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants Yeezy Supply LLC and Ye, fka Kanye
West (collectively, the Yeezy Parties), alleging causes of action for (1)
Express Indemnity; (2) Equitable Indemnity; (3) Contribution; and (4) Breach of
Contract. The Cross-Complaint asserts, in brief, that pursuant to the Strategic
Agreement executed by and between Gap and Yeezy Supply, the Cross-Defendants
are responsible for any alleged damages in the Complaint. 
B. Relevant Procedural History
On December 29, 2023, Gap served
the Yeezy Parties with a first round of discovery requests (Geibelson Decl. ¶
3.) On January 31, 2024, the Yeezy Parties responded to those requests with an
agreement to produce documents, but did not actually produce the documents. (Geibelson
Decl. ¶ 3.) The Yeezy Parties’ counsel subsequently substituted out of the
case, causing discovery delays. (Geibelson Decl. ¶ 3.)
In February 2024, Art City requested
a deposition date from Yeezy Supply. (Geibelson Decl. ¶ 3; Zohar Decl. ¶ 3) In
May 2024, Yeezy Supply’s second counsel committed to July 11, 2024, for its
deposition. (Geibelson Decl. ¶ 3; Zohar Decl. ¶ 3) Yeezy Supply again
terminated its counsel, but new counsel confirmed that the deposition would
still go forward (Geibelson Decl. ¶ 3; Zohar Decl. ¶ 3). 
 On June 6 and June 21, 2024, Art City and Gap,
respectively, served deposition notices on Yeezy Supply, seeking the deposition
of its person most qualified and demanding the production of documents related
to modifications the Yeezy Parties made to the Premises and concerning Ye’s
ownership and control of Yeezy Supply. (Geibelson Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. A; Zohar Decl.
¶ 4, Ex. A.) Prior to the scheduled July 11 deposition, the Yeezy Parties’ new counsel
withdrew. 
C. Motion Before the Court
On July 25, 2024, Gap filed a
motion to compel the deposition of person most knowledgeable of Yeezy Supply
and requests for production of documents. 
On August 14, 2024, Art City also
filed a motion to compel the deposition of person most knowledgeable of Yeezy
Supply and requests for production of documents. 
As of the dates of these motions,
no deposition has occurred, the Yeezy Parties have not produced the requested
documents, and no new counsel for the Yeezy Parties has appeared. (Geibelson
Decl. ¶¶ 7-8; Zohar Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.)
On September 5, 2024, Art City
filed a notice of non-opposition stating that Yeezy Supply has not filed an
opposition to its motion. 
 
II. Motion
A. Legal Standard
If, [1] after service of a deposition notice, [2] a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, [3] without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
[4] fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice, [5] the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a) [Arabic numerals added for clarity].) 
The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1).) 
The motion shall also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition
and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things
described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).) 
B. Analysis
Here, Yeezy Supply is a party to
this case and was properly served with the deposition notices. (See Geibelson
Decl., Ex. A; Zohar Decl., Ex. A.) The deposition notices were sufficient to
compel Yeezy Supply’s attendance, testimony and document production at the
deposition under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.280 subdivision (a) and 2025.220
subdivision (a)(4). Yeezy Supply did not serve any objections to the deposition
notice and has failed to appear for examination or produce for inspection the
documents described in the deposition notice. 
Art City and GAP are clearly entitled to a
deposition of Yeezy Supply (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010 [“Any party may obtain discovery within the scope
delimited by Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 2017.010), and subject to the
restrictions set forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2019.010), by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to
the action. The person deposed may be a natural person, an organization such as
a public or private corporation, a partnership, an association, or a
governmental agency.”].) 
Further, there is good cause justifying
the deposition and production of the requested documents. The deposition topics
and document requests seek, generally: (1) information related to the
condition, modifications, and maintenance of the Premises, (2) the corporate
existence and records of Yeezy Supply, and (3) the terms of the relationship
between Gap and the Yeezy Parties, as well as the relationship between Yeezy
Supply and Ye. (See Geibelson Decl., Ex. A; Zohar Decl., Ex. A.)
Discovery concerning the alleged
demolition and modifications at the Premises is directly relevant to the causes
of action in both the Complaint and the Cross-Complaint for holding over,
breach of contract, and unjust enrichment. Further, discovery concerning Yeezy
Supply and the relationship between Ye and Yeezy Supply is directly relevant to
Gap’s causes of action for indemnity and contribution. 
Thus, Gap and Art City Center’s
motions to compel deposition and requests for production of documents are
GRANTED. 
III. Conclusion
The Gap, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Person Most Knowledgeable
of Yeezy Supply, LLC and Requests for Production of Documents (RES ID # 2605)
is GRANTED. 
Art City Center LLC’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Yeezy Supply, LLC
and Requests for Production of Documents (RES ID # 3659) is GRANTED. 