 Case Number:  BC651307    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



HTL AUTOMOTIVE, INC., a California Corporation dba HOOMAN TOYOTA
  OF LONG BEACH,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
1351 ORIZABA AVENUE, LLC, a California limited liability company;
  and DOES 1-10, inclusive
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
1351 ORIZABA AVENUE, LLC, a California limited liability company,
                        Cross-Complainant,
            v.
HOOMAN MICHAEL NISSANI, an individual; HTL AUTOMATIVE, INC., a
  California corporation, dba HOOMAN TOYOTA OF LONG BEACH; and ROES 1-100,
  inclusive,
                        Cross-Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          BC651307
 Hearing Date:   September
  12, 2024
 Trial Date:        N/A
  
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Seal
  Documents Containing Confidential Financial Information



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings, Judgment, Receiver
Order, 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant HTL
Automotive, Inc. (HTL Automative) sued Defendant/Cross Complainant 1351 Orizaba
Avenue, LLC (Orizaba) pursuant to a February 22, 2017, Complaint alleging
claims of (1) Breach of Written Contract and (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. In turn, Orizaba sued HTL Automative (dba
Hooman Toyota of Long Beach) and Cross-Defendants Hooman Michael Nissani
(Nissani) and Does 1-100 pursuant to an April 10, 2017, Cross-Complaint
alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Permitting Waste Upon
Premises. The claims arose from allegations related to a lease of commercial
property by Orizaba from HTL Automotive and events taking place on that
property. 
Between May 20, 2019, and May 25,
2019, the Court held a non-jury trial. On March 6, 2020, the Court granted
judgment in favor of Orizaba, awarding $746,830.34, jointly and severally,
against Nissani and HTL. The judgment was amended to include fees, costs, and
accrued interest and as of May 1, 2024, was approximately $1,400,000. On March
11, 2024, the Court appointed Invenz, Inc, through its Chief Executive Officer
Richard Munro (Receiver) as Receiver. 
On July 2, 2024, the Receiver
applied ex parte to expand the scope of authority under the Appointment
Order, requesting that Mr. Nissani's wife and additional companies be added. HTL
Automative and Mr. Nissani (the Judgment Debtors) allege that the Receiver did
not prove that these third parties were connected to the Judgment Debtors or
the case. Furthermore, they allege that the Receiver failed to serve these
third parties with the application or the July 2 Amendment, rendering the ex
parte order jurisdictionally improper.
The Judgment Debtors and Orizaba have
since resolved their disputes pursuant to a written settlement agreement which
is conditioned upon, in part, the sealing of certain documents on file with
this Court. Specifically, the documents that the parties agree should be sealed
and/or redacted include: (1) the July 2 Amendment and
the application filed by the Receiver regarding the July 2 Amendment; and (2) the
July 8, 2024 Ex Parte Application for Contempt filed by the Receiver. 

B. Motion Before the Court
On August 8, 2024, the Judgment
Debtors filed this motion for an order sealing certain confidential documents
containing confidential financial information. The Receiver filed an opposition
on August 29, and the Judgment Debtors replied on September 5, 2024. The motion
is now before the court. 
 
II. Motion to Seal
A. Procedural Requirements 
1. Motion to Seal – Moving Papers 
A party requesting that a record be filed under seal must
file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The motion or
application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing
facts sufficient to justify the sealing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.551,
subd. (b)(1).) 
The Judgment
Debtors have filed with the Court a Motion to Seal, with points and authorities
and supporting declarations, which seek a Court Order sealing (1) the
July 2 Amendment and the application filed by the Receiver regarding the July 2
Amendment; and (2) the July 8, 2024 Ex Parte Application for Contempt
filed by the Receiver. (Mot., Beehler Decl. ¶ 6.) 
2. Motion to Seal – Service 
A copy of the motion or application must be served on all
parties that have appeared in the case. Unless the court orders otherwise, any
party that already possesses copies of the records to be placed under seal must
be served with a complete, unredacted version of all papers as well as a
redacted version.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(2).) 
 The Judgment Debtors’ Motion to Seal
is accompanied by a Proof of Service, which shows that (1) the Motion to Seal,
(2) the Declaration of Anne Beehler, and (3) a Proposed Order were all served
on Orizaba and the Receiver on August 8, 2024 via e-service and
e-mail. (Aug. 8, 2024, Proof of Service.) 
3. Motion to Seal – Lodging
and Redacted Filing Requirements 
The Judgment Debtors need not meet the lodging and redacted public filing
requirements set forth in the California Rules of Court because the documents
to be sealed are presently part of the public record. (See Mot.; see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551,
subds. (b)(4), (d)(2), (d)(4) [lodging]; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551,
subds. (b)(5) [redacted public record filing].)  
B. Analysis 
1. Motion to Seal – Findings 
“The public has a First Amendment right of access to civil
litigation documents filed in court and used at trial or submitted as a basis
for adjudication.” (Savaglio v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 588, 596 (Savaglio), citing NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV),
Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1208-1209, fn. 25.) 
Therefore, before a trial court orders a record sealed, it
must hold a hearing and make express findings set forth in California Rules of
Court, rule 2.550, subdivision (d): (1) there exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) the overriding
interest supports sealing the record; (3) a substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) the
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) no less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest. (Savaglio, supra, at p. 596;
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).) A court’s order allowing documents
to be filed under seal must contain express factual findings establishing these
five factors. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).)  
Here, the Judgment
Debtors, Orizaba, and the assignee of the judgment all stipulated to the
sealing of: “The Appointment Order, the July 2 Amendment, the ex parte
application for contempt filed by the Receiver and order that was entered on or
about July 9, 2024, and all financial data (including without limitation any
purported financial statements and any tax returns) or confidential data of
Judgment Debtor or any Non-Party in the Litigation…” (Mot., Beehler
Decl. ¶¶ 5-6, Ex A.) Additionally, the documents contain personal identifiable
information, bank account information, and information regarding assets of
Non-Parties. The Judgment Debtors argue that the parties’ interest in keeping this
information private outweighs the public’s right to access those records.
In opposition, the Receiver argues several
things. First, the Receiver contends that the Judgment Debtors have filed the
exact same documents in the same unredacted form in their filing of August 22,
2024. (Opp. pp. 2-3.) The Receiver argues that the filing by the Receiver which
Judgment Debtors seek to seal has been public in the Court’s website for 59
days, and yet they have not pointed to any actual harm that has come to them.
(Opp. p. 3.) The Receiver notes that corporations do not have a constitutional
right to privacy. (Opp. p. 4.) The Receiver claims to have complied with
California requirements under the California Rules of Court to redact all
social security numbers and financial account numbers. (Opp. p. 5.) The
Receiver argues that the settlement in this case was only reached pending a scheduled
hearing in which the Receiver intended to show that the third parties discussed
in the ex parte application were in fact associated with Judgment Debtors. (Opp.
p. 5.) The Receiver also argues that the request to seal is not narrowly tailored,
and gives as an example a paragraph in which information is redacted that comes
from publicly available websites, such as the California Secretary of State’s
website and other “readily available entity and real estate records,” including
registration with the Secretary State, Statements of Information, and forfeiture.
(Opp. pp. 6-7.) 
In their jointly filed reply, the Judgment Debtors, Orizaba, and the assignee of the judgment argue
that the Receiver has “zero reason to oppose the Motion other than presumably
to incur additional fees and costs.” They argue that the Receiver does not have
standing to oppose the motion because the Judgment has been satisfied and thus
the limited purpose of the receivership has been resolved. (Reply, pp. 2-3.) Next,
they argue that the Judgment Debtors and the Original Judgment Creditor has
stipulated to sealing the relevant documents. (Reply p. 3.) They also argue
that Mr. Nissani and his wife are entitled to their privacy and the third-party
entities are entitled to a limited right to privacy, applicable here, and that the
“Receiver has provided no supported evidence or explanation as to why the
public has any interest in such information.” (Reply, pp. 4-5.) They contend
that whatever the procedural posture of this motion, the Receiver has not
confirmed its suspected relationship between the third parties and the Judgment
Debtors. (Reply, p. 5.) Finally, they argue that the Receiver’s argument that
Judgment Debtors re-filed certain documents which they seek to seal is irrelevant
and has nothing to do with the merits of the motion. (Reply, p. 5.)
The Court concludes
that the Judgment Debtors misconstrue the high bar under California to seal documents,
and finds that they have not met it. 
First, whether or
not there is any opposition to a motion to seal, and thus whether or not the Receiver
has “standing” to oppose this joint request, the Court has an obligation to
examine the application and to strictly comply with California Rule of Court,
rule 2.550 et seq. 
Second, the Rules
of Court expressly state that “[t]he court must not permit a record to be filed
under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of the parties.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.551 subd. (a); McNair v. National Collegiate Athletic
Assn (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 25, 35 [“More than a mere agreement of the
parties to seal documents filed in a public courtroom is needed.” (Cleaned up)].)

Third, the moving
party has reversed the burden of proof. It is the moving party’s obligation to show
that “[t]here exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public
access to the record,” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550 subd. (d),) not an
opposing party’s burden to show that the public has an interest in the information
proposed to be redacted. 
Fourth, in
connection with the moving party’s obligation above, the court also must find
that the overriding interest supports sealing the record, that a substantial probability
exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not
sealed, that the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored, and that no less restrictive
means exist to achieve the overriding interest. (Ibid.) 
Here, reviewing the
unredacted filing, it does appear that the social security numbers and bank
accounts have been redacted. Other than alluding generally to privacy in one’s
financial affairs, the risk of financial fraud and identity theft, no overriding
interest has been referenced by moving parties, and the Court does not see what
reasonable risk of financial fraud or identity theft exists if the social security
and bank account numbers have in fact been redacted. As for the privacy
interest generally, there has been an assertion made in the Opposition (not contradicted
in the reply) that much of this information in fact comes from publicly
available websites. The Court does not find that the requirements set forth
above have been met. (McNair, supra, 234 Cal.App.4th at p. 35 [“There
must be a specific showing of serious injury. Specificity is essential. Broad
allegations of harm, bereft of specific examples or articulated reasoning, are
insufficient.” (Cleaned up)].)
Fifth, the fact
that the declaration with all of the attachments was also filed by the Judgment
Debtor on August 22, 2024 in support of its motion to surcharge is not irrelevant
and does potentially relate to the merits. Obviously, if the documents
requested to be sealed have been filed in the public record by the moving
party, that is relevant to whether the documents are actually confidential or instead
are publicly available. (Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1278, 1284.) In Reply, the Judgment Debtors simply
ask that the relevant documents attached to the surcharge motion also be
redacted and/or sealed upon the granting of this motion. While that request likely
should have been made clear earlier than the final page of the reply brief, the
Court will not consider the request for confidentiality to have been waived.
However, for the other reasons set forth above, moving parties have still not met
their burden for either the original filing or the subsequent attachment.
Finally, the
proposed order does not meet the requirements of the Code, which require that
the order sealing an otherwise public filing make the specific findings above, “[s]pecifically
set forth the facts that support the findings,” and “direct the sealing of only
those documents and pages, or if reasonably practicable, portions of those
documents and pages that contain the material that needs to be placed under
seal.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subds. (d) and (e).) This is both so
that the Court’s obligation to make detailed findings can be ensured, and also
to ensure that the clerk of the court can properly place materials under seal. The
proposed order lodged by the moving parties in this case reflects their misunderstanding of their burden, or lack of compliance with the
requirements of the Code, or both, where it merely reads: “1. The motion is
granted; and 2. The Confidential Documents (as defined in the Motion) shall be
redacted and sealed from public view in the manner submitted by Judgment Debtors
to this Court.”
For
all these reasons, Judgment Debtors’ Motion to Seal is DENIED.
III. Conclusion
Judgment Debtors HTL Automative and
Hooman Nissani’s motion for an order sealing certain confidential documents
containing confidential financial information is DENIED.  