  Case Number:  21TRCV00278    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May 3, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   21TRCV00278
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Diane Stretch, et
al. v. Sierra Tuscon, et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants, Sierra Tucson and Acadia
Healthcare 
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiffs,
Diane Stretch, et al.  
 
TRIAL DATE:                        June 3, 2024  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Defendants, Sierra Tucson and Acadia Healthcare Motion to
Compel Deposition Testimony from Diane Stretch
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  ARGUE.  The Court finds itself at a
crossroads as to whether to order the deposition and allow the chips to fall
where they may, or whether to conditionally deny the motion on the conditions that
(A) Plaintiff Diana Stretch shall not be permitted to testify at trial, and (B)
the parties develop a stipulation as to how the finder of fact is to consider
her inability to testify in a fashion that will not unfairly prejudice the Defendants.   There
is no mental health care declaration attesting to the existence of lucid
intervals, memory for events from two years ago as opposed to more current
short-term memory, or other evidence from which most judges could fashion a
proper order here as to Diana’s competency to sit for a deposition under oath.  But the Court also has respect for witnesses
with serious cognitive decline and hopes to work out a resolution that respects
her dignity while guaranteeing fairness to the defendants facing a potential
jury award that could be tainted by unfair sympathy towards her.  
 
With the FSC looming 3 weeks away, the Court will be prepared to
take argument on the stipulation if the parties have not agreed to those
conditions by then.  The Court will
entertain oral argument at the hearing on this motion as to what damages Diana Stretch
is seeking that are not duplicative of the damages sought by the other plaintiffs.  But evidence that Diana may have been one of the
last people to have spoken with Decedent before the incident is reasonably discoverable,
whether Plaintiffs’ family members and counsel reasonably believe that her
memory cannot be trusted.   
 
 
The crux of the issues between the parties is whether Plaintiff,
Diane Stretch can provide  testimony at
her deposition. In California, a party is incompetent if he or she lacks the capacity to
understand the nature or consequences of the proceeding, or is unable to assist
counsel in the preparation of the case.  (In re Jessica G. (2001)
93 Cal.App.4th 1180, 1186.)  Section 372 of the Code of Civil Procedure
provides that when a person lacking legal capacity to make decisions is a
party, “that person shall appear either by a guardian or conservator of the
estate or by a guardian ad litem appointed by the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc.,
372, subd. (a)(1).) ¿ Section 373 of the Code of Civil Procedure provides, in
relevant part, that when a guardian ad litem is appointed, he or she shall be
appointed “if the person lacking legal competence to make decisions¿is a party
to an action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., 373, subd. (c).)
¿Incompetency may exist independently of any judicial determination
thereof.  (Sarracino v. Superior Court (1974) 13 Cal.3d 1, 12,
citing Olivera v. Grace (1942) 19 Cal.2d 570, 577.) 
 
Moving Defendants assert that Diane
Stretch is a critical witness because she allegedly spoke with decedent after
his discharge and prior to his suicide less than a day later. Further, Moving
Defendants also note that Diane Stretch’s claim for economic damages related to
the loss of earnings and loss of financial support from decedent necessitates
Diane Stretch’s deposition. Moving Defendants contend that they are entitled to
take Diane Stretch’s deposition for elaboration and clarification regarding her
damages claim, as well as her personal and financial relationship with Decedent.  Moving Defendants have requested that in the
alternative, the Court should preclude Diane Stretch from being a witness to
the case. 
 
Plaintiffs’ opposition contends
that Diane Stretch is incompetent to testify at a deposition or at trial.   The Opposition attaches medical reports regarding
Diane Stretch’s physical and mental status. This Court understands that Moving
Defendants have objected to this, and while it may be insufficient evidence of
certain matters at trial, the Court can rely on an insufficiently authenticated
medical records to consider this motion. Exhibit B of the Stephanie Stretch
Declaration indicates that the Neuropsychological Assessment Report found that at
her August 26, 2022 assessment, she revealed below-expectation performance
across aspects of verbal and nonverbal memory, as well as aspects of processing
speed, executive functioning, and daily skills testing. This August 26, 2022
assessment diagnosed her with mild cognitive impairment at the time. The
Exhibit B’s results and key findings indicate that the neuropsychologist found
below-expectation performance across most aspects of nonverbal and verbal
memory including: (1) visual attention; (2) an aspect of processing speed; (3)
aspects of verbal memory; (4) aspects of nonverbal memory; (5) aspects of
executive function; (6) an aspect of daily skills. However, the report also
found that Diane Stretch had areas of ability that were within expectation,
including: (1) auditory attention; (2) working memory (maintenance, manipulation);
(3) most aspects of information processing speed; (4) language (confrontation
naming, semantic fluency); (5) an aspect of nonverbal memory (cued
recognition); (6)an aspect of verbal memory (learning); (7) visuospatial
functioning (reproduction, mental rotation, construction); (8) most aspects of
executive functioning (verbal abstract reasoning, letter fluency, motor
set-shifting, basic health and safety judgment; and (9) most aspects of daily
skills (time, money and calculation, communication.) 
 
            California Evidence Code states that a person “is
disqualified to be a witness if he or she is (1) [i]ncapable of expressing
himself or herself concerning the matter so as to be understood, either
directly or through interpretation by one who can understand him; or (2)
[i]ncapable of understanding the duty of a witness to tell the truth.” (Evid.
Code, § 701.) The burden of proof is on the party who objects to the
proffered witness. (People v. Anderson (2001) 25 Cal.4th 543, 573.)
Plaintiff has offered a physician’s note as viewed Exhibit C to
the Stephanie Stretch Declaration, which is a letter from Ruth Morin, Ph.D. who
is a Clinical Neuropsychologist at Hoag Neurosciences. In her letter, Dr. Morin
indicates that: “In light of cognitive test performance below expectation
across multiple domains with some declines compared to prior assessment, in
combination with reported and observed functional decline, the current
neuropsychological profile is considered to be conservative consistent with a
Major Neurocognitive Disorder (i.e., dementia). Given the amnestic memory
profile, cerebrovascular risk factors (e.g., history of TIA, hypertension,
hyperlipidemia, and prediabetes), neuroimaging evidence of mild ischemic changes,
and mixed etiology with vascular/mesial temporal dysfunction contribution are
likely.”
            Plaintiffs’ evidence does not set
forth the doctor’s qualifications to be providing opinion as to this matter (as
to the ability to provide deposition testimony, specifically), nor do the notes
indicate whether that doctor, who did provide the tests run on Diane Stretch,
findings, etc. to make her findings, believes that Diane Stretch’s diagnosis
would make her unable to provide deposition testimony. The findings include
that Diane Stretch met the expectations of “working memory” amongst numerous
other categories. This Court, thus, wonders whether the questions sought to be
asked during deposition would be the kind that is of those portions of the test
that were within expectation. 
Here, because of the relevancy of Diane Stretch’s
testimony, this Court notes that the declaration of an expert as to Diane
Stretch’s ability to provide deposition testimony would have been more
persuasive.  But there is no such
competent evidence before the Court, other than her daughter’s lay opinion and
specific instances of recent memory foibles. 

            Alternatively, the parties seem to
be in agreement that Diane Stretch not be allowed to present testimony at
trial. The Court will take oral argument at the hearing as outlined above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 