 Case Number:  24TRCV00403    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling  HEARING DATE:                 May 3, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV00403   CASE NAME:                        Tatiana McNeal;  Yolanda Johnson v. Graceway, LLC, et al.     MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendants, Graceway, LLC                                                    RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Plaintiffs, Tatiana McNeal and Yolanda Johnson  TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.  MOTION:                             (1) Defendant’s Demurrer                                                   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Defendant’s Demurrer is  SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED in part, with 30 days leave to amend.            I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual   On February 5, 2024, Plaintiffs, Tatiana McNeal and  Yolanda Johnson (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against  Defendants, Graceway, LLC and DOES 1 through 20. The Complaint alleges causes  of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Implied Warranty of  Habitability/Tenantability; (3) Breach of Implied Warranty of Quiet Enjoyment;  (4) Negligence; and (5) Nuisance.     Defendant, Graceway, LLC (“Defendant”) now files a  demurrer to the Complaint.    B. Procedural               On  March 26, 2024, Defendant filed a Demurrer. On April 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed  an opposition brief. On April 26, 2024, Defendant filed a reply brief.     II. GROUNDS FOR MOTIONS               Defendant demurs to the Complaint on the grounds that it  argues Plaintiff’s Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth causes of action are  time-barred, duplicative, and/or uncertain.        III. ANALYSIS    A.     Legal  Standard    A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects  that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside  the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39  Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts  sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might  eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be  alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53  Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of  action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry  v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does  not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v.  Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)   A pleading is uncertain if it is  ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer  for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders  the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to  respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d  135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,  even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can  be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of  California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)    B.      Discussion   Statute  of Limitations Issue               As to each of the Second, Third,  Fourth, and Fifth causes of action, Defendant argues that the causes of action  are time-barred. For each cause of action at issue, the statute of limitations  is two (2) years.                Here, Plaintiffs have alleged numerous dates of  notification as to different issues allegedly present in their unit. In fact,  regarding the mold growth, water leak, and heating outage, Plaintiff has pleaded  notice of such issues as recently as February 1, 2023 to August 2023.  Defendant correctly identifies allegations  such as those in ¶ 48 where Plaintiffs allege “from March 2020 to present” ¶ 10  which alleges that “in or around March 2020, Plaintiffs began notifying  Defendants of a putrid odor . . . .”  The  Opposition acknowledges that complaints reported early in the tenancy might be  time-barred as to damages allegedly sustained outside the limitations period, but  for purposes of the pleading stage they allege a continuous accrual theory. Under  the continuous accrual doctrine, each breach of a recurring obligation is  independently actionable. (Aryeh v. Canon Business Solutions, Inc.  (2013) 55 Cal.4th 1185, 1192.)  This  doctrine provides that “a series of wrongs or injuries may be viewed as each  triggering its own limitations period, such that a suit for relief may be  partially time-barred as to older events but timely as to those within the  applicable limitations period.”   (Id.)  If Plaintiff pleads and  proves all the elements of a claim–wrongdoing, harm, and causation, each may be  treated as an independently actionable wrong with its own time limit for  recovery.  This means some claimed  damages may be outside of the statutory period but others may proceed past the  demurrer stage.  In contrast, the  continuing violation doctrine aggregates a series of wrongs or injuries for  purposes of the statute of limitations, treating the limitations period as  accruing for all of them upon commission or sufferance of the last of them. (Richards  v. CH2M Hill, Inc. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 798, 811–818.)  Plaintiff argues the former doctrine, not the  latter, on the facts of this case.                 As pleaded, the Complaint alleges  ongoing, repeated or continuous accrual such that the causes of action  challenged on this Demurrer are not barred by the applicable statute of  limitations.  At later stages in this  case and trial Plaintiffs will likely be limited in the damages they can  recover to only those falling within the limitations period for each cause of  action, but at the pleading stage the claims pass muster as to this demurring  ground. Thus, Defendant’s Statute of Limitations argument as to each of the four  causes of action at issue in this Demurrer is overruled.    Breach  of Implied Warranty of Habitability/Tenantability   Defendant next argues  that Plaintiffs’ second cause of action for Breach of Implied Warranty of  Habitability/Tenantability fails. To establish a breach of the implied warranty  of habitability, Plaintiffs must establish (1) “the existence of a material  defective condition affecting the premises’ habitability,” (2) “notice to the  landlord of the condition within a reasonable time after the tenant’s discovery  of the condition,” (3) “the landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the  deficiency, and” (4) “resulting damages.” (Erlach  v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.)    First, Defendant  argues that Plaintiffs’ Breach of Implied Warranty of  Habitability/Tenantability claim fails as a matter of law because it is  duplicative of Plaintiffs’ Breach of Contract claim. Defendant contends that  Plaintiffs’ attempt to assert this cause of action under both contractual and  tort theory should not be permitted.    This Court notes that  the second cause of action is quite similar to that of the first cause of  action for Breach of Contract. For example, Plaintiffs have alleged: “Each  violations indicate Defendant failed to perform under the contract and  substantially failed to comply with those applicable civil codes, building and  safety codes, case law, and housing code standards that materially affected Plaintiffs’  welfare, and safety as well as their ability to quietly enjoy the Property,  which they were promised contractually by Defendants.” (Complaint, ¶ 39.) However, this Court also notes  that Plaintiffs have alleged: “…these violations were all material breaches of  implied warranties of habitability and the lease agreement itself and rendered  the property legally uninhabitable with a rental value of zero from at least  March 2020 to present.” (Complaint, ¶ 41.) Thus, it does appear that Plaintiff has  vaguely attempted to state causes of action for both contractual and implied  breach of warranty of habitability.  Are  these duplicate theories of recovery or not?      There  is “a common law implied warranty of habitability in residential leases in  California....” (Green v. Superior Court (1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 619.) There  also is a statutory claim by residential tenants that a landlord breached its obligation  under Civil Code section 1941 to keep residential property in “a condition fit  for [human] occupation, and repair all subsequent dilapidations thereof.”  Of course, the same act may give rise to both  causes of action, i.e., a breach of contract and a tort, such as where it is  alleged that the defendant performed its contractual duty in a negligent  manner.  “When such a hybrid cause of  action arises, the plaintiff may pursue both legal theories of recovery until  an occasion for an election of remedies arises.”  (Perry v. Robertson (1988) 201  Cal.App.3d 333, 340.)     The  remedies for a contractual breach and a tortious breach of the implied warranty  of habitability differ: the remedy for a contractual breach is simply the  difference between actual rent and reasonable rent, while the remedy for a  tortious breach can include damages for “annoyance or discomfort or for injury  to [] personal property.” (Erlach, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at  1297-99.) The Court’s view is that because the implied warranty of habitability  offers different damages, it is conceivable that lawsuit if properly pleaded  could maintain such a cause of action separately form a breach of contract or  breach of statutory duties cause of action.   Here, however, there is sufficient vagueness and ambiguity as to the  nature of the claim and the labels for the different causes of action that the Court  will SUSTAIN the Demurrer on uncertainty grounds with 30 days leave to  amend.  In an amended pleading,  Plaintiffs must ensure that each element to each separate cause of action is  properly pleaded. For example, Plaintiffs’ general allegations and negligence  cause of action include the assertion that notice was provided to the landlord,  but this is notice is not pleaded under the second cause of action, nor is the  element of reasonable time to correct the claimed defect.  A more certain pleading would also specify  what codes or what statutory requirements are alleged to have been violated,  e.g., the failure to provide the specifically enumerated standard of Civil Code  §1941.1(a)(3) to provide hot and cold running water.      Breach  of Implied Warranty of Quiet Enjoyment    Next, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s third  cause of action for Breach of Implied Warranty of Quiet Enjoyment fails. The  elements of a claim for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment are: (1) a  lease agreement between plaintiff and defendant; (2) absence of language  contrary to the implied covenant that tenant shall have quiet enjoyment and  possession; (3) act or omission of the landlord, or anyone claiming under the  landlord, which “substantially interfere[s] with a tenant[’]s right to use and  enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy”; and (4) an  applicable remedy. (See Andrews v. Mobile  Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 588-591.)   Defendant makes the exact same arguments as  above about this third cause of action. As to the duplication of the breach of  contract cause of action, the Court notes, as it did above, that although the  alleged misconduct appears to be the same, the legal theories are different. As  such, this Court overrules the Demurrer based on this argument.    Defendant also argues that this cause of  action, as pleaded, is uncertain. Defendant bases this argument on the fact  that Plaintiffs have plead allegation such as: “obligations under the case laws  and codes of Los Angeles, and the State of California,” and “unfit for human  occupation in that it substantially failed to comply with those applicable  codes, building and safety codes, case law, and housing code standards.”  This Court notes that to sustain a demurrer on  the basis of uncertainty, a Defendant would not be able to gather what is being  alleged against them on the face of the pleadings. Here, the general  allegations section for the Complaint, which has been incorporated into the  third cause of action by reference, only amorphously mentions the civil codes  and health and safety codes.  Thus, the  Court does agree that a more certain pleading would be required to specify what  codes or what statutory requirements are alleged to have been violated, or what  other factual grounds or basis exists for the trier of fact to finds that the  Plaintiffs’ quiet enjoyment of the rental premises has been breached.   Thus,  this Court SUSTAINS demurrer with thirty (30) days leave to amend.    Negligence   In order to state a claim for negligence,  Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of  care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an  injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific,  LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) Here, however, Defendant does not  demur as to insufficient allegations. Instead, Defendant merely argues that  Plaintiff’s cause of action is time-barred. As noted above, this Court  disagrees. Thus Demurrer is OVERRULED as to this cause of action.    Nuisance   Again,  Defendant argues this cause of action is time-barred. The Court has noted it  disagrees. However, Defendant also argues that this cause of action should be  sustained on demurrer because it is uncertain as to whether a public or private  nuisance is being asserted. To establish an action for private nuisance, (1)  “the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of his  property”; (2) “the invasion of the plaintiff’s interest in the use and  enjoyment of the land must be substantial, that is, that it causes the  plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage”; (3) “the interference with the  protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be  unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or amount as to  constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.” (Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners,  LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263, citations, italics, brackets, and quotation  marks omitted.) Further, public nuisances are “substantial and unreasonable”  “offenses against, or interferences with, the exercise of rights common to the  public.” (County of Santa Clara v.  Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 305.)   The  Court agrees that Plaintiffs have not identified  whether this is a cause of action for private nuisance or public nuisance or  both. However, nothing in Plaintiffs’ Complaint appears to be making a cause of  action for public nuisance. Instead, Plaintiffs assert that: (1) Each condition  which was allowed to exist on the property was an obstruction to the free use  of the Property and interfered with the comfortable enjoyment of life and or  property (Compliant, ¶ 67); and  (2) that  the conditions and failure to cure them substantially interfered with the use  and enjoyment of the property (Complaint, ¶ 68). However, as to the element of  unreasonableness, as noted above, the unreasonableness of the interference must  be of such a nature, duration, or amount as to constitute unreasonable  interference with the use and enjoyment.   (Mendez, supra, 3 Cal.App.5th  at 262-263.) However, Plaintiffs allege that they suffered unreasonable  annoyance over the course of their tenancy. An unreasonable annoyance is an  insufficient allegations.   Why did the litany of alleged issues in the  apartment become a nuisance?  How long  did it or they occur? How was their use and enjoyment disturbed? Did they have  to move out because of the mold? Were workers consistently in and out of the  apartment? Did they get sick whenever being inside for a certain amount of  hours? More information will be needed to sufficiently plead this cause of  action.    As  such, the demurrer is SUSTAINED as to this cause of action with thirty (30)  days leave to amend.    IV. CONCLUSION   For the  foregoing reasons, Defendant’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED in  part   Defendant  is ordered to give notice.   