 Case Number:  22TRCV01128    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May 3, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV01128
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Maurice Stephenson v. Leo Ramsey, et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 (1) Plaintiff,
Maurice Stephenson
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        (1) Defendant, Leo Ramsey
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        February 24, 2025
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Leo Ramsey’s Responses to Demand for
Production of Documents, Set One
                                                (2) Request for
Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion to Compel Leo
Ramsey’s Responses to Demand for Production
of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. 
Verified written responses are ordered to be served by Ramsey on
Plaintiff’s counsel on or before May 24, 2024, together
with legible copies of responsive documents.
                                                (2) Request for monetary
sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $2,500
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿
On November 3, 2022,
Plaintiff, Maurice Stephenson (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, Leo Ramsey, Federal and State Income Tax Services, LLC, and DOES 1
through 50. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Breach
of Oral Contract; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3) Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (4) Intentional Misrepresentation; (5)
Intentional Misrepresentation; (6) Unjust Enrichment; (7) Negligence; (8)
Declaratory Relief; and (9) Unfair Business Practices in Violation of Business
and Professions Code § 17200, et seq.
 
Plaintiff’s
moving papers assert that on August 28, 2023, he propounded the second set of
Requests for Production of Documents on Defendant, Leo Ramsey (“Ramsey”).
Plaintiff notes that responses were due on October 5, 2023. Plaintiff further
asserts that on September 21, 2023, Defense Counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel
to request an extension of time until October 30, 2023, which was granted. Nonetheless,
Plaintiff contends that on November 10, 2023 and October 25, 2023, that he did
not receive any communication from Defendant’s counsel requesting any
additional extension to respond. After not receiving any responses, Plaintiff’s
counsel contends he contacted Defense counsel via letter on December 29, 2023
to inquire about the missing responses. However, since then, Plaintiff informed
this Court at the previous hearing that no communications have been had from
Defense Counsel regarding the failure to serve any responses or production to
those outstanding discovery requests. As such, Plaintiff brought this motion to compel initial responses
to discovery. 
¿ 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On February 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed this
motion to compel. On March 18, 2024, counsel for Defendant, who was in the process
of seeking leave to withdraw as defense counsel, filed a declaration in
response which sought additional time for Defendant to provide responses while the
motion for him to be relieved was pending. 
  
 
On March 29, 2024, this Court
briefly heard this motion, gave defendant additional time to seek new counsel,
and indicated that if responses were provided in the intervening time the
motion to compel would be mooted.   Since then, on April 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a sur-reply in support of his motion to compel, which indicates that he still
has not received any responsive documents or a written response to the RFP. 
 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Motion
to Compel 
 
Where there has been no timely response to a Code
of Civil Procedure § 2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300.) Failure to timely respond waives all
objections, including privilege and work product. Thus, unless the party to
whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise
objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to
compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not
attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion. Where the
motion seeks only a response to the inspection demand, no showing of "good
cause" is required. 
B.   
Discussion
 
In Plaintiff’s Surreply filed on April 26, 2024,
Plaintiff noted that he still has not received any responses or document
production from Defendant, Leo Ramsey in response to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Set To, which were served to Defendant on August 28,
2023. Likewise, Plaintiff notes that he has not received any communication
related to Requests for Production of Documents, Set 2 from Defendant Ramsey or
his counsel Rober Moss prior to Moss being relieved as counsel by this Court. 
 
Plaintiff also notes that he is not seeking
discovery sanctions related to this Request for Production of Documents, Set
Two against Moss or the Law Offices of Robert M. Moss, Inc., only Defendant
Ramsey. 
 
As noted by this Court, the two-week extension of
time to find new counsel has expired. Nonetheless, Plaintiff has informed this
Court that it still has not received any response from Defendant. Here, this
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production
of Documents, Set Two.  A verified
written is order to be served by self-represented defendant Ramsey on or before
May 24, 2024, together with legible photocopies of any responsive documents identified
and to be produced.  
 
Sanctions
Here,
Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $5,065. Sanctions
are mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories
and requests for production of documents against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel.¿¿(CCP. §§ 2030.290(c),¿2030.300(d),¿2031.300(c),¿and
2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are not mandatory if the court “finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿¿(Id.) 
            Plaintiff’s
sanction amount is based on Plaintiff’s counsel claiming the attorneys’ hourly
rates are both $385, and spent six (6) hours of time preparing and revising the
motion; four (4) hours of billable time in reviewing any opposition; (3) hours
to review the opposition and prepare a reply brief, and to prepare for oral
argument; and a $60 filing fee. This Court notes that six (6) hours to prepare
an initial discovery motion is a bit excessive in the Court’s experience.
Further, this Court notes that no opposition brief was filed. As such, this
Court lowers the amount of sanctions to $2,500. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice. 
 
 
 
 
 