 Case Number:  23VECV01049    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  T 23VECV01049 JONATHAN  ALVAREZ vs DANIEL J. MCGUIRE Please note: In the future, the  court will not accept multiple motions to compel in one document.  Each motion to compel must be separately  filed with its own separate statement and with a separate fee. Additionally, Mr. McGuire is  advised: All papers shall be sent to the Clerk’s office/filing window for  filing and not to Department T. TENTATIVE RULING: DEFENDANT'S  DISCOVERY MOTIONS Defendant’s motion to compel  further responses to RFA, set 1: No. 3 – Grant, further verified  answer within 20 days The remainder are denied and the  objections are sustained. Defendant’s motion to compel  further response and production to RFP, set 1: If the court denies the motion,  it is sustaining the objections. 5.           Grant, further verified Code Compliant responses and  production due within 20 days. 9.           Grant, further verified Code Compliant responses and  production due within 20 days. 19.        Grant, further verified Code Compliant responses and  production due within 20 days. 60.        Grant, further verified Code Compliant responses and  production due within 20 days. 61.        Grant, further verified Code Compliant responses and  production due within 20 days. 62.        Grant, further verified Code Compliant responses and  production due within 20 days. The remainder are denied and the  objections are sustained. Defendant’s motion to compel  further responses to Special Interrogatories, set 1: Nos. 17 and 18 – Grant, further  verified answer within 20 days The remainder are denied and the  objections are sustained. Defendant’s motion to compel  further responses to Form Interrogatories, set 1: Deny.   The separate statement is  deficient and fails to comply with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(c)  when there was a response given.   Furthermore, as to the remainder, the motion is without merit. Monetary sanctions: Deny.   The majority of the motions were  denied and were filed without substantial justification. Also, one motion was  entirely denied on procedural grounds.   Finally, just as self-represented attorneys cannot recover monetary  sanctions for their own time, so cannot a self employed paralegal. [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Daniel McGuire’s Demurrer to the
First Amended Complaint is MOOT in Part and OVERRULED in Part.  The demurrer is MOOT as to the first cause of
action and otherwise OVERRULED as to the remaining causes of action.

Plaintiff Jonathan Alvarez is
ordered to file a request for dismissal as to the first cause of action
only.  

Defendant to answer the first
amended complaint within 10 days.

Introduction 

Defendant Daniel McGuire
(Defendant) demurred to Plaintiffs Jonathan Alvarez (Alvarez) and Tomas
Leocadio’s (Leocadio) (collectively, Plaintiffs) First Amended Complaint
(FAC).  Defendant placed into issue the
first cause of action (COA) for conversion only alleged by Alvarez, the second
COA for assault, the third COA for Civil Code section 51.7 (Ralph Civil Rights
Act (Ralph Act)) violation, the fourth COA for Civil Code section 52.1 (Tom
Bane Civil Rights Act (Bane Act)), the fifth COA for intentional infliction of
emotional distress (IIED), and sixth COA for negligence.

Discussion  

The function of a demurrer is to
test the sufficiency of the pleading. 
(E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Services (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308,
1315–1316.)  For purposes of a demurrer,
the factual allegations in the pleading are deemed true however improbable they
may be.  It is not the function of a
demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the pleading.  (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584,
591.)  A demurrer is limited to the
defects that appear on the face of the pleading or from matters that are judicially
noticeable; no other extrinsic evidence or facts can be considered.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318;
Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881.)  

Plaintiff Alvarez submitted that
the parties entered a stipulation on October 16, 2023 whereby Plaintiff Alvarez
is not claiming economic/property damages. 
Plaintiff Alvarez no longer seeks to prosecute the first COA.  Per Plaintiff Alvarez, the demurrer to the
first COA for conversion is MOOT.

As to the second COA for assault,
the fifth COA for IIED, and the sixth COA for negligence, Defendant’s argument
is based upon additional facts not found in the four corners of the FAC and
based upon affirmative defenses and/or denials to the alleged misconduct.  However, these arguments are not proper for
demurrer in that they rely upon facts not alleged in the FAC and not judicial
noticeable.  Further, disputes as to the
veracity of the claims or excuses/defenses are also not proper for a
demurrer.  The allegations as to
Defendant’s unconsented attack upon Plaintiffs using threats to kill as to
Alvarez, use of an axe as to Alvarez, destroying Alvarez’s umbrella and fruits
and equipment, threats as to both Plaintiffs, racial slurs as to both
Plaintiffs, and physical intimidation as to both Plaintiffs are sufficient to
support the assault, IIED, and negligence claims.  (FAC pars. 11-36, 53-63.)

The demurrer to the second COA
for assault, the fifth COA for IIED, and the sixth COA for negligence is
OVERRULED.

As to the third COA for violation
of the Ralph Act, the allegations above described are sufficient to support the
elements to allege a Ralph Act violation: 
“1) That defendant committed a violent act against plaintiff or his
property; 2) That a substantial motivating reason for defendant’s conduct was
his perception of plaintiff’s race, … ancestry, national origin, … ; 3) That
plaintiff was harmed; and 4) That defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor
in causing plaintiff’s harm.”  (CACI no.
3063.)  More specifically, Plaintiffs
alleged that Defendant “espoused racial epithets and other xenophobic
commentary about Mexicans, the Latino community, and immigrants ... including
his attacks” on the Plaintiffs.  (FAC
par. 20.)  Defendant’s threats of
violence against Plaintiffs were alleged to be based upon Plaintiffs’ race,
ancestry, and/or national origin.  (FAC
pars. 14, 38, and 41.)  Defendant’s
conclusory contention that the FAC failed to allege sufficient facts to support
the COA is unfounded.

The demurrer to the third COA for
violation of the Ralph Act is OVERRULED.

The pleading elements of the
fourth COA for violation of the Bane Act are: 
“1) That by threats, intimidation or coercion, defendant caused
plaintiff to reasonably believe that if he exercised his [Federal or State Constitutional
or statutory] rights, defendant would commit violence against him or his
property and that defendant had the apparent ability to carry out the threats;
or 1) defendant acted violently against plaintiff and plaintiff’s property to
prevent him from exercising his [Federal or State Constitutional or statutory]
rights or to retaliate against plaintiff for having exercised his  [Federal or State Constitutional or
statutory] rights; 2) That defendant intended to deprive plaintiff of his
enjoyment of the interests protected by [his Federal or State Constitutional or
statutory] rights; 3) That plaintiff was harmed; and 4) That defendant’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.”  (CACI no. 3066.)  As reviewed above, threats of violence and
acts of violence are sufficiently alleged. 
Plaintiffs further alleged that Defendant’s act of violence prevent them
from exercising their rights under the California Constitution and Civil Code
section 43 – right to “enjoying and defending life and liberty, acquiring,
possessing, and protecting property, and pursuing and obtaining safety,
happiness, and privacy” and “right of protection from bodily restraint or harm,
from personal insult.”  (FAC par. 47.)  Despite Defendant’s contention otherwise,
Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged rights that Defendant interfered with.  The Demurrer is not persuasive.

The demurrer to the fourth COA
for violation of the Bane Act is OVERRULED.  