 Case Number:  23VECV02505    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  T 23VECV02505 LIEL LEVI vs
KEYES HYUNDAI OF VAN NUYS
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Hyundai Motor America and Keyes
Hyundai of Van Nuys’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay the Action is
DENIED.  Defendants Hyundai Motor America
and Keyes Hyundai of Van Nuys are ORDERED to file their response to the
Verified Complaint within 20 days.  
Defendants Hyundai Motor America
and Keyes Hyundai of Van Nuys’s Request for Judicial Notice of the Complaint is
GRANTED but not as to facts in dispute or hearsay.
Introduction 
Defendants Hyundai Motor America
(HMA) and Keyes Hyundai of Van Nuys (Keyes) (collectively, Defendants) moved to
compel arbitration and stay Plaintiff Liel Levi’s (Plaintiff) action.  
Procedure
Defendants objected to the
untimely filing of the Reply.  The Reply
was due on December 6, 2023 and was electronically filed/served a day
late.  Despite Defendants’ contention otherwise,
Defendants had sufficient time to review the reply prior to the hearing.  The reply was not overly complicated and only
seven pages long.  Defendants had three
court days and five calendars to review the reply prior to the hearing
date.  Because prejudice to Defendants is
not seen, the Court exercised its discretion and considered the merits of the
reply.
Plaintiff argued that Defendants
never demanded arbitration prior to filing the instant motion.  However, nothing in the alleged arbitration
agreement required any party to make a prior demand.  The argument is not persuasive for failure to
show any alleged contractual obligation to make a prior demand.
Discussion  
The moving party must prove by a
preponderance of evidence the existence of the arbitration agreement and that
the dispute is covered by the agreement. The burden then shifts to the opposing
party to prove by a preponderance of evidence a ground for denial.  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413-414.)   
Keyes provided a copy of the
Motor Vehicle Lease Agreement (Lease) (Ali Ameripour (Ameripour) Decl. par. 4,
Exh. 2, pg. 8.) The Court notes that the Verified Complaint expressly alleged
that the Vehicle was “purchased” and Plaintiff did not allege any lease of the
Vehicle.  (Compl. pars. 15-17.)  However, Plaintiff’s opposition did not
dispute or object to Defendant’s contention and evidence showing the Vehicle
was actually leased.  Because Plaintiff
did not dispute Defendant’s contention of a Lease, the Court reviewed the
matter under the Lease which included an arbitration agreement and was signed
by Plaintiff.  The Lease showed
Plaintiff’s leasing of the Hyundai Sonata (Vehicle) at issue based upon the
fact that the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) stated in the Lease is
identical to the VIN alleged in the Verified Complaint.  (Compl. par. 16.)  Plaintiff alleged that the Vehicle’s engine
would stall and shut down while Plaintiff was operating it.  (Compl. pars. 21-29.)  The claim as to the defective engine are seen
to be within the scope of the arbitration agreement in the Lease because the
arbitration agreement is broadly worded to include a claim or dispute “arising
under or relating to … the Leased Vehicle.” 
Keyes sufficiently met its initial burden on the motion to show the
existence of an arbitration agreement and that the dispute is within the scope
of the arbitration agreement.  The burden
transferred to Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s Opposition did not present any
argument or facts to dispute the enforcement of the Lease’s Arbitration
Agreement.  The Court finds good cause to
grant Keyes’ motion to compel arbitration and stay the action.  
HMA asserted two separate
arbitration agreements to compel arbitration. 
HMA cited to the arbitration agreement found in the “2022 Owner’s
Handbook and Warranty Information” (Handbook or Warranty) (Ameripour Decl., par.
5, Exh. 3), as well as the Lease’s arbitration agreement reviewed above.  The Handbook was not a signed agreement nor
does HMA submit evidence to show Plaintiff’s consent to the Handbook.  HMA argued that the Complaint presumed  the existence of the Handbook but to the
contrary, the court does not find any allegations in the Complaint which infers
the existence, receipt, knowledge of, or acceptance/consent to the
Handbook.  Further, a presumption or
inference is not considered admissible evidence.  HMA argued that Plaintiff consented to the
Handbook’s arbitration agreement through use of the Vehicle.  However and again, HMA failed to present any
admissible evidence to show that the Handbook was presented to Plaintiff prior
to the leasing of the Vehicle; to show that Plaintiff received the Handbook
prior to the leasing of the Vehicle; or to show that Plaintiff had any
knowledge of the arbitration agreement found at pages 14-16 of the 46-page
Handbook.  Without any admissible
evidence showing Plaintiff’s receipt of or knowledge of or consent to the
Handbook or the arbitration agreement within the Handbook, there is
insufficient showing of Plaintiff’s consent to arbitrate under the Handbook’s
arbitration agreement.  HMA’s argument
that an arbitration agreement exists based upon the Handbook is unpersuasive.  
HMA argued that they could
enforce the arbitration agreement in the Lease. 
However, HMA is not a contracting party or signatory to the Lease.  Despite not being a contracting party, HMA
argued that they can still enforce the Lease arbitration agreement under
theories of equitable estoppel or third-party beneficiary.  However, equitable estoppel is inapplicable
because Plaintiff is not taking advantage of the Lease’s substantive terms
while avoiding the arbitration requirements. 
The causes of action (COA), inclusive of the eighth COA for breach of
contract, are not founded on the Lease terms. 
Plaintiff’s COAs are based upon HMA’s statutory obligations to reimburse
consumers or replace vehicles when unable to repair in accordance with its
warranty.  Further, the Lease does not
include a warranty, nor any assurance regarding the quality of the vehicle
leased, nor any promise of repairs or other remedies in the event problems
arise.  The Lease actually disavows any
warranty on the part of Keyes.  The Lease
terms only relate to the leasing of the Vehicle and Plaintiff’s obligation to
pay.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s COAs are not
founded on the Lease.  
The Court notes that HMA cited to
Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486 (Felisilda).  The Court disagrees with the Felisilda
opinion, as reviewed above.
HMA’s argument based upon
third-party beneficiary theory is also unpersuasive.  The arbitration agreement in the Lease did
not directly benefit HMA because HMA is not the Lessor or the Lessor’s
employees, agents, successors, or assigns. 
There was no motivating purpose in the Lease to benefit HMA.  The intent of the parties was to lease the
vehicle.  Lastly, to allow HMA to enforce
the arbitration agreement as a third-party beneficiary is inconsistent with the
reasonable expectation of Plaintiff and Keyes since the right to arbitrate was
limited to Plaintiff and Keyes.  HMA’s
argument as to third-party beneficiary is unpersuasive.  
HMA failed to provide persuasive
argument that they can enforce the arbitration agreement found in the Handbook
or the Lease.  HMA failed to meet its
initial burden on the motion.  Without
meeting its initial burden, there is insufficient grounds to grant HMA’s motion
to compel or stay.
In that Keyes can be ordered to
arbitrate the claims and HMA need not be ordered to arbitrate, the Court has
broad choices where one party is involved in litigation with a third party
arising out of the same transaction and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on common issues of law or fact. 
Plaintiff made the same claims against both Defendants based upon the
singular transaction wherein Plaintiff demanded reimbursement or replacement of
the Vehicle due to the Vehicle’s engine problems.  There is a possibility of conflicting rulings
on common issues of fact since the two proceedings involve the same
Vehicle.  As such, the Court (1) may
refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and may order intervention or
joinder of all parties in a single action or special proceeding; (2) may order
intervention or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order
arbitration among the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the
pending court action or special proceeding pending the outcome of the
arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the outcome of the
court action or special proceeding.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., sec. 1281.2(c) and (d)(1)-(4).)  The Court exercises its discretion to deny
Keyes’ request for arbitration and orders Keyes to defend this civil action. 
The Court noted that Plaintiff
asserted his indigency but no admissible evidence was submitted to support the
contention.  Because admissible evidence
was not presented on the contention, the Court did not consider Plaintiff’s
alleged indigency on this ruling.  
The motion to compel arbitration
and stay the action is DENIED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.