 Case Number:  22VECV01190    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  T 22VECV01190 CHRISTINE
FORRESTER, D.D.S. vs MOHAMAD ALI RESHAD
Tentative rulings
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Protective Order:
The court grants plaintiff's
motion for protective order in part as follows:  The deposition of the
plaintiff is to take place without additional production of documents in
advance (see separate order on motion to compel deposition).  Defense
counsel may ask on the record whether plaintiff has any additional documents
responsive to each request for production of documents in the deposition notice
other than what she may have produced before in response to the request for
production of documents.  If it turns out that plaintiff does have
additional documents responsive to the request for production listed in the
deposition notice, then after completion of the deposition, plaintiff is
ordered to produce those documents (except as to 20 – 48, 51, 64, 72, 73, 74)
and then present herself for a second session of deposition after producing
those documents.  No sanctions at this time as both plaintiff and
defendant prevailed in part.
Plaintiff’s motion to quash:
This motion seeks the same relief
as the motion for protective order and was unnecessary.  It is denied for
the reason that the court has granted the motion for protective order. 
Plaintiff is admonished for filing an unnecessary motion.
Defendant’s motion to
compel deposition of plaintiff and produce documents:
The court grant's defendant's motion
to compel deposition.  Plaintiff is to produce herself for a Zoom
conference deposition during normal business hours by 12/28/2023.  Parties
to work together to agree upon a date and time.  If they cannot agree, the
deposition will take place on 12/28/2023 at 9 a.m. by Zoom.  It was not
unreasonable for plaintiff to postpone the deposition until her motion for
protective order was heard, although she should have responded to defense
counsel to tell him that.  No sanctions as plaintiff’s motion for protective
order was granted thereby supporting the need to temporarily hold off on the
deposition.  Even so, the amount billed is out of proportion to what was
necessary for this motion.   Plaintiff and defendant each received
some benefit from this order.
Concerning the motion to produce
documents related to the deposition notice, that issue is addressed by the
court in ruling on plaintiff’s motion for protective order.