 Case Number:  LC107621    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  T LC107621 GOLF PROJECTS
LINDERO, INC. VS. LAKE LINDERO HOMEOWNERS ASSOC, et al.
Tentative rulings:
(1) Motion by GPL for
attorney fees:  No tentative ruling.  The court will hear argument.
Note: Counsel for LLHOA and
Lordon muses why no default was entered on their cross-complaints. As counsel
is aware, defaults are not entered spontaneously; they are entered after proof
of service has been filed and a Request for Entry of Default (Judicial Council
Form CIV-100 for mandatory use) is served and filed.  A review of the file
indicates that neither LLHOA nor Lordon filed a Request for Entry of Default on
their cross-complaints.
Oddly enough, counsel for LLHOA
has no explanation why there was a cross-complaint filed 9/26/2018 on behalf of
LLHOA and Lordon against GPL by Resnick & Louis PC, and then, without a
substitution of attorneys, another cross-complaint filed on 10/1/2028 on behalf
of LLHOA only against GPL by Wolk & Levine LLP.  It does not appear
that a Summons was issued on the second cross-complaint.  Thereafter, the
second cross-complaint filed 10/1/2018 was dismissed without prejudice on
10/16/2018.  The significance of that action is not addressed at this time
other than to say there was no cross-complaint during that time until a First
Amended Cross-Complaint was filed on 10/19/2018 by LLHOA only against GPL.
Despite the lack of an answer to the 10/19/2018 cross-complaint, it was
litigated vigorously by both LLHOA and GPL while filing multiple pleadings as
“cross-defendant” and “cross-complainant.”  Counsel for Lordon suggests
that Lordon’s cross-complaint filed on 9/26/2018 is still pending despite the
fact that it only refers to itself as a defendant and not a cross-complainant
on subsequent papers.  The court also questions the applicability of the
two substitution of attorney forms for LLHOA and Lordon, as they were not
signed by their outgoing counsel of record.  As of 8/17/2023, Myers,
Widden still represented both defendants. Lordon is still a defendant and there
has been no substitution out for it calling into question Mr. Labrum's
representation of it.  Hence, there are a number of technical defects
which are not fully explained.
(2) Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Lake Lindero Homeowners Association’s Motion to Strike and Tax Costs is DENIED.
Introduction 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lake
Lindero Homeowners Association (HOA) moved to strike and/or tax the Cost Memo
of Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Golf Projects Lindero (Golf).  HOA’s Notice to the Motion placed into issue Item
4, 5, 8(c), 11, 12(c), and 16.  
Discussion  
If an item of cost is expressly
allowed by statute and if items appear on their face to be proper, the verified
memorandum of costs is prima facie evidence of their propriety, shifting the
burden of proof to the objecting party to show that the items were unnecessary
or unreasonable. (Benach v. County of L.A. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 836,
855.)  In Item 4, Golf requested
Deposition Costs in the amount of $52,911.43. 
Taking, transcribing, and video recording “necessary” depositions is
allowed under Code of Civil Procedure, section 1033.5(a)(3).  The depositions are shown to be necessary and
reasonable because the persons deposed were witnesses to the events at
issue.  The identified deponents/witnesses
were Judee White, Bonnie Cimo, Terry Miller, D. Dinapoli, H. Cohen, Bonnie
Cimo, David Smith, Judge Alexander Williams, and Mark McLaughlin.  Golf met their prima facie burden and the
burden transferred to HOA to show that the costs were unnecessary or
unreasonable.  HOA argued that the costs
were excessive, unnecessary, and unreasonable but failed to present any
admissible evidence to support the contention. 
Where objections are based on factual matters (e.g., disputes as to
nature or amount of particular costs), the motion to strike must be supported
by declarations under penalty of perjury. (County of Kern v. Ginn (1983) 146
Cal.App.3d 1107, 1113-1114.)  HOA’s only
evidence in support is the declaration of Michael Labrum.  Mr. Labrum’s declaration is devoid of any
factual matters.  Mr. Labrum only
testimony that the costs were unreasonable, unnecessary, or excessive was a
single sentence that was conclusory and without supportive facts.  (Labrum Decl. par. 3.)  Because HOA failed to present any admissible
evidence to support its contention, HOA failed to meet its burden.
The motion to tax Item 4 is
DENIED.
As to Item 5 – Service of Process
in the amount of $10,750.79, the cost registered service of process is
authorized under the statute.  (Code Civ.
Proc., sec. 1033.5(a)(4).)  However, the
amounts charged for service of process ranged between $108.78 to as high as
$2,392.50.  On their face, the charges
appear to be excessive.  However, Golf
provided that the costs were higher because service of the deposition subpoenas
required personal service and the witnesses were evading service.  (Ilana Makovoz (Makovoz) Decl. pars.
13-14.)  Golf sufficiently explained the
grounds for the high costs in service and the burden to dispute the costs
transferred to HOA.  However, as stated
above, HOA failed to present any admissible evidence to support their
contention that the costs were excessive, unreasonable, or unnecessary.  The motion to tax the service of process
costs is unpersuasive.
Item 5 also included messenger
fees for documents/briefs delivered to the Court.  The messenger fees were in the amounts of
$678.63, $812.20, $338.61, and $112.04. 
Messenger fees are not expressly authorized by statute but can be
allowed in the discretion of the court. 
(Nelson v. Anderson (19999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 132.)  Because the documents/briefs were ordered to
be delivered upon the Court, the Court exercises its discretion to allow the
cost.  Golf presented evidence to explain
the excessive costs.  (Makovoz Decl. par.
15.)  On these grounds, the Court finds
the cost items to be proper on their face. 
The burden transferred to HOA but again HOA failed to present admissible
evidence to support its contention that the cost is excessive, unreasonable, or
unnecessary.
The motion to tax Item 5 is
DENIED.  
As to Item 8(c) – Court-Ordered
Expert Fees of Judge Alexander Williams in the amount of $7,540.00, the cost is
authorized under the statute.  (Code Civ.
Proc., sec. 1033.5(a)(7).)   The expert
fees are seen to be proper on their face. Because the cost is authorized under
statute and proper on its face, the burden shifted to HOA.  However, as reviewed above, Mr. Labrum’s
Declaration is insufficient to show that the cost is excessive, unreasonable,
or unnecessary.
The motion to tax Item 8(c) is
DENIED.
Item 11 Models, enlargements, and
copies of exhibits in the amount of $13,725.00 is authorized under the
statute.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.
1033.5(a)(13).)  The amount of costs appears
to be excessive but Golf provided explanation as to the excessive amount.  (Makovoz Decl. par. 23.)  Because Golf met its burden to explain the
amount of costs in photocopying, the burden transferred to HOA to dispute the
costs.  Mr. Labrum’s declaration failed
to present any admissible evidence to support their contention that the costs
were unreasonable, unnecessary, or excessive.
The motion to tax Item 11 is
DENIED.
Item 12(c)/Attachment 12(c)
requested Court Reporter Fees in the amount of $38,280.00.  Court reporter fees as established by statute
are authorized.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.
1033.5(a)(11).)  The amount of fees
appears to be excessive and the initial burden is upon Golf to show the
propriety of the cost.  Golf provided
their explanation for the excessive costs. 
(Makovoz Decl. pars. 2-6, 11.) 
Golf met their burden to justify the costs and the burden transferred to
HOA.  Again, Mr. Labrum’s declaration
failed to present any admissible evidence to support their contentions.
The motion to tax Item
12(c)/Attachment 12(c) is DENIED.
Golf requested in Item 16 Other
Costs the amount of $5,102.27.  The costs
included charges for a flash drive ordered by the Court for an evidentiary
hearing, parking fees, JAMS mediation fees, Court Call Fees, Court Connect
Fees, and Court Download Fees.  These
other costs can be authorized under the statute as an incident to prevailing
and reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation.  The breakdown in costs showed that the costs
are incidental to prevailing and reasonably necessary because the court either
ordered the item out of necessity or due to the COVID pandemic (i.e., flash
drive, court connect fees, court call fees, and court download fees).  Further, Golf asserted that the parking fees
were for witnesses to attend the evidentiary hearing as to HOA’s
misconduct.  (Makovoz Decl. pars. 21-22,
25.)  The JAMS mediation was shown to be
ordered by the Court and fees for court-ordered mediation are recoverable.  (Makovoz Decl. par. 17, Exh. 6.)  (Gibson v. Bobroff (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th
1202, 1209 n.7.)  Golf sufficiently
explained the necessity and reasonableness of the costs.  The burden shifted to HOA to dispute the
necessity, reasonableness, or amount of the costs, but HOA failed to present
admissible evidence to support their contention. 
The motion to tax Item 16 is
DENIED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.
 