

 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from an multi-vehicle car accident that
occurred on February 16, 2021. Plaintiff Kim Youngblood (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that Defendant Marton Price (“Defendant”) was the negligent cause of the
accident, and that Defendant’s negligence Plaintiff’s injuries that resulted
from the crash.
 
On February 16, 2023, Plaintiff Kim Youngblood
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Marton Price (“Defendant”)
and Does 1 through 20, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) negligence,
and (2) negligent entrustment.
 
On May 20, 2024, Defendant propounded discovery requests on
Plaintiff, including Request for Identification and Production of Documents,
Set One (“Request for Production”) and Form Interrogatories, Set One (“Form
Interrogatories”). According to the written discovery requests, Plaintiff’s
verified responses were due on or before July 26, 2024 based on a stipulated
extension from the original June 21, 2024 deadline.
 
On August
21, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motions to compel Plaintiff’s verified
responses to the Request for Production and Form Interrogatories.
 
On September 25, 2024, this Court heard argument on
Defendant’s motions. Counsel for Plaintiff represented that he had produced
responses to Defendant’s requested discovery (without verifications). This
Court continued the hearing on Defendant’s motions to October 23, 2024, to
allow Plaintiff to provide the appropriate verification to the discovery
responses provided to Defendant. Plaintiff was ordered to electronically file
with this Court a Declaration with the appropriate verified responses five (5)
days prior to the hearing date, on October 18, 2024.
 
As of
October 22, 2024, Plaintiff’s Counsel has not filed any supplemental
declarations or the verified responses.
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant
claims that this Court has the authority to compel Plaintiff’s verified
responses to these discovery requests because they are basic requests directly
relating to Plaintiff’s claims and contentions. Defendant claims that the
at-issue requests were properly served, the time to respond has expired, and no
responses were served. Defendant further claims that monetary sanctions are
warranted, and mandatory in this case, given that Plaintiff does not have
substantial justification for failing to provide verified responses.
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In
Opposition, Plaintiff’s Counsel submitted a declaration stating that the
verified responses were delayed because of a substitution of attorney that
occurred seventeen (17) days before the discovery response were due. Plaintiff’
Counsel’s declaration stated that he expected to file responses before the
original September 25, 2024, hearing date. Plaintiff’s Counsel also contends
that monetary sanctions are not warranted because the motions were apparently
harvested from a different case, indicating that they were prepared by a
non-attorney, and because the two different motions requested monetary
sanctions against different Plaintiffs.
 
REPLY
 
            In
Reply, Defendant argues the Opposition admits that Plaintiff had not submitted
verified responses and that no extensions were timely requested. Even still,
Defendant granted Plaintiff a thirty (30) day extension to provide responses
without objections. Finally, Defendant contends that, since trial is scheduled
for December 13, 2024, Plaintiff’s responses to the initial discovery requests
are necessary, and timeliness is essential.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal
Standard
Similarly, a party must
respond to interrogatories and requests for production of documents within 30
days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260(a); Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.260(a).) If a party to whom interrogatories or requests for production of
documents are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting party
may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(c).) The party also waives the right to
make any objections, including one based on privilege or work-product
protection. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(a).)
There is no time limit for a motion to compel responses to interrogatories or
production of documents other than the cut-off on hearing discovery motions 15
days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2024.020(a), 2030.290; Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.300.) No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a motion to
compel responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.)
II.        Motions to Compel Verified Responses
 
            Defendant
seeks to compel Plaintiff’s verified responses to its Request for Production
and Form Interrogatories, originally due June 21, 2024.
 
On September 25, 2024, this Court
continued the hearing on Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff’s verified
responses to Defendant’s Request for Production and Form Interrogatories until
October 23, 2024. (Minute Order, 9/25/24.) Plaintiff represented that it had served
unverified responses to Defendant’s requested discovery on September 24, 2024,
and requested to continue the hearing to allow appropriate time to provide
verifications. (Id.) This Court granted the Plaintiff’s request to
continue the hearing and ordered Plaintiff to file a supplemental declaration,
with the verified responses attached, by October 18, 2024.
 
Here, as of October 22, 2024, no
supplemental declaration or verified responses have been filed. Plaintiff’s
unverified responses are legally insufficient to preclude the trial court’s
authority to compel responses to Defendant’s outstanding discovery requests.
(See Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d
481, 489 (responses to interrogatories were legally invalid because they were
unverified).)
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to
Compel Plaintiff’s Verified Responses to Request for Identification and
Production of Documents, Set One, is GRANTED. And Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Plaintiff’s Verified Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED.
 
III.       Request for Sanctions
 
            Defendant seeks the imposition of
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff for failing to provide verified responses.
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (c) provides that “[t]he court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then
fails to obey and order compelling answers, the court may make those orders
that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence
sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 …. In lieu of or in
addition to that sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 ….” (See also Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(c).)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction on a
party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process to pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct. A misuse of the discovery process includes failing to respond or
submit to an authorized method of discovery (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010(d)). 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s failure to provide verified
responses to Defendant’s discovery requests constitutes a misuse of the
discovery process.
 
Defendant requests sanctions of
$2,370.00, based on 10 hours of attorney time billed at $225.00 per hour and
two $60.00 filing fees. (Motions, Lawrence Decl., ¶¶ 8; Reply, p. 4:26-5:2.)
Defendant cites four (4) hours of attorney time spent drafting the Motions,
three (3) hours to review Plaintiff’s Opposition and draft the Reply, and three
(3) hours anticipated for preparing, attending, and arguing the hearings on the
Motions. 
 
The Court finds that the anticipated
hours spent for attending the hearings on the Motions is reasonable given the
unopposed continuance. However, the Court finds that seven (7) hours of
attorney time for drafting the Motions, reviewing Plaintiff’s Opposition, is
excessive given the simplicity of these Motions and their largely duplicative
language. 
 
The Courts grants sanctions in the reduced total amount
of $750. 
 
IV.       Conclusion 
            
            In all, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Verified
Responses to Request for Identification and Production of Documents, Set One,
is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Verified
Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide
verified responses within 30 days of notice of this order. 
 
Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced total amount of $750.  Sanctions are to be paid by Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s counsel Howard J. Choi, Esq. of Law Offices of Howard J. Choi, to
Defendant’s counsel within 30 days of notice of this order.
 
Moving party is to give notice