

 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 14, 2024, Petitioner Water Damage Rescue, Inc. (“Petitioner”
or “WDR”) commenced this action against Respondents Dillon Construction, Inc.
(“Dillon Construction”), and State of California Department of Consumer Affairs
Contractors State License Board (the “CSLB”) by filing a Verified Petition to
Vacate Arbitration Award pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1285, et
seq. (the “Petition”). 
 
            On July 15, 2024, Petitioner filed a
Notice of Hearing giving Dillon Construction and CSLB notice of the initial
hearing date on the Petition on September 17, 2024. 
 
            On
July 29, 2024, Petitioner filed Proofs of Service of Summons on the
respondents. 
 
            On
August 20, 2024, CSLB filed an Answer to the Petition. 
 
On September 17, 2024, the Court held the hearing on the
Petition but there were no appearances by the respondents. The Court stated it
will continue the hearing to its current date on October 23, 2024, to allow the
parties an opportunity to make an appearance. The Court ordered Petitioner’s
counsel to give notice. 
 
On September 23, 2024, Petitioner filed a Notice of
Continuance with proof of service indicating that it informed the parties of
the new hearing date. 
 
            As of October 21, 2024, Dillon
Construction had not filed any response to the Petition, and CSLB had not filed
any memorandum of points of authorities or submitted any evidence in support of
its Answer. 
 
MOVING PARTY’S
POSITION
 
            The
verified Petition attests to the following facts. 
 
“In September, 2023, WDR filed a complaint with the CSLB
alleging certain claims against Dillon relating to poor workmanship on three
(3) construction projects where WDR hired Dillon to perform construction work
….” (Petition, ¶ 5.) “Although WDR is informed and believes and thereon
alleges that Dillon filed a complaint with the CSLB seeking damages and
remedies against WDR, WDR never saw and never was sent a copy of the Dillon
complaint.” (Petition, ¶
5.)
 
“On March 14, 2024, the CSLB notified WDR and Dillon in
writing that the CSLB had referred the  …
[matter] … to Mandatory Arbitration pursuant to § 7085.5 of the California
Business & Professions Code.” (Petition, ¶ 7.) “Darren Burge (the
‘Arbitrator’) was appointed as the arbitrator for the dispute.” (Petition, ¶ 7.)
 
“California Business & Professions Code §7085.5(i)
provides that the hearing will be ‘conducted by the arbitrator in any manner
which will permit full and expeditious presentation of the case by both
parties’.” (Petition, ¶
15.)
 
Here,  “the Arbitrator did not allow WDR to provide
and full and expeditious presentation of [its] case …” for the following
reasons. (Petition, ¶
15.) 
 
CSLB’s Mandatory Arbitration Program Guide (the “CSLB Guide”)
“confirms that a ‘Submission to Mandatory Arbitration’ form (the ‘Arbitration
Form’) will be sent to the parties … advis[ing] both parties ‘exactly what
issues are in dispute and what remedies are sought’. [in addition],
California [Business and Professions Code] § 7085.3 provides that an
‘agreement to arbitrate’ form shall be provided to the parties which shall be
returned by each party within 30 days.” (Petition, ¶¶ 8, 9 [emphasis added]; Exhibit 1 – a copy of the CSLB Guide.)
 
Here, “CSLB
never sent the Arbitration Form to WDR and never sent the ‘agreement to
arbitrate’ form to WDR. [Therefore] … WDR never signed the ‘agreement to
arbitrate’.” (Petition, ¶
10 [emphasis added].) 
 
“Because the CSLB never provided WDR with the Arbitration
Form or the ‘agreement to arbitrate’ form, WDR reasonably understood the
proposed arbitration scheduled for April 9, 2024, was to be limited to WDR’s
claims against Dillon (and any defenses thereto which were asserted by Dillon).
At no time prior to the Arbitration did WDR receive notice that the
Arbitration would include affirmative claims asserted by Dillon against WDR. At
no time prior to the Arbitration did WDR know the amount of the affirmative claims
against WDR or the remedies sought by Dillon against WDR.” (Petition, ¶ 11
[emphasis added].) 
 
The Arbitrator
was informed that WDR had no notice of Dillon Construction’s claim, yet he did
not continue the arbitration hearing, causing WDR to be prejudiced. (Petition, ¶ 12.)
 
On April
15, 2024, the Arbitrator issued an arbitration award (the “Award”) (1) denying
WDR’s claim against Dillon Construction and (2) awarding Dillon Construction
$25,000 for its claims that were unknown to WDR. (Petition, ¶ 16;
Exhibit 2 – a copy of Award.)
 
The Award should be vacated because the Arbitrator exceeded
his powers (Code Civ. Proc., §
1286.2, subd. (a)(4)), and WDR’s rights
were substantially prejudiced by the Arbitrator’s failure to continue the
hearing to allow WDR to prepare and defend itself against Dillon Construction’s
claims (§ 1286.2, subds.
(a)(4)-(5)). 
 
“The CSLB is named in this action because it has the power
to suspend WDR’s license if the amount of the Arbitration Award is not paid
within thirty (30) days and has the power to revoke WDR’s license if the amount
of the Arbitration Award is not paid within ninety (90) days.” (Petition, ¶ 21.)
 
OPPOSITION

 
No opposition by Dillon
Construction was filed. CSLB filed an Answer to the Petition, asserting a
general denial and seven (7) affirmative defenses. 
 
REPLY
 
            None.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          PETITION
TO VACATE ARBITRATION AWARD 
A.    Legal Standard
            “Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been
made may petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award. The
petition shall name as respondents all parties to the arbitration and may name
as respondents any other persons bound by the arbitration award.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1285.)
 
            “A response to [the] petition … may request the court to
dismiss the petition or to confirm, correct or vacate the award.” (Code
Civ. Proc., §
1285.2.)
 
            The “petition … shall: ¶
(a) Set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to
arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement. ¶ (b) Set forth names of the arbitrators. ¶ (c) Set forth or have attached a copy of the award and
the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.)
 
            “A
petition … vacate an award, or a response requesting such relief, shall set
forth the grounds on which the request for such relief is based.” (Code
Civ. Proc., §
1285.8.)
            “The scope of judicial review of arbitration awards is
extremely narrow. Courts may not review the merits of the controversy, the
sufficiency of the evidence supporting the award, or the validity of the
arbitrator’s reasoning.” (Dept. of Personnel Admin. v. Cal. Correctional
Peace Officers Ass'n (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1200 [emphasis added].)
Indeed, “‘“[w]hen parties agree to leave their dispute to an arbitrator, they
are presumed to know that his award will be final and conclusive....”
[Citation.]’” (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 10 (“Moncharsh”).)
 
Section 1286.2(a) provides the exclusive
grounds upon which a court may review private arbitration awards. (Moncharsh,
supra, 3 Cal.4th at pp. 26-28.) The statute authorizes a court to vacate
an arbitration award if one of the following is shown: 
 
(1)  
The award was procured by corruption, fraud or other
undue means.
 
(2)  
There was corruption in any of the arbitrators.
 
(3)  
The rights of the party were substantially prejudiced
by misconduct of a neutral arbitrator.
 
(4)  
The arbitrators exceeded their powers and the award
cannot be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision upon the
controversy submitted.
 
(5)  
The rights of the party were substantially prejudiced
by the refusal of the arbitrators to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause
being shown therefor or by the refusal of the arbitrators to hear evidence
material to the controversy or by other conduct of the arbitrators contrary to
the provisions of this title.
 
(6)  
An arbitrator making the award either: (A) failed to
disclose within the time required for disclosure a ground for disqualification
of which the arbitrator was then aware; or (B) was subject to disqualification
upon grounds specified in Section 1281.91 but failed upon receipt of timely
demand to disqualify himself or herself as required by that provision. 
 
“The court may
not vacate an award unless: ¶
(a) A petition or response requesting that the award be vacated has been duly
served and filed … ¶ … and; ¶
(1) All petitioners and respondents are before the court; or (2) All
petitioners and respondents have been given reasonable notice that the court
will be requested at the hearing to vacate the award or that the court on its
own motion has determined to vacate the award and all petitioners and
respondents have been given an opportunity to show why the award should not be
vacated.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1286.4.)
 
B.    
Request for Judicial Notice
 
On July 15, 2024, Petitioner filed
a request for judicial notice of the CSLB Guide. The unopposed request is
GRANTED. (Evid. Code, §
452, subd. (c).)
 
C.   
Discussion
 
“The allegations
of a petition are deemed to be admitted by a respondent duly served therewith
unless a response is duly served and filed.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1290; 1290.6
[“A response shall be served and filed within 10 days after service of the
petition except that if the petition is served in the manner provided in
paragraph (2) of subdivision (b) of Section 1290.4 [inapplicable here], the
response shall be served and filed within 30 days after service of the petition”].)
 
Here, the Court finds
the allegations of the Petition are deemed admitted by (1) Dillon Construction because
the respondent did not file any response to the Petition despite being served,
and (2) CSLB because its Answer is not evidence (the pleading is not supported
by any declaration, it is not verified, and does not provide any factual
support for its general denial and affirmative defenses).  
 
“‘Every
reasonable intendment is indulged to give effect to arbitration proceedings;
the burden is on the party attacking the award to affirmatively establish the
existence of error by a proper record.’ [Citation.]” (Rivera v. Shivers
(2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 82, 94.)
 
Here, the Court
finds that Petitioner has met its burden of affirmatively establishing the
existence of an error in the Award through the unopposed facts in the verified
Petition. According to the Petition, Petitioner was never given any notice of
Dillon Construction’s claims and never entered or signed any arbitration
agreement agreeing to arbitrate those claims. Yet, the Arbitrator not only
refused to continue the arbitration hearing to allow Petitioner time to respond
to Dillon Construction’s claims but also issued an Award giving Dillon
Construction approximately $25,000 for its claims against Petitioner. (See
Petition, Exhibit 2 – a copy of the Award, p. 2 [showing that the Arbitrator
awarded the following: (a) “Respondent’s claim for amount owed on Lymon
project. Remedy considers a credit to Complainant for the deposit paid” -
$233.40; (b) “Respondent’s claim for amount owed on Flint-Gogek project” –
$2,545; (c) “Respondent’s claim for amount owed on McCardle project” – $7,200;
and (d) “Respondent’s claim for amount owed on Henderson project” – $15,720].) 
 
The Court finds the undisputed
facts in the verified Petition warrant vacating the Award under Section
1286.2(a)(3) and (5). 
 
For those reasons, the Petition is
granted. 
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            The Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award is GRANTED.
 
            Moving party to give notice. 