

 
BACKGROUND
 
On March
21, 2024, Plaintiff Harper Home, Inc., a California corporation, dba Harper
Home Textiles (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendants E. J. Lauren,
LLC; E. J. Lauren of Texas, LLC; Antonio Ocampo, aka Tony Ocampo, an
individual; and DOES 1 through 50 alleging Defendants owe Plaintiff money for
certain fabric goods that Plaintiff delivered to Defendants. The complaint
alleges seven causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contracts; (2) Open Account;
(3) Account Stated; (4) Goods Sold and Delivered (Quantum Valebant); (5)
Conversion; (6) Claim and Delivery; and (7) Promise Without Intent to Perform –
Fraud.
 
On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging seven causes of action for:
(1) Breach of Contracts; (2) Open Account; (3) Account Stated; (4) Goods Sold
and Delivered (Quantum Valebant); (5) Voidable
Transfers/Conveyances/Conspiracy to Defraud, and to Set Aside or Annul Voidable
Transfers/Conveyances; (6) Voidable Transfers/Conveyances, and to Set Aside or
Annul Voidable Transfers/Conveyances; and (7) Temporary Restraining Order,
Preliminary and Permanent Injunction.
 
On August
27, 2024, moving Defendants E.J. Lauren of Texas, LLC and Antonio Ocampo (Moving
Defendants) filed the instant Demurrer and Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s FAC. Moving
Defendants demur to the FAC on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and that each is uncertain. 
 
On
October 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
 
On
October 14, 2024, Defendants filed a Reply brief. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Moving
Defendants argue the FAC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute causes
of action against Defendants. Moving Defendants note that Plaintiff has not
pleaded which specific written agreements between Plaintiff and Moving
Defendants are at issue nor has it provided any factual allegations regarding
the joint venture between Defendants. Moving Defendants also move to strike
Paragraph 8, 9, 11, 21, 33 and 38 of the FAC and Plaintiff’s Prayer for Relief
as to attorneys’ fees in the First and Second Causes of Action and punitive
damages as to the Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action.
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In
Opposition, Plaintiff claims it sufficiently pleads allegations of alter ego,
including specific conduct by Moving Defendants, such that disregarding the
corporate entity would be appropriate and that Moving Defendants’ motion to
strike this portion of the FAC is thus unsupported.  Plaintiff also argues Moving Defendants have
provided no valid grounds for striking demands of punitive damages or
attorneys’ fees because it has alleged concealment of transfers, which shows oppression,
fraud and/or malice needed for punitive damages, and attorney’s fees are
permitted per its contractual terms with Moving Defendants and as a matter of
law under Civil Code §1717.5.
 
REPLY
 
            The First
Amended Complaint does not sufficiently allege a claim for alter-ego against
Ocampo and does not allege sufficient facts to state a valid claim for breach
of contract, open book account, account stated, and quantum valebant.  Defendants argue that plaintiff failed to
sufficiently allege a claim for punitive damages, which must be pled with
specificity. The First Amended Complaint does not allege a claim for attorneys’
fees. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Demurrer
A.               
Meet and Confer Requirement 
Prior to filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring
or moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a
filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer. (CCP §§ 430.41 and 435.5.) 
            On June
21, 2024, Defendants’ counsel sent Plaintiff a detailed letter outlining the
issues with the initial Complaint and requesting that Plaintiff’s counsel
contact him to discuss these issues in greater detail. (Harney Decl., ¶ 2.) This
same day, Plaintiff’s counsel met and conferred with Defendants’ counsel and on
July 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a FAC. On August 21, 2024, Defendants’ counsel sent
Plaintiff’s counsel another letter outlining the issues with the FAC and
requesting Plaintiff’s counsel contact him to discuss. (Harney Decl., ¶ 5; Exh.
B.) However, Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond, the parties were unable to
come to an agreement and Moving Defendants moved forward with the instant
demurrer. (Harney Decl., ¶ 5-6.) The court finds Defendants’ good faith
meet-and-confer efforts is sufficient to satisfy this procedural requirement.
B.        Legal Standard 
A demurrer for sufficiency
tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. Hahn v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747. When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994; Weil & Brown, Civ.
Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2011) ¶ 7:8. “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed (430.30, 430.70). The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.” Hahn 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.  A complaint will be upheld against a demurrer
if it pleads facts sufficient to place the defendant on notice of the issues
sufficient to enable the defendant to prepare a defense.  Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42
Cal.4th 531, 549-50. The same standard applies to demurrer made toward an
answer. A demurrer to an answer may be taken to the whole answer or to any one
or more of the several defenses set up in the answer. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§430.50(b).) The demurrer to the answer may object to failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a defense or is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§430.20.)
First
Cause of Action – Breach of Contract
 
Moving Defendants demur to
Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for failure to state specific facts to
sustain a claim for breach of contract. 
 
To state a cause
of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the
existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811,
821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written
contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a
copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.”
(Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) A
plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its
precise language.” (Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 394, 401–02 (Miles) (quoting Construction Protective
Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)
 
In general,
members of a limited liability company (LLC) are not liable for the debts,
obligations, or other liabilities of the limited liability company. (Cal. Corp.
Code § 17703.04(a); CB Richard Ellis, Inc. v. Terra Nostra Consultants
(2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 405, 411.) Under both California and Delaware law, the
alter ego doctrine extends to limited liability companies (LLCs), and generally
requires the proponent to demonstrate two elements: (1) a unity of interest and
ownership such that the separate personalities of the corporation and the
individual do not exist; and (2) an inequitable result if the corporate
identity is not disregarded. (JPV I L.P. v. Koetting (2023) 88
Cal.App.5th 172, 189.)
 
Upon reviewing
the FAC, the court finds Plaintiff has insufficiently alleged a claim for breach
of contract. First, similar to Miles, where the plaintiff sufficiently
alleged an express contract to refinance his loan by describing the loan
balance due from defendant, interest rate and monthly payment, here, Plaintiff sufficiently
alleges express agreements and purchase orders for certain fabric goods,
including the respective purchase order numbers, invoice numbers, goods
descriptions, payment amounts and payment due dates. 
 
However, Plaintiff
does not allege which entity or entities constituted the counterparty-buyer for
these contracts, omitting an essential term. The FAC alleges that Defendant
Tony Ocampo used the corporate entities of Defendants E.J. Lauren, LLC and E.J.
Lauren of Texas, LLC for his personal business, commingled personal and
corporate funds, and directed payments and transferred assets of defendant-corporations,
sufficient to show alter ego. (JPV  88 Cal.App.5th  at 189.) Without factual allegations to support
that the contracts at issue involved the Moving Defendants, Plaintiff has
failed to show the existence of a contract with them. (FAC ¶ 12.) 
 
Moreover, Plaintiff
alleges Defendants have “failed to many any payment” toward the sums due to
Plaintiff and have received no credits for the specified goods, indicating
breach; however, without pleading which entities entered into the sales
contract Plaintiff has not pleaded specific facts as to which party is in
breach. Overall, without alleging the existence of a contract with respect to Moving
Defendants, Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently plead a breach of contract
claim.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Moving
Defendants’ demurrer to the First Cause of Action.
 
Second
Cause of Action – Open Book Account
 
Moving
Defendants contend that Plaintiff insufficiently pleaded its Open Book Account
claim.
 
To establish
a cause of action for open book account, the following elements must be
satisfied: (1) plaintiff and defendant had financial transactions, (2)
plaintiff kept an account of the debits and credits involved in the
transactions, (3) defendant owes plaintiff money on the account, and (4) the
amount of money that the defendant owes the plaintiff.¿ (State Comp. Ins.
Fund v. ReadyLink Healthcare, Inc. (2020) 50 Cal. App. 5th 422, 449.)¿ A
book account is “open” if a balance remains due on this account.¿ (Interstate
Group Administrators, Inc. v. Cravens, Dargan & Co. (1985) 174
Cal.App.3d 700, 708; Eloquence Corporation v. Home Consignment Center
(2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 655, 664–65 (Eloquence).) “An express contract,
which defines the duties and liabilities of the parties, whether it be oral or
written, is not, as a rule, an open account.” (Eloquence, supra, at p.
665 (quoting Durkin v. Durkin (1955) 133 Cal.App.2d 238, 290.) An
exception “may lie where the parties had agreed to treat money due under
an express contract as items under an open book account.” (Ibid.) An
express agreement is not necessary. (Id. at p. 666.) But, “mere[ly]
recording in a book of transactions or the incidental keeping of accounts under
an express contract does not itself create a book account.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that the amounts Defendants owes
it are pursuant to various written agreements, making these liabilities subject
to an express contract that, as a rule, is not considered an open account (Eloquence,
supra, at 665.) Further, Plaintiff makes no allegation that the parties
agreed to treat the various written agreements as an open book account. Plaintiff
alleges Defendants created an account with Plaintiff but provides no factual
allegations as to when, how and with which entity or entities the account was
opened. (FAC ¶ 10.) Accordingly,
no exception to the rule applies here, and the express contracts govern the commercial
transaction. Without any verbatim language or a copy of the contracts showing
Moving Defendants entered into the financial transactions at issue with
Plaintiff, Plaintiff has similarly failed to establish it had any financial
transaction with Moving Defendants. Thus, Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently
plead its claim for an open book account.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Moving Defendants’ demurrer
to the Second Cause of Action.
 
Third
Cause of Action – Account Stated
 
Moving
Defendants contend that Plaintiff insufficiently pleaded its Account Stated
claim.
 
“The essential elements of an account stated are: (1)
previous transactions between the parties establishing the relationship of
debtor and creditor; (2) an agreement between the parties, express or implied,
on the amount due from the debtor to the creditor; [and] (3) a promise by the
debtor, express or implied, to pay the amount due.” (Zinn v. Fred R. Bright
Co. (1969) 271 Cal.App.2d 597, 600.) “An express contract, which defines
the duties and liabilities of the parties, whether it be oral or written, is not,
as a rule, an open account.” (Eloquence, supra, 49 Cal.App.5th at
665 (quoting Durkin v. Durkin (1955) 133 Cal.App.2d 238, 290.) An
exception “may lie where the parties had agreed to treat money due under
an express contract as items under an open book account.” (Ibid.) An
express agreement is not necessary. (Id. at p. 666.) But, “mere[ly]
recording in a book of transactions or the incidental keeping of accounts under
an express contract does not itself create a book account.” (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently plead an
account stated for the same reasons as the second cause of action.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Moving Defendants’ demurrer
to the Third Cause of Action.
 
Fourth
Cause of Action – Goods Sold and Delivered – Quantum Valebant
 
Moving
Defendants contend that Plaintiff insufficiently pleaded its action for Goods
Sold and Delivered – Quantum Valebant
 
“Where goods
are purchased on a credit, with the fraudulent intent never to pay for them,
the seller, on discovering the fraud, may treat the credit, or whole special
contract, as void, and maintain an action immediately, on an implied assumpsit,
for the value of goods sold and delivered.” However, a creditor cannot bring an
action for goods sold and delivered before the term of credit, expressly agreed
to, has expired. (Patrick v. Montader (1859), 13 Cal. 434, 438.)
 
Here, Plaintiff insufficiently pleads its claim of Quantum
Valebant. First, Plaintiff alleges that it had an express contract with
Defendants, the express terms of which would thus govern the transaction. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff makes no factual allegation as to the term of credit with Defendants,
and so it cannot maintain an action for quantum valebant. (Ibid.)
Further, because Plaintiff failed to allege details about when and where the
goods in dispute were sold, and which Defendant took possession, it fails to establish
a claim against Moving Defendants specifically. Thus, Plaintiff has failed to
sufficiently plead its claim for Goods Sold and Delivered.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Moving Defendants’ demurrer
to the Fourth Cause of Action.
 
Fifth
and Sixth Causes of Action – Voidable/Fraudulent Transfers
 
Moving
Defendants contend that Plaintiff insufficiently pleaded its actions To Set
Aside Voidable/Fraudulent Transfers.
 
In California, a fraudulent conveyance under the Uniform
Voidable Transactions Act (“UVTA”) involves “a transfer by the debtor of
property to a third person undertaken with the intent to prevent a creditor
from reaching that interest to satisfy its claim.” (Filip v. Bucurenciu
(2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 825, 829.) A transfer under the UVTA is fraudulent as to
a creditor if the debtor made the transfer with actual intent to hinder, delay,
or defraud any creditor of the debtor. (See Civ. Code, § 3439.04(a); Filip,
supra, 129 Cal.App.4th at 829.)¿  
 
To find a transfer voidable as to a creditor, the
transfer by the debtor must be made with actual intent to hinder, delay, or
defraud the creditor or the debtor. (See Id., § 3439.04(a).) Some
factors that may be considered in determining actual intent are: (1) whether
the transfer or obligation was to an insider; (2) whether the debtor retained
possession or control of the property transferred after the transfer; (3) whether
the transfer or obligation was disclosed or concealed; (4) whether before the
transfer was made or obligation was incurred, the debtor had been sued or
threatened with suit; (5) whether the transfer was of substantially all the
debtor’s assets; (6) whether the debtor absconded; (7) whether the debtor
removed or concealed assets; (8) whether the value of the consideration
received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent to the value of the asset
transferred or the amount of the obligation incurred; (9) whether the debtor
was insolvent or became insolvent shortly after the transfer was made or the
obligation was incurred; (10) whether the transfer occurred shortly before or
shortly after a substantial debt was incurred; and (11) whether the debtor
transferred the essential assets of the business to a lienor that transferred
the assets to an insider of the debtor. (Id., § 3439.04(b).) The facts
constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to
every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
Here, the same facts discussed
under alter ego liability analysis apply. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Tony
Ocampo made transfers of corporate assets for “non-business purposes for the
use and/or benefit, either directly or indirectly, of Tony and/or his friends
and family.” (FAC ¶ 8.) These allegations are conclusory and not factual, and
so Plaintiff fails to satisfy the pleading standard set forth in Lazar. For
example, Plaintiff makes no factual allegations as to which property Defendant
Tony Ocampo transferred or any scienter or knowledge he had of wrongdoing. Thus,
Plaintiff fails to plead sufficient facts showing fraudulent transfer.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Moving Defendants’ demurrer
to the Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action.
 
Seventh
Cause of Action – Temporary Restraining Order
 
Moving
Defendants contend that Plaintiff insufficiently pleaded its action for injunctive
relief because this serves as a remedy and not a cause of action.
 
“The elements of a cause of action for injunctive relief are (1) a tort
or other wrongful act constituting a cause of action; and (2) irreparable
injury, i.e., a factual showing that the wrongful act constitutes an actual or
threatened injury to property or personal rights which cannot be compensated by
an ordinary damage award.” (Brownfield v.
Daniel Freeman Marina Hospital (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 405, 410, citation
omitted.) Notably, “injunctive relief is a remedy and not, in itself, a cause
of action, and a cause of action must exist before injunctive relief can be
granted.” (Camp v. Board of Supervisors (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 334, 356.)
 
Here, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged a proper cause of action for
which the remedy of injunction relief may be granted. (Ibid.) Further,
Plaintiff seeks damages and makes no allegation that such a remedy would be
insufficient warranting injunctive relief by the court. Thus, Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently
plead its request for injunctive relief.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Moving Defendants’ demurrer
to the Seventh Cause of Action.
 
II.        Motion to Strike
 
            Any party, within the
time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to strike
the whole or any part thereof – i.e., even single words or phrases. (Code. Civ.
Proc. § 435(b)(1)); Warren v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co.
(1971) 19 Cal App.3d 24, 40. A motion to strike lies either: (1) to strike any
“irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading”; and/or (2) to
strike any pleading or part thereof “not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule or order of court.” (Code. Civ. Proc. § 436); Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528; As with demurrers, the
grounds for a motion to strike must appear on the face of the pleading, or from
any matter which the court may judicially notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)
 
Moving Defendants seek to strike
Paragraph 8, 9, 11, 21, 33 and 38 of the FAC and Plaintiff’s Prayer for Relief
as to attorneys’ fees in the First and Second Causes of Action and punitive
damages as to the Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action. Defendant argues the
statement in Paragraphs 8, 9, 11 and 21 are irrelevant to any of Plaintiff’s
claims and that Paragraphs 33 and 38 fail to state facts sufficient to show the
requisite oppression, fraud or malice for punitive damages. Plaintiff argues,
in opposition, that its allegations in Paragraphs 8, 9, 11 and 21 are relevant
to the alter-ego relationships between Defendants underlying its claims and
that it sufficiently alleges conduct that amounts to oppression, fraud, and
malice warranting punitive damages in Paragraphs 33 and 38.
 
In light of the ruling on the
demurrer, the motion to strike is MOOT.
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            In all, Plaintiff’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety
with leave to amend. Plaintiff is ordered to file a Second Amended Complaint within
30 days. 
 
            The Motion to Strike is DENIED as MOOT.
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice of ruling. 
 
            