  Case Number:  22STCV07335    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



MARIA VARELA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
J AND S HOSPITALITY, INC., et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV07335




Hearing Date:


February 1, 2024




 Hearing Time:    8:30
  a.m.
 
TENTATIVE
  RULING RE:  
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION FOR NEW TRIAL AND/OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE MOTION TO VACATE THE ORDER
  GRANTING SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 



            
Background
Plaintiff Maria Varela
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on February 28, 2022 against Defendants J and S
Hospitality, Inc., Best Western International, Inc. (“BWI”), Rebecca Doe, Greg
Doe, and Best Western Palm Desert Resort. 

The Complaint asserts
causes of action for (1) disability discrimination, (2) perceived disability
discrimination, (3) failure to prevent harassment and retaliation, (4)
retaliation in violation of Government Code section
12940, et seq., (5) age discrimination, (6) nationality
discrimination, (7) wrongful termination in violation of public policy, and (8)
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
            BWI
moved for an order granting summary judgment in its favor on Plaintiff’s
Complaint and all causes of action set forth therein. On December 6, 2023, the
Court issued a minute order granting BWI’s motion for summary judgment. 
            Plaintiff now “bring[s] a Motion for
New Trial pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Sections
656, 657, 658, 659 and requests the Court vacate the December 6, 2023,
order in favor of Defendant Best Western International Inc…and enter a
different order Denying the Motion for Summary Judgment/ Adjudication.” BWI
opposes. 
Discussion 
“A motion for new trial is a creature of statute…”  (Neal v.
Montgomery Elevator Co. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1194, 1198.) “[A] motion for a new trial can be granted
only on one of the grounds enumerated in the statute.” (Fomco, Inc. v. Joe Maggio, Inc. (1961) 55 Cal.2d 162, 166.)
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 657,
“[t]he verdict may be vacated and
any other decision may be modified or vacated, in whole or in part, and a new
or further trial granted on all or part of the issues, on the application of
the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes, materially affecting the
substantial rights of such party:
 
1. Irregularity in the proceedings
of the court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of
discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial.
 
2. Misconduct of the jury; and
whenever any one or more of the jurors have been induced to assent to any
general or special verdict, or to a finding on any question submitted to them
by the court, by a resort to the determination of chance, such misconduct may
be proved by the affidavit of any one of the jurors.
 
3. Accident or surprise, which
ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.
 
4. Newly discovered evidence,
material for the party making the application, which he could not, with
reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial.
 
5. Excessive or inadequate
damages.
 
6. Insufficiency of the evidence
to justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is
against law.
 
7. Error in law, occurring at the
trial and excepted to by the party making the application.” 
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 657.) 
 
In addition, “[b]ecause resolution of a
summary judgment motion involves the trial of an issue of law, a decision
granting a motion for summary judgment may be challenged by a motion for new
trial.” (Scott v. Farrar (1983) 139 Cal.App.3d 462, 467.) 
            In
the instant motion, Plaintiff first asserts that “the trial court incorrectly
granted summary judgment as to Best Western International since Defendant
failed to negate all theories of liability in the Complaint.” (Mot. at p.
6:24-26.) Plaintiff notes that the Complaint in the instant action alleges that
“Plaintiff is informed and believes, and thereon alleges, that at all
times relevant herein, each Defendant designated, including DOES 1 through 100,
herein was the agent, partner, joint venturer, representative, servant, alter
ego, subsidiary, successor, owner, parent, joint employer, principal, agent,
employee and/or co-conspirator of each of the other Defendants, and was at all
times mentioned herein acting within the course and scope of said agency and
employment, and that all acts or omissions alleged herein were duly committed
with the ratification, knowledge, permission, encouragement, authorization and
consent of each Defendant designated herein.” (Compl., ¶ 35, emphasis added.) 
Plaintiff asserts that “Defendants
[sic] only addressed one theory, joint employer…” (Mot. at p. 7:7.) Plaintiff
asserts that “Defendants [sic] have to produce evidence to negate that that
[sic] Best Western Palm Desert was an agent of Best Western International or
that Best Western International was an alter ego of plaintiff [sic]. Therefore,
summary judgment was not appropriate.” (Mot. at p. 12:12-14.) 
In the opposition, BWI asserts that Plaintiff “make[s] the untenable
claim that BWI did not refute her boilerplate language in Paragraph 35 of the
Complaint.” (Opp’n at p. 2:22.) BWI asserts that it “conclusively refuted
Plaintiff’s half-hearted allegation that BWI could in any way be responsible
for purported FEHA violations, which disproves her bare bones allegations that
BWI ‘duly committed’ her employment termination, or any other alleged
employment-related offense against her. Plaintiff submitted no evidence in
opposition to the MSJ to show that BWI acted in any type of agency, employer,
or co-conspirator fashion to ratify or commit the employment termination
decision, or any of the actions she alleges in the Complaint. Therefore,
Plaintiff cannot raise any triable issues reflecting that BWI is liable for any
of the acts or omissions alleged in the Complaint arising out of her employment
with J&S.” (Opp’n at p. 3:7-14.) Indeed, Plaintiff argues in a heading of
her November 21, 2023 opposition to BWI’s motion for summary judgment that
“Defendants [sic] have failed to negate all of the various theories under which
a jury could find Best Western International liable for discrimination and FEHA
violations.” (Plaintiff’s November 21, 2023 Opp’n at p. 11:13-16.) But
Plaintiff cites only to allegations of the Complaint in support of this
assertion, not any supporting evidence. (See Plaintiff’s November 21,
2023 Opp’n at p. 11:17-12:5.) 
The December 6, 2023 minute order concerning BWI’s motion for summary
judgment provides, inter alia, that “the Court finds that BWI has met
its burden of demonstrating that it is not a joint employer of the Resort, and
that Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of material fact as to this
issue.” (December 6, 2023 minute order, p. 11.) Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (p)(2), “[a] defendant or
cross-defendant has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action. Once the defendant or
cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or
cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The plaintiff or
cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” 
Moreover, the Court notes that paragraph 35 of Plaintiff’s Complaint
alleges that “Plaintiff is informed and believes, and thereon alleges, that at
all times relevant herein, each Defendant designated, including DOES 1 through
100, herein was the agent, partner, joint venturer, representative, servant,
alter ego, subsidiary, successor, owner, parent, joint employer,
principal, agent, employee and/or co-conspirator of each of the
other Defendants, and was at all times mentioned herein acting within the course
and scope of said agency and employment, and that all acts or omissions alleged
herein were duly committed with the ratification, knowledge, permission,
encouragement, authorization and consent of each Defendant designated herein.”
(Emphasis added.) 
            Plaintiff also asserts in the
instant motion that “Defendants [sic] rely on inapplicable cases that
apply federal wage statutes, wage and hour complaints. This is not a wage and
hour complaint. This is a complaint for discrimination and retaliation under
the Fair Employment and Housing Act based on plaintiff’s disability and age.
Defendants did not cite to any cases that involve the definition of employer
under FEHA.” (Mot. at p. 13:5-9.) But in
the instant motion, Plaintiff cites to Bradley v.
Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1612, 1626, and notes that the Bradley
Court found that  “[w]e glean no magic formula for determining whether the requisite
employment relationship exists. The prevailing view is to consider the totality
of the circumstances, reflecting upon the nature of the work relationship
between the parties, and placing emphasis on the control exercised by the
employer over the employee’s performance of employment duties. Consequently,
when a statute fails to define the term ‘employee,’ courts routinely look at
the common law definition for guidance, focusing on the amount of control the
employer exercises over the employee.” (Internal citation omitted.) The Court’s
December 6, 2023 minute order concerning BWI’s motion for summary
judgment provides, inter alia, that “BWI cites to Futrell v.
Payday California, Inc. (2010)
190 Cal.App.4th 1419, 1434, where the Court of Appeal noted that ‘[t]he
essence of the common law test of employment is in the ‘control of details.’ A
number of factors may be considered in evaluating this control…” (December 6,
2023 minute order, p. 2.) 
            Plaintiff also asserts in the
instant motion that “[t]he Single Employer Doctrine and the
Integrated Enterprise Test are the applicable tests to apply.” (Mot. at p.
8:1-2.) Plaintiff cites to Mathews v. Happy
Valley Conference Center, Inc. (2019)
43 Cal.App.5th 236, 248, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he federal courts have developed a test,
derived from federal labor case law, to determine whether two corporations
should be considered a single employer for title VII purposes. Commonly called
the ‘integrated enterprise’ test, it has four factors: interrelation of
operations, common management, centralized control of labor relations, and
common ownership or financial control. The test was designed to
further Congress’s intent that title VII be construed liberally, including its
definition of the term employer. Common ownership or control
alone is never enough to establish single employer liability, and courts often
deem centralized control of labor relations the most important factor. The
critical question is, [w]hat entity made the final decisions regarding employment
matters related to the person claiming discrimination?” (Internal quotations
and citations omitted.)  
Plaintiff asserts that “[a]pplying the
integrated enterprise test, to the facts of this case, a jury could find that
BWI and J&S Best Western Palm Springs are two entities that are integrated
to be a single employer.” (Mot. at p. 8:10-11.) But Plaintiff does not appear
to cite to legal authority demonstrating that the “integrated enterprise” test
must be applied in FEHA cases. In addition, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s
November 21, 2023 opposition to BWI’s motion for summary judgment argued that
“[t]here thus appears to be an issue whether CAPL and Circle K should be
considered a single employer based on the extent to which the two entities had
control over each other’s management decisions. This is an issue affecting
whether the Court has personal jurisdiction over CAPL and Circle K. Neither
party has briefed the court on whether the CAPL and Circle K should be
considered a single employer under the ‘integrated enterprise’ test.”
(Plaintiff’s November 21, 2023 opposition at p. 15:12-16.) This argument appears
to concern entities that are not parties to the instant case. 
            Moreover,
as set forth above, the Mathews Court noted that “[t]he critical question is, [w]hat entity
made the final decisions regarding employment matters related to the person
claiming discrimination?” (Mathews v. Happy Valley Conference Center, Inc., supra,
43 Cal.App.5th at p. 248 [internal quotations omitted].) The Court’s December
6, 2023 minute order provides, inter alia, that “[h]ere, Plaintiff does
not appear to provide any evidence demonstrating that BWI had the power to
terminate her employment. As discussed above, BWI provides evidence that BWI
‘does not have, nor has it ever had, the right to hire, discharge, or discipline
employees…’” (December 6, 2023 minute order at pp. 9-10.) 
            Plaintiff also asserts that “[t]he cases defendants [sic]
rely on are not applicable and even if they were, there is a factual dispute as
to whether BWI retained the authority to control the day-to-day operations at
Best Western Resort Palm Springs and thus were [sic] an employer of Plaintiff.”
(Mot. at p. 13:10-14.) Plaintiff asserts, without citing to supporting
evidence, that “[j]ust like in Taylor and Medina, BWI requires the
employees to follow BWI policies and procedures in the daily operation of the
hotel, and oversee the hotel, and any customer complaints as set forth in their
Policies and Procedures.” (Mot. at p. 14:17-19.) The Court notes that the Medina
case is discussed throughout the Court’s December 6, 2023 minute order. The
Court noted, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“BWI
notes that here, ‘[t]here is no evidence that BWI had any authority to
terminate Plaintiff’s employment, or any other J&S employees’ employment at
the hotel.” (Reply at p. 9:24-26.) As set forth above, the Medina Court found
that ‘[t]he undisputed facts in this case are more than sufficient to support
such a finding. Shell provided extremely detailed technical instructions for
managing their stations, and deviations from these standards were prohibited.
Plaintiff was even threatened with termination by a Shell employee for an
alleged violation of these standards. Another Shell employee told plaintiff at
training she had fired ‘many’ MSO operator managers for violating these
policies.’ (Medina v. Equilon Enters., supra, 68
Cal.App.5th at p. 879.) The Medina Court further noted that ‘[t]here are
certain features of the facts and evidence in this case that appear to differ
from those presented to the courts in Curry and Henderson. The evidence offered
in this case by plaintiff that Shell employees told him they had the power to
fire him, or to have him fired, does not appear in the Curry or Henderson
opinions.’ (Id. at p. 878.) Here, Plaintiff does
not appear to provide any evidence demonstrating that BWI had the power to
terminate her employment. As discussed above, BWI provides evidence that BWI
‘does not have, nor has it ever had, the right to hire, discharge, or discipline
employees…’ (Genther Decl., ¶ 6.)” (December 6, 2023
minute order at pp. 9-10.)
            Moreover,
it is unclear on what grounds for a new trial Plaintiff is relying on as to
this argument. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 657.)     
            Lastly,
Plaintiff asserts in the instant motion that “the defendants refused to produce
any financial discovery that would have shown the final prong of the integrated
entity test that BWI had financial control over Best Western Palm Springs.”
(Mot. at p. 14:20-23.) Plaintiff argues that she “requested a denial of the
motion pursuant to CCP437c(h)…Unfortunately, since
the Judge who ruled on the MSJ was not the same Judge who denied plaintiff the
discovery needed to oppose the MSJ on the financial control of BWI, the Judge
who decided the motion [sic]. Judge Treu did not know the history of the
discovery and that plaintiff had requested the necessary information prior to
the time the opposition was due.” (Mot. at pp. 14:24-15:2.)
            As
an initial matter, Plaintiff’s memorandum of points and authorities in support
of Plaintiff’s opposition to BWI’s motion for summary judgment, filed on
November 21, 2023, does not appear to contain any request for denial of the
motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h). This provision provides that “[i]f it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition
to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts
essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be
presented, the court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit
affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other
order as may be just. The application to continue the motion to obtain
necessary discovery may also be made by ex parte motion at any time on or
before the date the opposition response to the motion is due.” Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h) does not appear to be cited or discussed in
Plaintiff’s opposition brief. 
            In
the instant motion, Plaintiff cites to Undisputed Material Fact No. 40 of her
“Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in Support of Plaintiff’s
Opposition to Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment” (filed on November 21,
2023), which provides, “Defendants refused to respond to any financial
discovery regarding the payment of fees, who pays the payroll for the
employees, what the financial reporting is to Best Western International and
who controls and the financial relationship between Best Western International
and Best Western Palm Dessert. Proof: See Declaration of Maryann Gallagher in
Opposition to the Motion for Summary Judgment regarding Attempts to discovery
financial information and Exhibits 1-4 thereto. See CCP
437c(h).” But Plaintiff does not point to any request in her opposition to
BWI’s motion for summary judgment that the Court “deny
the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or
discovery to be had, or make any other
order as may be just.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).) It is also
unclear how Code of Civil Procedure section 657
purportedly applies to this argument. 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
does not find that Plaintiff has demonstrated grounds for the Court to
vacate the subject December 6, 2023 minute order and enter a different order
denying BWI’s motion for summary judgment. 
Conclusion
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s “motion for new trial and for an order to vacate
the order granting the motion for summary judgment/adjudication” is denied.  
BWI is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  February 1, 2024                            ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court