  Case Number:  19STCV40317    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  14 Johnson, et al. v. Stoneyhill Security AssociationCase Background
 
This is the second of two cases
between these parties. According to Plaintiffs, the first case resulted in a
settlement that required Defendant to apply rules evenly. It was accompanied by
a guarantee from Defendant’s president about how a specific rule governing
parking would be enforced. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants breached this
settlement by failing to accommodate their medical issues with respect to the
parking requirements and instead launching a campaign of harassment against
them.
 
On August 13, 2021, Plaintiffs
filed their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Breach of Written
Settlement Agreement, (2) Violation of the Fair Housing Act, (3) Violation of
FEHA, and (4) Violation of California Disabled Persons Act against Defendants Stoneyhill
Security Association (“Stoneyhill”) and DOES 1-10. 
 
On September 14, 2021, Defendant Stoneyhill
filed their Answer.
 
On June 6, 2023, Judge Robert
Draper retired and the case was reassigned to Judge Jill Feeney.
 
On June 12, 2023, pursuant to a
peremptory challenge filed by Plaintiffs, the case was reassigned to this
department.
 
            Jury Trial
is currently set for May 28, 2024.
 
Instant Motion
 
            Defendant
now moves this court for an order awarding terminating, issue, evidentiary, or
monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs Nathan Johnson (“Johnson”) and Shari
Edwards (“Edwards”) and their counsel, Mr. Kevin J. Cole. 
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is DENIED.
 
Discussion
 
            On October
31, 2023, this court ordered both Plaintiffs to permit an inspection of “their
driveway, front exterior of their property, and their garage.” No deadline was
imposed for the completion of this inspection.
 
            On February
1, 2024, at Defense’s request, this court issued an order giving Plaintiffs
until March 1, 2024, to complete the inspection. It is undisputed that the
inspection has not been completed.
 
            Plaintiffs
explain (without submitting any evidence) that they are now in the middle of
divorce proceedings. Plaintiff Edwards apparently has a restraining order
against Plaintiff Johnson which prevents him from entering the property.
Plaintiffs call this motion a “bullying” tactic.
 
            The
Defense’s attempt to enforce this court’s order is not bullying. While the
court acknowledges that divorce proceedings are difficult and draining, they
have no legal precedence over these proceedings. Even if there is a restraining
order limiting Plaintiff Johnson, Plaintiff Edwards retains the ability to
permit the inspection. And she has had many months in which to do so. On the
present record, the court sees no excuse for Plaintiffs’ failure to comply with
its order.
 
            With that
said, this is not a circumstance which rises to a level that would cause the
court to issue terminating sanctions. And the court is not inclined to craft
issue or evidentiary sanctions in advance of trial and without knowing the
precise shape of the case. Nor is the court inclined to issue a further
monetary sanctions award, which at this point would be purely punitive.
 
            Defendant’s
remedy at this point is either a motion in limine to exclude evidence, or in
offering a jury instruction. To be clear, the court is not committing at this
point to exclude any particular item or give any particular instruction. It is
merely pointing out that the impact of Plaintiffs’ disobedience of this court’s
discovery orders will be decided at trial, when information is most complete
and the court is best able to tailor its responses.
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiffs
have disobeyed two court orders to permit inspection of their property. The
current record discloses no excuse for this disobedience. However, Defendant’s
proper remedy is not in a motion for terminating sanctions. It is a motion in
limine to exclude certain evidence, or else a request for certain jury
instructions. Therefore, the motion is DENIED.