  Case Number:  23CHCV01498    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 11-25-24
Case # 23CHCV01498, Palomeque, et al. v. Cass
Enterprises, Inc., et al.
Trial
Date: 2-24-25
 
MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants Cass Enterprises, Inc., Cruisers Car Wash, Dajat Zarookian,
Cirano Mercado, Casro, Golnaraghi Enterprises, LP, Jospeh Assad, and Herman
Gouzy
RESPONDING
PARTY: N/A
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Order
stating:
·        
Settlement
was reached in good faith. 
·        
Settlement
bars all present and future claims against Defendants.
 
RULING: Motion is denied
without prejudice.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
April 22, 2023, Cirano Mercado crashed Joseph Assad’s jeep into Herman Gouzy’s Honda
which then crashed into the passenger side of Alfredo Palomeque and Maria
Palomeque’s (the Palomeques) car.  The
Palomeques’ car then collided with Jessica Franco Tashjian’s Toyota Camry, in
which Ms. Tashjian and her daughter Elane Mariy Franco were sitting.  At the time, Mercado was acting within the
scope of his employment for Cass Enterprises, Inc., Cruisers Car Wash, Dajat
Zarookian, Casro, and Golnaraghi Enterprises, LP.  The Palomeques filed this action against Cass
Enterprises, Inc., Cruisers Car Wash, Dajat Zarookian, Cirano Mercado, Casro,
Golnaraghi Enterprises, LP, Joseph Assad, and Herman Gouzy (Defendants) on May
23, 2023, alleging causes of action for negligence and negligent hiring. 
 
On
July 11, 2023, Herman Gouzy filed an answer.  On July 31, 2023, Cass Enterprises filed an
answer. On August 11, 2023, Cruisers Car Wash, Dajat Zarookian, Casro, and
Golnaraghi Enterprises, LP filed an answer. On August 14, 2023, Mercado filed
an answer.
 
On
October 11, 2023, Herman Gouzy was dismissed with prejudice. 
 
On
January 26, 2024, Joseph Assad was dismissed with prejudice.
 
On
January 29, 2024, the Court held a case management conference ordering the
parties to participate in a Mandatory Settlement conference conducted by the
Resolve Law LA Virtual MSC Program no later than December 17, 2024.
 
On
September 13, 2024, Cass, Cruisers, and Zarookian filed this motion for
determination of good faith settlement under section 877.6.  No other parties contest the settlement.
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
In
any action in which two or more defendants are joint tortfeasors, a “good
faith” settlement by one of these defendants with the plaintiff bars the other
defendants from seeking contribution from the settling defendant.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 877.)  The settlement shall also “reduce the claims against
the others” by the amount stipulated in the settlement.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 877, subd. (a).)  
 
The
court relies on four factors to determine whether a settlement is in “good
faith”: (1) a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the
settlor’s proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the
allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; and (4) a recognition that
a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable
after a trial.  Other relevant considerations include the financial
conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the
existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of non-settling defendants.  (Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)  Finally,
the court must evaluate the settlement based on the information available at
the time of settlement.  (Ibid.) 

 
Once
the Court determines the settlement was made in good faith, the other joint
tortfeasors are barred from pursuing further claims against the settling
tortfeasors for contribution.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(c).)  The policies behind Sections 877 and 877.6 are, “(1) The equitable
sharing of costs among the parties at fault and (2) the encouragement of
settlements.”  (Erreca’s v. Superior Court (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th
1475, 1487.)  The trial court is given wide discretion to determine
whether the settlement was in “good faith,” and its decision is reviewed for
the existence of “substantial evidence.”  (Hellam v. Crane Co. (2015)
239 Cal.App.4th 851, 860.)  
 
“A
settling party may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court,
together with an application for determination of good faith settlement and a
proposed order.  The application shall indicate the settling parties, and
the basis, terms, and amount of the settlement.  The notice, application,
and proposed order shall be given by certified mail, return receipt requested,
or by personal service.  Proof of service shall be filed with the
court.  Within 25 days of the mailing of the notice, application, and
proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, a nonsettling party may
file a notice of motion to contest the good faith of the settlement.  If
none of the nonsettling parties files a motion within 25 days of mailing of the
notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service,
the court may approve the settlement.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(a)(2).)  The settling party must also attach supporting affidavits.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)
 
Unopposed
motions do not require a full and complete discussion of the Tech-Bilt factors.
 (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior
Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 [“[W]hen no one objects, the
barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a
declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.”)
 
The
Wagner Declaration
Defendants
present the declaration of their counsel record, Luke Wagner. (Declaration of
Luke Wagner.) The Wagner declaration does not comply with section 877.6.
 
On
March 8, 2024 and May 24, 2024, counsel for the Palomeques, Ms. Tashjian, and
Ms. Tashjian’s daughter sent Defendants’ counsel a policy limit demand letter
seeking all available remaining policy limits to settle their personal injury
claims.[1]
 (Declaration of Luke Wagner, ¶ 5.)  After receiving the demand and evaluating the
available evidence, the parties agreed to settle all known personal injury claims in exchange for
Defendants’ insurers’ agreement to pay all available remaining policy limits.  (Id. at ¶ 7.)
 
The specific terms
of settlement agreement are as follows: Defendants’ insurer will pay a total of
$941,162.98—$541,162.98 to Maria Palomeque; $200,000 to Alfredo Palomeque;
$185,000 to Jessica Tashjian; and $15,000 to Jessica Franco Tashjian, Guardian
ad Litem for Elane Mariy Franco.  (Wagner
Dec., ¶¶ 8, 9.)  This releases all claims
against Defendants including Palomeque’s complaint, fees and costs and a waiver
of Civil Code section 1542.  (Ibid.)
 This also dismisses claims brought
against Defendants by Ms. Tashjian and her daughter.  (Ibid.)  This settlement amount is the remaining
policy limit after the policy paid for the vehicle damages.  (Wagner Dec. ¶ 9.)
 
The settling parties
are Cass Enterprises, Inc., Cruisers Car Wash, Dajat Zarookian, Cirano Mercado,
Casro, Golnaraghi Enterprises, LP, Maria Palomeque, Alfredo Palomeque, Jessica
Tashjian, and Jessica Franco Tashjian as Guardian ad Litem for Elane Mariy
Franco.  (Wagner Dec., ¶ 7.)
 
Wagner states the
settlement is not grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person would
estimate liability to be given the Claimants personal injuries and medical
treatment. (Wagner Dec., ¶ 9.) 
 
The Court finds
that the application is deficient because Wagner’s declaration merely states
the settlement amount and the steps leading to the settlement
amount.  
 
The Court must be
able to assess “whether the amount of settlement is within the reasonable range
of the settling tortfeasor’s proportional share of comparative liability for
the plaintiff’s injuries.”  (Tech-Bilt,
Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.)  The Wagner declaration does not allow the
Court to make such an assessment. Although the factors in Tech-Bilt are
nonexclusive, Mr. Wagner only presents the amount of the settlement while not
stating any facts as to the other five factors.  (Cahill v. San Diego Gas & Electric Co.
(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939, 959.)  The
Court must ensure that the settlement amount is “not . . . grossly
disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of settlement, would
estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be.”  (Id. at p. 960.)  The motion, in its present form, does not
allow the Court to make such a determination. 

 
Accordingly,
because the Court cannot assess the good faith of the settlement, the Court
denies this motion without prejudice.
 
ORDER
Moving
parties to give notice.


