 Case Number:  #15-24AHCV00216    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  X TRIAL SETTING CONFERENCE / OSCThe Order to Show Cause hearing is discharged.  The Court sets the following dates: Final Status Conference: Thursday, January 22, 2026, at 10:00 a.m. in Dept. X.               Jury Trial: Monday, February 3, 2026, at 9:00 a.m. in Dept. X. The Court estimates trial as lasting seven court days based upon the information in the Case Management Statements.  Defendants HOA and Tam have posted jury fees. The Court further orders the parties to comply with the Court’s Trial Preparation Order, which may be found on the LASC website (www.LACourt.org), “Online Services” section, under the “Courtroom Information” link for Department X (Alhambra Courthouse).  Trial counsel are ordered to personally appear – in court – for the Final Status Conference with a copy of their lodged binders so that same can be reviewed in preparation for trial.  Unless waived by both parties, counsel for Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this Order and file a proof of service with the Court.DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRERS (4) TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINTDefendants filed four individual demurrers to Plaintiff’s first cause of action for Breach of Contract against them.Plaintiff filed a complaint against his homeowners association (HOA) and individuals in the HOA, alleging six causes of action arising out of his ownership of a condominium unit in a complex he shared with Defendants.  According to Plaintiff, he observed issues on the property, including a roof that needed to be replaced but was ignored; these property issues caused damage to his unit and the common areas. On May 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed—and the Court entered—requests for dismissals without prejudice of the defendants Tom Quan, Aimee Quan, Hitesh Pau, Deepa Pau, Rick Fuentes, Rocio Sandhu, Elise Wei, and Barney Lee as to the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action.  Defendant James Tam is the only individual defendant for whom Plaintiff did not request a dismissal as to the second through sixth causes of action.  Defendant Tam is the president of the Defendant HOA.  (Compl., ¶ 23.)The remaining Breach of Contract cause of action against all Defendants remains at issue and is the subject of these four demurrers.Tentative RulingThe demurrers to the first cause of action for Breach of Contract in the First Amended Complaint, filed by Aimee Quan (3888), Rocio Sandhu (7084), Deepa Pau (6366), and Aimee Quan, Tom Quan, Rocio Sandhu, and Deepa Pau (8793), are SUSTAINED with 10 days leave to amend.The Court sets an Order to Show Cause hearing re: Amended Complaint for January 22, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department X of the Alhambra Courthouse.  If an amended complaint is filed and served by that time, the matter will go off-calendar and no appearance will be necessary.Legal Authority and Analysis“The function of a demurrer is to test the sufficiency of the complaint as a matter of law.”  (Holiday Matinee, Inc. v. Rambus, Inc. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1413, 1420.)  A complaint “is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550 (“Doe”)), but the plaintiff must set forth the essential facts of his or her case “with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficient to acquaint [the] defendant with the nature, source and extent” of the plaintiff’s claim.  (Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099.)Legal conclusions are insufficient.  (Id., at pp. 1098–99.)  The Court “assume[s] the truth of the allegations in the complaint, but do[es] not assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of law.”  (California Logistics, Inc. v. State of California (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 247.)  A demurrer lies only for defects appearing on the face of the complaint or from matters of which the court must or may take judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.40; see Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)The essential elements for a breach of an oral contract are: (1) parties capable of contracting, (2) mutual consent, (3) a lawful object, (4) a specific averment of consideration, (5) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for failure to perform, (6) defendant’s breach, and (7) damage.  Precision or in haec verba is not required: pleading the legal effect (i.e., enough facts to show actionable breach of an enforceable agreement) is good enough.  (See Civ. Code, §§ 1550, 1605, 1614; Miles v. Deutsche Bank Nat’l Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 401-402; Stockton Mortgage, Inc. v. Tope (2014) 233 Cal.App.4th 437, 453; Gomez v. Lincare, Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 508, 525; Stevenson v. San Francisco Housing Authority (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 269, 284.)The four demurrers are substantively identical.  The Court’s analysis applies to each demurrer.  Defendants argue that the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) fails to allege sufficient facts to support a breach of contract claim.  First, they argue that no contractual relationship existed between Plaintiff and the individual Defendants.  That is, Plaintiff has not alleged the existence of a contract between the parties, including the necessary elements of offer, acceptance, and consideration.  Second, they argue Defendants were not members of the HOA Board of Directors during the relevant period and had no decision-making authority to enforce the CC&Rs.  They maintain the FAC does not allege facts showing that the Defendants owed any duties to the Plaintiff under the CC&Rs.  Defendants argue the FAC fails to allege sufficient facts to support a breach of contract claim.  According to Defendants, Plaintiff improperly grouped Defendants with the HOA and failed to allege specific facts as to why the individual Defendants are named in the lawsuit.In his opposition, Plaintiff argues the CC&Rs constitute a binding contract between all members of the HOA, including Defendants, and Defendants breached their obligations under the CC&Rs by failing to maintain the common areas, which caused damage to Plaintiff’s condominium unit. First, Plaintiff argues he complied with all obligations under the CC&Rs, including paying dues and maintaining the unit, and suffered damages because of Defendants’ breach.  Second, Plaintiff argues Defendants acted collectively to ignore Plaintiff’s demands for repairs and maintenance, leading to significant property damage and economic harm.  Third, Plaintiff asserts the governing documents expressly authorize individual owners to take legal action to enforce the CC&Rs when the HOA fails to fulfill its obligations.  Thus, Plaintiff argues that the demurrer is frivolous and should be overruled, as the FAC sufficiently alleges a breach of contract claim.Here, Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim is based on the CC&Rs governing the HOA, which are enforceable as a contract between the HOA and its members.  CC&Rs between associations and its members form a contractual relationship.  (Frances T. v. Village Green Owners Ass’n. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 490, 512–13.)  Plaintiff relies on Frances T., the Supreme Court case, but misconstrues it.  Plaintiff’s opposition argues, “[a]lthough the plaintiff in Frances T. was unable to sue for breach of contract, it was because she was a tenant, not a member (owner), and the CC&Rs had not been violated by virtue of the existing lighting.  ID at 512-513.”  (Opposition, p. 5.)  The Frances T. plaintiff’s cause of action for breach of contract did not fail because she was a tenant and not an owner.  Rather, the California Supreme Court held that the “[p]laintiff’s allegation that defendants breached that contract by failing to install additional lighting must fail because she does not allege that any provision in any of the writings imposed such an obligation on defendant.”  (Frances T., supra, 42 Cal.3d at pp. 512–513.)  Footnote 20 further elaborates: The board members may not be held personally liable absent allegations that they entered into a contract with plaintiff on their own behalf or purported to bind themselves personally.  (United States Liab. Ins. Co. v. Haidinger-Hayes, Inc., supra, 1 Cal.3d at p. 595, 83 Cal.Rptr. 418, 463 P.2d 770.)  No such allegation is made here and accordingly the discussion is limited to the question of the Association’s liability.(Id. at p. 512, fn. 20.)  The Supreme Court concluded the breach of contract claim failed against the individual defendants because they did not enter into a contract with the plaintiff on their own behalf nor purported to bind themselves to the CC&R personally.In this case, the FAC does not allege that the individual Defendants were parties to a contract with Plaintiff.  While the CC&Rs can bind an association, Plaintiff has not alleged specific facts showing that Defendants, as individuals, had contractual obligations to maintain the common areas or that they breached such obligations.  The FAC broadly alleges that the defendant owners were complicit in the Board’s wrongdoing because of willful ignorance, indifference, or impecunious circumstances.  (Compl., ¶ 24.)  However, the FAC does not allege that the demurring defendants were members of the Board of Directors or had any authority to enforce the CC&Rs.  This lack of specific allegations in the FAC tying the individual Defendants to the alleged breach warrants the sustaining of Defendants’ Demurrers.  ConclusionThe demurrers, to the first cause of action for Breach of Contract in the FAC, filed by Aimee Quan (3888), Rocio Sandhu (7084), Deepa Pau (6366), and Aimee Quan, Tom Quan, Rocio Sandhu, and Deepa Pau (8793), are SUSTAINED.  Plaintiff is to file an amended complaint within 10 days of mailing a notice of ruling.  The Court sets an Order to Show Cause hearing re: Amended Complaint for January 22, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department X of the Alhambra Courthouse.  If an amended complaint is filed and served by that time, the matter will go off-calendar and no appearance will be necessary.Moving Parties are to give notice.PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIESPlaintiff requests an order that compels Defendant Homeowners Association to provide further responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 6 and 8.  Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,400.00 against Defendant for alleged discovery abuses. Tentative RulingsPlaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 6 and 8 is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. Defendant HOA shall provide further responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 6 and 8, limited to information directly related to the maintenance and repair of common areas and Plaintiff’s unit. Defendant is not required to disclose information pertaining to other unit owners or matters unrelated to the common areas.  Defendant HOA shall serve its further responses within 30 days of mailing a notice of ruling.Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.  Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.Legal Authority and AnalysisCode of Civil Procedure section 2030.300 states, in relevant part, that upon receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following apply:(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete; […](3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.Plaintiff, a member of the HOA, filed this lawsuit alleging that Defendant HOA failed to maintain common areas, including a roof that caused significant damage to Plaintiff’s condominium unit.On April 26, 2024 Plaintiff propounded Special Interrogatories (Set One) to Defendant.  (Hoffman Decl., Exh. 2.)  On June 10, 2024, Defendant served its verified responses to the interrogatories.  (Hoffman Decl., Exh. 3.)  On July 9, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter.  (Hoffman Decl., Exh. 4.)  Defendant received several extensions to provide supplemental responses and ultimately provided a letter response on September 6, 2024.  (Hoffman Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. 5.) Special Interrogatories Nos. 6 and 8 seek: Identification of all vendors used by the HOA over the past five years (No. 6), and Details of all expenditures from the HOA’s reserve account over the past three years, including whom any sums were paid, the date, and reasons why (No. 8).  Defendant HOA’s initial June 10, 2024 responses objected to these interrogatories on grounds of overbreadth, relevance, undue burden, and oppression.  Defendant’s September 6, 2024 letter objects similarly, on the grounds of overbreadth, relevance, and privacy rights. Plaintiff’s motion contends that the information sought is relevant to the subject matter of the litigation and is limited to five years of the HOA’s vendors and three years of the HOA’s reserve account.  In opposition, Defendant counters that the requests are overly broad and seek information unrelated to Plaintiff’s claims, i.e., the HOA’s vendor and expenditure records, which include matters pertaining to other unit owners.  Defendant argues Plaintiff failed to demonstrate within his demand for inspection how any damage within the personal units is relevant or related to the damage to his unit and share of the common area.The Court finds the time periods to be relevant and that the identity of vendors (Interrogatory No. 6) and reserve account expenditures (Interrogatory No. 8) are relevant to the extent they pertain to the maintenance and repair of common areas, as that is the subject of the complaint. However, the scope of the requests, as currently framed, is overly broad.  For example, seeking all vendor information over a five-year period and all reserve account expenditures over three years encompasses matters unrelated to Plaintiff’s claims. As to the common areas, Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges:15. The Common Area includes, but is not limited to, “improvements actually constructed thereon including as applicable, garage areas, stairs, elevators and elevator shafts, basement and storage areas, bearing walls, columns, girders, sub-floors, unfinished floors, roofs and foundations, central heating, central air conditioning equipment, reservoirs, tanks, pumps, motors, ducts, flues and chutes, conduits, pipes, plumbing, wire and other utility installations (except the outlets thereof when located within the unit), required to provide power, lights, telephones, gas, water, sewerage, drainage, heat, air conditioning and elevator service; sprinklers, sprinkler pipes and leads which protrude into the airspace of a condominium unit in the central television antenna facility.” (Ex. 1, art. I, §7.)(FAC, ¶ 15.)  Further responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 6 and 8 are limited to the common areas alleged in the FAC.Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant for its alleged dilatory and disingenuous discovery practices.  Defendant, in turn, seeks sanctions against Plaintiff for bringing this motion without substantial justification.  The parties’ opposing requests for sanctions are denied.  (Mattco Valley Forge v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1437 [court’s discretion to deny sanctions upon mixed results].)