 Case Number:  22STCV21229    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



THE LAW FIRM OF FOX AND FOX, a General Partnership
  Composed of Frank O. Fox and Claire S. Fox, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MIGUEL ARTEAGA,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV21229
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART MOTIONS
  TO COMPEL FURTHER 
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
September 21, 2023



 
On February 3, 2023, Plaintiff
The Law Firm of Fox and Fox filed three motions to compel Defendant Miguel Arteaga’s
further responses to discovery.
On
August 10, 2023, the Court continued the hearings on the motions and ordered the
parties to meet and confer and file the required joint statements.
E-FILING ISSUES
Under
the Court’s First Amended General Order for electronic filing, “[e]lectronic
documents must be electronically filed in PDF, text searchable format when
technologically feasible without impairment of the document’s image.” (General
Order No. 2019-GEN-014-00, at ¶ 6(a).) 
Additionally, the table of contents and all attachments, including
exhibits, must be bookmarked.  (General
Order No. 2019-GEN-014-00, at ¶¶ 6(b)-(d); California Rules of Court, rule
3.1110(f)(4).)
The
parties’ filings do not comply with these requirements.  Each filing is between 86 and 359 pages with
multiple exhibits, but without any bookmarks. 
If the parties continue to electronically file noncompliant documents,
the Court may strike the filings or issue sanctions.
REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION
A
party may move to compel a further response to requests for admission if the
demanding party deems an answer to be evasive or incomplete, or if an objection
is without merit or too general.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (a).)
Defendant’s
further response to RFA No. 2 stated, “Denied.” 
This is a complete answer, even if Plaintiff does not believe the
denial.  The motion is DENIED.
RFA
No. 12 asks Defendant to “Admit that YOU did not fully perform all contractual
and statutory obligations under the Retainer Agreement YOU signed with The Law
Firm Of Fox And Fox.”  Defendant’s
objections for vagueness, ambiguity, speculation, unintelligence, burden, and
oppression are overruled.  The motion is GRANTED.  Defendant must provide a code-compliant
response to RFP No. 12 within 30 days. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220.)
FORM
INTERROGATORIES
A
party may move to compel a further response to interrogatories if the demanding
party deems an answer to be evasive or incomplete, if an exercise of the option
to produce documents is unwarranted or inadequate, or if an objection is
without merit or too general.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Form
Rog No. 17.1 requests that for any RFA that is not an unqualified admission,
Defendant “(a) state the number of the request; (b) state all facts upon which
you base your response; (c) state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers
of all PERSONS who have knowledge of the facts; and (d) identify all DOCUMENTS
and other tangible things that support your contention and state the name,
ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT or thing.”
RFA
No. 2 asked Defendant to “Admit that YOU read and understood all of the terms
in the Retainer Agreement with THE LAW FIRM OF FOX AND FOX at the time that YOU
signed it on September 29, 2021, concerning YOUR representation by PLAINTIFF in
the dissolution of marriage proceeding, filed in Los Angeles Superior Court,
case number 21STFL09806.”  Plaintiff’s
supplemental response was a denial.  For
Form Rog No. 17.1, Plaintiff responded: (a) 2.  (b) I was only instructed to sign and initial
the retainer agreement.  (c) Frank O.
Fox.  (d) Other than the retainer
agreement there none.”  This is a
complete response.  The motion is DENIED.
RFA
No. 12 asked Defendant to “Admit that YOU did not fully perform all contractual
and statutory obligations under the Retainer Agreement YOU signed with THE LAW
FIRM OF FOX AND FOX.”  Plaintiff provided
only objections.  For Form Rog No. 17.1,
Plaintiff did not respond.  The motion is
GRANTED.  Defendant must provide
supplemental responses within 30 days.
RFA
No. 15 asked Defendant to “Admit that true and correct copies of the monthly
statements that YOU received from THE LAW FIRM OF FOX AND FOX, concerning the
work performed and the costs incurred on YOUR behalf, in the dissolution of
marriage proceeding, filed in Los Angeles Superior Court, case number
2lSTFL09806, are attached hereto and cumulatively labeled Exhibit ‘B.’”  Plaintiff’s original response was a denial,
and his supplemental response stated, “Without an admission as to whether said
statements and costs accurately reflect the actual reasonable costs incurred
and earned fees by plaintiff, defendant admits he receive[d] said statements.”  For Form Rog No. 17.1, Plaintiff did not
respond.  The motion is GRANTED.  Defendant must provide supplemental responses
within 30 days.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF
DOCUMENTS
A
party may move to compel a further response to a demand for production of
documents if the demanding party deems that the statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete; the representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or an objection in the response is without
merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)  The motion must
set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by
the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)
RFP
No. 1 requests “Any and all DOCUMENTS referenced in YOUR responses to the Special
Interrogatories, Set Number One, served by Plaintiff.”  Defendant’s supplemental response stated, “There
are no documents and never have been in response to this interrogatory.”  However, Plaintiff’s responses to Special
Interrogatories did reference documents. 
The motion is GRANTED.  Defendant
must provide supplemental responses within 30 days.
RFP
No. 2 requests “Any and all DOCUMENTS referenced in YOUR responses to the Form
Interrogatories-General, Set Number One, served by Plaintiff.”  Defendant objected, stating that it would be
an oppressive and unduly burdensome process to copy the full case file from his
marriage dissolution.  Plaintiff identifies
seven responses that referred to documents, and Plaintiff has not shown that
producing these documents would indeed be oppressive and burdensome.  The motion is GRANTED.  Defendant must provide supplemental responses
within 30 days.
RFP
No. 3 requests “Any and all DOCUMENTS referenced in YOUR responses to the Requests
For Admissions, Set Number One, served by Plaintiff.”  Defendant’s supplemental response stated, “There
are no documents referenced in defendant’s responses to request for admissions,
and there never has been.”  Defendant’s
responses to the RFAs do not refer to any documents.  The motion is DENIED.
For
RFP Nos. 4-14, 16-17, and 20, Defendant responded, “See attached communications,”
“See attached receipts,” “See attached documents,” “See attached Document,” or “See
attached Minute Orders.”  This is
insufficient.  “Any documents or category
of documents produced in response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing,
or sampling shall be identified with the specific request number to which the
documents respond.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.280, subd. (a).)  The motion is
GRANTED.  Defendant must provide
supplemental responses that identify which documents correspond with each
request within 30 days.
For
RFP No. 15, Defendant responded, “See attached monthly billing statements which
were attached to your Complaint on file herein as Exhibit ‘B.’”  This identifies the documents.  The motion is DENIED.
For
RFP Nos. 18-19, Defendant responded, “Following a diligent search and a reasonable
inquiry respondent is unable to produce any such documents because to the best
of respondent’s knowledge no such documents have ever existed.”  This is a compliant response.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)  The motion is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 21st day of September 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 