 Case Number:  22STCV22330    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


June 26, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV22330




MOTIONS


Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Vernon
  Goodwin




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant the Regents of the University of California



 
MOTION
Plaintiff Vernon
Goodwin (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel further responses from Defendant Regents
of the University of California (“Defendant”): Form Interrogatories, set one
(“FROG”); Special Interrogatories, set one (“SROG”); and Requests for
Production, set one (“RPD”).  Defendant opposes
the motions. 
ANALYSIS
If the propounding
party deems responses to interrogatories or requests for production of
documents unsatisfactory, the propounding party may move to compel further
responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.300; 2031.310.)  
After Plaintiff
filed these motions, Defendant supplemented its responses to RPD Nos. 6, 33,
36, 46, 47, and 64.  The motion to compel
further responses to the RPD is, therefore, moot as to those RPD.  Likewise, Defendant supplemented its
responses to all SROG at issue. 
Accordingly, the motion to compel further responses to the SROG is moot.  While Plaintiff argues in reply the
supplemental responses are insufficient, the Court cannot reach that
issue.  If Plaintiff is dissatisfied with
the supplemental responses, Plaintiff must move to compel further responses specifically
with respect to them.
In RPD Nos. 27 and 29, Plaintiff
asks Defendant to produce employee directories. 
The court will not order Defendant to respond to RPD that seek
information about other employees in California without providing the employees
notice and an opportunity to opt out of the disclosure of their identities and
contact information.  (See Belaire-West
Landscape, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 554, 561-562 (Belaire-West
Landscape) [where current and former employees were potential percipient
witnesses to employer’s employment and wage practices, their identities and
locations were properly discoverable unless, following proper notice, they
objected to the disclosure].)  
Therefore, the court
directs the parties to meet and confer regarding the notice procedure.  Likewise, the court will not order Defendant
to respond to RPD No. 35, which would require Defendant to produce documents
about classification or compensation reviews Defendant conducted with respect
to other employees, absent notice and an opportunity for employees to opt
out.  Is an alternative, Defendant may
produce responsive documents with the identifying information for its other
employees redacted.
In FROG No. 209.2,
after the parties agreed through meet and confer sessions, Plaintiff asks
Defendant to identify any employee in the past 10 years who filed a civil
action against Defendant based on race, ethnic origin, disability, discrimination,
harassment, or equal pay claims.  Plaintiff
agreed to limit the request to the last ten years.  Defendant argues the FROG is overbroad. “In
the context of discovery, evidence is ‘relevant’ if it might reasonably assist
a party in evaluating its case, preparing for trial, or facilitating a
settlement. Admissibility is not the test, and it is sufficient if the
information sought might reasonably lead to other, admissible evidence.” (Glenfed
Development Corp. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.)  FROG No. 209.2 is an Official Form
Interrogatory.  Its relevance is obvious:
the propounding party seeks information pertaining to potential witnesses to another
party’s employment practices.  The FROG,
therefore, is not irrelevant.
Defendant argues
the request violates the privacy rights of third parties.  In that Plaintiff seeks the names, addresses,
and telephone numbers of each employee who filed civil actions against it in
the past 10 years.  However, Defendant
does not dispute, through meet and confer discussions, such information is not being
sought by Plaintiff.  Therefore, this
issue is moot.  
Defendant contends
the FROG is unduly burdensome.  If that
were the case, Defendant was required to advance evidence of “the quantum of
work required . . . [and] the ultimate effect of the burden is incommensurate
with the result sought.”  (West Pico
Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles County
(1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.)  Such
evidence would include evidence of the total amount of hours required to
accomplish the task. (Ibid.)  Defendant
has not presented such evidence.
Defendant argues information responsive to
FROG No. 209.2 is equally available to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff could conceivably search civil
court filings in every jurisdiction, which are public, to find cases that have
been filed against Defendant related to Plaintiff’s claims in this action.  However, it is undoubtedly easier for
Defendant to locate such information, as Defendant necessarily has notice of
such claims.  Therefore, Defendant must
further respond to FROG No, 209.2.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s motion
to compel further responses to the FROG is granted.  The court also grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses to RPD Nos. 27, 29, and 35, subject to providing the
employees notice and an opportunity to opt out of the disclosure of their
identities and contact information, pursuant to Belaire-West Landscape.  Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to the SROG is moot. 
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.