 Case Number:  23STCV14949    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


June 26, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV14949




MOTIONS:  


Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses
Motion to Compel Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Beatriz Villela




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant General Motors LLC



 
MOTIONS
            Plaintiff
Beatriz Villela (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel further responses from Defendant
General Motors LLC (“Defendant”) to Requests for Production of Documents, set
one (“RPD”), Nos. 16-21.  Plaintiff also
moves to compel Defendant to produce its person most qualified to appear at
deposition and to testify on specified topics. 
Defendant opposes the motions.
 ANALYSIS
If the propounding
party deems responses to requests for production of documents unsatisfactory,
that party may move to compel further responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.)  
Plaintiff alleges her
2020 Chevrolet Trax vehicle had defects Defendant was unable to repair within a
reasonable number of attempts.  Plaintiff,
therefore, contends Defendant is liable under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (“Song-Beverly”).  Plaintiff
demanded Defendant produce documents about Plaintiff’s vehicle and the same
make and model of that vehicle.
Defendant objects
to the RPD to the extent Plaintiff seeks documents about vehicles other than
Plaintiff’s vehicle.  As Plaintiff timely
filed this motion to compel further responses, Defendant has the burden to
justify its objections.  (Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  Plaintiff is entitled to discovery regarding
the alleged defects in other vehicles of the same make, model, and year as
Plaintiff’s vehicle.  Likewise, Plaintiff
is entitled to evidence of Defendant’s conduct towards other purchasers of
defective vehicles, which is pertinent to a finding that the manufacturer
willfully violated Song-Beverly in failing to adequately repair a vehicle.  (Johnson v. Ford Motor Co. (2005) 35
Cal. 4th 1191, 1204.)  Furthermore,
“whether [Defendant] had a written policy on the requirement to repair or
replace” under Song-Beverly is relevant to a finding of willfulness.  (Jensen v. BMW of North America, Inc.
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 136.)  Plaintiff is entitled to discovery on
Defendant’s policies and procedures.  Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion is granted as to an order compelling Defendant to respond
with responsive documents regarding other vehicles that are of the same year,
make, and model as Plaintiff’s vehicle.  
Defendant contends
the information Plaintiff seeks about defects in vehicles of the same make and
model as Plaintiff’s vehicle is irrelevant. “In the context of discovery,
evidence is ‘relevant’ if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating its
case, preparing for trial, or facilitating a settlement. Admissibility is not
the test, and it is sufficient if the information sought might reasonably lead
to other, admissible evidence.”  (Glenfed
Development Corp. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.)  As set forth above, in this case, information
about vehicles that are the same make and model as Plaintiff’s vehicle is
pertinent.
Defendant claims
responsive information is a trade secret.  Defendant has not substantiated that
objection.  “Trade secret means
information, including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device,
method, technique, or process, that: (1) derives independent economic value,
actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to other
persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2) is
the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain
its secrecy.”  (Civ. Code, § 3426.1.)  The Court is skeptical that Defendant derives
economic value from defects in its vehicles and complaints to Defendant about such
defects.  In any event, Defendant has not
presented any testimony or documentary evidence in support of this contention.
Defendant also argues
responsive information may include personally identifiable information.  Again, Defendant fails to substantiate this
objection.  Defendant does not even
specify whose personally identifiable information the responsive documents
might include.  (See Opposition to Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, p. 7.)  
If a party to the
action fails to appear for deposition after service of a deposition notice and
the party has not served a valid objection to the deposition notice, the party who
noticed the deposition may move for an order to compel the deponent to attend
and testify at deposition. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.450, subd. (a).)  Plaintiff served Defendant with a notice of
deposition.
In opposing
Plaintiff’s motion to compel, Defendant contends the deposition notice is
overbroad and seeks trade secret material.  If Defendant sought to avoid producing a
person most qualified or documents on specified topics, Defendant was required
to seek a protective order so “[t]hat certain matters not be inquired into.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b)(9).)  Defendant did not do so.  The scope of the requested information is not
an “error or irregularity” in the deposition notice to which Defendant could
object. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410.)
Defendant also
argues Plaintiff failed to file a separate statement in connection with the
motion to compel deposition. Plaintiff was not required to do so, as Defendant
did not appear for deposition.  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(4).) 
Because Defendant failed to appear for deposition, Plaintiff could not
possibly file a separate statement of the questions Plaintiff asked at the deposition
and the answers Defendant gave thereto. 
(See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (c)(1)-(2).)  
Likewise,
Defendant’s argument Plaintiff failed to adequately attempt to informally
resolve this matter is misplaced.  Plaintiff was not required to do so, as
Defendant did not appear for the  deposition. Instead, Plaintiff was required to
“contact[] [Defendant] to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)  Plaintiff did
so.  (Declaration of Noreelie Panhwar in
Support of Motion to Compel Deposition, Exhibits 4-5.)
Moreover, Defendant
concedes it must produce its person most qualified to appear for deposition.  (See Opposition to Motion to Compel
Deposition.)  Accordingly, the court
grants the motion to compel Defendant’s deposition. (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§2025.450, subd. (a).)
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s motion
to compel further responses to the RPD is granted, and Defendant is ordered to
respond with responsive documents regarding other vehicles that are of the same
year, make, and model as Plaintiff’s vehicle. 
Plaintiff’s motion
to compel Defendant to produce its person most qualified to testify on
specified topics and to produce documents is granted. Defendant is to produce
its person most qualified for deposition within 30 days of notice of this
order, unless Plaintiff stipulates otherwise. The scope of the deposition is as
set forth in Exhibit 2 attached to the Panhwar  Declaration.
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.