  Case Number:  19STCV23804    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


June 26, 2024




CASE NUMBER


19STCV23804




MOTIONS


Motion to Quash Subpoenas




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Gilbert Bell




OPPOSING PARY


Defendant Kyle Johnson



 
MOTION
              Plaintiff
Gilbert Bell (“Plaintiff”) moves to quash a subpoena Defendant Kyle Johnson
(“Defendant”) served on “Wendover Investments Dan Patterson “(“Deponent”).  The subpoena seeks financial information
about GB Entertainment LLC, of which Plaintiff is the sole member, and about Plaintiff.  Defendant opposes the motion.  Plaintiff did not personally serve the motion
on Deponent as required.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1346.)  Plaintiff apparently
failed to give any notice to Deponent.  Further, Plaintiff failed to include a
separate statement setting forth the particular demands in the subpoena and the
factual and legal reasons why the court should not compel production of the
records.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,
subd. (a)(5).)  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion is denied without prejudice.  The court
provides the following analysis to assist the parties.
ANALYSIS
If a subpoena requires the production of
documents, the court may quash the subpoena entirely or modify it.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)  In ruling on a motion to quash, “the Court
may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,
subd. (a).) 
Plaintiff has a right to privacy in his
finances.  (Valley Bank of Nevada v.
Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 656-657.)  Accordingly, the Court cannot order
disclosure of financial information regarding Plaintiff unless the records are
directly relevant to this litigation. 
(See Britt v. Superior Court (1978)
20 Cal.3d 844, 855-856.)  Here, in the
operative cross-complaint, Defendant alleges he is Nichelle Nichols’s
(“Nichols”) conservator.  In a cross-complaint
filed in this action, Defendant alleges, among other things, Plaintiff abused his
position as Nichols’s manager and misappropriated funds from Nichols.  As such, Plaintiff’s financial records are
directly relevant to this action.  
In reply, Plaintiff advances his own
declaration, in which he asserts, as relevant to this action, he is destitute,
without any assets, and the transactions Defendant references in the cross-complaint
can be explained.  (See Declaration of
Gilbert Bell in Support of Reply to Motion to Quash, ¶¶ 3, 16, 18, 21.)  Defendant is, nonetheless, entitled to
conduct discovery and need not accept Plaintiff’s representations regarding the
underlying facts.  
Defendant’s request for sanctions is denied,
as the court does not find Plaintiff frivolously brought the instant motion.  
Plaintiff is to give notice of this
order and to file proof of service of same.