   [1]The Court notes  that the Complaint alleges that “[s]ince close of escrow, Plaintiffs had also  attempted to access the parcel to remove the $1.5 million worth of equipment  and materials not subject to the sale transactions. However, SA Recycling  blocked access and refused to allow Plaintiffs to remove these items…” (Compl.,  ¶ 21.)     [2]Plaintiffs allege  that “[m]aterial facts Defendants concealed from Plaintiffs include a) that the  Kims were fiduciaries of and representing SA Recycling in the transactions; b)  that the Kims and their entities were obtaining undisclosed and unauthorized disbursements  out of escrow; c) that SA Recycling never intended to allow Plaintiffs to  remove the $1.5 million worth of materials not subject to the parties’  contracts and intended to unlawfully convert same for its own financial gain;  and d) that all Defendants intended to divert $1.35 million in proceeds from  the subject shearing machine sale to their own use instead of properly  disbursing it.” (Compl., ¶ 33.)Superior
Court of California

County
of Los Angeles

Department 50

 




CENTRAL METAL, INC.,
et al.
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
HOPE YS KIM, et
  al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 
  23STCV02602




Hearing Date:


November 1, 2023




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:  
 
CENTRAL METAL,
  INC.’S DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT FOR DAMAGES FILED BY J &
  I CONSULTING, INC.




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 




            

Background

Plaintiffs Central Metal, Inc. (“CMI”) and Jong Uk Byun
(“Byun”) (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on February 6, 2023 against
Defendants Hope YS Kim, Jason Kim, Young M. Kim, J&I Consulting,
Inc., and SA Recycling LLC (“SA Recycling”). The Complaint alleges causes of
action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) fraud, (3) constructive fraud, (4)
professional negligence, (5) violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200, (6) financial elder abuse, (7) civil
conspiracy, (8) conversion, (9) violation of Penal
Code section 496, and (10) aiding and abetting. 

On April 10, 2023,
J&I Consulting filed a Cross-Complaint against CMI and Byun. J&I
Consulting filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) on June
2, 2023, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract and (2) fraud –
promise with no intent to perform. 

CMI now demurs to both of
the causes of action of the FACC. J&I Consulting opposes.  

Request for Judicial
Notice 

The Court grants CMI’s request for judicial
notice. 

Discussion

A.    Legal Standard

A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 

B.     Allegations of the Complaint and FACC 

Complaint 

In the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that CMI “has been a leader in the
industrial metal shearing business in Southern California for several decades.”
(Compl., ¶ 12.) CMI’s President, Byun, owned a large parcel of land located at
144 S. G. Street, San Bernardino, California 92410 (the “Parcel”). (Compl., ¶
13.) Years ago, a number of metal shearing machines owned by CMI and/or its
affiliates were moved to the Parcel and placed in operation (the “Subject
Shearing Machines”). (Compl., ¶ 13.)

In late 2019, Plaintiffs and SA Recycling entered into a purchase and
sale contract for the Parcel and the Subject Shearing Machines (with associated
licenses), whereby SA Recycling agreed to pay Plaintiffs a total purchase price
of $4.2 million. (Compl., ¶ 14.) After escrow was opened for the transaction,
Hope YS Kim, Jason Kim, and Young M. Kim (collectively, the “Kims”) made
acquaintance with Byun, representing themselves as experienced real estate
professionals who wanted to assist Byun with the pending transaction with SA
Recycling. (Compl., ¶ 15.) Plaintiffs allege that “J&I Consulting, Inc. is
owned and operated by Defendants Young M. Kim and Jason Kim, and is the entity
through which they transact their real estate business(es).” (Compl., ¶ 6.) Byun,
who does not speak or understand English fluently, was led to believe that the
Kims would assist him with the transaction as his fiduciaries, including
promising to translate everything into Korean for Byun. (Compl., ¶ 15.) Byun
agreed to let the Kims represent him and CMI in the transaction. (Compl., ¶
15.) 

The Kims then structured the Subject Shearing Machine transaction with
SA Recycling for $1.95 million, for machines and associated licenses only. (Compl.,
¶ 17.) Simultaneously, the Parcel transaction was structured with SA Recycling
for $2.25 million. (Compl., ¶ 17.) A material term in the Parcel transaction
allowed Plaintiffs six months after close of escrow to access the Parcel to
remove equipment and materials that were not part of the sale transactions. (Compl.,
¶ 17.) These items excluded from the sale totaled approximately $1.5 million.
(Compl., ¶ 17.) Plaintiffs allege that they have “since discovered that the
Kims listed themselves as ‘dual agents’ in both transactions, unbeknownst to
Plaintiffs at the time, who believed that the Kims were solely Plaintiffs’
fiduciaries in these transactions. At no point did the Kims explain this dual
agency to Plaintiffs, and while it was stated in small font in the final parcel
purchase and sale contract, [Byun] could not read or comprehend English, and
relied on the Kims to explain the contract provisions to him.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) 

Plaintiffs allege that “[a]fter the transactions closed escrow in
approximately mid to late February 2020, Plaintiffs awaited appropriate
disbursement of funds. Despite repeated assurances from the Kims that nothing
went awry, several months passed and the Kims had still failed to disburse
approximately $1.35 million from the sale of the [Subject Shearing Machines].”
(Compl., ¶ 20.) “Since close of escrow, Plaintiffs had also attempted to access
the parcel to remove the $1.5 million worth of equipment and materials not
subject to the sale transactions. However, SA Recycling blocked access and
refused to allow Plaintiffs to remove these items, despite the parties’
contract provision allowing Plaintiffs six months to do so.” (Compl., ¶ 21.)
Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants were in collusion the entire time underlying
the foregoing transactions, and intended to work together to enrich themselves
at Plaintiffs’ expense. Specifically, Plaintiffs have recently come to learn
that the Kims served as dual agents in the subject transactions, and received
commission payments out of escrow for allegedly representing not only
Plaintiffs/sellers, but also SA Recycling as buyer, effectively ‘double-ending’
both transactions.” (Compl., ¶ 22.)

FACC

In the FACC, J&I Consulting alleges that “Byun was the owner of
the real property located at 8201 Santa Fe Avenue, Huntington Park, CA
(‘Property’).” (FACC, ¶ 9.) “On or about December 21, 2019, Cross-Complainant
and Cross-Defendants entered into a written Consulting Agreement (‘Agreement’)
wherein Cross-Complainant agreed to provide consulting services concerning the
sale of real estate, business entity and equipment located at 8201 Santa Fe
Avenue, Huntington Park, CA.” (FACC, ¶ 11.) “[T]he Agreement provided that
‘[i]n the event that the sale of real estate, business entity, and equipment,
etc. specified in this Agreement is successfully completed, President Byun
shall pay 4% of the total sales price to J&I through the escrow company at
the close of escrow in return for J&I’s consulting services.” (FACC, ¶ 12.)


J&I Consulting alleges that “[o]n or about December 31, 2021, the
Property was sold by Cross-Defendant Jong Uk Byun to a third party, and the
sales price was $35,150,000.00.” (FACC, ¶ 13.) J&I consulting alleges that
“[o]n or about December 31, 2021, Cross-Defendant Byun breached the Agreement
by failing to pay the 4% consulting fee to Cross-Complainant.” (FACC, ¶ 14.) 

J&I Consulting further alleges that “[o]n or about December 21,
2019, Cross-Defendant Byun made the promise that in the event that Property was
sold by Cross-Defendant Byun, Cross-Defendant Byun would pay 4% of the sales
price of the Property in the event that the Property was sold,” and that “[t]he
aforesaid promises of Cross-Defendant Byun were false and Cross-Defendant Byun,
at the time the promises were made, had no intention of fulfilling his
promise.” (FACC, ¶¶ 19, 22.) J&I Consulting alleges that “the true intent
behind the promise was to obtain as much consulting services of
Cross-Complainant as possible, to sell the Property using the information and
services received from Cross-Complainant and not pay Cross-Complainant once the
Property was sold.” (FACC, ¶ 23.) 

C.     Standing

First, CMI argues that “J&I lacks standing on all claims as only a
licensed real estate broker may sue for commission based on the sale of real
estate.” (Demurrer at p. 5:6-7.) More specifically, CMI asserts that the FACC
“pleads two causes of action, both of which arise out of one alleged wrong:
J&I’s alleged entitlement to a real estate commission payment left unpaid
by Cross-Defendant, pursuant to an alleged Agreement attached as Exhibit A to
the pleading. However, J&I is not a California licensed real estate broker
and thus has no standing to assert the claims pled.” (Demurrer at p. 5:8-12.) 

CMI cites to Phillippe v. Shapell Indus. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 1247,
1267, where the
California Supreme Court noted that “[o]nly those persons licensed by the California Department of
Real Estate may lawfully act as real estate brokers in this state. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 10130.) To bring an action to
recover a real estate commission, a broker must plead and prove that he was
duly licensed at the time his cause of action arose. (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 10136.) The effect of these laws is obvious -- only a
person duly licensed may earn and recover compensation as a real estate broker.” Pursuant to Business and
Professions Code section 10136, “[n]o person engaged in the business or acting in
the capacity of a real estate broker or a real estate salesperson within this
state shall bring or maintain any action in the courts of this state for the
collection of compensation for the performance of any of the acts mentioned in
this article without alleging and proving that he or she was a duly licensed
real estate broker or real estate salesperson at the time the alleged cause of
action arose.” 

CMI asserts that here, “absent from
J&I’s pleading is any allegation that they were a duly licensed real estate
broker at the time of the sale of the Property.” (Demurrer at p. 6:13-14,
emphasis omitted.) In addition, Exhibit “E” to CMI’s request for judicial
notice is the results of a search on the California Department of Real Estate
website for “Public License Information.” (CMI’s RJN, Ex. E.) CMI’s Exhibit “E”
states, inter alia, that “[n]o matching public record was found for
Licensee: J & I CONSULTING, INC” (CMI’s RJN, Ex. E.)

In the opposition, J&I Consulting asserts that “the services
provided to Cross-Defendant was not for the representation of a principal in
the sale of a property…” (Opp’n at p. 3:11-12.) J&I Consulting further
asserts that, “[n]owhere within the Consulting Agreement does it contemplate
that J&I’s role was to represent Cross-Defendant in the sale of the
property. The scope as set forth in the Consulting Agreement was to provide
consultation to Cross-Defendant so that Cross-Defendant’s property would be in
a financially saleable state wherein the sale of the property would be
financially profitable to Cross-Defendant. In fact, the Consulting Agreement
states that a real estate company would be appointed to conduct the sale, and
the broker representing Cross-Defendant for the sale of the property was not
J&I.” (Opp’n at p. 3:3-10.) As noted by J&I Consulting, the FACC
alleges that “[a] true and correct copy of the Consulting Agreement along with
the English translation is attached hereto as Exhibit ‘A’” (FACC, ¶ 11.) 

J&I Consulting notes that the “Consulting Agreement” attached to
the FACC provides, inter alia, as follows: 

 

“2. Scope of consulting 

The scope and contents of
consulting to be provided by J&I to President Byun are as follows. 

a. The main
purpose of this Agreement is to prevent Hyundai Steel or Prime Metals’ Trustee
attorney from proceeding with the foreclosure of the real estate specified in
this Agreement and to extinguish the bonds held by Hyundai Steel or Prime
Metals’ Trustee attorney by setting the amount to be negotiated and selling the
real estate, business entity, equipment, etc. 

b. Negotiations
with buyers who will purchase real estate, business entity, equipment, etc.
specified in this Agreement 

c. Adjust the
amount of bonds on the real estate, business, and equipment specified in this
Agreement through negotiations with other creditors, including Hyundai Steel or
Prime Metals’ Trustee attorney, so that it may be sold. 

d. The bonds of
the Trustee attorney of Hyundai Steel or Prime Metals and the bonds of Toni Ko,
the secondary creditor, shall be extinguished only with the Santa Fe real
estate. e. In the case of other Junior creditors, the amount of bonds remaining
after the adjustment of the bond amount shall be set to the amount changed to
other real estate that has already been set as collateral. 

f. A real estate
company shall be appointed and controlled to sell the real estate, business
entity, equipment, etc. specified in this Agreement.” (FACC, ¶ 11, Ex. A.)

In the reply, CMI highlights the fact that the above referenced
section of the alleged Consulting Agreement provides in part that “[t]he main
purpose of this Agreement is to prevent Hyundai Steel or Prime Metals’ Trustee
attorney from proceeding with the foreclosure of the real estate specified in
this Agreement and to extinguish the bonds held by Hyundai Steel or Prime
Metals’ Trustee attorney by setting the amount to be negotiated and selling
the real estate, business entity, equipment, etc.” (FACC, ¶ 11, Ex. A, § 2(a), emphasis added.) CMI notes that the alleged
Consulting Agreement further provides that the scope and contents of consulting
to be provided by J&I Consulting include “[n]egotiations with buyers who
will purchase real estate, business entity, equipment, etc. specified in this
Agreement.” (FACC, ¶ 11, Ex. A, § 2(b).) 

CMI notes that Business and Professions Code
section 10131 provides
that “[a] real estate broker within
the meaning of this part is a person who, for a compensation or in expectation
of a compensation, regardless of the form or time of payment, does or
negotiates to do one or more of the following acts for another or others:
(a) Sells or offers to sell, buys
or offers to buy, solicits prospective sellers or buyers of, solicits or
obtains listings of, or negotiates the purchase, sale, or exchange of real property
or a business opportunity…(d) Solicits borrowers or lenders for or negotiates
loans or collects payments or performs services for borrowers or lenders or
note owners in connection with loans secured directly or collaterally by liens
on real property or on a business opportunity.”

CMI also asserts
in the reply that “[w]hile the Agreement states that ‘[a] real
estate company shall be appointed and controlled to sell the real estate,’ both
the Agreement and the [FACC] are silent as to whether this ever occurred, and
this fact is thus in dispute.” (Reply at p. 3:23-25.)[1]
Indeed, the FACC does not appear to allege that any other third company was
appointed to sell the subject property. Rather, the FACC alleges that
“Cross-Complainant agreed to provide consulting services concerning the sale of
real estate, business entity and equipment located at 8201 Santa Fe Avenue,
Huntington Park, CA.” (FACC, ¶ 11.) In the opposition, J&I
Consulting does not point to any allegations of the FACC stating that J&I
Consulting was a duly licensed real
estate broker or real estate salesperson at the time the alleged causes of
action arose.

Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains CMI’s
demurrer to the first and second causes of action of the FACC. 

Conclusion

For the foregoing reasons, the Court sustains CMI’s demurrer to the
first and second causes of action of the FACC, with leave to amend. 

The Court orders J&I Consulting to file and serve an amended cross-complaint, if any,
within 20 days of the date of this order. If no amended cross-complaint is
filed within 20 days, the Court orders CMI to file
and serve a proposed judgment of dismissal within 30 days of the date of this
order.¿ 

CMI is ordered to give notice of this
order.¿ 

 

 

DATED:  November 1, 2023                          ________________________________

Hon. Rolf M. Treu

Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court



