 Case Number:  23STCV02602    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior  Court of California County  of Los Angeles Department 50      CENTRAL METAL, INC.,    et al.                           Plaintiffs,             vs. HOPE YS KIM, et    al.                           Defendants.   Case No.:        23STCV02602     Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023     Hearing Time:   2:00 p.m.     TENTATIVE RULING    RE:     DEFENDANTS HOPE    YS KIM, JASON KIM, AND J&I CONSULTING, INC.’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS    CENTRAL METAL, INC. AND JONG UK BYUN’S COMPLAINT     AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION                     Background Plaintiffs Central Metal, Inc. (“CMI”) and Jong Uk Byun  (“Byun”) (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on February 6, 2023 against  Defendants Hope YS Kim, Jason Kim, Young M. Kim, J&I Consulting,  Inc. (“J&I Consulting”), and SA Recycling LLC (“SA Recycling”). The  Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) fraud,  (3) constructive fraud, (4) professional negligence, (5) violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, (6)  financial elder abuse, (7) civil conspiracy, (8) conversion, (9) violation of Penal Code section 496, and (10) aiding and  abetting.  On April 10, 2023,  J&I Consulting filed a Cross-Complaint against CMI and Byun. J&I  Consulting filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint on June 2, 2023,  alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract and (2) fraud – promise  with no intent to perform.  Hope YS Kim, Jason Kim  (who was erroneously named twice in the Complaint as Young M. Kim), and J&I  Consulting (collectively, “Defendants”) now demur to each of the causes of  action of the Complaint. Plaintiffs oppose.  Discussion A.    Legal Standard A demurrer can be used  only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack  or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank  v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,  318.) “To survive a demurrer, the  complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each  evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need  not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart  Union High School Dist. (2012) 53  Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the  sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions  of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)  A  pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f)¿.) A demurrer  for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders  the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to  respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition  Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135,  139, fn. 2¿.) However, “¿[a] demurrer for  uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects  uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery  procedures.¿” (¿Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.  (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616¿.) B.     Allegations of the Complaint   In the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that CMI “has been a leader in the  industrial metal shearing business in Southern California for several decades.”  (Compl., ¶ 12.) CMI’s President, Byun, owned a large parcel of land located at  144 S. G. Street, San Bernardino, California 92410 (the “Parcel”). (Compl., ¶  13.) Years ago, a number of metal shearing machines owned by CMI and/or its  affiliates were moved to the Parcel and placed in operation (the “Subject  Shearing Machines”). (Compl., ¶ 13.) In late 2019, Plaintiffs and SA Recycling entered into a purchase and  sale contract for the Parcel and the Subject Shearing Machines (with associated  licenses), whereby SA Recycling agreed to pay Plaintiffs a total purchase price  of $4.2 million. (Compl., ¶ 14.) After escrow was opened for the transaction,  Hope YS Kim, Jason Kim, and Young M. Kim (collectively, the “Kims”) made  acquaintance with Byun, representing themselves as experienced real estate  professionals who wanted to assist Byun with the pending transaction with SA  Recycling. (Compl., ¶ 15.) Plaintiffs allege that “J&I Consulting, Inc. is  owned and operated by Defendants Young M. Kim and Jason Kim, and is the entity  through which they transact their real estate business(es).” (Compl., ¶ 6.)  Byun, who does not speak or understand English fluently, was led to believe  that the Kims would assist him with the transaction as his fiduciaries,  including promising to translate everything into Korean for Byun. (Compl., ¶  15.) Byun agreed to let the Kims represent him and CMI in the transaction.  (Compl., ¶ 15.)  The Kims then structured the Subject Shearing Machine transaction with  SA Recycling for $1.95 million, for machines and associated licenses only.  (Compl., ¶ 17.) Simultaneously, the Parcel transaction was structured with SA  Recycling for $2.25 million. (Compl., ¶ 17.) A material term in the Parcel  transaction allowed Plaintiffs six months after close of escrow to access the  Parcel to remove equipment and materials that were not part of the sale  transactions. (Compl., ¶ 17.) These items excluded from the sale totaled  approximately $1.5 million. (Compl., ¶ 17.) Plaintiffs allege that they have  “since discovered that the Kims listed themselves as ‘dual agents’ in both  transactions, unbeknownst to Plaintiffs at the time, who believed that the Kims  were solely Plaintiffs’ fiduciaries in these transactions. At no point did the  Kims explain this dual agency to Plaintiffs, and while it was stated in small  font in the final parcel purchase and sale contract, [Byun] could not read or  comprehend English, and relied on the Kims to explain the contract provisions  to him.” (Compl., ¶ 19.)  Plaintiffs allege that “[a]fter the transactions closed escrow in  approximately mid to late February 2020, Plaintiffs awaited appropriate  disbursement of funds. Despite repeated assurances from the Kims that nothing  went awry, several months passed and the Kims had still failed to disburse  approximately $1.35 million from the sale of the [Subject Shearing Machines].”  (Compl., ¶ 20.) “Since close of escrow, Plaintiffs had also attempted to access  the parcel to remove the $1.5 million worth of equipment and materials not  subject to the sale transactions. However, SA Recycling blocked access and  refused to allow Plaintiffs to remove these items, despite the parties’  contract provision allowing Plaintiffs six months to do so.” (Compl., ¶ 21.)  Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants were in collusion the entire time underlying  the foregoing transactions, and intended to work together to enrich themselves  at Plaintiffs’ expense. Specifically, Plaintiffs have recently come to learn  that the Kims served as dual agents in the subject transactions, and received  commission payments out of escrow for allegedly representing not only  Plaintiffs/sellers, but also SA Recycling as buyer, effectively ‘double-ending’  both transactions.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) C.     Standing First, Defendants argue that “all of Plaintiff Byun’s claims, which is  every cause of action in the Complaint, are subject to demurrer for lack of  standing…” (Demurrer at p. 8:7-8.) More specifically, Defendants assert that  “there are no factual allegations illustrating how any claim asserted is based  on the parcel transaction.” (Demurrer at p. 7:26-27.) As set forth above,  Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he Kims then structured the subject shearing machine  transaction with SA Recycling for $1.95 million, for machines and associated  licenses only. Simultaneously, the parcel transaction was structured with SA  Recycling for $2.25 million.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) Defendants note that the  Complaint alleges that “Plaintiffs have demanded that Defendants disgorge the  remaining $1.35 million from the sale of the shearing machines, as well as the  wrongfully disbursed payments out of escrow, and return to Plaintiffs the  physical machines and materials at the parcel which were not part of the sale,  to no avail. Accordingly, this action follows.” (Compl., ¶ 24.)  Defendants assert that “[a]ccording to the Complaint, the parcel at  issue was owned by Plaintiff Byun and the machines at issue were owned by  Plaintiff CMI and/or its affiliates…Thus, it appears Plaintiff Byun has no  standing to sue because he was not the owner of the machines at issue and was  not (and should have not) been a party to the sales transaction for the  machines in his individual capacity.” (Demurrer at p. 8:1-5.) As set forth  above, Plaintiffs allege that “CMI’s President Mr. Byun, owned a large parcel  of land located at 144 S. G. Street, San Bernardino, California 92410 (the  ‘parcel’). Years ago, a number of metal shearing machines owned by CMI and/or  its affiliates were moved to the parcel and placed in operation (the ‘subject  shearing machines’).” (Compl., ¶ 13.)  In the opposition, Plaintiffs assert that “at a bare minimum (and  disregarding the conspiracy allegations noted above which tie together the  conduct of all Defendants), the Kim Defendants damaged Mr. Byun by secretly  obtaining double commission and other unauthorized disbursements from escrow on  the parcel transaction, and the harm suffered plainly arises from all of the  conduct alleged and is not confined to independent acts solely concerning the  shearing machines.” (Opp’n at p. 5:23-27.)   Plaintiffs point to their  allegations that “the Kims represented to Plaintiffs that they would a) provide  expertise and experience certain to benefit Plaintiffs in the subject matter,  b) translate and advise Plaintiffs on all material matters concerning these  transactions, c) restructure the then-pending transaction into two, in order to  better benefit Plaintiffs, d) serve Plaintiffs with the utmost integrity and  loyalty as Plaintiffs’ fiduciaries, and e) that they were only representing  Plaintiffs in the underlying transactions.” (Compl., ¶ 31.) Plaintiffs assert  that “[n]one of these representations were limited solely to either the machine  transaction or the parcel transaction.” (Opp’n at p. 4:18-20.) Plaintiffs also note that the Complaint alleges that “the Kims and the  remaining Defendants engaged in a conspiracy to conceal material facts from  Plaintiffs, to further enrich themselves at Plaintiffs’ expense. Material facts  Defendants concealed from Plaintiffs include a) that the Kims were fiduciaries  of and representing SA Recycling in the transactions; b) that the Kims and  their entities were obtaining undisclosed and unauthorized disbursements out of  escrow; c) that SA Recycling never intended to allow Plaintiffs to remove the  $1.5 million worth of materials not subject to the parties’ contracts and  intended to unlawfully convert same for its own financial gain; and d) that all  Defendants intended to divert $1.35 million in proceeds from the subject shearing  machine sale to their own use instead of properly disbursing it.” (Compl., ¶  33.) Plaintiffs assert that “[t]hese allegations have clearly pled entitlement  to relief on behalf of Mr. Byun concerning events related to conduct of the Kim  Defendants occurring in both ‘transactions.’” (Opp’n at p. 5:2-4.)  Plaintiffs also point to the allegations that “Plaintiffs have since  discovered that the Kims listed themselves as ‘dual agents’ in both  transactions, unbeknownst to Plaintiffs at the time, who believed that the Kims  were solely Plaintiffs’ fiduciaries in these transactions. At no point did the  Kims explain this dual agency to Plaintiffs, and while it was stated in small  font in the final parcel purchase and sale contract, Mr. Byun could not read or  comprehend English, and relied on the Kims to explain the contract provisions  to him.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) Plaintiffs further allege that “[a]dditionally,  Plaintiffs have learned that disbursements out of escrow were made to the Kims,  either directly or through entities owned and/or controlled by the Kims,  including but not limited to J & I Consulting Inc., which disbursements  were made unbeknownst to Plaintiffs at the time.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) Plaintiffs  allege that “[a]s Plaintiffs’ real estate brokers and/or agents and/or other  real estate professionals, Hope Kim, Jason Kim and Young Kim owed Plaintiffs a  fiduciary duty to act with the utmost good faith, honesty and loyalty, and in  the best interests of Plaintiffs at all times,” and that “[t]he Kim Defendants  breached their fiduciary duties by affirmatively misrepresenting and concealing  from Plaintiffs the above-mentioned material facts.” (Compl., ¶¶ 38-39.) The Court notes that Defendants did not file a reply in support of the  demurrer, and thus do not respond to the foregoing points. Based on the  foregoing, the Court does not find that Defendants have demonstrated that  Byun’s causes of action fail for lack of standing. The Court thus overrules the  demurrer on these grounds.  D.    Uncertainty  Next, Defendants assert that “[t]he entire Complaint fails to apprise  Defendants Hope, Jason, and J&I Consulting Inc. of what the issues are.”  (Demurrer at p. 8:11-12.) Defendants note that the Complaint alleges that  “[a]fter escrow was opened for the transaction, Defendants Hope, Jason, and  Young Kim…made acquaintance with Mr. Byun…” (Compl., ¶ 15.) Defendants argue  that “[a]s a preliminary matter, the escrow was opened before Defendants Hope  and Jason were involved, which means all the funds for both the parcel and the  machines were already with the escrow. There are no allegations of what  Defendants Hope and Jason did (or did not do) for the escrow.” (Demurrer at p.  8:27-9:2.) The Court agrees with Plaintiffs that this is a factual argument not  appropriate on demurrer. “¿On a demurrer a  court’s function¿is limited to testing the legal sufficiency of the complaint.  A demurrer is simply not the appropriate procedure for  determining the truth of disputed facts.¿” (¿Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage¿(1986)  184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374 [internal  quotations and citation omitted]¿.) In  addition, the Court does not see how the foregoing argument demonstrates that  any of Plaintiffs’ causes of action fail for uncertainty.  As set forth above, Plaintiffs allege that “[a]dditionally, Plaintiffs  have learned that disbursements out of escrow were made to the Kims, either  directly or through entities owned and/or controlled by the Kims…” (Compl., ¶  23.) Defendants argue that “Defendant Hope and Jason simply do not have any  control over the money in the escrow in either case. Yet the Complaint alleges  that Defendants Hope and Jason failed to disburse the money without any further  explanation. Furthermore, the Complaint makes a conclusory statement that  disbursements out of escrow were made to Defendants Hope and Jason, either  directly or through entities owned and/or controlled by them without any other  facts alleged to show how that was even possible. Anyone with a basic, rudimentary  understanding on how escrow works would realize that Defendants Hope and Jason  simply cannot get the disbursements, especially when the said escrow had  already been opened before their involvement.” (Demurrer at p. 9:5-13.) The  Court also finds that this is a factual argument that is not appropriate on  demurrer.  Defendants  further argue that “CMI’s second contention is that it was not  allowed to remove the machines from the parcel. But it was Defendant SA that  blocked access and refused to allow CMI to remove the machines, not Defendants  Hope and Jason.[1] Again,  no other facts were alleged to show Defendants Hope and Jason did in CMI not  being able to get the machines back.” (Demurrer at p. 9:14-17.) But Defendants  do not demonstrate why this makes any of Plaintiffs’ causes of action  purportedly uncertain. As discussed above, a demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the  failure to label the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing  defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams  v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp., supra, 185 Cal.App.3d at p. 139,  fn. 2¿.) Moreover, as  discussed, “¿[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly  construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because  ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.¿” (¿Khoury v.  Maly’s of California, Inc.,  supra, 14 Cal.App.4th at p. 616¿.) Based  on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer on the basis of uncertainty is  overruled. E.     Second and Third  Causes of Action  Plaintiffs’ second and third causes of action are for fraud and  constructive fraud, respectively. Defendants assert that the second and third  causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action.    “The essential elements of fraud, generally, are (1) a  misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to induce reliance; (4)  justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.” (City of Industry v. City of Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 211.)  “The elements of the cause of action for constructive fraud are: (1) fiduciary  relationship; (2) nondisclosure (breach of fiduciary duty); (3) intent to  deceive, and (4) reliance and resulting injury (causation).” (Younan v. Equifax Inc. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 498, 516, fn. 14.)   In  the demurrer, Defendants assert that “the Complaint is completely  devoid of any specifics. The factual allegations in Paragraphs 12 to 24 do not  show how any of the elements are met with particularity. As noted above, the  entire Complaint is full of general and conclusory statements, which do not  support a cause of action sounding in fraud.” (Demurrer at p. 10:22-25.) But as  noted by Plaintiffs, Defendants do not support this assertion with any  recitation of facts from the Complaint or any further analysis.   In addition, as noted by Plaintiffs, they allege in the second cause  of action for fraud that “the Kims represented to Plaintiffs that they would a)  provide expertise and experience certain to benefit Plaintiffs in the subject  matter, b) translate and advise Plaintiffs on all material matters concerning  these transactions, c) restructure the then-pending transaction into two, in  order to better benefit Plaintiffs, d) serve Plaintiffs with the utmost  integrity and loyalty as Plaintiffs’ fiduciaries, and e) that they were only  representing Plaintiffs in the underlying transactions.”  (Compl., ¶ 31.) Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he  Kims made these representations knowing that they were false and knowing that  Plaintiffs had no knowledge of nor reason to suspect that they were false,  intending that Plaintiffs rely on such representations,” and that “Plaintiffs  did justifiably rely on these representations.” (Compl., ¶ 32.) Plaintiffs  allege that “[a]s a direct and proximate result of Defendants’  misrepresentation and concealment, Plaintiffs have and continue to suffer  damages in an amount to be proven according to proof at trial.” (Compl., ¶ 35.)   Plaintiffs also note that in the third cause of action for constructive  fraud, they allege that   “[a]s Plaintiffs’ real estate brokers and/or agents and/or other real estate  professionals, Hope Kim, Jason Kim and Young Kim owed Plaintiffs a fiduciary  duty to act with the utmost good faith, honesty and loyalty, and in the best  interests of Plaintiffs at all times,” and that “[t]he Kim Defendants breached  their fiduciary duties by affirmatively misrepresenting and concealing from  Plaintiffs the above-mentioned material facts.” (Compl., ¶¶ 38-39.)[2] Plaintiffs  allege that “[t]he Kim Defendants acted with the intent to deceive and defraud  Plaintiffs,” and that “Plaintiffs justifiably relied on the fact that the Kim  Defendants were fulfilling their fiduciary duties, and were not misrepresenting  nor concealing material facts relating to the underlying transactions.”  (Compl., ¶¶ 40-41.)  Plaintiffs also note in their opposition to the demurrer that “[l]ess specificity in pleading fraud is  required when it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant  must necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the  controversy…” (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469  [internal quotations omitted].) Plaintiffs assert that “[h]ere,  Plaintiffs alleged fraud by both misrepresentation and concealment (which  necessarily involves not making statements) and constructive fraud and  conspiracy between the defendants, so the more stringent pleading standard for  fraud is not applicable.” (Opp’n at p. 9:15-18.) Defendants did not file a  reply in support of the demurrer and thus do not respond to this assertion.  Based on the foregoing, the  Court does not find that Defendants have demonstrated that Plaintiffs’ second  and third causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause  of action. Thus, the Court overrules the demurrer to these causes of action.  F.      Sixth Cause of Action  Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of  action is for financial elder abuse. Defendants argue that “[s]ince  Plaintiff Byun does not (and should not) have a viable claim against Defendants  as the underlying transaction for the Complaint is only for the machines,  Plaintiff CMI, a corporation, cannot assert a claim for financial elder abuse  as it is not a person over 65 years of age.” (Demurrer at p. 11:2-5.) As set  forth above, the Court does not find that Defendants have demonstrated that  Byun’s causes of action fail for lack of standing.  However, Plaintiffs do not appear to dispute that CMI, a corporation,  cannot assert a claim for financial elder abuse. Plaintiffs acknowledge that “financial abuse” of an elder or dependent  adult occurs when a person or entity “(1) Takes, secretes, appropriates,  obtains, or retains real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult  for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.” (Welf. &  Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd. (a)(1).)   “Elder” means “any person residing in this state, 65 years of age or  older.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.27.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the  sixth cause of action as to CMI.   G.    Eighth Cause of  Action Plaintiffs’ eighth cause of action is for conversion. Defendants  assert that “[h]ere, the Complaint does not sufficiently identify the money  allegedly converted. Thus, the demurrer to Eighth Cause of Action should be  sustained as it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action.” (Demurrer at p. 11:22-24.)  However, Defendants cite to Haigler v. Donnelly (1941) 18 Cal.2d 674,  681, where the California  Supreme Court noted that “[w]hile it is true that money cannot be the  subject of an action for conversion unless a specific sum capable of  identification is involved, it is not necessary that each coin or bill be  earmarked. When an agent is required to turn over to his  principal a definite sum received by him on his principal’s account, the remedy  of conversion is proper.” (Internal  citation omitted.)  Plaintiffs note that “[c]onversion is generally described as  the wrongful exercise of dominion over the personal property of another. The  basic elements of the tort are (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to  possession of personal property; (2) the defendant’s disposition of the  property in a manner that is inconsistent with the plaintiff’s property rights;  and (3) resulting damages.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119  [internal citation omitted].) Here, Plaintiffs allege that “Mr.  Byun and CMI owned the parcel and subject shearing machines, respectively.  Plaintiffs also owned other equipment and materials on the parcel totaling  approximately $1.5 million, which were not subject to any purchase and sale  agreement.” (Compl., ¶ 66.) Plaintiffs allege that “[d]ue to the wrongful,  unlawful and conspiratorial conduct of Defendants, Plaintiffs have been  deprived of their right, title, and interest to the parcel, the subject  shearing machines and/or funds for the purchase and sale thereof, as well as  other equipment and materials on the parcel not subject to any purchase and  sale agreement. Plaintiffs have made demands for the return of the wrongfully  appropriated items and funds, to no avail.” (Compl., ¶ 67.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Defendants have  demonstrated that Plaintiffs’ eighth cause of action for conversion fails to  state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Thus, the Court  overrules the demurrer to the eighth cause of action.   H.    Ninth  Cause of Action  Plaintiffs’ ninth cause of action is for violation  of Penal Code section 496. In the ninth cause  of action, Plaintiffs allege that “Mr. Byun and CMI owned the parcel and  subject shearing machines, respectively. Prior to Defendants’ fraud and  self-dealing, Plaintiffs were in contract to sell the parcel and subject  shearing machines for $4.2 million. Plaintiffs also owned other equipment and  materials on the parcel totaling approximately $1.5 million, which were not  subject to any purchase and sale agreement.” (Compl., ¶ 71.) Plaintiffs allege  that “Defendants…fraudulently diverted funds from these transactions to  themselves, which rightfully belonged to Plaintiffs as detailed above.”  (Compl., ¶ 72.) Plaintiffs allege that “[d]ue to Defendants’ fraudulent and  conspiratorial conduct detailed herein, Defendants have taken and are in  receipt of property and monies that rightfully belong to Plaintiffs. As highly  sophisticated real estate ‘professionals,’ at all relevant times herein,  Defendants knew that this property and money belonged to Plaintiffs, and knew  that their conduct diverting same from Plaintiffs as rightful owners  constituted theft.” (Compl., ¶ 73.) Penal Code section 496, subdivision (a)¿ provides that  “[e]very person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that  has been obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the  property to be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or  aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any property from the owner,  knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be punished by  imprisonment in a county jail for not more than one year, or imprisonment  pursuant to subdivision (h) of¿¿Section 1170¿. However, if  the value of the property does not exceed nine hundred fifty dollars ($950),  the offense shall be a misdemeanor, punishable only by imprisonment in a county  jail not exceeding one year, if such person has no prior convictions for an  offense specified in clause (iv) of subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2) of  subdivision (e) of¿¿Section 667¿¿or for an  offense requiring registration pursuant to subdivision (c) of¿¿Section 290¿.” ¿Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c)¿ provides that “¿[a]ny person who has  been injured by a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for  three times the amount of actual  damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable  attorney’s fees.¿”   In the  demurrer, Defendants cite to Citizens of Humanity, LLC v. Costco Wholesale  Corp. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1, 17-18, overruled on other grounds by Kwikset Corp. v. Superior  Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 335, where the Court of Appeal noted as follows:     “Penal Code section 496 was amended in relevant part in  1972. Prior to the amendment, the statute did not apply to those who sold stolen property; it applied only to  those who purchased, received, withheld or concealed it. Nor did it  include the language currently found in subdivision (c), which permits any  party injured by a violation of subdivision (a) to bring a civil  action for damages. This language was added by Statutes 1972, chapter 963, section 1, pages 1739–1740. It was the result of  Senate Bill No. 1068 (1972 Reg. Sess.)…The bill was  introduced at the request of the California Trucking Association, with the goal  of eliminating markets for stolen property, in order to substantially reduce  the incentive to hijack cargo from common carriers. (Sen. Com. on Judiciary,  Analysis of Sen. Bill No. 1068 (1972 Reg. Sess.) as amended June 26, 1972.)…Yet  while an early version of the bill limited the plaintiffs who may bring civil  actions to public carriers injured  by the knowing purchase, receipt, concealment, or withholding of stolen  property (Sen. Bill No. 1068 (1972 Reg. Sess.) as amended in Senate, May 30,  1972), the bill was subsequently amended to expand the class of potential  plaintiffs to include ‘[a]ny person who has been injured by’ the knowing purchase,  receipt, concealment or withholding of stolen property. (Sen. Amend. to Sen.  Bill No. 1068 (1972 Reg. Sess.) June 26, 1972.) Moreover, that same amendment  included the sale of  knowingly stolen property within its prohibitions, and allowed any person  injured by the sale of knowingly stolen property to bring a civil action. In  other words, it is apparent that the statute, as enacted, broadly  allows anyone injured  by the sale of knowingly stolen property to bring a civil action against the  seller, in order to reduce thefts by eliminating the market for stolen goods.” (Emphasis in original.) Defendants assert that “[t]hus, it  appears the statute was enacted to eliminate markets for stolen property and  the sale of knowingly stolen property to allow persons injured by the sale of  knowingly stolen property to bring a civil action. The Complaint does not  allege any facts about stolen property or the sale of known stolen property.”  (Demurrer at p. 12:20-23.)  In the opposition, Plaintiffs argue that “[t]he Kim Defendants’  Demurrer argument concerning an alleged ‘stolen property transaction’ element,  glaringly fails to acknowledge the leading case on application of a section 496(a) claim in the civil context: Bell v. Feibush (2013)  212 Cal.App.4th 1041.” (Opp’n at p. 13:27-14:1.) In Bell v. Feibush (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1041, 1048, the Court of Appeal noted as follows:    “Section 496(a) extends  to property ‘that has been obtained in any manner constituting theft.’ Penal Code section 484 describes acts  constituting theft. The first sentence of section 484,  subdivision (a) states: ‘Every person who shall feloniously steal, take, carry, lead, or drive  away the personal property of another, or who shall fraudulently appropriate  property which has been entrusted to him or her, or who shall knowingly and designedly, by any false or fraudulent  representation or pretense, defraud any other person of money, labor or real or  personal property, or who causes or procures others to report falsely of his  or her wealth or mercantile character and by thus imposing upon any person,  obtains credit and thereby fraudulently gets or obtains possession of money, or  property or obtains the labor or service of another, is guilty of theft.” (Italics added.) Section 484 thus defines theft to include theft  by false pretense. (People v. Gomez (2008) 43 Cal.4th 249,  255, fn. 4 [74 Cal. Rptr. 3d 123, 179 P.3d 917].) Penal Code section 532 also defines criminal  fraud ‘in terms nearly identical to [section] 484[, subdivision ](a)’ and ‘provides  that these acts are punishable ‘in the same manner and to the same extent’ as  larceny.’ (2 Witkin & Epstein, Cal. Criminal Law (4th ed. 2012) Crimes  Against Property, § 48, p. 76.).” (Emphasis in  original.)              The  Bell Court further found that “our decision to affirm the default  judgment is based on straightforward statutory interpretation. Section 496(a) extends liability to [e]very  person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that has been  obtained in any manner constituting  theft…Penal Code section 484, subdivision (a) describes  the acts constituting theft to include theft by false pretense, which is  the consensual but fraudulent acquisition of property from its owner. Feibush was found liable for fraud, i.e., for the fraudulent  acquisition of property (money) from its owner (Bell). Anything that could be the subject of a theft can also be  property under section 496. A  principal in the actual theft of the property may be convicted for either theft  or receiving stolen property under section 496(a).”  (Bell v. Feibush, supra,  212 Cal.App.4th at p. 1049 [internal quotations and citations omitted,  emphasis in original].) As discussed, Plaintiffs allege here that “Defendants…fraudulently  diverted funds from these transactions to themselves, which rightfully belonged  to Plaintiffs as detailed above.” (Compl., ¶ 72.) As set forth above,  Defendants did not file a reply in support of the demurrer and thus do not  respond to the above points. In  light of the foregoing, the Court  overrules the demurrer to the ninth cause of action.  I.         Fifth, Seventh, and Tenth Causes of Action   Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action is for violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, Plaintiffs’  seventh cause of action is for civil conspiracy, and Plaintiffs’ tenth cause of  action is for aiding and abetting tort. Defendants argue that “[t]he Fifth,  Seventh, and Tenth Causes of Action for unfair competition, conspiracy and  aiding and abetting are not independent torts. If the demurrers to other causes  of actions are sustained, these causes of action will not be able to move  forward by themselves.” (Demurrer at p. 12:27-13:1.) As set forth above, the  Court only sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth cause of action as to  CMI. The Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the remaining causes of action,  as discussed above. Thus, the Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the  fifth, seventh, and tenth causes of action.  Conclusion For the foregoing reasons, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to  the sixth cause of action of the Complaint, solely as to CMI, with leave to  amend. Defendants’ demurrer to the Complaint is otherwise overruled.  The Court orders Plaintiffs to file and  serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of this Order.  If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days of this Order, Defendants are ordered  to file and serve their answer within 30 days of the date of this Order.¿  /// /// ///  Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this Order.¿   DATED:  November 1, 2023                          ________________________________ Hon. Rolf M. Treu Judge, Los  Angeles Superior Court     