 Case Number:  23AHCV02639    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEFENDANT’S
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMENDI.         INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff Jing Yun Xu (“Plaintiff”)
filed the instant action against Defendants Kuo Hua Ma (“Ma”) and Anita J.
Hsiao (“Hsiao”), asserting causes of action for General Negligence and Premises
Liability. The claims arise from an alleged assault and battery that occurred
on May 8, 2022, at a commercial property located at 9415-9417 Las Tunas Drive
in Temple City, California, where Plaintiff operates a hair salon. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant Ma, who worked at an adjacent business, assaulted her
during a confrontation over parking, causing serious bodily injuries.
On November 9, 2023, Plaintiff
initiated this action. On February 15, 2024, Defendant Hsiao filed a demurrer,
and on June 10, 2024, the Court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend.
Subsequently, On June 11, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Defendant Hsiao and Ma,
asserting claims for General Negligence and Premises Liability. On July 15,
2024, Hsiao filed the instant demurrer. This demurrer is unopposed.
 
Meet and Confer
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.41, subdivision (a), the demurring party is required to meet and
confer with the party who filed the pleading at least five days before the
responsive pleading is due. This must occur in person, telephone or by video
conference with the aim of resolving any objections raised in the demurrer.
Additionally, the demurring party must file and serve a declaration detailing
the meet and confer efforts. It should be noted, however, that the failure to
meet and confer is not itself grounds for sustaining or overruling a demurrer
or granting or denying a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd.
(a)(4), 435.5, subd. (a)(4).)
Defendant Hsiao’s counsel, David D.
Samani, declares: "On and before July 10, 2024, my office communicated
with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the foregoing Demurrer. As of the filing of
this Demurrer, we were unable to informally resolve this dispute." (Samani
Decl., ¶ 2.) Accordingly, the Court finds that the meet-and-confer requirement
has been satisfied.
The Court finds that Defendant has
complied with the meet and confer requirement.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of a complaint. Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. A plaintiff’s allegations
must be accepted as true for purposes of demurrer, no matter how “improbable”
they are. (Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (Del E. Webb).) Allegations need not be
accepted as true if they are contradicted by judicially noticeable facts. (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1474.) 
Pleadings are to be broadly
construed (Code Civ. Proc., § 452) and demurrers are to be overruled where the
facts are sufficient to state any cause of action. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart
Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.)
Pursuant to CCP § 335.1, an action
for injury to an individual cause by the neglect of another must be filed
within two years. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,
subdivision (f) provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain. Demurrers
for uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible
a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors,
Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
III.      ANALYSIS
Defendant Hsiao demurs to the FAC
arguing that the causes of action for General Negligence and Premises Liability
fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action under Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e). Defendant contends that the FAC
does not adequately plead heightened foreseeability of criminal conduct or
proximate causation necessary to impose liability on a landlord.
First cause of action: Negligence
A negligence cause of action
requires duty, breach of the duty, causation, and damages. (Antiglio v.
Corning, Inc. (1998) Cal.4th 604,614.) “A landlord generally owes a tenant
the duty, arising out of their special relationship, to take reasonable
measures to secure areas under the landlord’s control against foreseeable
criminal acts of third parties.” (Castaneda v. Olsher (2007) 41 Cal.4th
1205, 1213, internal citations omitted.) 
Defendant Hsiao demurs to this
cause of action, arguing that it fails to state sufficient facts to constitute
a claim for negligence. Specifically, Hsiao contends that the FAC lacks factual
allegations demonstrating heightened foreseeability of the criminal act or
causation linking Hsiao’s actions to the alleged harm. 
The Court agrees with Defendant
Hsiao. Here, the FAC alleges that Defendant “knew or should have known” of
co-defendant Ma’s violent tendencies; however, Plaintiff fails to plead
specific facts supporting this statement. Conclusory assertions of knowledge
without factual detail are insufficient to establish foreseeability. The FAC
does not provide allegations of prior incidents, threats, or conduct by Ma that
would have placed Defendant Hsiao on notice of a heightened risk of violence.
Moreover, the FAC does not
adequately plead that Defendant Hsiao owed a duty of care or that her actions
or omissions proximately caused the assault. Plaintiff’s allegations describe
an abrupt, unexpected attack, without any connection to the property’s condition
or Defendant’s conduct. Without specific factual allegations demonstrating
foreseeability and causation, the negligence claim cannot proceed.
Given that this is Plaintiff’s
second attempt to plead a negligence claim, and no additional facts have been
alleged to implicate Defendant Hsiao, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to
this cause of action without leave to amend.
Second cause of action:
Premise Liability
Premises Liability is a special
form of negligence alleged as to property owners. “To impose liability for
injuries suffered by an invitee due to the defective condition of the premises,
the owner or occupier ‘must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the
dangerous condition or have been able by the exercise of ordinary care to
discover the condition, which if known to him, he should realize as involving
an unreasonable risk to invitees on his premises.”(Girvetz v. Boys’ Market
(1949) 91 Cal.App.2d 827, 829-830.)
The FAC alleges that Hsiao “knew or
should have known that Defendant Kuo Hua Ma had violent tendencies, such that
the assault on Plaintiff was foreseeable. As a result, Plaintiff Jing Yun Xu
was assaulted by Defendant Kuo Hua Ma, thereby incurring multiple bodily
injuries. Defendant Anita J. Hsiao's conduct as a landlord was the proximate
cause of the assault on Plaintiff Jing Yun Xu.” (FAC, p. 5.)
The Court finds that the FAC fails
to allege sufficient facts to support a claim for premises liability. While the
FAC asserts that Defendant Hsiao “knew or should have known” of Ma’s violent
tendencies, it does not provide any specific factual allegations establishing
actual or constructive knowledge of such tendencies. The conclusory assertion
of knowledge is insufficient to demonstrate that Defendant Hsiao was aware of a
dangerous condition on the premises or that she should have discovered such a
condition through ordinary care. The FAC lacks allegations of prior incidents,
complaints, or other facts that would have alerted Defendant Hsiao to the
alleged risk posed by Ma.
Additionally, the FAC does not
identify a specific dangerous condition on the property that created an
unreasonable risk of harm to Plaintiff. The allegations describe an intentional
act of violence by a third party, Ma, rather than a defect or hazardous
condition on the premises that Hsiao could have remedied. 
As discussed above, this is
Plaintiff’s second attempt to plead this claim, and no new facts have been
alleged to cure the deficiencies previously identified. Accordingly, the Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer as to this cause of action without leave to amend.
 
IV.       ORDER
            The Court SUSTAINS
the demurrer to the FAC without leave to amend.
            Defendant
is to submit a proposed judgment that is consistent with this order.
            Defendant
is to give notice. 
                        
Dated: December 12, 2024
                                                                        
              
 
 
             JARED D.
MOSES  
            JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT 