  Case Number:  22SMCV00915    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  205  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  AARON CELIOUS,    Plaintiff, v.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  22SMCV00915     Hearing Date:  March 5, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANTS CITY OF LOS ANGELES,    ANDREW WESTALL, HOLLY    WOLCOTT, CAPRI MADDOX AND JOEY    GARCIA’S DEMURRER TO SECOND    AMENDED COMPLAINT       BACKGROUND This action arises from a failed bid for two government projects.  Plaintiff Aaron Celious is the owner of Maroon Society Inc. (“Maroon”).  Maroon is in the business of providing data compilation, analysis and strategic services for both private and public sector entities.  (Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) ¶21.)   Maroon engaged in a competitive bid process for two different projects for Defendant City of Los Angeles (the “City”).  One was for the Los Angeles Civil, Human Rights and Equity Department (“CHRED”) and the other for the Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”).  Maroon was not chosen for either project.  (Id. ¶¶23-24.)   Two other companies were selected, Star Insights and North Star Alliances LLC.  Plaintiff alleges that the owner of these companies grossly and fraudulently misrepresented the qualifications and experiences of their companies, to obtain an unfair competitive advantage over Maroon.  (Id. ¶28.)   Defendant Andrew Westall was the executive director of the LAUSD Redistricting Commission (id. ¶4); Defendant Holly Wolcott is the City Clerk, and she, Capri Maddox and Joey Garcia are City employees (id. ¶¶ 5-7).  Westall, Wolcott, Maddox and Garcia are collectively referred to herein as the “City Employee Defendants”.  They are alleged to have convened a “sham interview process”, failed to read the proposals, fraudulently misrepresented the actual evaluation criteria, misjudged the proposals, and improperly denied a protest filed by Maroon.  (Id. ¶¶ 36-37, 44-51, 55-62, 86-127.) The SAC alleges claims for (1) fraud, (2) negligence, (3) violation of 42 U.S.C. §1983, (4) intentional interference with prospective economic relations, (5) negligent interference with prospective economic relations and (6) violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 et seq. (“UCL”).  All claims are being asserted against the City and/or the City Employee Defendants (collectively, “Moving Defendants”).  Plaintiff is appearing in pro per.      This hearing is on Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the SAC.  Moving Defendants argue that (1) California law holds the only possible cause of action available in the disappointed bidder context is a claim for promissory estoppel so Plaintiff’s state law claims are all barred; (2) Plaintiff cannot state a claim for promissory estoppel because the RFPs expressly reserved the City’s right to reject all bids and expressly required Maroon to waive any right to recover pre-contractual costs; (3) with respect to his federal law claim, Plaintiff has not pleaded any protected liberty or property interest that implicates either his procedural or substantive due process rights; (4) Plaintiff’s negligence claim fails because a common law negligence claim cannot be asserted against the City; (5) the City Employee Defendants are immune under Gov’t. Code §§ 820.2, 821, and/or 822.2, and (6) Plaintiff fails to plead compliance with Gov’t Code §905 which requires Plaintiff to timely file a claim with the public entity as a prerequisite to filing any claim in court.   REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Moving Defendants request judicial notice of (1) a January 19, 2022 Claim for Damages, Claim No. C22-04149 filed by Plaintiff (the “CHRED Claim”), (2) a January 19, 2022 Claim for Damages, Claim No. C22-04157, filed by Plaintiff (the “LAUSD Claim”), (3) LAUSD Request for Proposal (the “LAUSD RFP”), (4) CHRED Request for Proposal (the “CHRED RFP”), (5) Maroon’s proposal in response to the LAUSD RFP, and (6) Maroon’s proposal in response to the CHRED RFP.  The Court grants the request pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code §§ 452(c), 452(h) and 453.   Plaintiff requests judicial notice of a (1) August 13, 2021 claim for relief submitted to the City of Los Angeles related to LAUSD RFP procurement process, (2) a December 24, 2021 claim for relief submitted to City of Los Angeles related to CHRED RFP procurement process, (3) a January 21, 2022 City of Los Angeles rejection letter in response to LAUSD Claim C22-94157 and (4) a January 21, 2022 City of Los Angeles rejection letter in response to CHRED Claim C22-04149.  Plaintiff fails to attach the documents to his original request for judicial notice, and accordingly, the Court denies the request.   LEGAL STANDARD “[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 requires that before the filing of a demurrer the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)  Moving Defendants submit the Declaration of Ryan Salsig, which shows the parties met and conferred by telephone on November 20, 2023, more than five days before the demurrer was filed.  This satisfies the meet and confer requirements of Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41. SUR-REPLY Plaintiff filed a sur-reply and a request for judicial notice in support of his sur-reply.    Neither the California Rules of Civil Procedure nor the Local Rules allow for the filing of a sur-reply.  The rules contemplate only the filing of the moving papers, an opposition and a reply by the moving party.  The Court also did not authorize the filing of a sur-reply.  Moving Defendants’ reply was confined to arguments raised in Plaintiff’s opposition, and there is simply no reason for allowing a sur-reply.  Accordingly, the Court strikes the sur-reply and supporting papers. DISCUSSION State Law Claims Moving Defendants argue that all of Plaintiff’s state law claims fail because California law holds the only possible cause of action available in the disappointed bidder context is a claim for promissory estoppel.  The Court agrees. Kajima/Ray Wilson v. Los Angeles County Metro. Trans. Auth. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 305, 315 holds that a disappointed bidder, like Plaintiff or his company Maroon, cannot assert any  tort or breach of contract claim arising out of the misaward of a public contract.  (Id. at 315 fn. 2; see also Eel River Disposal & Resource Recovery, Inc. v. County of Humboldt (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 209, 240 fn. 12).)  The only possible cause of action for monetary relief available in the disappointed bidder context is a claim for promissory estoppel that seeks to recover the bid preparation costs of the disappointed bidder and does not include lost profits.  (Kajima, 23 Cal.4th at 315; Eel River, 221 Cal.App.4th 209, 240 fn. 12.)   However, under Universal By-Products, Inc. v. City of Modesto (1974) 43 Cal.App.3d 145, 157, a disappointed bidder cannot recover on such a theory where the RFP that solicited the bidder to submit a proposal expressly reserves the right to reject all bids.  Here, both RFP’s expressly reserve the right of the City to reject all bids and expressly required Marron to waive any right to recover pre-contractual costs.  (Exs. 3, 4 to City’s Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”).)  Therefore, Plaintiff cannot plead a promissory estoppel claim.   Kajima’s monetary-relief limitations apply to the City and its agents regardless of whether the City’s responsibility for the monetary relief is a direct claim against the City or a claim against a City employee or agent for whom the City is otherwise vicariously liable under Gov. Code §815.2.  At the end of the day, the City is liable for an injury caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity.  Permitting recovery on any theory other than promissory estoppel “unduly punishes the tax-paying public while providing an unfair windfall to bidders … for effort they did not make and risks they did not take.”  (Kajima, 23 Cal.4th at 317.)  The “misfeasance of public officials in failing to award the contract to the lowest bidder should not be compounded by not only requiring unjustified additional expenditure of public funds on the awarded contract, but also allowing recovery for lost profits to the aggrieved low bidder.”  (Id.)  Plaintiff makes two arguments to avoid the holding in Kajima.  First, Plaintiff denies this is a disappointed bidder case.  But Plaintiff’s core allegation is that Defendants improperly awarded contracts to others, rendering Maroon a disappointed bidder.  Indeed, Plaintiff’s opposition admits “Maroon is a disappointed bidder.”  (Opp. at 4:25.)  Second, Plaintiff argues that Kajima allows lost profits on tort and breach of contract causes of action when “bad faith” is alleged.  This is exactly the argument that was rejected in Kajima.  Plaintiff quotes words in Kajima in which the court described the position it was rejecting.  The Kajima court pointed out that Plaintiff’s position was a “distinctly minority position” applicable to other jurisdictions and the court rejected that minority position by reversing the Court of Appeal that had adopted and applied the minority position from other jurisdictions.  (Kajima, 23 Cal.4th at 320-321.) Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to Plaintiff’s first, second, fourth, fifth and sixth causes of action.  Given this ruling, the Court declines to consider Moving Defendants’ other argument for sustaining a demurrer as to these claims, namely that Plaintiff fails to plead compliance with Gov. Code §905.   Negligence Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s negligence claim against the City fails for the additional reason that a common law negligence claim cannot be asserted against the City.  The Court agrees. It is well-established that a public entity can only be held liable for damages pursuant to statute and is therefore immune from common law torts, such as negligence.  Gov. Code § 815(a)¿provides that¿public entities are immune from liability unless such liability is expressly provided for by statute or by the constitution.  Numerous decisions confirm that¿section 815¿abolishes common law liability for public entities. (See¿Miklosy v. Regenets of Univ. of Calif. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 874, 899;¿Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection Authority¿(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1179;¿Zelig v. County of Los Angeles¿(2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112, 1127-1128.)   To state a cause of action for government tort liability “every fact essential to the existence of a statutory liability must be pleaded with particularity, including the existence of a statutory duty.  Since the duty of a governmental agency can only be created by statute or enactment the statute or enactment claimed to establish the duty must at the very least be identified.”  (Zuniga v. Housing Authority¿(1995( 41 Cal.App.4th 82, 96.)¿ Here, Plaintiff cites no statute that would permit her to bring a claim for negligence or any other common law claim.   Accordingly, Plaintiff’s negligence claim is subject to demurrer.    Claims Against City Employees Moving Defendants argue that the City-Employee Defendants are absolutely immune to liability pursuant to Gov. Code §§ 820.2 (discretionary-act immunity), 821 (legislative-act immunity) and 822.2 (misrepresentation immunity).  The Court agrees that the City-Employee Defendants have discretionary act immunity and declines to consider whether the other immunities also apply. Section 820.2 states that “[a] public employee is not liable for an injury resulting from his act or omission where the act or omission was the result of the exercise of discretion vested in him, whether or not such discretion is abused.”  The award of a public contract involves the exercise of discretion.  (Swinerton & Walberg Co. v. City of Inglewood-LA County Civic Center Authority (1974) 40 Cal.App.3d 98, 101-102 (“misaward of public works contract …. constitutes only an abuse of discretion” and is therefore “within the discretionary immunity to tort liability established by … sections 815, 815.2, subdivision(b) and 820.2”).   Section 820.2 immunizes public employees against any claim stemming from the bid-consideration and award process, including those for fraud, false representations, abuse of discretion, an implied promise to evaluate fairly the bids received and even allegations that the public employees “rig[ged] the bid.”  (Curcini v. County of Alameda (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 629, 648-49.)   Here, every alleged act by the City-Employee Defendants involves the award of a public contract and is therefore within their discretionary act immunity.  Plaintiff alleges the City employees “fraudulently represented to Plaintiff and other bidders that the City would follow specific guidelines for evaluating bids” but “failed to evaluate the bids based on criteria in the RFPs” and “it was never the intention of defendants to conduct an honest and lawful procurement process.”  (SAC ¶ 25.)  These allegations are exactly the allegations that the Court in Curcini held were subject to discretionary act immunity.   42 U.S.C. §1983 Claim Moving Defendants argue that any 42 U.S.C. §1983 claim Maroon may have is non-assignable, and Plaintiff does not have any liberty or property interest in the award of the government contracts.  The Court agrees. Plaintiff cannot assert a §1983 claim as the assignee of Maroon as a matter of law.  (Pony v. County of Los Angeles (9th Cir. 2006) 433 F.3d 1138, 1143 (Section 1983 claim is a tort claim for personal injury that is “non-assignable under California law”) (collecting cases).) The question, therefore, is whether Plaintiff can assert a §1983 claim personally.   Plaintiff appears to be alleging that his procedural or substantive due process rights were violated.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants “deprived Plaintiff the pursuit of his occupation without first providing him an opportunity to be heard and confront the individuals who deemd Plaintiff’s proposal as non-responsible, as required for due process of law pursuant to the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.”  (SAC ¶204.)      To state a substantive due process claim, a plaintiff must allege (1) a valid liberty or property interest and (2) which the government infringed in an arbitrary or irrational manner.  (Village of Euclid Ohio v. Ambler Realty Co. (1926) 272 U.S. 365, 395.)  A procedural due process claim requires: (1) a protectible liberty or property interest, (2) government deprivation of that interest, and (3) a denial of adequate procedural protections.  (Foss v. Nat’l Marine Fisheries Serv. (9th Cir. 1998) 161 F.3d 584, 588.)  “A prospective contractor has neither a liberty interest nor property interest in receiving a government contract.”  (Mednik v. State Dept. of Health Care Servs (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 631, 642.)  Thus, even Maroon, who was the “prospective contractor” does not have a liberty or property interest sufficient to warrant due process protection.  Plaintiff, who alleges he is a contractor for Maroon Society, cannot have greater due process rights than the entity who actually had a possibility of being awarded the contracts. To the extent Plaintiff premises his claim on being “deprived of his right to practice his profession, such a claim requires state action that causes “a complete deprivation of the right to engage in a calling.”  (Olson v. California (9th Cir. 2023) 62 F.4th 1206, 1220.)  Such claims arise when, for example, a person’s license to practice a profession is revoked by the state.  Here, the only thing Plaintiff alleges about his profession is that he has a “Commission Agreement” with Maroon and that he did not get his 25% commission because two government contracts were not awarded to Maroon.  (SAC ¶22).  The alleged fact that Plaintiff did not get a commission does not approach the “complete deprivation of the right to engage in a calling” necessary for a substantive due process claim.     In opposition, Plaintiff argues he has “third party standing”.  This argument fails for two reasons.  First, Plaintiff has not alleged third party standing in the SAC.  Second, the third party standing doctrine does not apply here.  “Ordinarily, of course, a litigant must assert his own legal rights and interests, and cannot rest his claim to relief on the legal rights or interests of third parties.”  (U.S. Dept. of Labor v. Triplett (1990) 404 U.S. 715, 720.)  “When, however, enforcement of a restriction against a litigant prevents a third party from entering into a relationship with the litigant (typically a contractual relationship), to which relationship the third party has a legal entitlement (typically a constitutional entitlement), third party standing has been held to exist.”  (Id.)  Third party standing allows a third party to challenge the constitutionality or legality of a law based on the assertion of the rights of third parties rather than a violation of his own rights.  They do this by seeking to enjoin enforcement of a law.  (See, e.g., Warth v. Seldin (1975) 422 U.S. 490, 510.)  Third party standing is inapplicable to this case because Plaintiff does not challenge the constitutionality or legality of any law, nor does Plaintiff seek an injunction preventing the enforcement of any law.  Plaintiff seeks money damages for the alleged violation of Maroon Society’s constitutional rights.  Plaintiff’s §1983 claim, therefore, is also subject to demurrer.      CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS Moving Defendants’ demurrer without leave to amend.  Plaintiff has failed to meet his burden to show he can amend his complaint to cure the defects noted in this order.      IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: March 5, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court  