

Hearing Date:             March 18,
2024
Case Name:                Drew
v. MTA Taekwondo World, Inc.  
Case No.:                    23STCV16767
Motion:                       Demurrer
and Motion to Strike
Moving Party:             Defendants Geonheung Lee and MTA Taekwondo World, Inc.

Opposing Party:          Plaintiffs
Geoffrey David Drew and Sangmi Yun Drew

Tentative Ruling:      The
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is overruled
to the first, third, and fourth causes of action, and sustained as to the second
cause of action. The motion to strike is granted in part and denied in part. 

             
            This action arises from an alleged
breach of an investment agreement. The Complaint pleads that Defendants Geonheung Lee and MTA Taekwondo World, Inc. breached a
Consignment Operation Contract (Contract) with Geoffrey
David Drew and Sangmjui Yun Drew (Plaintiffs).
 
On July 18, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed the instant action against MTA World Inc., Geonheung Lee
(Lee), and MTA Taekwondo World, Inc. (also referred to as, MTA or MTA America),
alleging causes of action for breach of investment agreement, breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, fraud, conversion, breach of undivided
loyalty, and unfair business practice in violation of California Business and
Professions Code section 17200 et seq. 
 
On September 19,
2023, Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed MTA World, Inc. without prejudice. 
 
On October 13,
2023, Defendants Geonheung Lee, and MTA Taekwondo World, Inc.  (Defendants) demurred to all causes of action
on the grounds that: (a) Plaintiffs’ claims are barred based on res judicata
and collateral estoppel; and (b) each cause of action is factually
insufficient.
 
            The Court overruled the demurrer to
the Complaint as to the first and second causes of action and sustained the
demurrer as to third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action. The motion to
strike was granted in part.
 
            On December 27, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
a First Amended Complaint for (1.) breach of investment agreement, (2.) breach
of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3.) fraud, (4.) unfair
business practice in violation of California Business and Professions Code
section 17200 et seq.
 
            Defendants request judicial notice of
Exhibit A – a judgment of the Republic of Korea civil court case, captioned
2020-Gahap-24123, with a certified English translation. (Lee Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. A.)
The request is granted. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (f); Java Oil Ltd. v.
Sullivan (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1181, fn. 1.)
 
Demurrer
 
            A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency
of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . ..” ’
” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  
 
Analysis 
            
Defendants
demur to the First Amended Complaint on the grounds that the pleadings are
barred by the doctrine of res judicata/collateral estoppel, and Plaintiffs have
failed to state a claim.
 
Res
Judicata and Collateral Estoppel
 
            Defendants argue that this action addresses
the same claims and issues raised by Plaintiffs in Case No. 2020-Gahap-24123,
in which judgment was entered by the Court in the Republic of Korea in favor of
Defendants and against Plaintiffs in 2022. Thus, under the doctrines of re
judicata and collateral estoppel, they argue, the entire FAC is barred.
            “Courts have at times used ‘res judicata’ as an umbrella
term, encompassing both the primary aspect of claim preclusion and the
secondary aspect of issue preclusion. We will follow the current practice to
use the term ‘claim preclusion’ to describe the primary aspect of the res
judicata doctrine and the term “issue preclusion” to denote collateral
estoppel.” (Cal Sierra Development, Inc. v. George Reed, Inc. (2017) 14
Cal.App.5th 663, 671.) 
            The following are the prerequisite
elements for applying the doctrine of claim preclusion to an entire cause of
action: (1) A claim raised in the present action is identical to a claim
litigated in a prior proceeding; (2) the prior proceeding resulted in a final
judgment on the merits; and (3) the party against whom
the doctrine is being asserted was a party or in privity with a party to the
prior proceeding. (Boeken v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.
4th 788, 797.) 
 
The
doctrine of collateral estoppel bars the party to a prior action from
relitigating any issues finally decided against him or her in the
earlier action. (City of Sacramento v. State of California (1990) 50
Cal.3d 51, 64.) The doctrine of collateral estoppel applies: “(1) after final
adjudication (2) of an identical issue (3) actually litigated and necessarily
decided in the first suit and (4) asserted against one who was a party in the
first suit or one in privity with that party.” (DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 813, 825.)
 
On
this demurrer, however, the Court again cannot decide the merits of either
theory. 
 
Here,
Defendants request judicial notice of a judgment entered by the Suwon District
Court in Republic of Korea on June 10, 2022 (Korean Judgment). (Lee Decl., ¶ 4,
Ex. A, [Korean Judgment].) Defendants assert that this Korean Judgment
is in favor of Defendants and against Plaintiffs, and the Korean Judgment involves
the same claims and issues as raised in Plaintiffs’ FAC here. Further,
Defendants argue that the two cases involve the same parties and/or parties in
privity with each other. Lastly, Defendants also argue that the Korean judgment
is a final adjudication of the issues. 
 
Under
both doctrines, there is a finality requirement with respect to the adjudication
of the claims or issues. On the previous demurrer, the Court found there was no
discussion that directly addressed the issue of what constitutes a final,
conclusive, and enforceable judgment under the laws of the Republic of Korea. That
is, there was no evidence by an expert on Korean law, nor was the Court asked
to take judicial notice of the pertinent laws. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (f).)
 
For
example, in Korea Water Resources Corp. v. Lee (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th
389, the court cited article 471(1) of the Korea Code of Civil Procedure, which
states, “A judgment shall not become final and conclusive during the period in
which an appeal may be filed or when a lawful appeal has been filed within the
prescribed period.” (Korea Water Resources, at p. 399.) However, the
case does not state what “the prescribed period” is under the Korea Code of
Civil Procedure.
Different
countries have different rules about the finality and enforceability of
judgments. The California Supreme Court addressed this in Manco Contracting
Co. (W.L.L.) v. Bezdikian (2008) 45 Cal.4th 192, when it noted, for
example, that while English law regards a judgment as final even though it is
subject to appeal or “subsequent modification,” i.e., collateral attack,
Japanese law provides that lodging a notice of appeal prevents a judgment from
becoming final. (Id. at p. 202.) The Supreme Court also noted that
although under California law a judgment is not final while an appeal is
pending, “the federal rule is contrary.” (Ibid.) 
 
Because
different jurisdictions take different views of finality, the fact that
Defendants have submitted a purported judgment is alone insufficient to
establish that it was also final in the sense that it was not appealable or
subject to modification. Accordingly, the Court concluded that, in order to
establish the finality of a foreign judgment, there must be evidence
establishing the law of the country that rendered the judgment. Thus, for the
foregoing reason, the Court found it could not make a determination on the
applicability of issue or claim preclusion on demurrer. 
 
Now,
on this demurrer to the FAC, Defendants submit the declaration of Hyung Sam
Park, who purports to be a duly admitted attorney authorized to practice before
the Courts of the Republic of Korea and expert on Korean law. (Park Decl., ¶¶
1-2.) 
 
Park
asserts that, under Korean Civil Code 396(1),[1]  a judgment must be appealed within 14 days of
the Trial Court Judgment, otherwise the right to appeal lapses. (Park Decl., ¶
6.) Park asserts that Plaintiff Sangmi filed an appeal against the judgment
2020-Gahap-24123 and the Korean Appellate Court, in its decision 2022-Na-21701,
concluded that Sangmi's appeal lacked merit. (Park Decl., ¶ 6.) Based on the
foregoing, Park claims that the judgment in 2020-Gahap-24123 is no longer
appealable in the Republic of Korea and is not subject to any modification under
the Korean Civil Code Section 396(1). (Park Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Ex. D [untranslated
website of the Court of the Republic of Korea purportedly showing that the
final judgment for the case 2020-Gahap-24123 was entered on November 14,
2023].)
Although
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have not filed any specific evidentiary
objection to the Park declaration, this fact is not determinative. In any case,
Plaintiffs do challenge Defendants’ reliance on evidence on a demurrer. (Opp.,
4:21-6:16.) This challenge is well taken. It is well established that “demurrer
tests the pleading alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters which
do not appear on the face of the pleading or cannot be properly inferred from
the factual allegations of the complaint. This principle means that if the
pleading sufficiently states a cause of action the demurrer cannot be granted
on the basis of a showing of extrinsic matters by inference from attached
exhibits, affidavits or otherwise except those matters which are subject to
judicial notice.” (Bach v. McNelis (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.)
Thus, it is
inappropriate for the Court consider this evidence in ruling on Defendants’
demurrer. Further, contrary to the reply, Plaintiffs on a demurrer does not
have the “burden to produce a competent expert declaration to the contrary;”
Plaintiffs have no evidentiary burden on a demurrer. (Reply 3:28-4:1 [citing Bushling
v. Fremont Medical Center (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 493, which pertained to a
ruling on summary judgment].)
Moreover,
while facially the issues in the instant litigation and Korean Judgment appear
to be the same, the analysis on this preclusion factor remains insufficient.  
 Claim preclusion is based in part on the
primary rights theory, which defines the scope of a cause of action and bars a
party (or the party's privy) from bringing a second lawsuit if that suit
“seek[s] to vindicate the same primary right.” (Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto
Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888, 904.) Under the primary rights theory, a cause
of action is defined as: “(1) a primary right possessed by the plaintiff, (2) a
corresponding duty imposed upon the defendant, and (3) a wrong done by the
defendant which is a breach of such primary right and duty.” (Balasubramanian
v. San Diego Community College District (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 977, 991.)
The cause of action is based on the harm suffered, not on the legal theory
asserted or relief sought. (Ibid.)
The FAC
here alleges that Defendants breached the Consignment Operation Contract, and
therefore, Plaintiffs suffered damages of $100,000. The primary right of the
allegation was the harm suffered by Plaintiffs when they invested $100,000 and
did not receive the promised 40% of net profits. The Korean Judgment is based
on the same breach of the Consignment Operation Contract (referred to as the
Second Consignment Agreement). (Lee Decl., ¶ 2, Exhibit A, p. 5 [Korean
Judgment].) The Korean Judgment further resolves Plaintiffs’ claim that Defendants
failed to apply the $100,000 investment pursuant to the terms of the
Consignment Operation Contract or fulfill the other obligations under this Contract
– including the 40% net profits provision. (Lee Decl., ¶ 2, Exhibit A, p. 8
[Korean Judgment].)  
However, “for purposes of
collateral estoppel, an issue was actually litigated in a prior proceeding if
it was properly raised, submitted for determination, and determined in that
proceeding.” (Hernandez v. City of Pomona (2009) 46 Cal.4th 501,
511.) “In considering whether these criteria have been met, courts look
carefully at the entire record from the prior proceeding, including the
pleadings, the evidence, the jury instructions, and any special jury findings
or verdicts.” (Id.)
On this demurrer, Defendants submit
evidence – the declaration of Park – to support the claim the burden of proof
in the Korean action was identical to that of this action. (Park Decl., ¶ 7.)  For the reasons discussed above, the Court
cannot rely on this evidence on demurrer. Therefore, Defendants have again failed
to establish that any factual determination would have been identical to those
that would be made in the present action. (Bennett v. Rancho Cal. Water
Dist. (2019) 35 Cal. App. 5th 908, 919 [“[C]ollateral estoppel does not
apply where the two proceedings at issue have different burdens of proof or
where the burden of proof falls on a different party in each proceeding.” [quoting People
v. Esmaili (2013) 213 Cal. App. 4th 1449, 1463].)
The
demurrer on this ground is overruled. 
First Cause
of Action for Breach of the Consignment Operation Contract
            Defendants demur again to the first cause of action. The
Court previously overruled the demurrer to this cause of action.
            The allegations regarding this cause of action have not
been amended. Nonetheless, the Court has the discretion to consider the
sufficiency of the pleadings again to this cause of action. (Carlton v. Dr.
Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1200, 1211 [“[A] party is
within its rights to successively demur to a cause of action in an amended
pleading notwithstanding a prior unsuccessful demurrer to that same cause of
action.”].) Thus, Defendants are correct that they were not required to bring a
motion for reconsideration to challenge these causes of action. 
            Nonetheless, the Court finds no error in its previous
ruling on the demurrer to this cause of action. The demurrer to this cause of
action is overruled for the reasons stated in its prior ruling to this cause of
action.
Second
Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing:
 
            Defendants
also again demur to the second cause of action for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. In opposition, Plaintiffs argue
Defendants do not provide any new legal theory to overturn the Court’s prior
ruling. 
 
Not so. Previously Defendants demurred and
the Court overruled the demurrer based on a statute of limitations argument. On
this demurrer, Defendants argue that the claim is entirely derivative of
Plaintiffs’ alleged breach of contract. 
            If a
plaintiff's allegations of breach of the covenant of good faith “do[es] not go
beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged
acts, simply seek[s] the same damages or other relief already claimed in a
companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as
no additional claim is actually stated.” (Careau & Co. v. Security
Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.) 
Here, this cause of action does nothing more
than restate the breach of contract cause of action. (FAC ¶¶ 17-31.)
            The
demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained.

 
Third Cause
of Action for Fraud:
Defendants
demur to the fraud cause of action on the grounds that it is not pled with the
requisite specificity. In opposition, Plaintiffs –pointing to paragraph 36 of
the FAC – argue that the allegations are sufficient.[2]

The
elements of intentional misrepresentation “are (1) a misrepresentation, (2)
knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable
reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 217, 230–231.)
Generally, “[i]n California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.). “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, where, to whom, and by
what means” the alleged fraud occurred. (Id.) The purpose of the
particularity requirement is to “separate meritorious and nonmeritorious cases,
if possible in advance of trial.” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)
30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)
            The
Complaint alleges that Plaintiffs had several meetings with Defendant
Lee and Tydus Kim aka Seon-Woong Kim at the then principal office of MTA America
after April 16, 2019. (FAC ¶ 7.) The FAC alleges that, during those meetings,
Defendant Lee represented to Plaintiffs that: “initial franchise fee of $30,000
would be waived if Plaintiffs became the first franchise investor in MTA;” “MTA
already had over 300 students who signed enrollment contracts for 3, 5, and 8
years in duration;” “Plaintiffs would receive forty percent (40%) of the
monthly profit for their $100,000 investment in a MTA;” and “Plaintiffs’
$100,000 investment shall be used for the sole purposes of setting up and
operating a MTA franchise in California” (collectively referred to as the
“Statements”). (FAC ¶ 8.) According to the FAC, Defendants knew that the
Statements were false when they made them to Plaintiffs or made them recklessly
and without regard for their truth. (FAC ¶ 38.) Defendants intended Plaintiff
to rely on these statements and Plaintiffs did rely on these Statements to
enter into the Agreement. (FAC ¶¶ 9, 40-43.)
            Paragraph 36 further alleges:
“Mr. Lee, acting as the sole officer and director of
MTA, had the in-person meetings with Plaintiffs on April 16, May 20, June 10,
and July 22 in 2019. During those meetings, Mr. Lee, acting as the sole officer
and director of MTA, made the Statements to Plaintiffs to induce them into the
Agreement. For instance, to convince Plaintiffs that MTA was a profitable
business, Mr. Lee told them that MTA already had over 300 students who signed
enrollment contracts for 3, 5, and 8 years in duration. To prompt Plaintiffs to
invest in MTA, Mr. Lee told them that the initial franchise fee of $30,000
would be waived if Plaintiffs became the first franchise investor in MTA. In
addition, to show its legality and financial stability, Mr. Lee told them that
MTA was in the process of registering as a duly authorized franchisor in the
United States and there were many prospective investors in MTA.” (FAC ¶ 36.) 
The FAC
adequately clarifies the how, where,
to whom, and by what means the fraudulent misrepresentations were made. The
allegations are sufficiently pled to state a claim for fraud. 
            The
demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Unfair Business
Practices:
            
The UCL defines unfair competition
as “any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act or practice.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code § 17200.) A business practice need only satisfy one of the three
criteria—unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent—to be considered unfair competition. (McKell
v. Wash. Mut., Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1470-1471.) 
            Here, the FAC alleges a violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200 on the grounds that Defendants “
(i) fraudulently induc[ed] Plaintiffs into the Agreement, (ii) ma[d]e false
statements to Plaintiffs for the purpose of them inducing them into the
Agreement, (iii) using the Investment Fund for Mr. Lee’s personal benefits in
breaching the Agreement, (iv) concealing the fact that the Investment Amount
was never used for the purpose of the Investment Agreement . . ..” (FAC ¶ 50.)
 
            This claim is derivative of Plaintiffs’
previous claims, including the claim for fraud. Thus, Plaintiffs have stated a
claim for unfair business practices based on fraud. 
 
The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled. 
 
Legal Standard for Motion to Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant” matters
include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for judgment
requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Punitive Damages Allegations 
 
            Defendants also move to strike the
request for punitive damages from the FAC. Defendants argue that Plaintiffs
have improperly sought punitive damages with respect to the second cause of
action and failed to allege sufficient facts to support the request for
punitive damages as to the third cause of action. 
 
Punitive
damages are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code § 3294.) “Something more than
the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There
must be circumstances of aggravation our outrage, such as spite or malice, or a
fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and
deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called
willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific intent to injure is not
necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct
was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of
others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925)
71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
As the
Court previously ruled, a breach of implied covenant for good faith and fair
dealing cannot support a request for punitive damages in a non-insurer context.
(Foley v. Interactive Data Corp. (1988) 47 Cal.3d 654, 700.) Moreover,
based on the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, Plaintiffs’ request for punitive
damages is moot as to the second cause of action.
 
The Court
will now turn to the request for punitive damages sought in the third cause of
action. 
 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with
“oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise
to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where the
complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
Here, the
FAC adequately alleges a claim for fraud, which is sufficient to support the
request for punitive damages at the pleading stage. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is granted as to the request for punitive damages in
relation to the second cause of action and is denied as to the punitive damages
sought in relation to the third cause of action. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The Demurrer to the FAC is overruled to
the first, third, and fourth causes of action and
sustained as to second cause of action. The motion to strike is granted in
part and denied in part. 
The Court is not inclined to grant leave
to amend absent a specific showing by Plaintiffs of a reasonable possibility of
amending. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Service (2000) 81
Cal.App.4th 39, 43 [“The plaintiff bears the burden of proving there is a
reasonable possibility of amendment.”].) 
The Court will consider argument on this point at the hearing.
 


