 Case Number:  22STCV11067    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV11067




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Sheryl Tan




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court
has reviewed the petition filed on June 27, 2024 by Petitioner Sheryl Tan
(Petitioner) on behalf of Claimant Imogen Tan-Ching, age 9. The Court grants the petition. 
 
In attachment 12, Petitioner clarifies that the $112.40
in medical expenses to be reimbursed from this settlement was paid by Meritain
Health to provider Dr. Miriam Chan. The proposed order reflects this information.
(See MC-351, item 8a(3).) Therefore, given the evidence provided in the
attachments, the Court excuses the entry in item 12b(5) that suggests the
medical lien is held by Dr. Miriam Chan. 
 
Accordingly, the Court grants the
petition. 
 
Petitioner shall give notice
and file a proof of service of such.