 Case Number:  21STCV13645    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV13645




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Order Compelling Defendant Eshagh Neman’s Appearance at Deposition 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Sui
  Jai Hong and Jie Gao 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Eshagh Neman, Simin Neman, and Dorin Realty Company, Inc. 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiffs Sui Jai Hong and Jie Gao (“Plaintiffs”) move to compel the
deposition of Defendant Eshagh Neman (“Defendant”).[1] Plaintiffs also seek
monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes and Plaintiffs reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Bobby Waltman, Plaintiffs’ counsel, does not
explicitly state facts of a meet and confer but does attach email
correspondence on April 26, 2024 discussing Defendant’s deposition. (Waltman Decl.
¶ 11, Exh. I.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiffs allege they were injured on premises owned/controlled by
Defendant. (Complaint ¶ 9-10.) 
 
Plaintiffs first served a deposition notice on Defendant on March 17,
2022. Plaintiffs then sent subsequent notices; each time, Defendant timely
served an objection. On March 29, 2024, Plaintiffs served a fourth amended
deposition notice, setting a deposition for May 8, 2024. (Waltman Decl., Exh.
H.) On May 7, 2024, Defendant failed to appear, and a certificate of
non-appearance was obtained. (Id., Exh. K.) Plaintiffs contend that
co-defendant Simin Neman is Defendant’s wife; her deposition was scheduled for
May 7, 2024. They further contend that Defendants’ counsel produced Simin for
deposition on May 8, 2024, and thus confused the two defendants. As a result,
the Certificate of Non-appearance on May 7, 2024 only mentions defendant Simin
Neman, but in actuality was referring to Defendant. In opposition, Defendant
does not dispute this account.  
 
Defendant asserts he is 89 years old, suffering from declining mental
health, and cannot sit for a deposition until he has been evaluated. (Opp., 1.)
Though Defendant repeats this in opposition to this motion, no motion for a
protective order has been filed.[2]
Additionally, Defendant does not produce evidence that he timely objected to
the March 29, 2024 deposition notice. 
 
Therefore, seeing as Defendant did not appear for a noticed
deposition, and there is no evidence he timely objected, the motion to compel
the deposition of Eshagh
Neman is granted. 
 
Plaintiffs
request $3,520 in monetary sanctions against Defendant and his counsel of
record, representing a $350 hourly rate, $720.50 for the reporter’s fee, and
$1,400 for the Farsi interpreter. (Waltman Decl. ¶ 16, Exh. L, M.) The Court
finds sanctions are warranted for the costs incurred by the non-appearance and
awards sanctions in the amount of $2,470.50 (1 hour of attorney time, the court
reporter fee and interpreter fees). Although counsel for Defendant advised that
Defendant was unable to testify, no protective order was sought and no valid
objection was served, thereby necessitating this motion. (See Waltman Decl. ¶
10-11.) 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
motion to compel Defendant Eshagh Neman to attend his deposition is GRANTED. Defendant
Eshagh Neman shall
appear within 30 days’ notice of this order for a deposition.
 
The Court further grants the request for monetary sanctions against
Defendant and Defendant’s counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the
reduced amount of $2,470.50. Said monetary sanctions shall be paid to counsel
for Plaintiffs within 30 days’ notice of this order. 
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


