 Case Number:  21STCV18471    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  23, 2024 




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV18471




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Compliance with Demand for Physical Examination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Lillian Lugosi and Jeff Lugosi




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendants Lillian Lugosi and
Jeff Lugosi (“Defendants”) move to compel compliance with a demand for physical
examination served on Plaintiff Anthony Lightfoot (“Plaintiff”). Defendants
also seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for
personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the
plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted,
or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of
the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿
“The plaintiff to whom a demand for a physical examination .
. . is directed shall respond to the demand by a written statement that the
examinee will comply with the demand as stated, will comply with the demand as
specifically modified by the plaintiff, or will refuse, for reasons specified
in the response, to submit to the demanded physical examination.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2032.230(a).) 
“Within 20 days after service of the demand the plaintiff
to whom the demand is directed shall serve the original of the response to it
on the defendant making the demand, and a copy of the response on all other
parties who have appeared in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.230(b).) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.240 provides that, when a plaintiff fails to timely respond to a demand,
the defendant may move for an order compelling a response to the demand and
compelling compliance with the request for an exam. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.240(b).) 
 
The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
response and compliance with a demand for a physical examination, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2032.240(c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
This case arises out of a motor vehicle accident. Defendants first
noticed a demand for a physical examination with Dr. Paul E. Kaloostian on
January 25, 2024, set for March 13, 2024. On March 11, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel informed Defendants that Plaintiff would be unable to attend. (Feldman
Decl. ¶ 6.) The parties later agreed on a May 7, 2024 examination, and the
demand was re-noticed on March 27, 2024. (Id. ¶ 7–8, Exh. D.) On May 6,
2024, Defendants contacted Plaintiff’s counsel to confirm the examination, but
no response was received. (Id. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff did not serve an
objection and did not attend the examination. (Id. ¶ 10–11.) As a
result, Defendants incurred a $750 no-show fee. (Id. ¶ 12, Exh. F.) 
 
Therefore, because Plaintiff did not appear for the examination and
failed to respond to the demand, the motion to compel compliance is granted. 
 
Defendants seek $2,194 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s counsel. This represents an hourly rate of $250, the no-show $750
fee, and the $60 filing fee for this motion. In light of the nature of the
motion and because it is unopposed, the Court awards monetary sanctions in the
reduced amount of $1,185 (1.5 hour of attorney time, the $750 fee, and filing
fee). 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants
Lillian Lugosi and Jeff Lugosi’s motion to Compel Compliance with Demand for
Physical Examination is GRANTED. Plaintiff Anthony Lightfoot shall appear for a
physical examination with Dr. Paul E. Kaloostian within 15 days, unless
Defendants stipulate otherwise. 
 
Plaintiff Anthony Lightfoot and his counsel of record, jointly and
severally, are ordered to pay $1,185 in monetary sanctions to counsel for
Defendants within 30 days. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 