 Case Number:  23STCV06764    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV06764




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Inspection of Defendant Target’s TruCase Software/Program
Motion
  to Compel Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Brayden Medina Molina 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Target Corporation



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action stems
from a stabbing at a Target store that occurred on November 15, 2022.
The attacker allegedly took a knife from a display shelf. Plaintiff Brayden Medina
Molina (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order compelling Defendant
Target Corporation (“Defendant”) to: “(1) Allow for an inspection of their
TruCase Software by forensic experts (each side to have their own); (2) To
obtain all incident reports with the following search terms "knife",
"kitchen knife", "brandishing", and/ or
"stabbing" for the past 10 years in all Target Stores across the
nation within TruCase via forensic download.” Plaintiff also moves for an order
compelling Defendant (1) to produce its person(s) most knowledgeable for
certain topics, (2) to provide code-compliant verified responses without
objections to all requests for production, and (3) to produce all responsive
documents to those requests. Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions. Defendant
opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(a) provides that
on receipt of a response to a request for production of documents, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses if:¿¿ 
¿¿ 
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.¿¿ 
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive.¿¿ 
(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.¿¿¿¿ 
 
“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right
to compel a further response to the demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310(c).)¿¿The Court lacks jurisdiction if the motion is filed after this
time period. ¿(Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403,
1410.)  
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310 (h).)  
 
Any party may obtain discovery,
subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including
any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent
to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) 
 
“If the deponent named is not a
natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the
deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.230.) 
 
The party served with a deposition
notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a
written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the
deposition is scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).) In addition
to serving this written objection, a party may also move for an order staying
the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c).) 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party . . . without having served a valid objection . . . fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may
move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production . . . of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in
favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).
 
DISCUSSION
 
Tru-Case
Software
 
            Here, Plaintiff contends that
TruCase is a program used by Defendant to track security matters within its
stores. Plaintiff seeks an inspection of the TruCase system by its forensic
expert to show that Defendant was aware of incidents involving unsecured knives
at Target stores throughout the country. Plaintiff contends that Defendant has
refused to allow an expert inspect the TruCase system and instead has offered
to provide the results on its own. (Motion, 5.) However, Plaintiff appears to
argue that since this evidence is critical, his expert must be allowed to personally
inspect the system. 
 
            In opposition, Defendant first
argues this motion is procedurally defective since it was filed before
Plaintiff served the demand for inspection. However, Defendant admits that six
days after filing this motion, Plaintiff served the demand for inspection,
setting the inspection for June 25, 2024. (Opp., 4; Farley Decl., Exh. 2.)  Defendant objected to the demand on June 20,
2024. (Id. ¶ 6.) Defendant also contends that meet and confer efforts
were not exhausted prior to bringing this motion and note that Plaintiff failed
to file a separate statement. Nevertheless, because the demand was served
before Defendant’s opposition and before this hearing, the Court will consider
the merits of the motion. 
 
            Defendant argues the demand exceeds
the scope of discovery formerly set by this Court. In the June 10, 2024 minute
order, the Court limited the discovery of records contained in Defendant’s
Origami Risk Application, to the past five years, in any Target store within
the United States. The Court also limited discovery to instances where a knife
was taken from a display shelf within the store, as opposed to all instances
involving knives. (Min. Order, 6/10/24.) 
 
            However, that order was based on a
motion to compel Defendant to produce persons most knowledgeable, and Defendant
expressly raised an objection that the breadth of the discovery sought was
burdensome. Here, Plaintiff is requesting its own expert to conduct the search.
This does not raise similar issues regarding the burden and expense of the
discovery sought, as Plaintiff apparently will be bearing the expense.
Moreover, it is unclear what search terms the Court could order to capture the
incidents involving knives originating within Target stores, and Defendant
concedes that narrowing the search terms would not be possible. (Opposition at
p. 6.) This does not mean that no search should be permitted. Rather, to
address the overbreadth concerns, the parties may stipulate to a protective
order. The parties are ordered to meet and confer and jointly propose a
protective order.
 
Deposition
 
            Plaintiff seeks to depose Target’s
person most knowledgeable regarding eight prior stabbing incidents and seeks
documents relating to those incidents. Defendant argues that the request
exceeds the Court’s prior June 10, 2024 order and is not reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
 
            The Court’s prior order related to
discovery involving all stabbings and knife brandishings in Target stores in
the entire country. As the Court noted, the deposition notice was overbroad
because it involved all stabbings and knife brandishings within Target stores
without a time limitation. (Minute Order 6/10/24.) The Court further noted that
Plaintiff did not explain why all incidents without any time limitation would
be discoverable. (Id.) The Court’s prior order did not address the
discoverability of specific prior incidents. Here, Plaintiff limits the request
to only eight prior incidents. Defendant does not seem to argue that this
limited scope is burdensome or oppressive. Regarding Defendant’s assertion that
the prior incidents are not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible
evidence, Defendant’s arguments are based solely on news reports. (See Park
Decl. ¶ 4-10.) However, no evidence from Defendant’s records regarding any
investigation of these incidents is presented. Accordingly, the Court cannot
conclude that these prior incidents are not reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence regarding Plaintiff’s allegations of a
dangerous condition and Defendant’s notice of such. (See, e.g., Maldonado v.
Superior Court (2002) 94 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1397.)
 
            Finally, Defendant argues that the
Court lacks jurisdiction to compel an out-of-state person most knowledgeable to
testify at deposition. However, Plaintiff has not noticed the deposition of an
out-of-state person or corporation. Rather, Plaintiff has noticed topics, and
Defendant may choose which witness to designate. Defendant broadly argues that
certain topics relate to incidents that occurred in states other than
California, but does not explain why a person most knowledgeable within
California does not exist nor does Defendant actually designate any
out-of-state individuals.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to Compel Inspection of Defendant
Target’s TruCase Software/Program for certain search terms for the past 10
years is GRANTED. Defendant shall make the program available for Plaintiff’s
expert’s inspection at a mutually agreeable time within 20 days.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Person(s) Most
Knowledgeable Regarding Prior Knife Instances is GRANTED. Defendant shall
produce its person(s) most knowledgeable within 20 days, provide code-compliant
verified responses, and produce responsive documents.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 