 Case Number:  21STCV47557    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV47557




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Terminating Sanctions   




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Walter Williams Marotta 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Jose Menendez  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Walter Williams Marotta (“Defendant”) moves for
terminating sanctions against Plaintiff Jose Menendez (“Plaintiff”) for failure to comply
with the Court’s May 30, 2024 discovery order. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant
replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“To
the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method
or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected
party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may
impose…sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the
discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2023.030.) The court may impose a
terminating sanction for misuse of the discovery process by any of the
following: “(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings
of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process; (2) An order
staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed; (3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that
party; (4) An order rendering a judgment by default against that party.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(d).)  Failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery, or
disobeying
a court order to provide discovery, constitutes a
misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d), (g).)

 
“The trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse
‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the
party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the
propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377, 390,
quoting Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1225, 1246.)   
 
“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be
made lightly.  But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los Defensores,
supra, 223 Cal. App. 4th at p. 390 [citation omitted].)    
 
“Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed terminating
sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders.”
(Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390 citing Lang, supra, 77
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1244-1246 [discussing cases]; see, e.g., Collisson &
Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1617-1622 [terminating
sanctions imposed (by striking the defendant’s Answer and subsequently granting
default judgment) after defendants failed to comply with one court order to
produce discovery]; Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 481, 491, disapproved on other grounds in Garcia v. McCutchen (1997)
16 Cal.4th 469, 478, n. 4 [terminating sanctions imposed against the plaintiff
for failing to comply with a discovery order and for violating various
discovery statutes].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
On May 30, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s unopposed motions to
compel discovery responses. Plaintiff was ordered to provide verified
responses, without objections, to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Demand for Production of Documents, Set One within
30 days. The Court also imposed monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally, in the amount of $1,740, due within
30 days. (See Min. Order, 5/30/24.)  Defendant served notice of the orders
electronically to Plaintiff’s counsel on June 4, 2024.  
 
On July 3, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion asserting that he
had not received responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Demand for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends that he served responses to the
discovery without objections. 
 
In reply, Defendant concedes that responses were served on July 17,
2024 but argues they are deficient. 
 
Because Plaintiff has provided responses to the discovery, the Court
cannot conclude based on the evidence provided that the failure to obey the
Court’s order was willful. To the extent Defendant argues the responses are
deficient, he must follow the procedures within the Code of Civil Procedure and
the Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order to compel further responses. 
 
Additionally, the failure of Plaintiff to pay monetary sanctions, by
itself, does not warrant terminating sanctions. (See Newland v. Superior Court
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 615 [holding, “a terminating sanction issued solely
because of a failure to pay a monetary discovery sanction is never
justified.”].) Sanctions orders are enforceable as money judgments unless the
court orders otherwise. Thus, the remedy to enforce payment of monetary
sanctions is to obtain and levy a writ of execution on assets of the debtor. (Id.
at 615.) Accordingly, the Court denies Defendant’s request to re-order the monetary
sanctions imposed in the May 30, 2024 order, since Defendant has other avenues
to secure payment. (See Reply, 3.) 
 
Lastly,
the Court denies the request in reply to award additional monetary sanctions
since none were requested in the Notice of Motion.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 