 Case Number:  22STCV21019    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


August
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV21019




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial Date and Partially Reopen
  Discovery




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant/Cross-Complainant
  Douglas Emmett 2007 LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs
  Max Rahni and Mahvash Abbas Rashidi 



 
MOTION
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Douglas Emmett 2007 LLC (“Defendant”) moves
to continue trial and partially reopen discovery. Plaintiffs Max Rahni and
Mahvash Abbas Rashidi (“Plaintiffs”) filed an opposition to Defendant’s ex
parte application and a supplemental declaration in opposition. Defendant filed
an objection to the supplemental declaration and filed its own supplemental
declaration.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case involves a fall on a sidewalk. The complaint was filed on June
28, 2022. Trial was initially set for December 26, 2023.   
 
Defendant filed an answer and cross complaint on September 20, 2023.  
 
On November 1, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte
application and continued trial and all related dates to July 22, 2024. 
 
On May 23, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte application
and continued trial to 30 days after Defendant’s summary judgment hearing,
August 6, 2024. 
 
On July 2, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment. 
 
On July 16, 2024, the Court granted in part Defendant’s ex parte
application to continue trial and reopen discovery. The Court vacated the
current trial date and set a Trial Setting Conference for August 2, 2024 in
order to hear this motion. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard 
 
¿“Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing
of good cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re Marriage of Falcone &
Fyke (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial court has broad discretion
in considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham v. Nguyen
(1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets
forth factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial.¿ 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition
of civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).)  
 
“A party seeking a continuance of
the date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by
the parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an
ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b).) 
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
 
1.    
The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
2.    
The unavailability of a party
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
3.    
The unavailability of trial
counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
4.    
The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice; 
5.    
The addition of a new party
if: 
A.   
The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or 
B.   
The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party’s involvement in the case; 
6.    
A party’s excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or 
7.    
A significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.”  
8.    
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).) 
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the
court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination. These may include: 
 
1.    
The proximity of the trial
date; 
2.    
Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; 
3.    
The length of the continuance
requested; 
4.    
The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; 
5.    
The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
6.    
If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
7.    
The court’s calendar and the
impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
8.    
Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial; 
9.    
Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; 
10.  Whether the interests of justice are best served by a
continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the
continuance; and 
11.  Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
 
In determining
whether to reopen discovery, the court must consider the necessity of and
reasons for the additional discovery, the diligence or lack thereof by the
party seeking to reopen discovery in attempting to complete discovery prior to
the cutoff, whether permitting the discovery will prevent the case from going
forward on the trial date or will otherwise prejudice any party, and any past
continuances of the trial date.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd.
(b).)¿¿ 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant requests the Court continue trial to October 6, 2024 so it
may depose Plaintiffs. As a result, Defendants ask the Court to reopen
discovery for that limited purpose and set all expert discovery and pre-trial
motion deadlines to the new trial date. 
 
Defendant provides evidence that the parties previously stipulated to conduct
the Plaintiffs’ depositions on June 18, 2024 and June 19, 2024, after meeting
and conferring since April 2024. (Donahue Decl. ¶ 18, Exh. H.) However, despite
that agreement, Plaintiffs then objected on the grounds that the depositions
were unilaterally noticed without meeting and conferring, that the notices were
served by email on June 10, and that counsel was unavailable. (Id. at
Exh. J.) Defendant also asserts that no expert witnesses have been deposed in
this case. The parties designated expert witnesses on June 17, 2024: Plaintiffs
disclosed three experts, the City of Los Angeles and Defendants disclosed six
experts. 
 
Defendant argues it will suffer prejudice if it cannot complete
Plaintiffs’ depositions and expert discovery. 
 
In Plaintiffs’ opposition, they rely on the belated filing of the
answer and the lack of motions to compel discovery by Defendant. 
 
However, Plaintiffs do not appear to dispute that they stipulated to
depositions on June 18 and June 19, or that the defendants had been making
efforts to schedule the depositions since April. Defendant attempted to raise
this issue in supplemental pleadings to a motion to continue trial, on July 2,
2024, but their attempt was procedurally improper due to a lack of concurrent
filing of a motion to reopen discovery. The motion to reopen discovery was then
filed on July 10. The Court finds that Defendant exercised sufficient diligence
in light of Plaintiffs’ unexplained unavailability for depositions given the
previous stipulation.
 
Regarding the expert depositions, Plaintiff argues that Defendant was
dilatory by not serving deposition notices until 18 days after the
designations. Defendant does not explain its diligence in seeking expert
depositions. The declaration of counsel simply refers to the service of expert
designations on June 17 and Plaintiffs’ objections on July 9 (Donahue Decl. ¶¶
25, 30.)
 
Therefore, the motion to reopen discovery is granted in part. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to reopen fact discovery for the
limited purpose of conducting Plaintiffs’ depositions. Plaintiffs shall appear
for deposition within 10 days.
 
The Final Status Conference is set for September 11, 2024 at 10:00
a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Trial is set for September 25, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of
the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Defendant shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of service
of such.
 