  Case Number:  20STCV08871    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV08871




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Determination of Good Faith Settlement




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Continental Elevator Services,
  Inc.  




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 3, 2020, Plaintiff Scott Lazar (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendant Odyssesus Investment Group, LLC, and Does 1 to 100.
Plaintiff alleges he was injured while using an elevator on premises owned
and/or controlled by Defendants. 
 
On November 1, 2022, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint,
substituting Continental Elevator Services, Inc. as Doe 1. 
 
Defendant Continental Elevator Services, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves for
a determination that a settlement with Plaintiff has been entered in good
faith. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under section 877.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, “[a] determination by
the court that [a] settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint
tortfeasor . . . from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor .
. . for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 877.6 (c).) Any party to an action may move for an order
determining whether a settlement between the plaintiff and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors was made in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (a)(1).) “The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of
proof on that issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) 
 
Section 877.6 requires “that the courts review [settlement] agreements
made under its aegis to insure that the settlements appropriately balance the .
. . statute’s dual objectives” (i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs
among the parties at fault” and encouraging parties to resolve their disputes
by way of settlement.) (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 494 (hereafter, Tech-Bilt).) In
Tech-Bilt, the court set forth the factors to consider when determining
whether a settlement is made in good faith. The Tech-Bilt factors are:
(1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants. (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 498-501.) Not every factor will apply in every case.
(Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Shell Oil Co.) (2015) 242
Cal.4th 894, 909.) 
 
“The party asserting the lack of good faith . . . [is] permitted to
demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in
relation to [the above] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of [Section 877.6]. Such a demonstration would establish that the
proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms
of section 877.6.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)
 
An
unopposed motion for determination of good faith of settlement need not contain
a full and complete discussion of the Tech-Bilt factors by declaration
or affidavit; rather, a bare bones motion setting forth the grounds of good
faith and a declaration containing a brief background of the case is
sufficient.  (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant has agreed to settle with Plaintiff for $39,000, following a
mediation. This is a negligence and premises liability case based on an
elevator injury. Plaintiff was allegedly working for a company owned by
Defendant Odyssesus Investment Group, LLC when he suffered a hand injury.
Defendant has performed minor mechanical elevator maintenance services at the
property. 
 
Defendant asserts that the settlement was proportioned based on the
fact that Defendant does not own or control the premises where the injury
occurred and did not operate the subject elevator. Therefore, Defendant argues
the $39,000 is beyond its potential liability. Instead, Defendant settled to
avoid the cost and uncertainty of trial. Though Defendant has an insurance
policy of $1,000,000, it argues that absent evidence that it was liable, the
settlement amount is proper. Lastly, Defendant asserts this settlement was the
product of cooperative decision-making, through a mediation, and thus, there
was no collusion or fraud. 
 
No opposition has been filed for this motion and all co-defendants
have been served notice. Based on this information, the motion is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the motion for determination of good faith settlement is GRANTED.

 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 