 Case Number:  22STCV29276    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  C Ani Khachikyan, et al. vs Platinum
Transportation Group, Inc., et al.
Case No.: 22STCV29276
Hearing Date: March 22, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#1
Tentative Ruling 
I.               
Philadelphia’s Motion to Continue Trial is
GRANTED in part.  Trial is CONTINUED to
April 10, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-F. 

II.             
Platinum’s Motion to Compel the Deposition
of Plaintiff Ani Khachikyan is GRANTED. 
Said deposition to take place within 20 days of this order.   
III.           
Platinum’s Motion to Compel the Deposition
of Third-Party Witness Kirakos Kesablyan is DENIED without prejudice. 
IV.          
Requests for Sanctions as to both motions are
DENIED.
 
Moving party to give notice.  
 
Counsel for Plaintiff-in-Intervention, PHILADELPHIA
INDEMNITY INSURANCE COMPANY (“Philadelphia”) seeks a trial continuance until
July 22, 2024.  Philadelphia and counsel
for Defendants PLATINUM TRANSPORTATION GROUP, INC. and WORLDWIDE TRANSPORTATION
INC. (“Platinum”) moves to compel the depositions of Plaintiff Ani Khachikyan,
in her capacity as Guardian ad Litem, and non-party Kirakos Kesablyan.  Each side requests sanctions.  
Motion to Continue Trial
Philadelphia moves to continue trial from March 26, 2024 to
July 22, 2024.  Because depositions need
to be taken and discovery motions need to be heard before trial, the Court
finds good cause to continue trial, but only until April 10, 2024, the maximum
period allowed pursuant to CCP § 36.  The
Court has ordered the parties to meet and confer regarding scheduling of
depositions and to submit a joint statement by March 26, 2024.  The Court will hear from the parties
regarding scheduling of discovery motions. 

Accordingly, Philadelphia’s motion to continue trial is
GRANTED in part.  Trial is continued from
March 26, 2024 to April 10, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-F.  
 
Deposition of Plaintiff Ani Khachikyan 
Platinum moves to compel the deposition of Plaintiff Ani
Khachikyan in her capacity as Guardian ad Litem of Minor Plaintiffs Elah Kesablyan
and Leah Kesablyan.  
Platinum asserts that on May 26, 2023, it noticed the
deposition of Ani Khachikyan as Plaintiff in this matter, setting her
deposition for June 13, 2023. (Decl. Mitrovich ¶ 6; Ex. A.) On May 31, 2023,
Plaintiffs’ counsel objected to this deposition notice stating that she would
agree to reschedule Plaintiff Ani Khachikyan’s deposition for a date convenient
to all parties. (Id., Ex. B.) 
Per agreement by the parties, Platinum re-issued the
deposition notice for Plaintiff Ani Khachikyan, setting her deposition for
September 22, 2023. (Decl. Mitrovich, ¶ 8; Ex. C.) Thereafter, on September 22,
2023, Plaintiff Ani Khachikyan appeared for her deposition and answered
questions in her capacity as a Plaintiff in the action. (Decl. Mitrovich, ¶ 9;
Decl. Russell, ¶ 6.)
Thereafter, on January 4, 2024, much to Philadelphia and
Platinum’s surprise, Plaintiffs served on all parties their Designation of
Expert Witnesses on Behalf of Plaintiffs, and the parties learned that
Plaintiff Leah had recently, unbeknownst to Defendants, received some type of
neurological treatment, and that Plaintiffs’ counsel intended to call
neurologist Dr. Yuvrag Grewal, M.D. (“Dr. Grewal”) to testify as to Leah’s
alleged neurological injuries and medical treatment arising from the subject
incident. (Decl. Mitrovich ¶ 10; Decl. Russell, ¶ 7; Ex. D.)
On February 2, 2024, Ani Khachikyan failed to appear at her
deposition as Guardian ad litem for Plaintiffs Elah and Leah, and produce
documents requested. (Decl. Mitrovich, ¶ 14.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Plaintiff Ani Khachikyan
has previously been deposed for seven hours. Plaintiffs contend that this a
mere attempt at a “second bite of the apple.” Further, Plaintiffs argue there
is no authority for the contention that Plaintiff Ani Khachikyan may be deposed
twice simply because she is Guardian ad Litem of the minor plaintiffs.   
The Guardian ad Litem “is not a party to the action, but is
the party’s representative and is an officer of the Court.” (Alex R. v.
Superior Court, (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 1.) The Guardian ad Litem’s “role is
limited to protecting the [ward’s] interests in the litigation.” (Williams
v. Superior Court, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 36.)
Accordingly, the Court does not compel a second deposition
of Plaintiff Ani Khachikyan on the grounds she is Guardian ad Litem for Minor
Plaintiffs.  
However, the Court does find good cause for Defendants to
take a second deposition of Plaintiff Ani Khachikyan based upon Plaintiffs’
designation of neurologist Dr. Yuvrag Grewal, M.D. on January 4, 2024.  Dr. Grewal is expected to testify as to
Plaintiff Leah Khachikyan’s neurological injuries and treatment arising from
the subject incident.  Defendants
represent they were unaware of Plaintiff Leah Khachikyan’s claim of
neurological injuries when Plaintiff Ani Khachikyan was deposed the first time
in September 2023.  “[F]or good cause
shown, the court may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition …” (CCP § 2025.610.)

Platinum’s motion for a second deposition of Plaintiff Ani Khachikyan
is GRANTED for the limited purpose of inquiring about Plaintiff Leah Kesablyan’s
claimed neurological injuries and treatment. 
Deposition of Kirakos Kaseblyan 
Platinum moves to compel the deposition non-party Kirakos
Kesablyan, husband of Plaintiff Ani Kachikyan and father of Minor Plaintiffs Elah
Kesablyan and Leah Kesablyan.  
Platinum asserts that on or about June 13, 2023, counsel
for Platinum issued a Deposition Subpoena for Kirakos Kaseblyan and served a
copy on Plaintiffs’ counsel, along with a Notice of Taking Videotaped
Deposition of Kirakos Kaseblyan initially set for July 12, 2023. (Decl.
Mitrovich, ¶ 6.) Defendant Platinum attempted to personally serve the
deposition subpoena on Kaseblyan seven (7) times at three (3) different
addresses, to no avail. (Decl. Mitrovich, ¶ 7; Exhibits B-D.) The exhibits show
that when Defendant’s service agent attempted to serve this Deposition
Subpoena, it “sounds like someone’s home and evading service.” (Decl.
Mitrovich, ¶ 8; Exhibit B.) This Deposition Subpoena, therefore, was not
personally served on Mr. Kaseblyan; however, on June 20, 2023, Plaintiffs’
counsel served its Objection to Mr. Kaseblyan’s deposition and stated only that
“Plaintiff requests that the noticing counsel confer with Plaintiff’s counsel
to agree upon mutually convenient dates and times for each witness’s
deposition,” and listed Plaintiff’s availability. (Decl. Mitrovich ¶ 9; Exhibit
E.)
On or about October 18, 2023, Platinum’s counsel issued a
second Deposition Subpoena for Kirakos Kaseblyan, and served a copy on
Plaintiffs’ counsel, along with a Notice of Taking Videotaped Deposition of
Kirakos Kaseblyan set for November 6, 2023. (Decl. Mitrovich, ¶ 11; Exhibit F.)
On December 22, 2023, Platinum’s counsel emailed Plaintiffs’ counsel asking for
dates available to depose Kaseblyan, as agreed upon by the parties. (Decl.
Mitrovich, ¶ 14; Exhibit G.) Thereafter, on December 29, 2023, Platinum’s
counsel sent a Third Amended Notice of Taking Videotaped Deposition of
Kaseblyan, setting the deposition for January 17, 2024. (Dec. Mitrovich ¶15;
Ex. H.) Once again, the Deposition Subpoena was attempted to be personally
served on Kaseblyan six (6) times at three (3) different addresses, to no
avail. (Dec. Mitrovich ¶16; Exs. B-D.) On January 11, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel
served its Objections to this deposition notice stating only that the
deposition was unilaterally noticed, and requesting counsel meet and confer to
agree upon mutually convenient dates for the deposition. (Dec. Mitrovich ¶17;
Ex I.) Platinum’s counsel has attempted in good faith to personally serve three
(3) Deposition Subpoenas on Kaseblyan sixteen (16) different times now, but it
appears that Kaseblyan is evading service of any Deposition Subpoena. (Dec.
Mitrovich ¶¶ 7-8, 13, 16, 18.)
On January 24, 2023, in response to Form Interrogatory 2.5
requesting Ani Khachikyan to state her present address, and all addresses where
she has lived in the last five (5) years, Khachikyan, by and through her
counsel, simply responded “[i]nvasion of right to privacy,” and failed to
provide any such address(es), which Philadelphia and Platinum are afforded in
the discovery process. (Ex. W, Response to Form Interrogatory No. 2.5.)
Furthermore, on September 22, 2023, during the deposition of Ani Khachikyan,
when asked her address, Plaintiffs’ counsel once again stated “invasion of
right to privacy,” and instructed Ani Khachikyan to only provide the city, and
not the actual address. (Ex. V, Deposition of Khachikyan at 13:4-20.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that because Kirakos
Kesablyan is not a party to this action, Mr. Kesablyan must be personally
served in order to be deposed.  
“A written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to
compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a document
or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the
nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail
or electronic service at an address or electronic service address specified on
the deposition record.” (Cal. Rule of Court, Rule 3.1346.) A deposition notice served on the opposing
party is inadequate to compel a third party's attendance. (Lopez v. Watchtower Bible
& Tract Society of New York, Inc.
(2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 600.) Because Mr. Kesablyan
is not a party to this action and has not been personally served, the Court may
not at this time compel his attendance at deposition.  
 
Platinum further argues that the Court has the authority to
grant the motion under CCP § 128(a) (“Every court shall have the power to …
compel the attendance of persons to testify in an action …”) However, nothing in CCP §128(a) dispenses with the
requirement of personal service upon non-party deponents.  
Accordingly,
Platinum’s motion to compel the deposition of Kirakos Kesablyan is DENIED. 
 
Sanctions 
Motion to Compel
Deposition of Plaintiff Ani Khachiyan
Platinum seeks sanctions against
Plaintiffs’ Counsel for abuse of the discovery process. The Court finds
Plaintiffs’ Counsel acted with substantial justification in opposing the
motion. Accordingly, Platinum’s request for sanctions is DENIED. 
Plaintiffs seek sanctions in
opposition to the motion. Because the Court has granted Platinum’s motion, Plaintiffs’
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
Sanctions as to Mr.
Kirakos Kaseblyan 
Platinum seeks sanctions against
Plaintiffs’ Counsel for abuse of the discovery process. Because Platinum’s
motion has been denied, its request for sanctions is DENIED. 
Plaintiffs seek sanctions in
opposition to the motion. Given the correspondence from Plaintiffs’ Counsel
indicating a willingness to schedule the deposition of Mr. Kaseblyan, the Court
does not find the motion to be frivolous. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions
is DENIED.  