  Case Number:  19STCV39598    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARTINA A. SILAS, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ACE
   HARDWARE CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19STCV39598
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DR. HAMID DJALILIAN AND DR.
   ALICIA TRATKMAN’S COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENAS DUCES TECUM; REQUEST TO HAVE
   WITNESSES HELD IN CONTEMPT; REQUEST FOR $500 PENALTY FROM EACH WITNESS
  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February
   2, 2024




 


)


 



 
A.          
Introduction
Plaintiff Martina A. Silas
(“Plaintiff”) moves for an order compelling Hamid R. Djalilian, M.D. (“Dr.
Djalilian”) and Alicia Traktman, M.D. (“Dr. Traktman”) to comply with subpoenas
issued on November 20, 2023. Plaintiff also requests an order finding Dr.
Djalilian and Dr. Traktman in contempt and imposing a $500 fine on each
witness. On January 22, 2024, defendants Ace Hardware Corporation and The
Grommet (collectively, “Defendants”) filed an opposition brief. Plaintiff filed
a reply brief on January 29, 2024. 
B.          
Factual Background
This discovery dispute originates from
Defendants’ medical examination of Plaintiff on November 14, 2023. Defendants’
demand for examination, served on October 11, 2023, identified the examining
physician as Dr. Djalilian. (Exhibit List, Ex. 3.) However, Plaintiff declares
that Dr. Traktman, ostensibly a licensed audiologist, actually performed all
the testing to which Plaintiff agreed and that Dr. Djalilian only examined her ears,
her nose, and her throat for several seconds each, before repeating an
examination that Dr. Traktman previously performed. (Motion, Silas Decl., ¶ 8.)
On November 20. 2023, Plaintiff served
a deposition subpoena and subpoena duces tecum on Dr. Djalilian, with the
deposition scheduled for December 7, 2023. (Exhibit List, Ex. 5.) The
deposition subpoena noted that Dr. Djalilian’s expert fees would be tendered
and that “Plaintiff will pay for 3 hour initial estimate upon rect. of payment
instructions.” (Id.) Plaintiff also served a deposition subpoena and
subpoena duces tecum on Dr. Traktman and scheduled the deposition for December
8, 2023. (Exhibit List, Ex. 6.) The subpoena to Dr. Traktman did not refer to
any expert fee. (Id.) 
On November 22, 2023, Plaintiff served
notices of depositions for Dr. Djalilian and Dr. Traktman on defense counsel
which included the subpoenas. (Exhibit List, Ex. 8.) The notices identified Dr.
Djalilian and Dr. Traktman as “medical experts/consultants.” 
On November 27, 2023, Defendants served
their expert designations which included Dr. Djalilian, but not Dr. Traktman.
(Exhibit List, Ex. 2.) 
On November 30, 2023, Defendants served
objections to the deposition notice and stated that the depositions would not
proceed. (Exhibit List, Ex. 9.) Defendant objected on the grounds of
unavailability and claimed the notice “improperly seeks to require Defendants
to produce any consultant who is not retained as an expert witness” and
“improperly seeks to require Defendants to produce the requested documents.” (Id.)
Defendants also objected to list of documents demanded as “overly broad as to
scope and time, unduly burdensome, oppressive, and solely requested to harass
and cause unnecessary expense.” (Id.) Neither witness has produced
documents and the depositions have not gone forward. 
C.          
Discussion 
The subpoenas demand production of 26
categories of documents, including communications with defense counsel; notes;
billing and invoice data; treatises or articles consulted and/or authored;
information regarding the doctors’ work on this and other cases; Plaintiff
contends these are documents typically required to be produced by experts and
examining doctors in litigation.
Defendants did not object to each
document request identified in the subpoenas but served a blanket written
objection to the entire notice. Plaintiff argues that this objection was
insufficient to bar the depositions from going forward and that a motion to
quash was necessary. The applicable statute and case law suggest the contrary. Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 contains permissive, not mandatory, language
regarding motions to quash. It states, that a witness “may” make a motion for
an “order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon such terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders.” In fact, in Monarch Healthcare v. Superior Court
(2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 1282, the court held that a nonparty deponent is not
required to file a motion to quash in order to challenge a request in a “records
only” or “records and testimony” deposition subpoena, and may simply object. Therefore,
the Court rejects Plaintiff’s position that the objection was an insufficient
challenge to the subpoena and denies Plaintiff’s request for an order holding
Dr. Djalilian and Dr. Traktman in contempt and directing them to each pay $500.

As for whether Dr. Djalilian may be
ordered to comply with the subpoena, the Court is dismayed that this motion
remains on calendar since on January 17 and 18, 2024, Defendants offered to
make Dr. Djalilian available for deposition as an expert on February 6, 2023,
and agreed to produce documents 3 days beforehand. For some inscrutable reason,
Plaintiff deemed this offer insufficient and insisted on a premature delivery
of documents, despite acknowledging on the subpoena that Dr. Djalilian is an
expert witness and receiving Defendants’ expert witness designations identifying
Dr. Djalilian as a retained expert witness on November 27, 2023, before filing
this motion on January 8. 2024. Plaintiff’s decision to file this motion to
compel on January 8, 2024, is even more incomprehensible considering that Plaintiff
also filed a motion to set Dr. Djalilian’s expert witness fee less than two
weeks earlier on December 29, 2023, which shows that any scheduled deposition
of Dr. Djalilian would likely not proceed until Plaintiff’s motion to set Dr.
Djalilian’s expert witness fee was heard on January 26, 2024. Due to Defendants’
objections to the deposition notice/subpoena and their subsequent designation
of Dr. Djalilian as a retained expert, the motion to compel as to Dr. Djalilian
is DENIED. 
With respect to Dr. Traktman,
Defendants argue, without evidence or legal authority, that Dr. Traktman should
be exempt from a subpoena. The Court is unpersuaded. Defendants claim Dr.
Traktman merely “assisted” Dr. Djalilian in the examination of Plaintiff and
that any notes or analyses would ultimately be in Dr. Djalilian’s file. Defendants
do not submit any evidence that Dr. Traktman’s administration of exams constituted
mere “assistance” or that Dr. Djalilian was the principal examiner. The only
evidence before the Court involving Dr. Traktman’s apparently substantial
involvement in the examination is provided in Plaintiff’s declaration, in which
Plaintiff describes Dr. Traktman as performing the entirety of the demanded
testing for 35 minutes without Dr. Djalilian present. (Motion, Silas Decl., ¶
7.)  
Defendants also argue that Dr. Traktman
should be paid as an expert witness, not an ordinary witness. In her reply
brief, Plaintiff argues that no expert witness fees are required because: (1) she
intends to depose Dr. Traktman as a percipient witness and (2) Defendants did
not designate Dr. Traktman as an expert (either testifying or non-testifying). Code
of Civil Procedure section 2034.430 requires a deposing party to pay the
“reasonable and customary hourly or daily fee” for: (1) designated experts or (2)
treating physicians/health care practitioners asked to express opinion
testimony, including opinion or factual testimony. Dr. Traktman is neither. Therefore,
Dr. Traktman is not entitled to “expert witness fees.” 
The Court additionally notes that retaining
Dr. Traktman as a consultant does not completely insulate her from deposition
because, according to Plaintiff’s declaration (which is the only evidence
available to the Court) it appears that Dr. Traktman was an “examining
physician.” Therefore, under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.610, there is
no work product protection for any written report prepared for the examination
or Dr. Traktman’s testimony regarding the examination. (Kennedy v. Superior
Court (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 674, 678.) In light of the foregoing, the motion
to compel Dr. Traktman’s compliance with the deposition subpoena is GRANTED. 
D.         
Conclusion 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel is GRANTED as to Dr. Traktman, who is ordered to appear for a
deposition and to produce the demanded documents within 30 days of the date of
this Order. 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel is DENIED as to Dr. Djalilian. 
Plaintiff’s
request for an order holding Dr. Djalilian and Dr. Traktman in contempt and
directing them to each pay $500 is DENIED. 
Dated
this 1st
day of February, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 