

Hearing Date:             March
26, 2024
Case
Name:                Chong v. Mardirossian
Akaragian LLP
Case
No.:                    23STCV07478
Matter:                        Motion for Summary Judgment
or, in the alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication 
Moving
Party:             Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Mardirossian Akaragian LLP
Opposing Party:          Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Christopher
Y. Chong, by Power of Attorney and through his Attorney-in-Fact, Harry Sloan

Tentative
Ruling:      The motion for summary judgment to the Complaint is granted. 

 
This is an action
for declaratory relief. On April 4, 2023, Plaintiff Christopher Chong
(Plaintiff or Chong) filed the instant action for declaratory relief, seeking –
in relevant part – a judicial declaration that Mardirossian Akaragian LLP’s (Defendant
Mardirossian) “claim to 45% of the settlement proceeds, which together with
costs totals $2,761,458.62,” is neither a fair nor reasonable value of the
legal services provided in this matter.
 
On May 30, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Mardirossian filed a Cross-Complaint for declaratory relief, seeking a judicial
declaration of the amount of attorney’s fees and costs owed by Plaintiff Chong
to Mardirossian.
 
Now, Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Mardirossian moves for summary judgment, or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication of the declaratory relief cause of action in the Complaint and in
its Cross-Complaint. Plaintiff Chong filed an opposition. 
 
Defendant
Mardirossian’s motion for summary judgment to the Complaint is granted.
 
            Defendant’s
request for judicial notice of Exhibits 1-17 are granted. (Evid. Code, § 452,
subd. (d), (h).)
 
            Defendant’s
objections to Plaintiff’s evidence is ruled as follows: Nos. 1-15, 17-20, 22,
24-38, 44-50 are overruled, Nos. 16, 21, 23, 39-43 are sustained.
 
Legal Standard
 
A party may move
for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (a).)  “[I]f all the evidence
submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment. (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp.¿(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
The moving party
has the initial burden of production to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the
existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (p)(2).) A Defendant moving for summary judgment may meet its
initial burden by proving that for each cause of action alleged, plaintiff
cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c(p)(2).) 
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant
Mardirossian moves for summary judgment/adjudication of Plaintiff’s claim for
judicial declaration asserted by Plaintiff in the Complaint for Declaratory
Relief (filed 4/4/23) in favor of Mardirossian, and against Plaintiff, in the
amount of $2,761,380.29. 
 
In the
alternative, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Mardirossian moves for summary
adjudication of Mardirossian’s cause of action for declaratory relief asserted
in its Cross-Complaint for Declaratory Relief (filed 5/30/23), because the
amount of attorney’s fees and costs owed by Plaintiff to Mardirossian is
$2,761,380.29 and there is no defense to the claim.
 
Lastly, Mardirossian
requests a Court’s order granting summary adjudication to confirm that
Mardirossian is entitled to prejudgment interest. With respect to this last
request for relief, this issue is not an appropriate determination for summary
adjudication on either the Complaint or Cross-Complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (f)(1) [“A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if
it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim
for damages, or an issue of duty.”].)
 
Cause of Action for Declaratory
Relief in the Complaint: 
 
            By
way of background, the undisputed facts show that, on May 6, 2016, Plaintiff Chong
sustained permanent bodily injuries in a catastrophic rear-end motor vehicle
accident when he was struck from behind by a truck. (DSS 1; Compl., ¶ 10.) In
May of 2018, shortly before the expiration of the limitations period, Plaintiff
retained Mardirossian on a contingency-fee basis to represent his interests in
a personal injury action, and filed suit for strict products liability and
negligence against Porsche AG and the driver, Jose Guzman Figueroa; specifically,
on May 7, 2018, Defendant Mardirossian filed an action for personal injury on
Plaintiff’s behalf, entitled Christopher Y. Chong v. Porsche AG, et al.,
Case No. BC705337. (DSS 2, 6 [RJN Ex. 12].) Defendant Sharpe Interior
Systems, Inc. (Sharpe) was added by amendment to the complaint, filed on
December 20, 2018. (DSS 6 [RJN’s Exs. 2, 12].)
 
            In
May 2022, Defendant Mardirossian negotiated a settlement
on Plaintiff’s behalf for the insurers’ policy limits, the sum of $6,015,000.
(DSS 8.) Plaintiff does not dispute this fact but disputes Mardirossian’s
authority to do so. (PSS 8.) A final version of the Release related to the
settlement was reached on May 26, 2022. (DSS 12.) On July 20, 2022, attorney
Eric George, acting on Plaintiff’s behalf, notified Mardirossian that its
representation of Plaintiff Chong was terminated. (DSS 13.) 
 
            Thereafter,
Defendant Mardirossian asserted a claim to 45% of the gross recovery or
$2,706,750.00 in legal fees based on its Retainer Agreement with Plaintiff.
(DSS 3, 25.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
Complaint for declaratory relief seeks a Court determination of the proper
allocation of a settlement proceeds between Plaintiff Chong and his former
counsel, Defendant Mardirossian, which provided litigation services on a
contingency-fee basis. (Compl., ¶¶ 16-17.) Specifically, Mardirossian claims it
is entitled to a 45% contingency fee pursuant to the retainer agreement – 20%
of which is claimed by Defendant and Cross-Complainant Gerald Kroll – which
together with reimbursement of costs would amount to $2,761,458.62. (Compl., ¶¶
16-17.) 
 
The Complaint
alleges that the 45% contingency fee does not apply here because Plaintiff
terminated Mardirossian and as result of this termination Mardirossian may only
recover a “reasonable” value of the legal services provided in Plaintiff
personal injury action. (See Compl., ¶¶ 16-20.)
 
The Complaint
states a single cause of action for declaratory relief, which is governed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1060. Pursuant to this statute, “[a]ny person
interested under a written instrument ... who desires a declaration of his or
her rights or duties ... may ... bring an original action ... for a declaration
of his or her rights and duties ... including a determination of any question
of construction or validity arising under the instrument....” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1060.)
 
            In
moving for summary judgment/adjudication, Defendant Mardirossian relies on the
language in the parties’ “Agreement of Employment of Counsel” (Retainer
Agreement). The Retainer Agreement states in relevant part:
 
(a) The fees
to be paid to Us on Your case will be 40% of the gross recovery, whether by
settlement award, and/or judgment, if the claim is resolved within 365 days of
the day You sign this Agreement (the day You sign this Agreement is evidenced
on page 5 of this Agreement) and 45% of the gross recovery, whether by
settlement, award, and/or judgment, at any time thereafter. [The term
“gross recovery” means that total of all amounts received by settlement and/or
judgment, before subtraction of any and all costs set forth in Paragraph (6).]
. . . 
(c) In the
event of our discharge or withdrawal, as provided in Paragraph 8, You agree to
pay [Mardirossian] the reasonable value of the legal services provided by US to
you if You receive a settlement, arbitration award and/or judgment in Your
favor in this matter. Such a fee would then be determined by considering the
following Fracasse v. Brent factors . . ..” (DSS 3 [Ex. 1 [Retainer
Agreement, ¶ 1(a), (c)] [bold added].) 
 
The Retainer
Agreement also contains a fee sharing provision with attorney Jerry Kroll,
authorizing Mardirossian to share 20% of the attorney’s fees with Kroll. (DSS
4.) The Retainer Agreement also provides that “Attorneys will advance all
costs, disbursements, and litigation expenses associated with this matter.
Client(s) will reimburse Attorneys for such advanced costs and expenses upon
settlement, . . .” (DSS 5.)
 
            Relying
on the language in the Retainer Agreement, Defendant Mardirossian takes the
position that it is entitled to 45% of the settlement amount it negotiated,
which are the reasonable fees under the circumstances. 
 
That is, the
evidence shows that it negotiated a final settlement agreement and release (Settlement)
with Sharpe in the underlying action on May 26, 2022. (DSS 8-12; see also RJN
Ex. 5, 3:5-20.)[1]
Then, on July 20, 2022, Plaintiff notified Mardirossian that its representation
of Plaintiff was terminated. (DSS 13.) On August 9, 2022, Sharpe filed a motion
in Chong v. Porsche for an Order enforcing the settlement. (DSS 14.) On
August 19, 2022, Plaintiff Chong signed the Settlement/Release that had been
finalized by Mardirossian. (DSS 18.) On that same day, Chong also signed a
Substitution of Attorney replacing Mardirossian with attorney Eric George. (DSS
19.) On August 22, 2022, Plaintiff’s counsel, Eric George, represented in court
that the at the matter had been settled, and agreed to dismiss the case with
prejudice. (DSS 21.) These facts are undisputed.    
 
Although Defendant
Mardirossian acknowledges that it was terminated prior to Plaintiff’s execution
of the Settlement it negotiated, Defendant Mardirossian argues that Plaintiff ratified
the Settlement – unaltered and with attorney George’s approval – a few months
later on August 19, 2022. 
 
In a civil matter,
a client generally has a unilateral right to control the outcome of his or her
case, including the “right to settle or refuse to settle a claim.” (In the
Matter of Guzman (Review Dept. 2014) 5 Cal. State Bar Ct. Rptr. 308, 314.)
Defendant maintains that Plaintiff ratified the settlement by signing it and
accepting the proceeds.
 
“ ‘Ratification is
the voluntary election by a person to adopt in some manner as his own an act
which was purportedly done on his behalf by another person, the effect of which
... is to treat the act as if [it was] originally authorized by him. [Citations.]’
” (Estate of Stephens (2002) 28 Cal.4th 665, 673.) Ratification may
occur expressly or by conduct that is consistent with voluntary affirmation. (Rakestraw
v. Rodrigues (1972) 8 Cal.3d 67, 73.) The conduct must “be truly voluntary
in character ... there can be no adoption if the act ... is done only because
the purported principal is obligated to minimize his losses caused by the
agents' wrongful act.” (Ibid.)
 
In Alvarado
Community Hosp. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 476, the court of
appeal held that, “[w]here an attorney purports to accept a settlement offer
without his client's consent, the client has two options. First, the client may
decide the unauthorized settlement was nonetheless a beneficial bargain and
seek to ratify his attorney's acceptance. Alternatively, the client may
determine the settlement was not beneficial, seek to disavow it and proceed
with a lawsuit.” (Id. at p. 479.)
 
Here, the evidence
is undisputed that Plaintiff ratified the Settlement Agreement.  Therefore, argues Defendant, it is entitled
to 45% of the gross recovery, or $2,706,750.00 in legal fees under the Retainer
Agreement – which under these circumstances it contends, is “the reasonable
value of the legal services provided.” 
 
In support of this
argument, Defendant Mardirossian relies on Fracasse v. Brent (1972) 6
Cal.3d 784 and its progeny, including Joseph E. Di Loreto, Inc. v. O'Neill
(1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 149 [affirming summary judgment for lawyer who was awarded
40% contingent fees after fully performing all obligations and terminating the representation].
 
In Fracasse, our Supreme Court affirmed the
judgment of the trial court sustaining the defendant client’s demurrer to the
plaintiff attorney’s suit for damages. The client had discharged the attorney without cause in a
personal injury lawsuit prior to judgment. The attorney sought the full fee
specified in the contingency agreement rather than the reasonable value of the
services he provided to the client. The Supreme Court concluded that the action
was premature because the personal injury matter had not yet been resolved, the
client had not yet obtained a recovery, and thus there was no way to determine
the reasonable value of the attorney’s services. 
 
The Fracasse court summarized
its holding as follows: “[A]n attorney ... discharged without cause is entitled
to recover the reasonable value of his services rendered to the time of
discharge.... We further hold that the cause of action to recover compensation
for services rendered under a contingent fee contract does not accrue until the occurrence of the stated contingency.” (Id.
at p. 792.) “To the extent that such discharge
occurs ‘on the courthouse steps,’ where the client executes a settlement
obtained after much work by the attorney, the factors involved in a
determination of reasonableness would certainly justify a finding that the
entire fee was the reasonable value of the attorney’s services.” (Fracasse,
supra, 6 Cal.3d at p. 791.)
 
However, as noted in
the opposition, the portion of Fracasse that Defendant so heavily relies
upon is dicta.[2]
Fracasse contemplated the possibility that the reasonable value of the
discharged attorney’s service may be the entire contingency fee in
circumstances in which the client discharges the attorney “ ‘on the courthouse
steps' “ and then “executes a settlement obtained after much work by the
attorney.” (Fracasse, supra, 6 Cal.3d at p. 791.) Said another way, the
holding merely suggests that – in the case of the last-minute discharge of an
attorney – “the an agreed-upon fee will often overlap with the “reasonable
value” of the lawyer's services if the lawyer is discharged after the material
terms of the settlement are reached.” (Ellerd v. County of Los Angeles
(C.D. Cal., Feb. 4, 2010, No. CV 05-1211 SVW (CWX)) 2010 WL 11679622, at *3.)
 
Nonetheless, for the
reasons stated above, “the occurrence of the stated contingency” occurred here
where there was a final Settlement reached by Defendant – during the course of its
employment by Plaintiff – which Plaintiff then ratified after replacing Defendant
law firm. Thus, as argued by Defendant, “the contingency fee of 45% is the
quantum meruit or reasonable value of the service it provided.” (Reply 5:18-19.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
poses numerous questions related to the issues in this case (Opp., 7:10-9:1).  However, these questions do not create
triable issues of material facts in dispute and do not shift Plaintiff’s burden
on summary judgment. Moreover, most of these questions are irrelevant to the
resolution of this motion for summary judgment.
 
Rather, the relevant
issues are Plaintiff’s contention that he did not agree to the settlement of
his case and did not agree to the specific terms that Mardirossian negotiated
on Plaintiff’s behalf. Plaintiff’s evidence shows that Plaintiff – though his
power of attorney, Sloan – instructed Mardirossian not to settle unless Plaintiff
received a net seven-figure settlement; a net of $2.5-$3 million was expressly
identified. (PSS 37.)[3]
 
            However, Plaintiff’s
argument ignores his ratification of the Settlement. As noted above,
Defendant (on this motion) does not dispute that Plaintiff did not agree to the
May 2022 Settlement that Mardirossian negotiated. (PSS 33-34.) However, this same
Settlement and Release was subsequently signed by Plaintiff on August 19, 2022.
(DSS 18.)
 
            Rather,
relevant to the motion for summary judgment is Plaintiff’s contention that
Plaintiff lacked “any real choice” in signing a settlement agreement on August
19, 2022. Plaintiff, however, provides speculation without evidence. The
Opposition argues Defendant’s settlement negotiation “put plaintiff in
an impossible position. Mardirossian was certainly not going to try the case;
it had made clear that it had already earned its almost $2.8 million fee. Who
else would take a case that was approaching the 5-year deadline, least of all
one in which the existing liens were already approximately 95% of the policy
limits? Abandoned with the claimed liens almost equal to what Mardirossian
asserted was the maximum achievable recovery, Plaintiff had no alternative but
to finally accept the $6 million sum.” (Opp. 22:6-11.) But Plaintiff’s
characterization of being in an impossible situation is exaggerated. He could
have disavowed the Settlement and face trial. His new attorney, Mr. George,
advised otherwise. Chong’s motives for ratifying the settlement are irrelevant,
and fail to raise a triable issue of material fact in dispute. (See PSS 1-66.)  
 
            Plaintiff
also challenges the validity of the Retainer Agreement.
 
First, Section
4(f) of the Retainer Agreement provides for the payment of 20% of any fee
recovery to attorney Gerald Kroll. (PSS 63.) 
 
Plaintiff argues
that this term is invalid under Rule 1.5.1 of the Code of Professional
Responsibility unless Mardirossian and Kroll entered into their own written
agreement contemporaneously with the Chong engagement agreement, and unless
this did not increase the fee to Plaintiff. The Opposition argues that “Plaintiff
has seen no evidence that either one of these requirements have been met, and
Mardirossian does not assert that they have.” However, Plaintiff’s opposition argument
does not shift Plaintiff’s evidentiary burden on the summary judgment; that is,
it is Plaintiff’s burden to submit evidence of its position that the Retainer Agreement
was voidable. Further, the Reply addresses the requirements of compliance with Rule
of Professional Conduct Rule 1.5.1 and additionally notes that this newly
raised argument challenging the Retainer Agreement was not previously raised by
Plaintiff during discovery. (Reply, 6:4-28; Akaragian Decl., Exh. 4.]
 
Section 12 of the
Retainer Agreement provides that Plaintiff gave Defendant Mardirossian “full
Power of Attorney to demand, receive, sue, or settle” his case. (PSS 64.)  Plaintiff, citing Amjadi v. Brown (2021)
68 Cal.App.5th 383, suggests that this provision is void. (Id. at 389 [“an
attorney may not settle a client’s case over the client’s objection and any
provision of a retainer agreement purporting to give an attorney such authority
violates the Rules of Professional Conduct and is void.”].) It is unclear how
this analysis is material to Defendant’s motion for summary judgment where
Defendant’s do not rely on this provision to argue a Settlement was executed.  As discussed, Defendant relies on Plaintiff
signing the Settlement Agreement and accepting its benefits. 
 
Finally, Plaintiff
suggests that Mardirossian breached its contract with Plaintiff. Specifically,
the Retainer Agreement required it to consult with Plaintiff before, not after,
reaching a settlement. Section 12 provided that “We (Mardirossian), will
consult with You (Mr. Chong) prior to … accepting any settlement offers.” (PSS
65.) 
 
Plaintiff cites Brown
v. Grimes (2011) 192 Cal.App. 4th 265, which stated “When a party’s failure
to perform a contractual obligation constitutes a material breach of the
contract, the other party may be discharged from its duty to perform under the
contract.”  (Id. at 277-278.)
 
This breach of
contract argument, however, does not address the issue of waiver of the breach
through Plaintiff’s ratification of the Settlement. 
 
Plaintiff’s opposition
claim that Defendant Mardirossian’s work was “shoddy” is also undeveloped and
lacking in evidence. (Opp., 17:26-19:12.) This argument fails to raise any
triable issue of material fact. 
 
Finally, Plaintiff
injects a vague claim of fraud that is entirely undeveloped.  Plaintiff asserts that Mardirossian knew that –
even with Plaintiff’s substantial contributory negligence in connection with
the May 6, 2016 accident – it was possible and perhaps likely that Plaintiff
would nevertheless obtain a judgment far in excess of the $6 million policy
limits for which Mardirossian settled. (PSS 66.) 
 
This opposition
argument is just that – argument. There is no evidentiary showing of fraud. There
is only an opinion of a lien specialist stating “despite overwhelming
comparative fault [90%+] because of the gross damages so far exceed their
limits – even a finding of 10% liability would leave their insured exposed to
an excess verdict.” (PSS 66.) However, this expert representation post-dates
the Settlement that Mardirossian’s negotiated – negating any element that Mardirossian
knew it made a false statement to Plaintiff. Moreover, this expert
representation was made on June 1, 2022 – after the purported settlement had
been negotiated. Further, Plaintiff  offers no evidence of what representation was
made to Plaintiff and when that induced his detrimental reliance. This fraud
argument does not raise a triable issue of material fact. 
 
Cause
of Action for Declaratory Relief in the Cross-Complaint: 
 
            This
claim involves the same analysis and issues as the Cause of Action for
Declaratory Relief in the Complaint. However, as relief is sought in the
alternative to this claim, the motion for summary judgment on the Complaint
renders this motion for summary adjudication moot.  
 
Conclusion
 
The motion for
summary judgment on the Complaint is granted. Defendant Mardirossian Akaragian
LLP is to prepare, serve and lodge a proposed Judgment.  
 


