 Case Number:  24NWCV00251    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  C ESQUIVEL v. HYUNDAI MOTOR
AMERICA, INC., ET AL.
CASE
NO.:  24NWCV00251
HEARING:  7/3/24 @ 9:30 A.M.
 
#5
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant
Norm Reeves Hyundai Superstore Cerritos’ motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.
The scope of arbitrability does not include CLRA and UCL claims. 
 
Moving
Party to give NOTICE.
 
 
This is a Song-Beverly action. Defendant Norm
Reeves Hyundai Superstore moves to compel arbitration based on the retail
installment sales contract when he purchased a 2018 Hyundai Santa Fe Sport. Defendant
also requests a stay of the action pending arbitration. 
 
Existence of an Arbitration Agreement 
 
The initial burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement
is on Defendant. (See Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th
541, 541-543 [“The party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by
attaching to the petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to
bear the¿respondent's signature.”].) Alternatively, the moving party can meet its
initial burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion. (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood Management
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)
 
¿“If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the
opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the opposing
party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the authenticity of
the agreement.” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic¿(2021) 72 Cal.App.5th
158, 165.)
 
Here, Defendant attached a copy of the retail sales installment contract
between it and the Plaintiff containing the arbitration provision. (Decl. Stephens,
¶ 5. Ex, A.) 
 
Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff argues that the Agreement is procedurally and substantively
unconscionable. 
 
A showing of
unconscionability requires procedural and substantive unconscionability.
Procedural unconscionability asks whether there is oppression from unequal
bargaining power or surprise from buried terms. (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.) Substantive unconscionability
asks whether there are overly harsh, one-sided terms. (Id.) Both
are required to be proven to find unconscionability. However, there is a
sliding scale; if an agreement is particularly substantively unconscionable,
the petitioner need not show a large amount of procedural unconscionability,
and vice versa. (Id.) “The party resisting arbitration bears the burden
of proving unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
 
i.     Procedural Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff has not shown procedural unconscionability. Plaintiff bears
the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary
to show the Agreement was invalid. (See Banner Entertainment Inc., supra,
62 Cal.App.4th at 356-357.) Plaintiff asserts that the arbitration provision is
procedurally unconscionable because it exists as a standard, pre-printed form with
blanks filled in, offered to Plaintiff in a take it or leave it basis. But an
arbitration agreement offered on a “take it or leave it basis,” i.e. without
opportunity for meaningful negotiation, does not render the agreement
unenforceable. (See Legaltree v. Luce, Forward
Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1127.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has not shown that the agreement is invalid based
on procedural unconscionability. 
 
ii.           
Substantive Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff has not shown substantive unconscionability. Plaintiff argues
evidence of substantive unconscionability is found in the fact the agreement
contains a clause that is ambiguous and uncertain about the extent and scope of
appeal rights and a clause about reimbursing the other party if the arbitration
finds that any claim is frivolous. However, Plaintiff does not show how these
two clauses are overly harsh and one-sided term that renders the entire
agreement substantively unconscionable. Plaintiff also fails to cite any legal
authority in support. 
 
The Court finds the Agreement is not void due to unconscionability.
 
Thus, the Court grants the motion. 
 
Scope
of Arbitration Agreement 
 
Plaintiff
argues that the Consumer Legal Rights Act and Unfair Competition Law claims for
injunctive relief are not subject to binding arbitration. 
 
Absent
the parties' commitment of the arbitrability decision to an arbitrator,
disagreements over whether a particular dispute is within the scope of an
arbitration provision are ordinarily the responsibility of a court. (Mendoza
v. Trans Valley Transport (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 748, 765.)
 
As
the Court held in Cruz v. PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. (2003) 30
Cal.4th 303, 316, claims seeking injunctive relief designed to protect the
public by stopping ongoing practices unlawful under the CLRA and UCL are not arbitrable.
Here, Plaintiff seeks injunctive relief under both the CLRA and UCL. 
 
Thus,
the claims are not subject to binding arbitration. 
 