  Case Number:  19STCV33484    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




john q. rodgers

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
timothy r. roth

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


19STCV33484




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


December
   14, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)   defendants’ motion for summary judgment 
(2)   defendants’ motion for summary judgment
(3)   defendants’ motion for summary judgment
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Timothy R. Roth d/b/a
The Roth Group, HB Construction, and Roth Management Group  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff John Q. Rodgers
(1)  
Motion for Summary
Judgment
(2)  
Motion for
Summary Judgment
(3)  
Motion for
Summary Judgment
The court considered the moving papers filed in connection with each
motion.  The court considered only the
opposition papers filed on November 30, 2023. 
The court orders that the opposition papers filed and served on December
1, 2023, December 4, 2023, and December 5, 2023 are stricken because they were
not filed and served at least 14 days before the date of the hearing on these
motions, plus two days for electronic service. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 437c, subd. (a)(2), 1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(B), 436.)  The court has not considered the reply papers
filed on December 11, 2023, and orders that the reply papers filed on that date
are stricken because they were not filed and served at least five days before
the date of the hearing on these motions, plus two days for electronic service.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(4), 1010.6,
subd. (a)(3)(B), 436.) 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court does not rule on defendants Timothy R. Roth, d/b/a The Roth
Group, HB Construction, and Roth Management Group, Inc.’s evidentiary
objections, filed on December 8, 2023, because the objections are directed to
evidence that is not material to the court’s disposition of these motions.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            The court grants defendants Timothy R.
Roth, d/b/a The Roth Group, HB Construction, and Roth Management Group, Inc.’s
requests for judicial notice.  (Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendants Timothy Roth, d/b/a The Roth
Group (“Roth”), HB Construction (“HB”), and Roth Management Group (“Roth
Management”) (collectively, “Defendants”) filed the three pending motions for
summary judgment as to the Complaint filed by plaintiff John Q. Rodgers
(“Plaintiff”).  Each of the three notices
of motions and supporting memoranda state that the moving parties are all
Defendants.  (Notices, pp. 1:26-2:6
[“Defendants Timothy R. Roth dba The Roth Group, HB Construction, and Roth
Management Group” move for an order granting summary judgment on Plaintiff’s
Complaint]; Mot., p. 1:24-26.)  The
motions are substantially identical and do not distinguish as to which
defendant has brought each motion.  Thus,
the court       (1) interprets each
motion for summary judgment to have been brought on behalf of each of the
Defendants, and (2) discusses the three motions for summary judgment together
in the interests of judicial economy and efficiency. 
Defendants move for summary judgment on the
following four grounds: (1) Defendants did not commit the wrongful acts and
omissions described in the Complaint; (2) the statements of fraud are protected
by the litigation privilege; (3) Plaintiff cannot prove the element of damages;
and (4) issue preclusion and/or claim preclusion bar Plaintiff’s claims.  (Mot., pp. 10:28-11:13, 18:10-11, 18:19,
18:20, 20:2-3.)  
For the reasons set forth below, the court
finds that Defendants have not met their burden to show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that Defendants are entitled to
judgment as a matter of law on Plaintiff’s Complaint and therefore denies
Defendants’ motions for summary judgment. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
1.     The Element
of False Misrepresentations of Fact
Plaintiff alleges six causes of action for
(1) fraud and deceit; (2) fraud and deceit;             (3) fraud and deceit; (4) rescission and
reformation of agreement; [1] (5) violation of Business and Professions Code
section 17200; and (6) violation of Civil Code section 1770.  
In support of these causes of action,
Plaintiff has alleged the following.  In
July 2011, Plaintiff and Defendants entered into an oral contract, pursuant to
which Defendants would perform work to repair and renovate the subject office
building.  (Compl., ¶ 11.)  From 2012 to 2014, Roth presented various,
fraudulent invoices to Plaintiff for payment, which Plaintiff paid.  (Compl., ¶¶ 11-12.)  Further, by the end of 2013, Roth represented
to Plaintiff that he spent an additional $500,000 making repairs to the office
building and presented Plaintiff with fraudulent documents to substantiate that
amount.  (Compl., ¶ 14.)  
In October 2013, Roth informed Plaintiff
that, in order to obtain financing to purchase the office building, the
building would need to be placed in a formal business entity.  (Compl., ¶ 16.)  Pursuant to Roth’s representations, Plaintiff
agreed to form a limited liability company with Roth (2601 PCH LLC
(“PCH”)).  (Ibid.)  Thereafter, in September 2014, Plaintiff and
Roth retained an accounting firm to determine their respective interests in
PCH.  (Compl., ¶ 20.)  Roth gave the accounting firms fraudulent documents
to support his claim that he had spent approximately $950,000 on the office
building.  (Ibid.)  Based thereon, the accounting firm determined
that Roth had made $950,000 in contributions, which Roth used to claim at least
an equal interest in the building. 
(Compl., ¶ 22.) 
In addition to the actions described above, Plaintiff
further alleges that Roth also presented false invoices to Plaintiff for his
employees that performed work on the office building.  (Compl., ¶ 24.)  Specifically, Roth would (1) present
fraudulent invoices to Plaintiff, (2) receive a check from Plaintiff, which was
made out to the employee, (3) tell the employee that Plaintiff had addressed
the check to the employee by mistake, (4) order the employee to deposit
Plaintiff’s check into the employee’s bank account, and thereafter (5) order
the employee to write a separate check to Defendants for the exact same amount
as Plaintiff’s original check, such that it appeared that Plaintiff was writing
checks to vendors and tradesmen who worked on the office building but instead,
Defendants were the recipients of the funds. 
(Compl., ¶ 24.)  Similarly,
Roth formed “phony companies” and manufactured fraudulent invoices to represent
that those companies performed work on the building.  (Compl., ¶ 23.)  Plaintiff would thereafter make payments to
those companies.  (Compl.,
¶ 23.)  Defendants also charged
labor and material expenses incurred on Defendants’ other development projects
to the office building project.  (Compl.,
¶ 25.)
The court finds that Plaintiff’s causes of
action are all
based on the
allegations set forth above. 
Specifically, the first cause of action for fraud and deceit is based on
the allegation that Defendants made false, fraudulent, and misleading
representations to Plaintiff regarding the cost and extent of repairs made to
the office building, including by using falsified invoices and documents.  (Compl., ¶ 29.)  The second cause of action for fraud and
deceit is based on the allegation that Defendants made false, fraudulent, and
misleading representations to Plaintiff regarding the cost and extent of
repairs, as set forth above, and by inducing Plaintiff to form PCH and to sign
other related contracts.  (Compl.,
¶ 35.)  The third cause of action
for fraud and deceit alleges that Defendants made false, fraudulent, and
misleading representations to Plaintiff regarding the cost and extent of
repairs, including by presenting to Plaintiff false and fraudulent documents
stating that the office building had been fully and properly repaired, that a
new roof had been installed, and that the building had been properly
waterproofed.  (Compl., ¶ 44.) 
The fourth cause of action for rescission
and reformation seeks to rescind the operating agreement relating to the
formation of PCH and all other documents involving the office building, based
on the allegations that Defendants (1) made false, fraudulent, and misleading representations
to Plaintiff regarding the cost and extent of repairs, and (2) induced
Plaintiff to enter into a business relationship with them in order to purchase
the office building.  (Compl., ¶¶ 50, 52,
54.)  The fifth cause of action for
unfair competition under the Business and Professions Code alleges that
Defendants engaged in unlawful, unfair, and fraudulent business practices based
on the conduct described above.  (Compl.,
¶ 57.)  Finally, the sixth cause of
action for violation of Civil Code section 1770 alleges that Defendants
violated that statute by making false statements about their work and the costs
associated with the office building, including by presenting false and forged
documents to Plaintiff.  (Compl., ¶ 61.) 
Thus, Defendants argue that, because they
did not engage in the wrongful acts and omissions set forth above, which
support all of Plaintiff’s causes of action, they are entitled to summary
judgment.  The court interprets this
argument to challenge the following elements of Plaintiff’s causes of action:
(1) misrepresentations (false representations, concealment, or nondisclosures),
as to the first through third causes of action for fraud and deceit and the
fourth cause of action for rescission based on fraud; (2) the underlying
unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act or practices, as to the fifth
cause of action for unfair competition; and (3) proscribed misrepresentations
as set forth in the Consumers Legal Remedies Act, as to the sixth cause of
action for violation of Civil Code section 1770.  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294 [elements of cause of action for fraud]; Civ. Code, §
1689 [a party to a contract may rescind the contract if consent to the contract
was obtained through fraud]; Adhav v. Midway Rent a Car, Inc. (2019) 37
Cal.App.5th 954, 970 [elements of unfair competition law claim]; Civ. Code,
§ 1770; In re Vioxx Class Cases (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 116, 128
[“The CLRA declares numerous practices in the sale of goods or services to
consumers to be unlawful” as set forth in Civil Code section 1770].)
The court finds that Defendants
have not met their burden of showing that the Complaint for has no merit
because Defendants have not shown that the elements of (1) misrepresentations,
(2) unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business acts or practices, and (3)
proscribed misrepresentations under the Consumers Legal Remedies Act cannot be established. 
The court acknowledges that Defendants have submitted the declaration of Roth,
in which he states that (1) Roth did not send any invoices to Plaintiff, on
behalf of himself, HB, or Roth Management, for work performed on the property
because Roth “was not doing that work now [sic] were any businesses or
entities in which [he] was involved[;]” (2) Roth “did not create any false
invoices with regard to [PCH] and [he] did not alter any checks[;]” (3) Roth
“did not commit any fraud on [Plaintiff] in [his] own name or in the name of
the Roth Group and the claims against [Roth] and the Roth Group in the Exhibit
13 Complaint of [Plaintiff] are not true[;]” (4) HB “never entered into any
kind of conspiracy with, engaged in any effort with, or acted in concert with
or under anyone’s direction, to commit fraud, or any other wrongful acts,
against [Plaintiff] and it did not engage in fraud, or any other wrongful acts,
against [Plaintiff];” and HB “did not do any of the things that [Plaintiff]
claims it did” in his Complaint; and (5) Roth Management “had no involvement
with [PCH] or the Property” and committed no fraud on” Plaintiff, including by
entering into a conspiracy with Defendants. 
(Roth Decl., ¶¶ 23, 51, 52.) The court, however, finds Roth’s
declaration to be insufficient for the following reasons. 
First, the general statements that (1)
Defendants did not commit the fraudulent acts described in the Complaint, and (2)
the claims alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint are untrue are conclusory, lack
detail, and are therefore insufficient to show that Defendants did not commit
the wrongful acts or omissions that constitute the bases for the Complaint.  (Roth Decl., ¶¶ 51-52.) 
Second, although Roth’s statements that he
did not issue false invoices and did not alter any checks are sufficient to
show that Roth did not commit those wrongful acts, Defendants did not expressly
address or negate the factual claim that Defendants charged labor and material
expenses incurred in connection with their other development projects to the
office building project.  (Compl.,
¶ 25.)  Instead, Roth’s declaration
shows only that (1) he did not send “any invoices for work performed on the
Property[;]” (2) he did not create “false invoices with regard to PCH[;]” and
(3) he “did not alter any checks[.]” 
(Roth Decl., ¶ 23.)  This
evidence negates the factual claims that Defendants presented forged or
falsified invoices to Plaintiff for payment in connection with the office
building project.  (Compl., ¶¶ 11,
22.)  It does not, however, show that
Defendants did not improperly and wrongfully charge labor and material expenses
incurred in connection with their own development projects. 
Thus, because Defendants did not meet their
burden of submitting evidence sufficient to show that Plaintiff cannot prove
all of the factual claims underlying each cause of action in the Complaint, the
court finds that Defendants have not met their burden to show that Plaintiff’s
Complaint has no merit on the ground that Defendants did not commit the
wrongful acts or omissions alleged therein.
2.     Litigation
Privilege
“A privileged publication or broadcast is
one made: [¶] (b) In any (1) legislative proceeding, (2) judicial proceeding,
(3) in any other official proceeding authorized by law, or   (4) in the initiation or course of any other
proceeding authorized by law and reviewable pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing
with Section 1084) of Title 1 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure, except”
as to certain statutorily-defined exceptions. 
(Civ. Code, § 47, subd. (b).)  “The Supreme Court has established a four-part
test for the application of the litigation privilege: it ‘applies to any
communication (1) made in the judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by
litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects
of the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or logical relation to the
action.’”  (Foothill Federal Credit
Union v. Superior Court (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 632, 635.) 
The court finds that Defendants
have not met their burden of showing that the Complaint has no merit because
Defendants have not shown that the defense of the litigation privilege bars all
of Plaintiff’s causes of action.
In their motions, Defendants assert
that the “statements of fraud” alleged in the Complaint “were made in
mediation” and are therefore subject to the litigation privilege.  (Mot., p. 18:11-12.)  It appears that Defendants are referring to
Plaintiff’s allegation that, during mediation of the dispute between Plaintiff
and Roth regarding their respective interests in the office building, Roth used
fraudulent documents to support his claim that he contributed $950,000 to the
office building.  (Compl.,
¶ 22.)  However, as set forth above,
Plaintiff’s causes of action against Defendants are based on various other
alleged statements and actions.  For
example, Plaintiff also alleges that Roth falsely represented to Plaintiff that
they would have to form PCH to purchase the building.  (Compl., ¶ 16.)  Plaintiff further alleges that Defendants
fraudulently charged expenses relating to their other development projects to
Plaintiff.  (Compl., ¶ 25.)  Defendants did not present evidence or argument
establishing that those claims are protected by the litigation privilege.  Defendants did not, for example, present
evidence showing that Roth’s representation that Plaintiff would have to create
a business entity to purchase the office building was made during
mediation.  Moreover, the allegation
relating to Defendants’ fraudulent charging of expenses was not based on a
statement, but rather Defendants’ alleged conduct. 
Thus, because Defendants did not
show that the factual bases underlying each cause of action alleged in the
Complaint are barred by the litigation privilege, the court finds that
Defendants have not shown that the Complaint lacks merit on the ground that the
affirmative defense of the litigation privilege applies. 
3.    
Element of Damages
The court finds that Defendants
have not met their burden of showing that the Complaint has no merit because
Defendants have not shown that the element of damages cannot be established as
to every cause of action alleged in the Complaint.
First, as to defendants HB and Roth
Management, their motions do not address how their argument regarding damages
applies to the fourth cause of action for rescission and reformation.  “Rescission and damages are alternative
remedies.  [Citation.]  A party may seek rescission or damages for
breach of contract or fraud ‘in the event rescission cannot be obtained’ in the
same action.  [Citations].  But ‘[t]he election of one remedy bars
recovery under the other.’”  (Wong v.
Stoler (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1384.) 
Here, in connection with the fourth cause of action, Plaintiff has
alleged that “all contracts between Plaintiff[] and Defendants, including the
attached Operating Agreement, as well as all documents involving the Office
Building are null and void as a consequence of Defendants[’] actions and
fraud.  As such, Plaintiff[] request[s]
this Court to rescind the Operating Agreement and or reform it according to
proof and all governing laws.”  (Compl.,
¶ 54.)  Thus, because Plaintiff has
requested only the “alternative remed[y]” of rescission in connection with this
cause of action, the argument that Plaintiff cannot establish the element of
damages is inapplicable and insufficient to show that Plaintiff cannot
establish an element of the fourth cause of action.  (Ibid.; Wong, supra, 237
Cal.App.4th at p. 1384.) 
The court therefore finds that
defendants HB and Roth Management have not met their burden to show that each
cause of action alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint has no merit on the ground
that Plaintiff cannot establish the element of damages. 
Second, the court finds that Roth
has not met his burden of submitting evidence to show that Plaintiff cannot
establish the element of damages as to each legal theory underlying the first
through third, fifth, and sixth causes of action.  (Hinesley, supra,
135 Cal.App.4th at p. 294 [damages is an element of fraud]; Bus. & Prof.
Code, § 17204 [“a person who has suffered injury in fact and has lost
money or property as a result of the unfair competition” may bring an action
pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 17200]; In re Vioxx Class
Cases, supra, 180 Cal.App.4th at p. 128-129 [any consumer who
suffers damage as a result of the use of a practice declared unlawful by Civil
Code section 1770 may bring an action to recover actual damages].)
As set forth above, Plaintiff’s
claims for damages are based on the following allegations: (1) Plaintiff “paid
Roth’s companies and vendors hundreds of thousands of dollars” based on Roth’s
representations and false invoices; (2) Plaintiff made payments to “phony
companies” formed by Roth to further defraud Plaintiff; (3) Plaintiff made
payments to Roth’s employees, who were directed by Roth (i) to deposit the
check issued by Plaintiff into the employee’s account, and (ii) to thereafter
write a check to Defendants for the same amount; (4) Defendants charged labor
and expenses incurred on Defendants’ other development projects; and (5) Plaintiff
lost rent and income as a result of Defendants’ failure to properly repair the
office building.  (Compl., ¶¶ 12-13,
17, 23-25, 27, 32, 38, 41, 44, 58, 61.) 
Defendants rely on Roth’s
declaration in support of their argument that Plaintiff cannot establish the
element of damages.  (Mots., pp.
18:21-19:2, 19:7-11 [citing to material fact numbers 41-44]; Def. Material Fact
Nos. 41-44 [citing Roth Decl., ¶¶ 27-28].) 
In his declaration, Roth states the following: (1) Plaintiff never paid
Roth any money, or allowed PCH to reimburse to him any advances, with regard to
the subject property or PCH; (2) Plaintiff never paid HB “any money with regard
to PCH, LLC or the Property[;]” and (3) Plaintiff never paid Roth Management
“any money with regard to PCH, LLC or the Property.”  (Roth Decl., ¶¶ 27-28.)  
However, the portions of Roth’s
declaration cited in support of their argument that Plaintiff cannot establish
the element of damages do not show that Plaintiff did not pay for labor and
material expenses incurred on Defendants’ other development projects.  (Compl., ¶ 25.)  The court acknowledges, as set forth above,
that Defendants have presented evidence showing that Plaintiff did not pay any
money to Defendants directly.  But the
court has interpreted Plaintiff to allege that he incurred damages by paying
Defendants directly (Compl., ¶¶  12-13, 17), by paying others who were
either controlled by Defendants (Compl., ¶ 23) or directed by Defendants
to transmit the money to Defendants (Compl., ¶ 24), and as a result of
Defendants’ allegedly negligent repair of the building, which led to lost rents
and incomes (Compl., ¶ 27).  Thus,
while Roth’s declaration is sufficient to negate the factual grounds for some
of the claims for damages (i.e., that Plaintiff paid Defendants directly
pursuant to the allegedly false and fraudulent invoices), it is not sufficient
to show that Defendants did not receive money from Plaintiff by directing
others (i.e., Roth’s employees) to deposit the money paid by Plaintiff to
Defendants’ accounts.  (Compl.,
¶ 24.) 
The court therefore finds that
defendant Roth has not met his burden to show that each cause of action alleged
in Plaintiff’s Complaint has no merit on the ground that Plaintiff cannot
establish the element of damages. 
4.    
Claim Preclusion or Issue Preclusion
“Claim preclusion ‘prevents
relitigation of the same cause of action in a second suit between the same
parties or parties in privity with them. 
[Citation.]  Claim preclusion
arises if a second suit involves: (1) the same causes of action (2) between the
same parties (3) after a final judgment on the merits in the first suit.  [Citations.] 
If claim preclusion is established, it operates to bar relitigation of
the claim altogether.  [¶]  Issue preclusion prohibits the
relitigation of issues argued and decided in a previous case, even if the
second suit raises different causes of action. 
[Citation.]  Under issue
preclusion, the prior judgment conclusively resolves an issue actually
litigated and determined in the first action.” 
(DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber (2015) 61 Cal.4th 813, 824 [internal
citations omitted] [emphasis in original].) 
The court finds that Defendants have
not met their burden of showing that the Complaint has no merit because Defendants
have not shown that claim preclusion or issue preclusion bars relitigation of all
of the claims or issues alleged in the Complaint.  Although Defendants assert, in their motions,
that Plaintiff “is also bound to the prior adjudication by principles of res
judicata and collateral estoppe[l][,]” Defendants have not presented argument
setting forth, expressly, which causes of action or issues were litigated and
are precluded from being relitigated in this action.  (Mot., p. 20:2-3.)  
Thus, the court finds that
Defendants did not meet their burden to establish that claim preclusion or
issue preclusion bars every cause of action alleged against Defendants in the
Complaint.
ORDER

The court denies defendants Timothy R. Roth, d/b/a The Roth
Group, HB Construction, and Roth Management Group, Inc.’s motions for summary
judgment. 
The court orders plaintiff John Q. Rodgers to give notice of this
ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  December 14, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


