 Case Number:  22STCV30082    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  26  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26



 
ERICKA VASQUEZ, and
  JOSE RAUDA
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
                 
JOSE ALMENDARES; LUIS
  ALMENDARES, et al.,  
                        Defendants.


 
 Case No.: 
  22STCV30082
 
 Hearing Date:  February 21, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
MOTIONS TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL



 
Defense counsel, James P. Gutierrez (“Counsel”),
moves to be relieved as counsel for Defendants Jose Almendares and Luis
Almendares (jointly “Clients”). On January 11, 2024 Counsel filed the instant
motions to be relieved as counsel.
Counsel has filed a form MC-051 and MC-052
and has lodged with the Court a copy of the proposed order on form MC-053
pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1362.  
The MC-052 form states that Counsel served
Client via mail at Clients’ last known mailing address, which Counsel claims he
has confirmed as current within 30 days of the motion by telephone.  However, this assertion is contradicted by Counsel’s
declaration, which states that “Client[s] ha[ve] failed to communicate with the
Attorney or call the office. Various calls have been place[d] to Clients
regarding their pending case and our office has not received a call back. A
substitution of Attorney attempt was made and no response has been sent.”  
Based on Counsel’s declaration, it is
unclear whether Counsel is in contact with Client or has even properly served
the instant motion to be relieved. 
California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 requires that Counsel confirm
Client’s address “within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved.”  Rule 3.1362 further provides
that if Counsel is unable to confirm the address as current, then Counsel
should file a declaration showing “[t]he service address is the last known
residence or business address of the client, and the attorney has been unable
to locate a more current address after making reasonable efforts to do
so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved.”  (Id. at (d)(1)(B), [italics
added].)  Here, Counsel claims to have
called Clients but they have not responded. 
Therefore, it is not possible for Counsel to have confirmed the address
by telephone within 30 days if the Clients have not been responding to Counsel’s
calls.  
Rule 3.1362’s requirement that Client’s
address be confirmed as current within 30 days of Counsel’s motion to be
relieved is not a mere technicality without a purpose.  If the Court grants Counsel’s motion to be
relieved without requiring a current, working address for Client, neither the
Court nor the other parties will have the ability to serve Client with
pleadings, motions, and orders, which implicates due process concerns.
In addition, the proposed order on form
MC-053 must include the following additional language: 
 
-      
In
item 7 (next scheduled hearing): “Final Status Conference and Order to Show
Cause Re: Sanctions for Plaintiffs failure to Appear, set for April 3, 2024 at
8:30 am at 111 N. Hill St., Dept. 26, L.A., CA 90012.”
 
-      
In
Item 9: “Trial set for April 15, 2024 at 8:30 am at 111 N. Hill St., Dept. 26, L.A.,
CA 90012.”  
 
-      
Also
in Item 9, Counsel must also include the following language: “Failure to appear
at trial will result in the Court deeming that Defendants waive Defendants’
appearance for trial, the trial proceeding in Defendants’ absences, and the
entry of judgment against Defendants in any amount of damages and fees proven
at trial.”
 
 
-      
Also
in Item 13:  “Moving Counsel is ordered
to serve all parties, including Client, with a copy of this signed order and
file proof of service of such within three days.”
 
Because Counsel has failed to confirm
within 30 days of the motion that Client’s address is current, Counsel’s motion
to be relieved is denied without prejudice. 
Before renewing this motion to be relieved, Counsel must make diligent
and reasonable efforts to obtain a current address for Client, by a combination
of the following means: mailing the motion papers to Client’s last known
address, return receipt requested;
calling Client’s last known telephone numbers; contacting persons familiar with
Client; and conducting searches via Lexis, a private investigator, or other
means.  If after making these reasonable
and diligent efforts, Counsel is still unable to locate a current address for
Client, Counsel may renew his motion to be relieved by filing new moving
papers, and properly completing item 3(b)(2) of Form MC-052 to identify all
diligent and reasonable efforts made to attempt to locate a current address for
Client.
Moving Counsel is ordered to provide
notice of this order and file proof of service of such on all parties,
including Clients.
 
 
DATED: February ___, 2024                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 