Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22STCV25042
Plaintiff's Name: Song
Defendant's Name: Enviro Development Inc. and Environ Phase Consulting Co.
People-Names: Song, Shinhan Bank America
Company-Names: Enviro Development Inc., Environ Phase Consulting Co., Shinhan Bank America
Places: Los Angeles
Dates: August 4, 2023, October 18, 2023, December 14, 2023
Events: Service of subpoena, attempt to contact Shinhan, filing of motion
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Defendant seeks to compel Shinhan to produce documents
Facts: Enviro Development Inc. and Environ Phase Consulting Co. prepared an environmental report that failed to discover contamination on a property purchased by Song. Song relied on the report in deciding to purchase the property. Shinhan was served a subpoena seeking production of business records to determine how Song obtained and relied on the report.
Disputes: None mentioned
Acts: Service of subpoena, attempt to contact Shinhan, filing of motion
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, sections 2020.010, 2020.020, 2025.010, 1987.1
Case Citations: None mentioned
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, sections 2020.010, 2020.020, 2025.010, 1987.1
Roles:
  - Judge: ruling on motion
  - Shinhan Bank America: served with subpoena, failed to produce responsive documents
  - Enviro Development Inc. and Environ Phase Consulting Co.: moved for an order compelling Shinhan to produce documents
  - Song: plaintiff in the action
Significant Statements:
  - The Court grants Defendant's motion.
  - Shinhan shall produce all responsive documents to the requests within 20 days of the issuance of this order.
  - Defendant shall provide notice.
```

Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has granted the motion filed by Enviro Development Inc. and Environ Phase Consulting Co. (collectively, "Defendants") to compel Shinhan Bank America ("Shinhan") to produce documents in accordance with a deposition subpoena. The subpoena was served on Shinhan on August 4, 2023, seeking production of business records to determine how the plaintiff, Song, obtained and relied on an environmental report prepared by the Defendants. Shinhan has failed to produce any responsive documents, citing a misunderstanding that the reports were prepared for Shinhan, not Song. The judge has ordered Shinhan to produce all responsive documents within 20 days of the issuance of the order, and the Defendant shall provide notice.