 Case Number:  22STCV25042    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



IN SONG, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
ENVIRON PHASE CONSULTING CO., et
  al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV25042
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 14, 2023
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Defendants Enviro Development Inc. and Environ Phase
Consulting Co. (collectively, “Defendants”) move for an order compelling third
party Shinhan Bank America (“Shinhan”) to produce documents in accordance with
the document requests in the Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business
Records (the “Subpoena”) that Defendants served on it on August 4, 2023.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion. Shinhan shall produce
all responsive documents to the requests within 20 days of the issuance of this
order.
 
Defendant shall provide notice.
 
Background
 
This action arises out of an environmental report (the
“Report”) prepared by Defendants in connection with a property that Plaintiff
purchased. The Report failed to discover certain contamination on the property.
Plaintiff contends that she relied on the report in deciding to purchase the
property. Defendants contend that the report was prepared for Shinhan, and not
Plaintiff.
 
Defendants served a subpoena on Shinhan on August 4, 2023,
seeking the production of business records in order to determine how Plaintiff
came to obtain and rely on the report. Shinhan has not provided any substantive
records, but did send Defendants a letter saying that Shinhan could not find
any account owned by Defendants. Defendants have attempted to contact Shinhan
to resolve this issue, but have received no response.
 
Defendants filed this motion on October 18, 2023. Neither
Shinhan nor Plaintiff filed an opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
"Any party may obtain discovery…by taking in California
the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. The
person deposed may be a natural person, an organization such as a public or
private corporation, a partnership, an association, or a governmental
agency." (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) "Except as provided in
subdivision (a) of Section 2025.280 the process by which a nonparty is required
to provide discovery is a deposition subpoena." (Code Civ. Proc.,
§2020.010, subd. (b)). 
 
“A deposition subpoena may command any of the following: (a)
Only the attendance and the testimony of the deponent, under Article 3
(commencing with Section 2020.310). (b) Only the production of business records
for copying, under Article 4 (commencing with Section 2020.410). (c)The
attendance and the testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of
business records, other documents, electronically stored information, and
tangible things, under Article 5 (commencing with Section 2020.510).” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2020.020.)
 
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court … the court, upon motion … or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1987.1, subd. (a).)
 
Discussion
 
Shinhan’s failure to produce responsive documents appears to
be based on a misunderstanding. As discussed above, Shinhan contacted
Defendants to inform them that it did not have accounts for them. Defendants
seek records regarding Plaintiff, not Defendants.
 
Defendants’ positions with regards to the specific requests
are laid out in their separate statement. The Court rules on the requests as
follows:
Request No. 1: Shinhan shall produce all responsive
documents.
 
Request No. 2: Shinhan shall produce all responsive
documents.
 
Request No. 3: Shinhan shall produce all responsive
documents.
 
Request No. 4: Shinhan shall produce all responsive
documents.
 
Request No. 5: Shinhan shall produce all responsive
documents.
 
Request No. 6: Shinhan shall produce all responsive
documents.
 
Request No. 7: Shinhan shall produce all responsive
documents.
 
Request No. 8: Shinhan shall produce all responsive
documents.
 
 