  Case Number:  20STCV18935    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DORIS PENICHE, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CALIFORNIA HIGHWAY PATROL, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  20STCV18935
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 14, 2023
 Calendar Number:  2



 
 
 
Defendant California Highway Patrol (“CHP”) moves for
judgment on the pleadings as to the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) filed by
Doris Peniche (“Peniche”).
 
The Court DENIES CHP’s motion.
 
Background
 
The following facts are taken from the allegations in the
SAC.
 
This case arises out of the viewing and dissemination of
sexually explicit photos of Plaintiff from Plaintiff’s phone by Melissa
Hammond, Robert Ruiz, Matt Lents, (collectively, the “Individual Defendants”).
 
During an investigation into overtime compensation, CHP
obtained Plaintiff’s mobile phone. While searching Plaintiff’s phone, Ruiz and
Lentz discovered sexually explicit photos of Plaintiff. Ruiz and Lentz shared
these photos with Hammond. The Individual Defendants allegedly disseminated the
photos of Plaintiff and spready false and defamatory stories regarding
Plaintiff’s sexual activities and the identity of another individual in the
photographs.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on May 18, 2020.
 
Plaintiff filed the SAC on February 14, 2023 against the
Individual Defendants and CHP (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging (1)
intrusion of private affairs; (2) public disclosure of private facts (“PDPF”);
(3) distribution of private sexual material in violation of Civil Code section
1708.85; (4) negligence; (5) negligent infliction of emotional distress
(“NIED”); (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”); (7)
defamation per se; (8) defamation per quod; and (9) negligence per se.
 
CHP demurred to the SAC on April 17, 2023. On May 9, 2023, the
Court sustained the demurrer without leave to amend with respect to the second
cause of action and overruled the demurrer otherwise.
 
CHP filed an answer on May 12, 2023.
 
Legal Standard
 
It is well established in California that either prior to
trial, but after the time to answer or demur has passed, or at the trial, the
plaintiff or the defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings and that the
appropriate ground for such a motion is the same as that arguable by general
demurrer, namely, the failure to state a cause of action or defense. (Dobbins
v. Hardister (1966) 242 Cal.App.2d 787, 791; See also Sofias v. Bank of
America (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 583, 586 [The non-statutory motion for judgment
on the pleadings can be made at any time, even during trial, since the grounds
for a general demurrer are never waived.], see also Code Civ. Proc., §438(f).)  
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the
face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. (See, e.g.,
Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (TRG 1998)
§§ 7:275, 7:322; Lance Camper Manufacturing Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198.) Presentation of extrinsic evidence is
therefore not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Id.; Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) Both a demurrer
and a motion for judgment on the pleadings accept as true all material factual
allegations of the challenged pleading, unless contrary to law or to facts of
which a court may take judicial notice. (Mechanical Contractors Assn. v.
Greater Bay Area Assn. (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 672, 677; Edwards v. Centex
Real Estate Corp, (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 15, 27.) 
 
The motion may be made only after one of the following
conditions has occurred: (1) If the moving party is a plaintiff, and the
defendant has already filed his or her answer to the complaint and the time for
the plaintiff to demur to the answer has expired; (2) If the moving party is a
defendant, and the defendant has already filed his or her answer to the
complaint and the time for the defendant to demur to the complaint has expired.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438(f).) The motion provided for in Code of Civil Procedure
section 438 may be made even though either of the following conditions
exist:  (1) The moving party has already demurred to the complaint or
answer, as the case may be, on the same grounds as is the basis for the motion
provided for in this section and the demurrer has been overruled, provided that
there has been a material change in applicable case law or statute since the
ruling on the demurrer; (2) The moving party did not demur to the complaint or
answer, as the case may be, on the same grounds as is the basis for the motion
provided for in this section. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(g).) No motion may be
made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438 if a pretrial conference
order has been entered pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 575, or
within 30 days of the date the action is initially set for trial, whichever is
later, unless the court otherwise permits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(e).) 
 
 
Discussion
 
Intrusion of Private Affairs – First Cause of Action
 
CHP argues that it cannot be held liable under the doctrine
of respondeat superior because the alleged acts were not within the scope of the
Individual Defendants’ employment. 
 
A public entity is not liable for tortious acts except where
provided by statute. (Gov. Code, § 815.) A public entity can be held liable for
the tortious acts of its employees committed within the scope of their
employment. (Gov. Code, § 815.2, subd. (a).)
 
“A willful, malicious, and even criminal act may fall within
the scope of employment, but only if the act has a causal nexus to the
employee's work.” (M.P. v. City of Sacramento (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th
121, 129 [internal quotations and citation omitted].) The act must therefore be
“foreseeable” in the sense that “in the context of the particular enterprise,
an employee's tortious conduct is not so unusual or startling that it would
seem unfair to include the loss resulting from it among other costs of the employer's
business.” (Ibid. [internal quotations, citations, and brackets
omitted].) Conversely, an act falls outside of the scope of employment when it
occurs outside of the work environment and occurs for strictly personal reasons
rather than as a result of a work-related dispute. (M.P. v. City of
Sacramento (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 121, 133-134.)
 
In Carr v. Wm. C. Crowell Co. (1946) 28 Cal.2d 652,
the court imposed respondeat superior liability where one employee threw a
hammer at another during an argument. (Id. at pp. 654, 657.) The court
explained that “[n]ot only did the altercation leading to the injury arise
solely over the performance of [the tortfeasor’s] duties, but his entire
association with plaintiff arose out of his employment on the building under
construction. He had never seen plaintiff before the day preceding the accident
and had never conversed with him before the dispute […]. He testified in
addition that he was not angry with plaintiff before the dispute; that he had
no personal grudge against him; and that he threw the hammer immediately,
without “winding up,” on seeing [the inciting incident].” (Id. at p,
657.) The court therefore found that respondeat superior liability was
appropriate.
 
Other courts have held similarly since Carr. (Flores
v. AutoZone West, Inc. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 373, 380 [disagreements
between employees leading to physical acts of aggression in retail store
subject to respondeat superior]; Samantha B. v. Aurora Vista Del Mar, LLC
(2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 85, 108 [sexual exploitation of psychiatric patients was
a foreseeable hazard].)
 
In Mary M. v. City of Los Angeles (1991) 54 Cal.3d.
202, the California Supreme Court held that when a police officer on duty
misuses his official authority by raping a woman who he has detained, the
public entity that employs him can be held vicariously liable. (Id. at
p. 221.) The Court explained that “[i]n view of the considerable power and
authority that police officers possess, it is neither startling nor unexpected
that on occasion an officer will misuse that authority by engaging in
assaultive conduct. The precise circumstances of the assault need not be
anticipated …. the risk of such tortious conduct is broadly incidental to the
enterprise of law enforcement, and thus liability for such acts may
appropriately be imposed on the employing public entity.” (Id. at
217-218.)
 
CHP argues, with respect to this and other causes of action,
that the Individual Defendants acted outside the scope of their employment in
viewing and disseminating Plaintiff’s private information because they were not
employed to do those actions and those actions would have been a substantial
deviation from their employment duties. As discussed above, this is not the
standard. 
 
As in Carr and the other case above, the
Individual Defendants’ access to Plaintiff’s private information arose solely
out of their employment duties – investigating the accurate reporting of
overtime hours. They obtained her phone as part of that investigation. The
possibility of uncovering private information is inherently part of an
investigative role. That the Individual Defendants allegedly abused the
investigative power delegated to them does not free CHP from liability –
otherwise respondeat superior would have no function except where a tortious
act was actually authorized. Because the Individual Defendant’s employment
duties had a direct nexus with the viewing and alleged distribution of
Plaintiff’s photos, the Court concludes that respondeat superior applies for
all of the causes of action derivative of those acts.
 
The Court denies the motion on this cause of action.
 
Civil Code Section 1708.85 – Third Cause of Action
 
          CHP
argues that it cannot be held liable under section 1708.85, contending that
section 1708.85 applies only to natural persons. The Court does not reach this
legal argument because, as discussed above, the Individual Employees acted
within the scope of their employment when viewing and disseminating Plaintiff’s
photos, which is the alleged violation of the act. Plaintiff therefore has
properly alleged liability against CHP under the doctrine of respondeat
superior. 
 
The Court denies the motion on this cause of action.
 
Negligence – Fourth Cause of Action
 
CHP argues that disseminating Plaintiff’s private
information was not within the scope of the Individual Defendants’ employment.
 
As discussed above under the first cause of action, the
Court finds that the alleged tortious acts were within the scope of the
Individual Defendants’ employment. The Court therefore denies the motion on
this cause of action.
 
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress – Fifth Cause of Action
 
CHP argues that disseminating Plaintiff’s private
information was not within the scope of the Individual Defendants’ employment.
 
As discussed above under the first cause of action, the
Court finds that the alleged tortious acts were within the scope of the
Individual Defendants’ employment. The Court therefore denies the motion on
this cause of action.
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress – Sixth Cause of Action
 
          CHP
argues that the Individual Defendants’ acts were not within the scope of their
employment.
 
As discussed above under the first cause of action, the
Court finds that the alleged tortious acts were within the scope of the
Individual Defendants’ employment. The Court therefore denies the motion on
this cause of action.
 
Defamation – Seventh and Eighth Causes of Action
 
CHP argues that allegedly defaming Plaintiff was not within
the scope of the Individual Defendants’ employment. 
 
As discussed above under the first cause of action, the
Court finds that the alleged tortious acts were within the scope of the
Individual Defendants’ employment. The Court therefore denies the motion on
this cause of action.
 
Negligence Per Se – Ninth Cause of Action
 
A public entity is not liable for tortious acts except where
provided by statute. (Gov. Code, § 815.) A public entity can be held liable for
the tortious acts of its employees committed within the scope of their
employment. (Gov. Code, § 815.2, subd. (a).) A public entity is not liable for
the acts of its employee where the employee would be immune from liability.
(Gov. Code, § 815.2, subd. (b).)
 
Plaintiff argues that CHP is liable for dissemination of the
photos under the Information Practices Act. Private defendants cannot be sued
for violation of the Information Practices Act, which applies only to
government entities. (Jennifer M. v. Redwood Women's Health Center
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 81.)
 
CHP argues that it therefore cannot be tagged with liability
for the acts of its employees, who are immune. This argument is mistaken,
because the Information Practices Act applies to government agencies, such as
CHP, directly. The Information Practices Act explicitly applies to local
governments. (Civ. Code, § 1798.3, subd. (i).) Thus, CHP is directly subject to
liability under the IPA.
 
CHP argues that disseminating Plaintiff’s private
information was not within the scope of the Individual Defendants’ employment.
As discussed above under the first cause of action, the Court finds that the
alleged tortious acts were within the scope of the Individual Defendants’
employment. 
 
CHP asserts no other basis to grant judgment on the
pleadings as to this cause of action.
 
The Court therefore denies the motion as to this cause of
action.