 Case Number:  21STCV25557    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE
  INSURANCE COMPANY, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
IMMANUEL JUSTIN LOVINGOOD, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV25557
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 14, 2023
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance (“State Farm”) moves to strike the Memorandum of Costs of Defendants
and Cross-Defendants Irshaad Tarr and Rodeo Exotic Rentals, LLC (“Rodeo”) or,
in the alternative, to tax their memorandum of costs.
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion and finds Tarr and
Rodeo’s modified costs of $2,031.26 to be reasonable.
 
Background
 
This is a declaratory relief action filed by State Farm to
determine its liability under an automobile collision and liability insurance
policy.
 
On July 13, 2020, Defendant Rodeo rented a car to Defendant
Lovingood, who was involved in a car crash with Defendant Tywon Tyson White
later that day. Defendants Rodeo and Tarr filed a lawsuit against Lovingood and
White for breach of the rental contract and negligence (“Rodeo Lawsuit”).
 
On July 12, 2021, State Farm filed this declaratory action
to determine whether it owed collision and liability coverage to its named
insured, Lovingood, under Lovingood’s State Farm insurance policy (“DRA Lawsuit”).
Plaintiff named, among others, Rodeo and Tarr as defendants.
 
Defendant Lovingood then filed a Cross-Complaint for bad
faith against State Farm and a fraud claim against Rodeo.
 
State Farm agreed to settle both the Rodeo Lawsuit and the
DRA Lawsuit. 
 
In the Rodeo Lawsuit, State Farm paid Tarr and Rodeo a sum
of money for the alleged property damages to the rented car. Lovingood, Tarr,
and Rodeo executed a settlement agreement waiving costs and attorney’s fees in
the Rodeo Lawsuit.
 
In this action, the DRA Lawsuit, State Farm reached a
settlement with Lovingood under which it paid Lovingood a sum of money and, in
exchange, Lovingood dismissed the Cross-Complaint against all parties,
including Tarr and Rodeo. State Farm and Lovingood executed a settlement
agreement waiving attorney’s fees and costs in the DRA Lawsuit. On September
25, 2023, State Farm dismissed this action, the DRA Lawsuit, with prejudice. 
 
On October 4, 2023, Tarr and Rodeo filed a Memorandum of
Costs for this case, the DRA Lawsuit, in which they are seeking recovery of
costs totaling $2,046.26.
 
State Farm filed this motion to strike the Memorandum of
Costs on October 23, 2023. Tarr and Rodeo filed an opposition and State Farm
filed a reply. In their opposition, Tarr and Rodeo revise the requested costs
down to $2,031.26.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a
prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any
action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (b).) (Emphasis added.) 
 
A prevailing party is defined as “[1] the party with a net
monetary recovery, [2] a defendant in whose favor dismissal is entered, [3] a
defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and [4] a
defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against
that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a).) “[T]he trial court has no discretion to
deny prevailing party status to a litigant who falls within one of the four
statutory categories in the first [sentence] of the provision. As rewritten [in
1986], section 1032 now declares that costs are available as a ‘matter of
right’ when the prevailing party is within one of the four categories
designated by statute.” (Charton v. Harkey (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 730,
738 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
 
“A prevailing party who claims costs must serve and file a
memorandum of costs within 15 days after the date of mailing of the¿notice of
entry of judgment…The memorandum of costs must be verified by a statement of
the party, attorney, or agent that to the best of his or her knowledge the
items of cost are correct and were necessarily incurred in the case.”¿(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1700.) 
 
The losing party may contest the costs that a prevailing
party seeks. (CCP §1034(a).) The challenging party has the burden of
demonstrating that those costs are unreasonable or unnecessary. (Adams v.
Ford Motor Co.,¿(2011) 199 Cal. App. 4th 1475, 1486; 612¿South LLC v.
Laconic Limited Partnership, (2010) 184 Cal. App. 4th 1270,
1285.)  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5 sets forth the costs
recoverable by the prevailing party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5.) “Allowable
costs shall be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather
than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., §1033.5(c)(2); Perko’s Enterprises, Inc. v. RRNS Enterprises (l992)
4 Cal.App.4th 238, 244.) A “properly verified memorandum of costs is
considered prima facie evidence that the costs listed in the memorandum were
necessarily incurred.” (Bach v. County of Butte (1989) 215
Cal.App.3d 294, 308; see also Hadley v. Krepel (1985) 167 Cal.App.3d
677, 682.) The memorandum of costs need not contain invoices, billings, or
statements.  (Bach, at p. 308.)  (See also Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1700(a)(1) [only verification required].)  
 
“Documentation must be submitted only when a party
dissatisfied with the costs claimed in the memorandum challenges them by filing
a motion to tax costs.”  (Bach v. County of Butte, supra, at p.
308.) This puts the burden on the party seeking to tax costs to show that
they were not reasonable or necessary. (Ladas v. California State
Automotive Assoc. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 773-74.)  If items are
properly objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the
party claiming them as costs. (Id.) “Defendant's mere statements in the points
and authorities accompanying its notice of motion to strike cost bill and the
declaration of its counsel are insufficient to rebut the prima facie
showing.” (Rappenecker v. Sea-Land Service, Inc. (1979) 93
Cal.App.3d 256, 266.) 
 
Discussion
 
Prevailing Party
 
As discussed above, a court has no authority to deny
attorney’s fees and costs to a party that falls within one of the four
statutory categories. (Charton v. Harkey, supra,
247 Cal.App.4th 738.) A defendant who is dismissed from a lawsuit is a
prevailing party. (Civ. Code § 1032, subd. (a).)
 
Tarr and Rodeo are parties who were dismissed from this
lawsuit.
 
State Farm argues that Tarr and Rodeo are not entitled to
attorney’s fees and costs because there was no prevailing party in this action.
State Farm contends that, because of the settlement agreements, Tarr and Rodeo
cannot be said to be prevailing parties. State Farm contends that it understood
the settlement terms in the DRA Lawsuit to include settlement for the Rodeo
Lawsuit. It appears to imply that the terms of the Rodeo Lawsuit Settlement
should also apply here.
 
That is not the law. The law, set forth above, is very clear
that courts do not have discretion to deny attorney’s fees to a defendant who,
as here, is dismissed from a lawsuit. Though Tarr and Rodeo waived fees in the
Rodeo Lawsuit, that settlement does not appear to extend to the current action,
the DRA Lawsuit.  Although State Farm in
its Reply brief quotes language from the Rodeo Lawsuit settlement agreement to
state that it did, State Farm raised the issue of the language for the first
time in its reply, which does not properly preserve the issue.  State Farm also did not provide a copy of the
agreement, stating only that it would do so “in camera” at the hearing.  Finally, the language quoted by State Farm in
its reply brief does not appear to support State Farm’s argument.  
 
Neither Tarr nor Rodeo were partes to the settlement
agreement in the current action, and thus cannot be bound by it under basic principles
of contract law. If State Farm wished to include Tarr and Rodeo in the
settlement for this lawsuit, and thus avoid costs, it should have sought to do
so. As it stands, however, the statutory entitlement remains in place.
 
Reasonableness
 
State Farm disputes Tarr and Rodeo’s statutory court
appearance fees of $439.20 (x2) and the One Legal $12.00 (x2) electronic filing
charge for each of the parties’ respective appearances and answers. These costs
are statutory and Tarr and Rodeo provide their receipts for the costs. (Thomas
Decl., ¶ 13, Exh. B.) The Court finds these costs reasonable.
 
State Farm took Lovingood’s deposition. Tarr and Rodeo
purchased a certified copy of the transcript, which cost $1,129.86. (Thomas
Decl. ¶ 14.) State Farm requests an accounting of these costs, but it is
unclear what further accounting would be needed.  It is a simple, one-time cost. The Court
finds this cost to be reasonable. 
 
State Farm objects to $38.00 in fees for LACourt Connect.
Tarr and Rodeo provide sworn for a $23.00 for LACourt Connect, which was
necessary because the Court was not taking in-person appearances at the time.
(Thomas Decl. ¶ 15.) The Court finds the modified costs to be reasonable.
 
Good Faith Settlement
 
When a prevailing party has incurred costs jointly with one
or more other parties who are not prevailing parties for purposes of an award
of costs, the judge must apportion the costs between the parties. (Heppler
v. J.M. Peters Co. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1265, 1297.)
 
Here, Lovingood filed Cross-Claims against Tarr and Rodeo in
addition to State Farm’s declaratory relief claim. State Farm states that it
plans to file a motion for good faith settlement.  (Motion at pp. 9-10.)  State Farm of course may do so if it wishes
to.