 Case Number:  20STCV45192    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JEFFREY QIUHONG YANG, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
GLOBAL WIN CAPITAL CORPORATION, et
  al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  20STCV45192
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 14, 2023
 Calendar Number:  3



 
 
 
Defendant and Cross-Complainant Global Win Capital
Corporation (“Defendant”) moves to reopen fact discovery to obtain supplemental
information and documents regarding Plaintiff Jeffrey Qiuhong Yang
(“Plaintiff”)’s post-termination employment, compensation, and benefits.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion. 
 
Fact discovery will reopen through April 15, 2024 for the
limited purpose of seeking supplemental information and documents regarding
Plaintiff’s post-termination employment, compensation, and benefits by way of
the following:
 
1. Defendant shall
be permitted to serve a demand on Plaintiff to supplement his responses and
production to Request for Production Nos. 120, 135, and 136, Special
Interrogatories Nos. 11 through 17, and Form Interrogatory—Employment No. 210.6
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2031.050 and 2030.070;
2. Defendant shall
be permitted to seek to compel Plaintiff to comply with his prior agreement to
permit the inspection of documents responsive to Request for Production No. 120
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.320; and
3. Defendant shall
be permitted to serve Plaintiff’s current employer, Amcor, with a subpoena
seeking Plaintiff’s personnel and payroll records dating back to May 2018 and
October 2019.
 
The parties retain all rights to object to and file motions
related to the above-described discovery.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff is Defendant’s former Chief Financial Officer.
Plaintiff alleges that he was terminated in retaliation for his whistleblower
complaints. Defendant alleges that it terminated Plaintiff for incurring
unapproved unreasonable business expenses.
 
On November 24, 2020, Plaintiff filed this lawsuit against
Defendant, stating claims for whistleblower retaliation and wrongful
termination. Plaintiff seeks, among other remedies, back and front pay damages.
 
On January 15, 2021, Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint
against Plaintiff. The operative cross-complaint is now the First Amended
Cross-Complaint (“FACC”), which alleges that Plaintiff committed fraud and
incurred unreasonable business expenses.
 
Trial in this action was initially set for September 6,
2023. Accordingly, the parties’ fact discovery deadline was August 7, 2023 and
the parties’ expert discovery deadline was October 27, 2023. The Court granted
two ex parte applications by Plaintiff to continue the trial, moving the trial
date to May 20, 2024, which is the current trial date. The Court did not order
any changes to the discovery deadlines.
 
Defendant filed this motion on November 16, 2023. Plaintiff
filed an opposition and Defendant filed a reply.
 
Defendant seeks leave to: 
 
(1) serve a demand
on Plaintiff to supplement his responses and production to Request for
Production Nos. 120, 135, and 136, Special Interrogatory Nos. 11 through 17,
and Form Interrogatory—Employment No. 210.6 pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§
2031.050 and 2030.070;
(2) compel
Plaintiff to comply with his prior agreement to permit the inspection of
documents responsive to Request for Production No. 120 pursuant to Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.320; and 
(3) serve
Plaintiff’s current employer, Amcor, with a subpoena seeking Yang’s personnel
and payroll records dating back to May 2018 and October 2019, respectively.
 
Legal Standard
 
CCP § 2024.020(a) states “[e]xcept as otherwise provided in
this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete
discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning
discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the date initially set for
the trial of the action.” Additionally, “a continuance or postponement of the
trial date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings,” unless a motion
to reopen discovery is filed and granted pursuant to CCP § 2024.050.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2024.020(b); see also Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v.
Delta Packaging Products, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1568.)
 
The reopening of discovery is a matter that is committed to
the trial court’s sound discretion.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050 subd. (a),
(b).)¿ In exercising that discretion, the trial court considers “any matter
relevant to the leave requested,” including:¿ 
 
(1) the necessity and the reasons for the discovery;
(2) the diligence
or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a
discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that
the discovery motion was not heard earlier;¿ 
(3) any likelihood
that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the
case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial
calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party; and
(4) the length of
time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently
set, for the trial of the action.¿ 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).)¿ 
 
 
Discussion
 
Necessity
 
The information sought includes Plaintiff’s personnel and
compensation records at Amcor, his new place of employment, where he has worked
for four years. Defendant seeks information regarding Plaintiff’s compensation
at Amcor Singapore in 2020 and 2021, Plaintiff’s bonuses at Amcor China in
2022, and Plaintiff’s compensation in 2023 and 2024. Plaintiff has produced
almost no information related to his employment at Amcor, and stated to his
damages expert that he cannot recall his current salary or what bonuses or
other compensation he has received.
 
This information is necessary to evaluate Plaintiff’s total
damages. Back pay and front pay, both of which Plaintiff seeks, are mitigated
by the wages a plaintiff can or does secure following termination if
inconsistent with the plaintiff’s old employment. (Morgado v. City &
Cnty. of San Francisco, 53 Cal. App. 5th 1216, 1221.) The amount of
information missing adds to the need to obtain it, since several years’ worth
of compensation could dramatically alter Plaintiff’s damages.
 
Furthermore, Plaintiff’s own damages expert, Mark
Falkenhagen, has been limited by the lack of this information, having to base
his analysis on certain stated assumptions regarding Plaintiff’s compensation,
rather than the actual numbers. Falkenhagen has stated that he would update his
reports if presented with the actual data.
 
Given the discovery’s importance to this case and the
dramatic degree to which it is lacking, the factor of necessity weighs strongly
in favor of reopening discovery.
 
Diligence
 
Defendant appears to have acted with sufficient diligence in
attempting to obtain the requested discovery. Defendant served a demand to
supplement prior to the cutoff date. Further, Defendant believed that Plaintiff
would provide the information on his new personnel and payroll records to his
own expert witness for analysis, and thus expected to be able to obtain those
records in the remaining time for expert discovery. Although Defendant could
have moved to compel further responses and did not, its actions were not so
lacking in diligence as to justify denying access to this important
information.
 
Further, Plaintiff already agreed to produce responses to
RFP 120. Defendant was reasonable in believing that Plaintiff would comply with
that agreement.
 
Effect on Trial Date
 
Granting this motion is unlikely to affect the date that
this action goes to trial. Were this trial originally set for May 20, 2024, the
discovery cutoff date would be April 30, 2024. This leaves more than enough
time for Defendant to obtain the requested discovery before trial.
 
Prejudice
 
Plaintiff is unlikely to be prejudiced by the requested
discovery extension. Plaintiff argues that he would incur additional costs if
his expert, who has not obtained the information Defendant seeks, has to modify
his findings based on the information. However, this is not a strong basis for
asserting prejudice. On the one hand, if the new information is favorable, then
Plaintiff may well be better off if his expert can update his models. On the
other hand, if the evidence is unfavorable, the Plaintiff’s rights would not be
prejudiced by having an accurate, but lower, estimate of his final damages,
because he would have never had a right to higher damages in the first place.
Thus, this factor does not weigh strongly against reopening discovery.
 
Length of Time Elapsed Between Set Trial Dates
 
Trial was originally set for September 6, 2023. It has been
moved to May 20, 2024, following requests made by Plaintiff. This is a delay of
roughly eight and a half months which, while not trivial, is not catastrophic.
Furthermore, the existing delays were granted due to applications by Plaintiff.
Thus, this factor does not weigh strongly against reopening discovery.
 
Having evaluated each of the factors, the Court finds that
they weigh in favor of reopening discovery for the limited purposes requested
by Defendant. 
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JEFFREY QIUHONG YANG, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
GLOBAL WIN CAPITAL CORPORATION, et
  al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  20STCV45192
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 14, 2023
 Calendar Number:  3



 
 
 
Plaintiff Jeffrey Qiuhong Yang (“Plaintiff”) moves to
bifurcate the trial of Defendant Global Win Capital Corporation (“Defendant”)’s
cross-claims into two phases: a liability phase, during which the jury decides
liability and whether actual or punitive damages should be awarded; and a
punitive damages phase, in which the jury determines the amount of any punitive
damages. Defendant moves to bifurcate the trial of Plaintiff’s claims in the
same manner.
 
The Court GRANT’s Plaintiff’s motion to bifurcate as set
forth below in this section.
 
The Court GRANTS IN PART AND DENIES IN PART Defendant’s
motion to bifurcate as follows.
 
Trial shall be bifurcated into two phases. First, there will
be a liability phase, during which the jury decides liability and whether
actual or punitive damages should be awarded. Second, there will be a phase in
which the jury will determine the amount of any punitive damages. 
 
In the first phase, Defendant is barred from introducing any
evidence, testimony, or argument referring or relating to Plaintiff’s current
or past financial condition, including the holdings and value of his real
estate, his stock portfolio, his lifestyle and related information. In the
first phase, Plaintiff is also generally barred from introducing any evidence,
testimony, or argument referring or relating to Defendant’s current or past
financial condition, including the holdings and value of its real estate, its
stock portfolio, and related information, except as follows.
 
Plaintiff will tentatively be permitted to introduce
evidence during the first phase of trial which goes to the value of Defendant’s
stock during the time period in which the parties negotiated the employment
contracts and stock plans at issue. 
 
Plaintiff will tentatively be permitted to introduce
evidence during the first phase of trial which goes to the value of Phoenix
Paper during the time period when Defendant allegedly inflated Phoenix Paper’s
value. 
 
Plaintiff will tentatively be permitted to introduce
evidence during the first phase of trial which goes to the allegedly illegal
financial transactions that Defendant engaged in.
 
Plaintiff will tentatively be permitted to introduce
evidence during the first phase of trial evidence of Defendant’s value which
goes to the issue of Defendant’s alleged compensatory contract damages under Defendant’s
stock appreciation rights plan.
 
However, to the extent that Plaintiff wishes to submit
evidence of any of the foregoing during the first phase of trial, Plaintiff
shall bring such evidence to the Court’s attention outside the presence of the
jury before any question or reference in the jury’s presence so that the matter
may be argued by the parties and decided by the Court. The Court will consider
any objections that Defendant wishes to make to the specific evidence.  
 
Background
 
Plaintiff is Defendant’s former Chief Financial Officer.
Plaintiff alleges that he was terminated in retaliation for his whistleblower
complaints. Defendant alleges that it terminated Plaintiff for incurring
unapproved unreasonable business expenses.
 
On November 24, 2020, Plaintiff filed this lawsuit against
Defendant, stating claims for whistleblower retaliation and wrongful
termination.
 
On January 15, 2021, Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint
against Plaintiff. The operative cross-complaint is now the First Amended
Cross-Complaint (“FACC”), which alleges that Plaintiff committed fraud and
incurred unreasonable business expenses.
 
On October 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to bifurcate
the trial as to Defendant’s cross-claims.
 
On November 16, Defendant filed a motion to similarly
bifurcate the trial as to Plaintiff’s claims into a liability phase and a
punitive damages phase.
 
On November 29, 2023, Defendant filed a response to
Plaintiff’s bifurcation motion stating that it does not oppose bifurcation but
requests that bifurcation apply to both sides’ claims.
 
On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to
Defendant’s motion to bifurcate. Defendant filed a reply in support of its
bifurcation motion on December 6, 2023.
 
Legal Standard
 
Upon request of a defendant, severance of the issue of
punitive damages is mandatory under Civil Code section 3295, subdivision
(d): 
 
The
court shall, on application of any defendant, preclude the admission of
evidence of that defendant's profits or financial condition until after the
trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds
that a defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with
Section 3294. Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be admissible
only as to the defendant or defendants found to be liable to the plaintiff and
to be guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud. Evidence of profit and financial
condition shall be presented to the same trier of fact that found for the
plaintiff and found one or more defendants guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud. 
 
(Civ. Code, § 3295.)
 
The court also has discretionary authority to order separate
trials on a cause of action or issue for convenience or to avoid prejudice.
(Civ. Code, § 1048, subd. (b).) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff’s Motion
 
Defendant has stated that it does not oppose Plaintiff’s
motion. 
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s motion. 
 
Defendant’s Motion
 
Plaintiff opposes Defendant’s motion on the basis that Defendant’s
financial status is relevant to the issue of liability in both Plaintiff’s
claims and Defendant’s cross-claims. Plaintiff also argues that the value of
Defendant’s stock is relevant to Plaintiff’s damages under his breach of
contract claim, which included a stock plan.
 
Defendant previously offered to stipulate to the admission
of evidence on Defendant’s stock value only for the purposes of proving
Plaintiff’s contract damages. The parties did not reach an agreement.
 
Relevance in General
 
“Justice is to be accorded to rich and poor alike, and a
deliberate attempt by counsel to appeal to social or economic prejudices of the
jury, including the wealth or poverty of the litigants, is misconduct where the
asserted wealth or poverty is not relevant to the issues of the case.” (Hoffman
v. Brandt (1966) 65 Cal.2d 549, 552-553.) “Where, however, ‘the financial
information goes to the heart of the cause of action itself, a litigant should
not be denied access so easily.’” (Rawnsley v. Superior Court (1986) 183
Cal.App.3d 86, 91, quoting GT, Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 151
Cal.App.3d 748, 754.) In Rawnsley, the plaintiff alleged that assets had
been converted from entities in which he held an interest to the defendants. (Id.
at p. 91.) The appeals court ordered reconsideration of the trial court’s
denial of discovery of the defendants’ financial condition because “the only
way [the] petitioner [could] prove his case [was] to obtain [the] defendants’
financial records.” (Id. at pp. 91-92.)
 
Here, Plaintiff makes similar arguments that evidence of the
value of Defendant’s stock and of the allegedly illegal financial transactions
is necessary to both prove Plaintiff’s claims and rebut Defendant’s
cross-claims. The Court will therefore evaluate Plaintiff’s arguments.
 
Plaintiff’s Whistleblower Claim
 
Plaintiff alleges that he discovered and reported fraudulent
activities by Defendant, including an inflated appraisal value of Defendant’s
subsidiary Phoenix Paper and Defendant’s receipt of approximately $80 million
in financing from its parent located in China without following government
regulations for the international transfer of money. Plaintiff also alleges
that he reported other financial irregularities including obscurement of the
sources of funds and the transfer via a loan that Plaintiff believed
constituted fraud or negligent misrepresentation.
 
To prove Defendant’s liability under the whistleblower
claim, Plaintiff will need to demonstrate that his belief Defendant engaged in
some or all the alleged illegal activities was an objectively reasonable belief.
(Lab. Code, § 1102.5.) Thus, Plaintiff will need to introduce evidence of such
activities in order to prove his claim.
 
Defendant’s Misrepresentation
Cross-Claim
 
          Plaintiff
argues that Defendant placed its financial state at issue in its
Cross-Complaint.
 
          Defendant
alleges in its cross-claim for intentional misrepresentation that Plaintiff
misrepresented to Defendant the value of Defendant’s own stock price in
negotiating the stock plan in Plaintiff’s employment contract. (Cross Complaint
at ¶¶ 124-125.) Defendant alleges that Plaintiff represented that the threshold
value of Defendant’s stock in the stock plan was set at a fair market value
based on a third-party appraisal, but that Plaintiff had actually set the
threshold value at a fraudulently low level. (Cross Complaint at ¶¶ 124-125.)
 
          These
allegations place the value of Defendant’s stock at the time of the contract
negotiations directly at issue for the purpose of determining Plaintiff’s
liability on the intentional misrepresentation cross-claim. Thus, evidence of
such stock value is relevant, and Plaintiff will be permitted to introduce it
during the liability phase of trial.
 
Plaintiff’s Breach of Contract
Claim
 
Plaintiff argues that evidence of the value of Defendant’s
stock is necessary in order to prove the amount of damages he is entitled to on
his breach of contract claim. Defendant does not oppose this evidence in phase
one.  Such evidence is relevant but must
be limited to that evidence necessary for Plaintiff to calculate his contract
damages.  
 
 
 