 Case Number:  22STCV34879    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEVYN LEWIS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
BLACK EXCLUSIVE SECURITY, INC.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV34879
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 14, 2023
 Calendar Number:  6



 
 
 
Plaintiff Devyn Lewis (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order
compelling Defendant Black Exclusive Security, Inc. (“Defendant”) to provide
further responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions (Set One), Form
Interrogatories – Employment, Form Interrogatories – General, and Special
Interrogatories. Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions in the amount of
$5,766.00.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion in full. Defendant is
ORDERED to provide complete further responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Admissions (Set One), Form Interrogatories – Employment, Form Interrogatories –
General, and Special Interrogatories, within 30 days from this order.
 
The Court orders Defendant to pay monetary sanctions in the
amount of $3,743.00 to Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days from this order.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff brought this action against Defendant, his former
employer, alleging (1) failure to provide overtime wages; (2) failure to pay
minimum wage; (3) failure to provide meal periods; (4) failure to provide rest
breaks; (5) failure to indemnify; (6) failure to pay wages due upon
termination; (7) failure to issue accurate and itemized wage statements; and
(8) unlawful business practices in violation of Business and Professions Code
section 17200.
 
On April 5, Plaintiff served the discovery requests at issue
on Defendant’s former counsel. On July 28, after being granted six extensions
by Plaintiff, Defendant’s former counsel served Plaintiff with the responses at
issue, as well as a motion to be relieved as counsel.
 
On October 10, 2023, the Court granted the motion to be
relieved as counsel. Defendant is now self-represented.
 
From July 28, 2023 to November 2, 2023, Plaintiff repeatedly
attempted to meet and confer with Defendant’s former counsel and, after the
former counsel was relieved, with Defendant. The parties were not able to
resolve the disagreements, and Defendant in fact did not respond to Plaintiff’s
attempts to meet and confer.
 
Plaintiff filed the instant motions on November 9, 2023.
Defendant did not file an opposition.        
 
Legal Standard
 
Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance
with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) Discovery
may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any
other party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
 
Requests for Admission
 
On
receipt of a response to requests for admission the propounding party may move
for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that
an objection to an RFA is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290(a)(2).)     
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290(d).)          
          
Interrogatories
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.220, subdivision (a) requires that “[e]ach
answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, a party may
move to compel further responses to a form interrogatory if the other party’s
answer is “evasive or incomplete.” The responding party has the burden of
justifying the objections to the form and special interrogatories. (Coy v.
Super. Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.) 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
addition to that sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290.
 
Discussion
 
          Plaintiff’s
positions can be found in his moving papers and separate statements. The
Court’s rulings on each request are set forth below.
 
Requests for Admission
 
Defendant shall provide complete, code-compliant responses
to each request for admission.
 
Form Interrogatories – General
 
Defendant shall provide complete, code-compliant responses
to each form interrogatory.
 
Form Interrogatories – Employment
 
Defendant shall provide complete, code-compliant responses
to each form interrogatory.
 
Special Interrogatories
 
Defendant shall provide complete, code-compliant responses
to each special interrogatory.
 
Sanctions
 
          Defendant
responded to each of the foregoing discovery requests with copy-pasted
boilerplate objections. The Court therefore finds that sanctions are
appropriate.
 
          Plaintiff
requests an hourly rate of $400.00 for Baruch Kreiman. The Court finds this
rate to be reasonable.
 
          For
each of the two motions at bar, Kreiman spent 3.5 hours drafting the motion and
supporting papers and anticipates spending 2.5 hours reviewing the opposition
and drafting a reply, and 1.0 hours preparing for and attending the hearing.
Here, no opposition or reply was filed, so the Court reduces Kreiman’s hours to
4.5 hours for each of the two motions, or 9 hours total.
 
          The
filing fee for each motion was $60.00, for a total of $120.00.
 
          Kreiman
expects to incur a $23.00 appearance fee to appear at the hearing. Because both
motions will be heard at the same hearing, only one instance of the fee is
necessary.
 
          Based
on these calculations, the Court awards a total of $3,743.00.
 
 