 Case Number:  21STCV42325    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



NADIA HUIJARA ESPINO, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
SP PLUS CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV42325
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 14, 2023
 Calendar Number: Add-On #2



 
 
 
Defendants SP Plus Corporation (“SP”) and Roberto Pacheco
(“Pacheco”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move for an order compelling the
independent medical examination of Plaintiff Nadia Huijara Espino (“Plaintiff”).
 
Defendants’ motion is DENIED.
 
Background
 
This case arises from Plaintiff’s employment with SP.
Plaintiff alleges that she was a victim of workplace harassment and
discrimination based upon her medical disabilities, sex/gender and religion.
Plaintiff also claims that was wrongfully terminated and that she suffered
embarrassment, humiliation, and emotional distress.
 
On November 16, 2021, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants
SP Plus Corporation, her employer, and affiliated individuals Ernesto Cerna and
Roberto Pacheco, alleging twelve causes of action: (1) disability
discrimination; (2) religious discrimination; (3) failure to reasonably
accommodate a disability; (4) failure to engage in an interactive accommodation
process; (5) violation of and retaliation under the Family Rights Act (CFRA); (6)
failure to prevent retaliation; (7) harassment; (8) retaliation under the Fair
Employment and Housing Act (FEHA); (9) failure to prevent harassment [second
count]; (10) wrongful termination; (11) declaratory relief; and (12) injunctive
relief.
 
Defendants previously moved for an order compelling
Plaintiff’s medical examination. The Court denied that motion without prejudice
on September 26, 2023 on the bases that Defendants had not adequately specified
what the substance of the examination would be and Defendants had not
adequately identified good cause for the examination apart from the allegations
in Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
Defendants filed this motion on October 27, 2023. Plaintiff
filed an opposition and Defendant filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for
personal injuries, any defendant may, according to certain limits, demand one
physical examination. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).) “Where any
party seeks to obtain discovery ... by a mental examination, the party shall
obtain leave of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a), italics
added.) The motion for a mental examination must specify “the time, place,
manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity
and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the
examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310(b).) It must also be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310(b).)
 
Any party may obtain discovery by mental examination of
another party’s mental condition if it is in controversy in the action. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.020.) However, the court shall grant a motion for a mental
examination only for good cause shown. (Id., § 2032.320, subd. (a).) To
establish “good cause,” the moving party must produce specific facts justifying
the discovery and that the subject matter is relevant to the action. (Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840 (Vinson).) “Good cause”
may be found where plaintiff claims additional injuries, or that his or her
condition is worsening, or if considerable time has elapsed since the incident
underlying the complaint. (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2022) ¶ 8:1546.) 
 
One party’s unsubstantiated allegation cannot put the mental
state of another in controversy. (Id. at 839.) “While a plaintiff may place his
mental state in controversy by a general allegation of severe emotional
distress, the opposing party may not require him to undergo psychiatric testing
solely on the basis of speculation that something of interest may surface.”
(Id. at p. 840.)
 
If a party stipulates that no claim is being made for mental
or emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the physical
injuries claimed and that no expert testimony regarding this usual mental and
emotional distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for
damages, a mental examination may only be ordered on a showing of exceptional
circumstances. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (b)-(c).) The And the party
who seeks to compel a mental examination bears the burden to specify the
diagnostic tests and procedures to be conducted. (Carpenter v. Superior Court
(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 267.)
 
Discussion
 
          Defendants
request that the be performed by Dr. Praveen R. Kambam. Defendants request that
the examination occur within 30 days for up to 7 hours. Defendants request that
the examination be conducted at Dr. Kambam’s office located at 8075 West 3rd
Street, Suite 306, Los Angeles, CA 90048. Defendants request that Dr. Kambam
and Plaintiff be allowed to audiotape the examination.
 
Defendants submit Dr. Kambam’s curriculum vitae. (Inouye
Decl., ¶ 11, Exhibit B.)
 
Plaintiff states that she exclusively speaks Spanish.
Defendants have agreed to provide a Spanish version of the written questions
and a certified interpreter for the oral questions pursuant to Evidence Code
section 755.5(a).
 
As to scope, Defendants specify in their motion that “[t]he
proposed examination involves a detailed interview, mental status examination,
and generally accepted standardized psychiatric testing and screening
assessment.” (Motion at p. 9:18-20.) “The mental examination may also include
written psychological testing, including the MMPI-III and TSI-II (trauma
symptom inventory).” (Motion at p. 9:25-26.)
 
Defendants request that the scope of the examination cover
the origin, nature, and severity of Plaintiff’s alleged emotional distress and
mental health injuries. The Court previously rejected Defendants’ request, with
the exception of the MMPI-III and TSIII, as improperly vague because it could
include virtually any type of questioning. Here, Defendants do not constrain
their request to those two tests, but rather offer those tests as examples. Thus,
Defendants’ request is not actually narrowed by this specification. This is a
basis for denial of the motion.
 
Defendants further assert that Dr. Kambam should be
permitted to ask questions regarding Plaintiff’s relationship history and
marital history and whether Plaintiff has been a victim of domestic abuse or
other physical violence. Defendants also assert that “Dr. Kambam does not
anticipate the need to explore Plaintiff’s sexual history per se, but this
issue may potentially become relevant depending upon Plaintiff’s responses to
questioning.” (Reply at p. 7:5-7.)
 
These requests facially invade Plaintiff’s zone of sexual
privacy laid out in Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 835. In
Barrenda L. v. Superior Court (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 794, 797, two
dependent minors brought suit on the basis that they had been raped and
assaulted by their foster mother’s son. (Id. at p. 797.) The Defendants
requested discovery into the nature of a plaintiff’s past pregnancy, whether
the pregnancy was consensual, and whether a plaintiff had been had been
sexually assaulted in any other instances. (Id. at pp. 798-799.) The
defendants also sought a mental evaluation and refused to stipulate that it
would not inquire into the plaintiffs’ sexual history. (Ibid.) The court
explained that “[t]he mere fact that a plaintiff has initiated an action
seeking damages for extreme mental and emotional distress arising out of
conduct of a sexual nature does not ipso facto provide ‘good cause’ for
discovery of other sexual conduct.” (Id. at p. 801, citing Vinson,
supra, 43 Cal.3d at pp. 841-842.) The Court denied the motion for a
mental examination because “no declaration of a mental health professional was
proffered to establish the relevance of other sexual conduct, whether before
the incidents alleged or after.” (Id at p. 803.)
 
Here, Defendants have not proffered a declaration of a
mental health professional showing why the specific inquiries which Defendants
which to conduct into Plaintiff’s prior or subsequent sexual history are
relevant. The motion is therefore denied on this basis as well.
 
 
 
 
 
 
          