 Case Number:  22STCV17179    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE   The hearing  on the motion for a good faith settlement determination is CONTINUED.    Background   This case arises out of an automobile  accident on December 27, 2020, at or near the intersection of Victory Boulevard  and Woodley Avenue in Los Angeles, California. The vehicles involved in the  accident were driven by Defendants Brittney Hernandez and Mostafa El Sekaly.  Plaintiff Suzanna Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) was a passenger in the vehicle driven  by Defendant Hernandez, her daughter, and sustained significant injuries in the  accident.   On May 24, 2022, Plaintiff filed a  complaint against Defendant El Sekaly, Defendant Hernandez, Rebecca Pedroza  Steele, and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, asserting causes of action for (1)  motor vehicle negligence and (2) general negligence. On June 29, 2022,  Defendants El Sekaly and Steele filed an answer and a cross-complaint against  Defendant Hernandez and Roes 1 through 20. On August 24, 2022, Defendant Hernandez  filed an answer to the complaint.   Defendant Hernandez has agreed to pay Plaintiff  a settlement amount of $30,000 in exchange for a full release of all claims.  This is the amount of the policy limits on Defendant Hernandez’s insurance  policy.   On July 27, 2023, Defendant Hernandez filed  a motion for determination of good faith settlement. On September 29, 2023,  Defendant El Sekaly filed an opposition. On October 4, 2023, Defendant Hernandez  filed a reply.    Legal Standard   In a case  involving two or more alleged joint tortfeasors, a party may seek a court order  under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 determining that a settlement  between the plaintiff and one or more of the alleged tortfeasors is in good  faith. A judicial determination of good faith “bar[s] any other joint  tortfeasor ... from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor ... for  equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based  on comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,  subd. (c).)    In evaluating whether a settlement has been made in good faith, courts  consider the following factors, as set forth by the California Supreme Court in  the landmark case Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985)  38 Cal.3d 488:    1) “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery”;  2) “the settlor’s proportionate liability”;  3) “the amount paid in settlement”;  4) “the allocation of the settlement proceeds among plaintiffs”;  5) “a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if  he were found liable after a trial”;  6) the settling party's “financial conditions and insurance policy  limits”;  7) any evidence of “collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the  interests of nonsettling defendants.”    (Id. at 499.) “Practical considerations obviously require that the  evaluation be made on the basis of information available at the time of  settlement. (Ibid.)    The “good faith” concept in Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is a  flexible principle imposing on reviewing courts the obligation to guard against  the numerous ways in which the interests of nonsettling defendants may be  unfairly prejudiced. (Rankin v. Curtis (1986) 183 Cal. App. 3d 939,  945.) Accordingly, under Tech-Bilt, the party asserting the lack of “good  faith” may meet this burden by demonstrating that the settlement is so far  "out of the ballpark" as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives  of the statute. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499-500.) Such a  demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was not a  “settlement made in good faith” within the terms of section 877.6. (Ibid.)     The Supreme Court explained that Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is  designed to further two equitable policies: 1)      encouragement of settlements; and 2)      equitable allocation of costs among joint  tortfeasors.  (Ibid.)    Those policies would not be served by an approach which emphasizes one to  the virtual exclusion of the other. (Ibid.) Accordingly, a settlement  will not be found in good faith unless the amount is reasonable in light of the  settling tortfeasor’s proportionate share of liability. (Std. Pac. of San  Diego v. A. A. Baxter Corp. (1986) 176 Cal. App. 3d 577, 589.) Or, as the  California Supreme Court has stated, a “defendant’s settlement figure must not  be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the  settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be.” (Tech-Bilt,  supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499.)    When a motion  seeking a determination under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is not  opposed, the burden on the moving parties to show that the settlement was made  in good faith is slight. (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987)  192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 [holding that a “barebones motion” including a  declaration setting forth “a brief background of the case is sufficient”].)    When a good faith  motion is contested, however, the moving parties have the initial burden of  producing evidence in support of the requested good faith determination. (Id.  at 1261-62.) “Section 877.6 and Tech-Bilt require an evidentiary showing,  through expert declarations or other means, that the proposed settlement is  within the reasonable range permitted by the criterion of good faith.” (Mattco  Forge v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1351.)  “Substantial evidence” is required. (Id. at 1352.) A declaration from a  settling defendant’s attorney that states, in conclusory fashion, that the  client has little or no share of the liability may not be sufficient. (Greshko  v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834-35; see also 3 Weil  & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The  Rutter Group 2023) ¶¶ 12:774, 12:872-873.)    The ultimate burden of persuasion, however, is on the party opposing the  good faith determination. The “party asserting a lack of good faith shall have  the burden of proof on that issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6 subd. (d); see  also 3 Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 12:875.)  Discussion   Defendant Brittney Hernandez (“Hernandez”)  seeks a determination that her settlement with Plaintiff is a good faith  settlement under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6.   Defendant Mostafa El Sekaly (“El Sekaly”) opposes  the motion. In the alternative, El Sekaly states that “If this Court is even  considering addressing the merits of settling defendant’s Motion” – an odd  statement, because, barring a procedural defect, the Court always considers the  merits of all motions filed and set for hearing – he seeks “a continuance of  the Motion for Good Faith Settlement so that [he] can conduct discovery.”   Hernandez has the initial burden of producing evidence in support of a  good faith determination. She has presented evidence on some, but not all, of  the Tech-Bilt factors: 1.      Rough  approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery. In her moving papers, Hernandez does  not provide an approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery. She does, however,  attach to her moving papers Plaintiff’s verified responses to Form  Interrogatories (Set One) propounded by El Sekaly. The responses are verified  and dated August 29, 2022. In those responses, Plaintiff states that she has  substantial physical injuries to her head, spine, shoulder, elbow, and hip. She  states that she has experienced, or is experiencing, neck pain, headaches, back  and shoulder pain, memory loss, forgetfulness, and fatigue. Plaintiff  identifies in excess of $112,000 in medical bills that she attributes to the  accident and states that she is receiving continuing treatment. In addition, Plaintiff  asserts a claim for general damages.   This evidence  suggests that a rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery is somewhere  in the mid six figure range, and perhaps higher, including special damages incurred  as of August 2022, additional and subsequent special damages, and general  damages.   2.       The settlor’s proportionate liability. In general, Hernandez  and El Sekaly blame each other for the accident. In her discovery responses, Plaintiff  blames El Sekaly. In his discovery responses, El Sekaly blames Hernandez. No  determination of fault has been made. In the reply brief, Hernandez states that  she contends “that liability is 100% against Defendant Sekaly, or at the very  least 50%-50% between her and Sekaly.” (Reply at 3.)   If the Court were  to assume that Plaintiff’s overall total recovery is in the range of  $400,000-600,000, and that Hernandez is 50 percent at fault, that would produce  a proportionate liability figure for Hernandez in the range of  $200,000-$300,000.   3.       The amount paid in settlement. The agreement  requires Hernandez to pay Plaintiff $30,000.   4.      The allocation of  the settlement proceeds among plaintiffs. As there is only one plaintiff,  this factor does not apply here.   5.      A recognition  that a settlor should pay less in settlement than she would if she were found  liable after a trial. This factor supports the request for a good faith  determination.   6.      The settling  party’s financial conditions and insurance policy limits. Hernandez has settled  for the full limit of her insurance policy. She states that she is currently  employed and earns $18.37 per hour, that she is a renter, that she does not own  a house or any real property, that she does not own a vehicle, that she has  less than $10,000 combined in her checking and savings account, and that she  has no other investments or assets.   (Hernandez Decl., ¶¶ 2-6.)    7.      Any evidence of  collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of  nonsettling defendants. There is no direct evidence of any fraud or other  tortious or improper conduct. Nonetheless, the Court cannot ignore the risk of  collusion here in light of the fact that Plaintiff and Hernandez are members of  the same family (Plaintiff is Hernandez’s mother). The Court has  carefully considered the arguments, the evidence in the record, and all of the  factors set forth in the case law. At this time, and on this record, the Court  GRANTS the alternative request of El Sekaly and CONTINUES the hearing for  approximately 90 days to allow El Sekaly to conduct discovery as to the Tech-Bilt  factors. (See City of Grand  Terrace, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at p. 1265.)   The Court makes the following comments to provide additional guidance to  the parties.   First, Hernandez has the initial burden of producing evidence in support  of her request for a good faith determination. (Id. at pp. 1261-1262.)  That includes evidence on each of the Tech-Bilt factors, including the  rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery and the settling party’s  proportionate liability. Evidence, and not only argument, is required.   Second, El Sekaly has ultimate burden of persuasion, however, on the good  faith issue. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) Again, the Court expects to  receive evidence on the Tech-Bilt factors, and not mere argument, advocacy,  skepticism, and/or suspicion.   Third, the Court notes that in Tech-Bilt itself the California  Supreme Court observed, “[e]ven where the claimant’s damages are obviously  great, and the liability therefor certain, a disproportionately low settlement  figure is often reasonable in the case of a relatively insolvent, and  uninsured, or underinsured joint tortfeasor.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38  Cal.3d at p. 499.) In other words, even a settlement that appears to be disproportionate  may nonetheless be determined to be in good faith because the settling party is  in fact “relatively insolvent.”   Conclusion   The Court CONTINUES the  hearing for approximately 90 days to allow for discovery. On the Court's own motion, the Hearing on Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement 
(CCP 877.6) scheduled for 10/12/2023, and Hearing on Motion for Determination of Good Faith 
Settlement (CCP 877.6) scheduled for 10/12/2023 are continued to 01/10/2024 at 01:30 PM in 
Department 29 at Spring Street Courthouse.  Counsel for Defendant Brittney Hernandez is  ordered to give notice.  