  Case Number:  20STCV01262    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
The motion of Defendant
Roman
Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles to continue the trial is GRANTED. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Per California Rules of Court (CRC), rule 3.1332, subdivision (c): the
court may grant a continuance for “good cause,” which includes: (1)
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness due to death, illness, or
other excusable circumstances; (2) unavailability of a party due to death,
illness, or other excusable circumstances; (3) unavailability of trial counsel
due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (4) substitution of
trial counsel required in the interests of justice; (5) addition of a new party
or other parties in regard to a new party’s involvement hasn’t had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; (6) party’s excused
inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
despite diligent efforts; or (7) significant, unanticipated change in the
status of the case as a result of which indicates the case is not ready for
trial. (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)
 
Other relevant factors to be considered may include: “(1) the proximity
of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance, extension of
time, or delay of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance
requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem
that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance; (5) the
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6) if the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for
that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay; (7) the court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on
other pending trials; (8) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9)
whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and (11) any other fact
or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application” (CRC Rule 3.1332(d).)
 
“A trial court has great discretion in the disposition of an application
for a continuance. Absent a clear abuse of discretion, the court’s
determination will not be disturbed.” (Estate of Smith v. Atkinson
(1973) 9 Cal.3d 74, 81.) “Such discretion is abused, however, where the lack of
a continuance results in the denial of a fair hearing.” (Rankin v. Curtis
(1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 939, 947.)
 
Discussion
 
Here, Defendant Roman
Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles (Defendant) moves to continue trial to July
19, 2024, or in the alternative, an order specially setting Defendant’s motion
for summary judgment before the trial date. Defendant states that Plaintiff
Gladis Canas (Plaintiff) filed an Amendment to the Complaint naming “Mi Nueva
Esperanza” as DOE 1 and “Jesus Rojas Mendoza” as DOE 2 but neither defendant
has yet appeared in this present action. (Gerson Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) Defendant states
that after Plaintiff filed proof of service for the newly added defendants, it
rescheduled the motion for summary judgment to the earliest available date,
which was June 18, 2024. (Id. at ¶ 5.)
 
Pursuant to the Code of Civil Procedure §
437c(a)(3) requires a motion for summary judgment be heard no later than 30
days before trial. Defendant states that its motion for summary judgment was
timely filed on August 30, 2023 in accordance with the currently set trial date
of December 15, 2023. (Id. at ¶ 6.) Defendant also states that the
hearing date for the motion for summary judgment is currently scheduled over
six months after the current trial date. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Furthermore,
Defendant asserts that the parties have stipulated to the relief requested. (Id.
at ¶ 9, Exh. A.) Moreover, Defendant contends that (1) the parties are engaged
in meaningful settlement discussions; (2) the length of the continuance
requested is reasonable; (3) there are no alternative means to address the
issue at hand; and (4) the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay and the interests of justice are best served by a continuance. (Id.
at ¶¶ 10-14.)
 
Therefore,
the Court finds that good cause for continuance exists in this instant case.
Defendant provided sufficient evidence that (1) newly added Defendants Mi Nueva
Esperanza and Jesus Rojas Mendoza have not yet appeared in this instant case;
(2) Defendant timely filed and served its motion for summary judgment; (3)
the parties have stipulated to the continuance; (4) the parties are engaging in
discussions regarding settlement; (5) the length of the continuance requested
is reasonable because its set a month after the hearing on the motion for
summary judgment; (6) the only available alternative means to address the
problem giving rise to the motion for a continuance is to advance the motion
for summary judgment hearing date; and (7) the first available date to hear the
motion for summary judgment is over six months after the current trial date,
which constitutes a significant unanticipated change in the status of the case.

 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, the
motion of Defendant Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles to
continue the trial is GRANTED. 
 
Trial is
continued to a date on or after July 19, 2024. Final Status and all deadlines are
reset based on the new trial date.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 