 Case Number:  20STCV09837    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  29 Tentative
 
The motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
 
Background
 
In the operative complaint in this action,
the Second Amended Complaint (the “SAC,” filed on November 12, 2021), Plaintiff
Priscilla Kamoi (“Plaintiff”) asserts, as is relevant here, one cause of action
for professional negligence against Defendant Joshua Yadegar, D.D.S (“Defendant”).
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant negligently performed root canal retreatments
on Plaintiff on November 28 and December 6, 2018. 
 
On June 21, 2023, Defendant filed a motion
for summary judgment, with supporting evidence and a Request for Judicial
Notice. On August 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition and objections to
some of Defendant’s evidence. On September 1, 2023, Defendant filed a reply
(which includes arguments that some of Plaintiff’s evidence is inadmissible). 
 
The hearing was originally scheduled for
September 6, 2023. The Court, on its own motion, continued the hearing.
 
Legal Standard
 
“The purpose of the law of summary judgment
is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in
order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact
necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.) 
As to each cause of action as
framed by the complaint, a defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to
show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
pp. 850-851; Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
pp. 850-851.) To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing
the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v.
Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant asks the Court to take judicial notice of the SAC. That request
is GRANTED.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Each party objects to evidence
submitted by the other. Evidence presented in support of, or in opposition to,
a motion for summary judgment must be admissible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (d); Perry v.
Bakewell Hawthorne LLC
(2017) 2 Cal.5th 536, 541-43.) The court must “consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers,
except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
Plaintiff’s Objections to Defendant’s
Evidence 
 
Plaintiff’s objections to the opinion testimony
of Defendant’s expert Barry Vilkin, D.D.S. are OVERRULED. Dr. Vilkin is an
endodontist and has a Doctor of Dental Medicine (1982), Certificate of Advanced
Graduate Study in Endodontics (1984), and Masters of Science in Dentistry
(1984). (Vilkin Decl., ¶ 1.) Additionally, Dr. Vilkin has been a Clinical
Instructor in Endodontics and his current practice is limited to the field of
Endodontics. (Id., ¶ 2.) Dr. Vilkin opines (among other things) that Defendant
did not cause any damage to Plaintiff’s inferior alveolar nerve (the nerve at
issue), that Defendant’s care and treatment of Plaintiff met the standard of
care, and that no act or omission of Defendant caused or contributed to any
injury of Plaintiff. (Id., ¶¶ 12-14.) 
 
Plaintiff objects on a variety of grounds,
including that Dr. Vilkin is not a neurologist and is therefore not qualified
to opine on issues relating to the causation of nerve injury and that his opinions
are conclusory and not supported by facts.
 
Plaintiff’s objections are OVERRULED. Dr.
Vilkin has appropriate
credentials as an endodontist and his testimony relates to a subject
that is sufficiently beyond common experience that the opinion of an expert
witness would assist the trier of act; is based on information of the type on
which an expert may reasonably rely; is based on reasons supported by the
information on which the expert relies; and is not speculative (Evid. Code, §§
801-02; Sargon Enterprises v. USC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 747, 771-21.). That
he is not a neurologist may be considered by the trier of fact in determining
how much weight to give to his opinion testimony but is not a basis to exclude
the testimony altogether. 
 
Defendant’s Objections to Plaintiff’s
Evidence
 
Defendant’s objections are not stated in a
separate set of objections but instead appear in his reply brief. The Court
will discuss these objections, below, in the Discussion section.
 
Discussion
 
Defendant moves for summary judgment on the basis that Plaintiff cannot
establish the elements of (1) breach duty of care and (2) causation to sustain
an action of professional negligence. 
 
The elements of professional negligence are:¿“(1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.”¿¿(Simmons v. West Covina Medical Clinic¿(1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 696, 701-02 (citations omitted).)¿ “Both the standard of care and defendants’
breach must normally be established by expert testimony in a medical
malpractice case.”¿¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008)
159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
Standard of Care – Breach of Duty  
 
A medical professional breaches his duty of professional care by failing
to act in accordance with the prevailing industry standard of care. (See
Folk v. Kilk (1975) 53 Cal.App.3d 176, 186.) “‘The
standard of care against which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a
matter peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue
in a malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony (citations),
unless the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the
common knowledge of the layman.’” (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d
399, 410.) 
 
Thus, in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen a defendant moves for
summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his
conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary
judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert
evidence.”¿¿(Munro v. Regents of University of California¿(1989) 215
Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985 (citations omitted).)¿ An expert declaration, if
uncontradicted, is conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and
the propriety of the particular conduct of the health care provider.¿¿(Starr
v.¿Mooslin¿(1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 988, 999.)¿ 
 
Defendant provides the declaration of Dr. Vilkin to support that
Defendant complied with the applicable standard of care. Dr. Vilkin states that
when Plaintiff presented to Defendant on November 28, 2018, she complained of
severe throbbing pain in her left mandible. (SUMF No. 11.) Dr. Vilkin notes
that a radiograph revealed to Defendant that “a foreign objected (a broken
file) was in fact present in the mesiolingual canal” prior to any treatment by
Defendant. (Vilkin Decl., ¶ 8.) Defendant opted to redo the previous root canal
as he concluded that the previous root canal had not been thoroughly cleaned
out. (Ibid.) Dr. Vilkin testifies agrees with Defendant’s course of
treatment and diagnosis of Plaintiff’s pain. (Ibid.) Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant breached the standard of care by creating an over-extension of
files in the tooth after the root canal. (SAC, ¶ 1.) Dr. Vilkin states that it
is normal after a root canal for there to be an over-extension of files as that
is part of determining how long the root of the tooth is. (Vilkin Decl., ¶ 9.) Dr.
Vilkin testifies that Defendant acted within the standard of care by
recommending Plaintiff to see either an oral/facial pain specialist or
neurologist and referring Plaintiff to an oral surgeon to extract the tooth due
the reoccurring pain. (Id., ¶ 10.) Defendant has met his initial burden.
The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate that there is a triable issue
of material fact. 
 
In connection with her opposition, Plaintiff presents the opinion
testimony of Dr. Stephen Cohen, who testifies that Defendant’s dental treatment
fell below the standard of care. (Cohen Decl., ¶¶ 11-13.) Dr. Cohen is the
senior editor of a leading endodontics textbook and a Diplomate of the American
Board of Endodontics. (Id., ¶ 2.) He is a past chair of the Endodontic
Department of the University of the Pacific’s School of Dentistry and has served
as a director of the American Association of Endodontists and the San Francisco
Dental Society. (Id., ¶¶ 2-3.) He has practiced in the field since 1968.
(Id., Exh 1.) Dr. Cohen states that Defendant breached the standard of
care as the endodontic file is overextended down or into the Inferior Alveolar
Neurovascular bundle (IAN). (Id., ¶ 8a.) Although Defendant argues that
Dr. Cohen’s testimony is without evidentiary support (Reply, pp. 2.), Dr. Cohen
attaches to his declaration the exhibits he relied upon in forming his opinions.
(Cohen Decl., ¶ 8.) Dr. Cohen states that the standard of care for a dentist is
not to overextend the root canal instruments during endodontic treatment as
there is a risk of injuring Plaintiff’s IAN. (Id., ¶ 8g.) Dr. Cohen
additionally opines that Defendant breach the standard of care when he referred
Plaintiff to an oral/ facial pain specialist or neurologist, a month after
Plaintiff informed Defendant of her pain and numbness. (Id., ¶ 9.) The
standard of care demands a dentist or endodontist to refer a patient to a
neurologist immediately once the dentist determines that the patient suffered
nerve damage. (Id., 10a.) Dr. Cohen states that Defendant breached the standard
of care by waiting a month to refer Plaintiff to a neurologist. (Id., ¶ 10b.)

 
Furthermore, contrary to Defendant’s arguments that Dr. Cohen failed to
support his declaration by reasons or explanations regarding a breach of the
standard of care, the Court finds that the basis for Dr. Cohen’s opinions were
reasonably founded on the non-existence of an event or occurrence. (Cohen Decl.
¶ 8(a).) Specifically, Dr. Cohen opines that Dr. Yadegar must have been the one
who” negligently placed the grossly overextended endodontic instruments and
even a piece of an endodontic file extending down to or into the Inferior
Alveolar Neurovascular bundle at tooth #18” because there was nothing in the
treatment notes from Plaintiff’s providers that made any mention of a grossly
overextended endodontic instrumentality or file. (Id.) Dr. Cohen need
not provide affirmative evidence for his opinions; they may reasonably be based
on the absence of the records mentioned. Dr. Cohen’s opinions are further
corroborated by Dr. Sara Soumeeh’s Cone Bean Computed Tomography (CBCT) scan
performed on Plaintiff prior to treatment by Dr. Yadegar’s which reveals no
grossly overextended endodontic instruments or file extending into the Inferior
Alveolar Neurovascular bundle at tooth #18. (Cohen Decl. ¶ 8(b).) In sum,
as is true for Dr. Vilkin, Dr.
Cohen also has appropriate
credentials as an endodontist and his testimony relates to a subject
that is sufficiently beyond common experience that the opinion of an expert
witness would assist the trier of act; is based on information of the type on
which an expert may reasonably rely; is based on reasons supported by the
information on which the expert relies; and is not speculative (Evid. Code, §§
801-02; Sargon Enterprises, supra, 55 Cal.4th at pp. 771-21.). 
 
Defendant also argues that there is no basis for Dr. Cohen’s assertion
that Defendant breached the standard of care by failing to refer Plaintiff to a
neurologist upon learning of her reported pain in the left mandible. Defendant argues
that it is “non-sensical” that Plaintiff sustained “nerve injury” upon her pain
report on December 26, 2018. (Reply p. 4:4-12.) At the summary judgment stage,
the Court does not weigh the evidence. While Plaintiff may strongly disagree
with Dr. Cohen’s conclusions, there is no showing that they are inadmissible or
otherwise not sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact. Similarly, Dr. Cohen
may properly opine on whether Dr. Yadegar’s treatment notes fell below the
standard of care, based on his familiarity with the standard of care for endodontists.

 
Accordingly, the Court concludes that Plaintiff met her burden in
establishing the existence of a genuine dispute of material fact on the issue
of breach of duty. 
 
Causation 
 
Defendant also argues that even if he breached the standard of care, he
did not cause Plaintiff’s injury. He presents the expert opinion testimony of
Dr. Vilkin in support of this argument. (Vilkin Decl., ¶¶ 12-14.) 
 
In response, Plaintiff presents the opinion testimony of Tracy Newkirk,
M.D. Dr. Newkirk is and has been Board Certified by the American Board of
Psychiatry and Neurology since 1974. (Newkirk Decl., ¶ 2.) Dr. Newkirk
testifies that Plaintiff’s nerve injury is a result of the root canal performed
by Defendant. (Newkirk Decl., ¶¶ 26-29, 32.) 
 
Defendant argues that Dr. Newkirk’s opinion testimony is inadmissible
because Dr. Newkirk is not an oral surgeon or an oral pain specialist. (Reply,
p.5.) But Dr. Newkirk is a neurologist, a doctor who (among other things)
treats nerves, and in this case Plaintiff alleges injury to her alveolar nerve.
(Newkirk Decl., ¶¶ 14, 21, 23, 26-30.)
 
Dr. Newkirk has appropriate credentials as a
neurologist and his testimony relates to a subject that is sufficiently
beyond common experience that the opinion of an expert witness would assist the
trier of act; is based on information of the type on which an expert may
reasonably rely; is based on reasons supported by the information on which the
expert relies; and is not speculative (Evid. Code, §§ 801-02; Sargon
Enterprises, supra, 55 Cal.4th at pp. 771-21.). That he is not an oral
surgeon or oral pain specialist may be considered by the trier of fact in
determining how much weight to give to his opinion testimony but is not a basis
to exclude the testimony altogether.
 
Accordingly, on this record, there are triable issues on causation. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Moving party
to give notice.
 