 Case Number:  22STCV16252    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  29 Tentative The motion to continue trial is GRANTED. Background This matter arises out of an alleged automobile accident on  October 22, 2020, near the intersection of Third Street and Bixel Street in Los  Angeles, California.  On May 16, 2022,  Plaintiffs Marco Pietroiacovo and Cindy Lopez filed a complaint asserting a claim  for negligence against Defendant Caleb Henry Huang and Does 1 through 50.  Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)  on June 9, 2022, that (a) adds Maplebear, Inc. dba Instacart (“Maplebear”) as a  new defendant; (b) asserts the negligence claim against Huang and Does 1  through 10; and (c) adds a new claim for negligent hiring, supervision, and  retention against Maplebear and Does 11 through 50.  Maplebear filed an answer to the FAC on July 15, 2022. On August 17, 2022, Maplebear filed a notice that Huang had  filed a bankruptcy petition and the claims against him were subject to an  automatic stay.  On October 3, 2022,  Plaintiffs filed a notice that the bankruptcy court had issued an order terminating  the automatic stay and allowing the claims against Huang to proceed. Huang filed an answer to the FAC on November 21, 2022. On September 7, 2023, Maplebear served the instant motion to  continue trial, set for hearing on October 12.   Due to an oversight, however, Maplebear did not file the motion.  Plaintiffs filed an opposition on September  29.  Maplebear filed the motion on  October 4 and, by ex parte application on October 6, obtained an order  resetting the motion for hearing on October 12, the date originally noticed and  reserved for the hearing. The matter is currently set for trial on November 13, 2023. Legal Standard Per California Rules of Court (CRC), rule 3.1332,  subdivision (c): the court may grant a continuance for “good cause,” which  includes: (1) unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness due to  death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (2) unavailability of a party  due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (3) unavailability of  trial counsel due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (4)  substitution of trial counsel required in the interests of justice; (5)  addition of a new party or other parties in regard to a new party’s involvement  hasn’t had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial;  (6) party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or  other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or (7) significant,  unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which indicates  the case is not ready for trial. (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) Other relevant factors to be considered may include:  “(1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous  continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; (3) the  length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means  to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a  continuance; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a  result of the continuance; (6) if the case is entitled to a preferential trial  setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a continuance  outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the court’s calendar and the impact of  granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) whether trial counsel is  engaged in another trial; (9) whether all parties have stipulated to a  continuance; (10) whether the interests of justice are best served by a  continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the  continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair  determination of the motion or application” (CRC Rule 3.1332(d).) Discussion Maplebear seeks to continue trial for approximately six  months, to May 2024.  In support of its  request, it argues (1) that Defendant Huang has not been able to sit for his  deposition because of serious health issues; (2) that current counsel was  assigned to the case only recently; (3) that it is attempting to schedule IMEs  for Plaintiffs; (4) that it would like the opportunity to mediate the case; (5)  that there have been no prior continuances of the trial date; and (6) that even  with the requested continuance there would be no undue delay or prejudice, as  trial would still be within approximately two years of the filing of the  complaint.  In opposition, Plaintiffs  argue (among other things) that there has been no showing of good cause, that  any delays have been because of Maplebear’s lack of diligence, that Plaintiffs have  not agreed to mediation, and that any delay in obtaining compensation is  prejudicial to Plaintiffs. After carefully considering all of the evidence and argument  of the parties and each of the factors set forth in Rule 1.332, the Court  GRANTS the motion to continue trial.  The  Court gives particular weight to the need to complete the deposition of  Defendant Huang, a critical party and witness (and very likely the most  important witness) in this matter.   Plaintiff questions whether Defendant Huang truly has health issues that  have precluded his deposition, but the Court notes: (1) that Defendant Huang  appeared in the case less than eleven months ago; and (2) that Plaintiffs have  had their own problems in scheduling Defendant Huang’s deposition and recently filed  a motion to compel the deposition, which is set for hearing on January 9,  2024.  The Court makes no determination  regarding the health issues that Defendant Huang may or may not be facing but notes  that (his health permitting) the taking of his deposition will likely be  critical to discovery in this matter.  Conclusion The Court GRANTS Maplebear’s motion to continue trial.  Trial is continued to a date on or after May  6, 2024.  The Final Status Conference and  all deadlines are reset based on the new trial date.Final Status Conference is continued to 04/22/2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 29 at Spring 
Street Courthouse. Non-Jury Trial is continued to 05/06/2024 at 08:30 AM in Department 29 at 
Spring Street Courthouse.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.