  Case Number:  23VECV01601    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Steve
  Yazeji,
 
 
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
General
  Motors, LLC, et al.,
 
        
  Defendants.


   Case
  Number             Department
      23VECV01601    107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
Compel Deposition of PMQ; Request
  for Sanctions
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:
 
I. BACKGROUND
On October 30, 2021, plaintiff
Steve Yazeji (“Plaintiff”) leased a certain Cadillac Escalade (the “Vehicle”) from
defendant Casa de Cadillac, which was manufactured by and warrantied by
defendant General Motors, LLC (“Defendant”). (Complaint pp. 2–3.)
 
On April 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging breaches of express and implied
warranties under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and the Magnuson-Moss
Warranty Act.
 
On August 11, 2023, Plaintiff
served Defendant with deposition notices seeking to depose Defendant’s
person(s) most qualified to testify on (1) all warranty work performed on the
Vehicle and (2) Defendant’s failure to replace or repurchase the Vehicle prior
to the initiation of this action. (Motion p. 6.) Each deposition notice
included requests for production of documents. (Ibid.) The deposition notices
scheduled the depositions for October 26, 2023, and Plaintiff’s counsel
contacted Defendant’s counsel to offer alternative dates. (Ibid.)
 
Defendant neither communicated with
Plaintiff about the deposition notices before they were scheduled nor appeared
for its depositions on October 26, 2023. (Motion p. 6.) Four days later, on
October 30, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff with objections to the deposition
notices. (Id. at pp. 6–7.)
 
Parties were unable to agree on
alternative dates for the depositions. (Motion p. 7.)
 
On May 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion to compel (the “Motion”). Defendant filed an opposition (the
“Opposition”) on May 21, 2024, and Plaintiff replied to the Opposition on May
28, 2024.
 
II.
PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

Meet
     and Confer Efforts

 
California
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2016.040 and 2025.450, subdivision (b)(2)
require a motion to compel a deposition to be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration that “state[s] facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at
an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion,” “or, when the
deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents… by a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.”
 
Defendant
argues in the Opposition that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer before filing
the Motion. (Opposition p. 4.) However, since Defendant made no appearance at
its deposition, Plaintiff is not required to meet and confer with Defendant
before bringing the Motion and need only include a declaration stating that it
inquired with Defendant about the nonappearance. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)
 
Plaintiff
files with the Motion a declaration signed by its counsel under penalty of
perjury which states that four days after Defendant failed to appear for its
depositions, on “October 30, 2023, [he] sent emails to meet and confer
regarding rescheduling the depositions; the emails were ignored.” (Imber Decl.
¶ 5.) A copy of the October 30 e-mail is attached to the Motion. (Motion
Exh. D.) This inquiry meets the requirement of California Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (b)(2).
 
III.
LEGAL STANDARD
 
California
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.230 permits a party to serve another party
who is not a natural person with a deposition notice naming that non-natural
person party as the deponent and setting out “with reasonable particularity the
matters on which examination is requested.” “In that event, the deponent shall
designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors,
managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its
behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably
available to the deponent.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿2025.230.)
 
A
motion to compel deposition attendance and testimony or document production may
be brought when a party fails to appear for a deposition following service of a
deposition notice without having served a valid objection under California Code
of Civil Procedure section¿2025.410. (a).) If the deposition notice requests
the production of documents, the motion to compel “shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the production.” (Id. at
§ 2025.450, subd. (b)(1).)
 
Parties
who fail to serve any timely response to discovery requests waive any
objections thereto. (Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging
Products, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1658, 1574 fn.8; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 404.)
Any
party served with a deposition notice may object to the deposition notice, or
any “error or irregularity” therein, by serving its objections on the
propounding party at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the
deposition is scheduled. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.410, subd. (a).)
Otherwise, the objection is waived. (Ibid.) If an objection to a
discovery request on the grounds of the trade secret privilege is not timely
made in response, it is waived. (Stadish v. Superior Court (1999) 71
Cal.App.4th 1130, 1141.)
“Management of discovery generally lies within the
sound discretion of the trial court.” (Lipton v. Superior Court¿(1996)
48 Cal.App.4th¿1599, 1612.) Unless otherwise limited by order of the
court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding
any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in
the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,
if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. §¿2017.010.) Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party
seeking discovery or of any other party to the action. (Ibid.) “Relevant
evidence is defined in Evidence Code section 210 as evidence ‘having any
tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of
consequence to the determination of the action.’ The test of relevance is
whether the evidence tends logically, naturally, and by reasonable inference to
establish material facts. The trial court has broad discretion in determining
the relevance of evidence but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant evidence.” (Donlen
v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 148, internal quotations and
citations omitted; see also Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95
Cal.App.4th 92, 97 [“[I]n the context of discovery, evidence is relevant if it
might reasonably assist a party in evaluating its case, preparing for trial, or
facilitating a¿settlement.”].) In actions brought against an auto manufacturer
under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, discovery related to vehicles of the
same year, make, and model as the vehicle at issue is “highly relevant” and
production of documents related thereto may be properly requested in a
deposition notice seeking to depose the manufacturer’s person most qualified. (Doppes
v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 973–74, 993; see also Donlen
v. Ford Motor Co., supra, 217 Cal.App.4th 138 at 154–55 [It was not
unduly prejudicial for expert in action brought under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act to testify about similar transmission problems in other vehicles
of the same make and model as the plaintiff’s vehicle.].)
Discovery
is allowed even if it is duplicative of other information already obtained. (TBG
Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448; Carter
v. Superior Court (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 994, 997 [allowing demands for
documents and depositions notices requesting documents)].) “A party is
permitted to use multiple methods of obtaining discovery and the fact that
information was disclosed under one method is not, standing alone, a proper
basis for refusing to provide discovery under another method.”  Irvington-Moore, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 733, 739; see also Bunnell v. Superior Court of
Alameda County (1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 720, 723 [“[P]laintiff could not
refuse to answer merely on the claim that the requested information had been
given in previous depositions.”].) However, courts retain the discretion to
prohibit discovery if it is “unreasonably cumulative or duplicative”
or “unduly burdensome or expensive.” (Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 2019.030, subd. (a), emphasis added.)
A court “retains the discretion to weigh the burden of
compliance against the likelihood of producing helpful information, to avoid
duplicative production, and to narrow demands if appropriate to balance the
reasonable concerns of both parties.” (Volkswagen of America, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1497.) “[Discovery] statutes
must be construed liberally in favor of disclosure unless the request is
clearly improper by virtue of well-established causes for denial.” (Greyhound
Corp. v. Superior Court In and For Merced County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 355,
377.) But, “discovery, like all matters of procedure, has its ultimate and
necessary boundaries.” (Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Superior Court
for Los Angeles County (1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 12, 19.)¿ 
IV.
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff attaches to the Motion
copies of the August 11th deposition notices along with proofs of service that
indicate they were properly served on Defendant. (Motion Exh. K.) Defendant
does not contest service of the deposition notices and acknowledges that its
response with objections was not promptly made “out of inadvertence and mistake.”
(Opposition p. 3.)
 
Defendant’s objections to the
deposition notices are untimely and therefore have been waived under California Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.410, subdivision (a). Any valid objections must have been served at least
three days before the noticed depositions were scheduled to avoid waiver, but
Defendant did not serve them until four days after they were scheduled, by
which point they had already been waived.
 
Plaintiff was permitted to seek the
depositions of Defendant’s person(s) most qualified by naming Defendant as the
deponent on the deposition notices under California Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.230. And, since
Plaintiff served the deposition notices and Defendant did not timely serve its
objections at least three calendar days before the depositions were scheduled
under California Code of Civil Procedure section¿2025.410, Plaintiff properly
brings the Motion under California Code of Civil Procedure section¿2025.450,
subdivision (a). Although Defendant contends that it “already agreed to produce
a witness as to all Plaintiff’s requested categories,” it has not yet done so
and has not made substantial efforts to cooperate with Plaintiff to do so.
(Opposition p. 7; Imber Decl. ¶¶ 7–9.)
 
Because
the deposition notices that the Motion seeks to compel include requests for
production of documents, Plaintiff must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the production. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿2025.450, subd.
(b)(1).) Plaintiff argues in the Motion that “Plaintiff’s matters for examination
and categories of documents speak directly to the elements of Plaintiff’s
Song-Beverly [Consumer
Warranty Act] cause of action.”
(Motion p. 10.) Plaintiff explains that “[t]he information sought by
Plaintiff’s [c]ategories of [e]xamination are reasonably calculated to lead to
evidence that will likely indicate that Defendant ‘stalled and frustrated’
Plaintiff’s attempts to obtain relief under the Song-Beverly [Consumer
Warranty] Act by willfully engaging in an improper process of evaluation or by
subjecting [the Vehicle] to inappropriate criteria pursuant to corporate
policies and procedures in violation of the Song-Beverly [Consumer Warranty] Act.”
(Id. at p. 11.) As these facts and inquiries are relevant to Plaintiff’s
ability to collect civil penalties under California Civil Code section 1794,
subdivision (c), they are relevant to the subject matter of the instant action.
Plaintiff also explains how specific categories of responses or documents
sought relate to the same inquiry. (Id. at pp. 11–12.) Defendant argues that
“[Plaintiff’s] notice, requests and [M]otion are replete with assertions
unsupported by any analysis of the facts or pending claims, defenses, and
issues presented in this breach of warranty case and that “Plaintiff instead
simply makes broad, argumentative, general statements that a [person most
qualified] should be compelled and documents produced.” (Opposition pp. 5–6.)
However, as explained above, we disagree, and Defendant does not specifically
explain what it finds lacking in Plaintiff’s explanation about seeking facts
that would show Defendant acted willfully in declining to repurchase or replace
the Vehicle. We find that Plaintiff has set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the production of documents requested in the August 11
deposition notices.
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s requests for production of documents are impermissibly
overbroad and not relevant to the point of boing an “abuse of the discovery
process.” (Opposition pp. 4–6.) Specifically, Defendant contends that because “[t]his
case is about Plaintiff’s [Vehicle] and [Defendant’s]’s repairs
of that [Vehicle] under warranty,” Plaintiff has “zero need” for testimony and
documents “concerning other consumers or their vehicles, or [Defendant]’s
internal analysis and investigation of the in other vehicles.”
(Id. at pp. 6–7, emphasis original.) However, we note that the deposition
notices limit the subjects of sought deposition testimony and categories of
requests for production of documents to either those documents related to the
Vehicle or those documents related to vehicles of the same year, make, and
model as the Vehicle. (Motion Exh. K.) Following Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc., supra, 174 Cal.App.4th 967 at
973–74, 993, these requests are relevant in an action brought under the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act, as this action is, and properly sought through discovery
and specifically through the noticed deposition of the auto manufacturer’s
person most qualified and through accompanying requests for production of
documents. 
 
Defendant points out that it “already
produced all the responsive documents listed in the [i]ntroduction to this [Opposition]”
and that Plaintiff is “seeking production of documents that have [] already
been produced.” (Opposition pp. 2, 4.) However, this is not grounds for denial
of a motion to compel. Like in Carter v. Superior Court, supra,
218 Cal.App.3d 994 at 997, it is permissible for Plaintiff to seek documents
through both a demand for documents and through a deposition notice, even if
responses to the two methods of discovery will necessarily include the same
documents. 
 
Defendant
further argues that “Plaintiff’s requests impermissibly seek production of
trade secret materials.” (Opposition p. 7.) In support of this argument,
Defendant cites an unpublished ruling, which we disregard. (Ibid.) Under
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410, subdivision (a)
and following Stadish v. Superior Court, supra, 71 Cal.App.4th
1130 at 1141, Defendant waived this privilege when it failed to timely object
on these grounds in response to the deposition notices.
 
Accordingly,
this court GRANTS the Motion.
 
V. SANCTIONS
 
The
court “shall impose a monetary sanction” if a party fails to appear for a
properly noticed deposition or to produce documents requested by the deposition
notice without substantial justification, unless “other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿2025.450, subd.
(g)(1).) The monetary sanction should be imposed against the party who failed
to appear at the deposition “or any attorney advising that conduct, or both”
and in favor of the party who moved to compel the deposition. (Ibid.; id.
at § 2023.030, subd. (a).) “As to the amount of¿sanctions, California
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)¿authorizes the trial
court to impose an amount representing ‘the reasonable expenses, including
attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result’ of a party's misuse of the
discovery process.” (Parker v. Wolters Kluwer United States, Inc. (2007)
149 Cal.App.4th 285, 294.)
 
Plaintiff
requests monetary sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $2,846.26.
(Imber Decl. ¶ 14.) This is based on 2.6 hours of attorney time spent
preparing the Motion at a rate of $600.00 per hour, two hours of attorney time
spent considering the Opposition, preparing a reply, and attending the hearing
on the Motion at the same rate, $74.02 in costs for the fee to file the Motion,
and $12.24 in costs for the fee to file Plaintiff’s reply. (Id. at
¶¶ 11–13.)
 
Because
we grant the Motion, monetary sanctions in the amount of Plaintiff’s reasonable
expenses against Defendant are mandatory under California Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (g)(1). Because sanctions are sought
against only Defendant and not Defendant’s counsel, we impose sanctions on only
Defendant. We find Plaintiff’s accounting of attorney time spent on the Motion,
its counsel’s hourly rate, and its costs associated with filing the Motion to
all be reasonable.
 
 Accordingly,
this court GRANTS monetary sanctions against Defendant and in favor of
Plaintiff in the full amount of $2,846.26. Dated:  June 4, 2024                                                                            _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                 Hon.
Eric Harmon           Judge of the Superior Court