 Case Number:  21STCV16330    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  28, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV16330




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Fitness International, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Berta Mirano and Guillermo Munoz Mirano 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Defendant Fitness International, LLC’s Notice
of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment; or in the alternative Summary
Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.      Declaration of John Park 
3.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts
4.      Evidence in Support including Lodged Video
Exhibits.
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiff’s Memorandum in Opposition to Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment
2.      Plaintiff Berta Mirano’s Declaration in
Support
3.      Plaintiff Guillermo Munoz Mirano’s
Declaration in Support 
4.      Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendant’s Separate
Statement of Disputed Material Facts
5.      Plaintiff’s Index of Exhibits and Exhibits in
Support 
 
REPLY PAPERS 
 
1.      Reply to Plaintiffs’ Opposition
2.      Objection to Evidence Presented by Plaintiffs
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On April 30, 2021, Plaintiffs Berta
Mirano (Mirano) and Guillermo Munoz Mirano (Guillermo Munoz Mirano) filed a
complaint against Fitness International, LLC, LA Fitness, Pacific Investors
Group, and Does 1 to 20 for injuries Mirano allegedly sustained from a
defective treadmill at a gym. The complaint alleges causes of action for
negligence and premises liability. Guillermo Munoz Mirano, Berta Mirano’s
husband, also alleges a cause of action for loss of consortium. 
 
            Defendant Fitness International, LLC
(“Fitness”) now moves for summary judgment on the grounds that (1) Mirano’s
executed waiver and assumption of the risk acts as a complete defense against
her negligence and premises liability causes of action, (2) Fitness had no
actual or constructive notice of the alleged defective treadmill, and (3) Guillermo
Munoz Mirano’s loss of consortium claim must be summarily adjudicated where
there is no underlying liability. 
 
OBJECTIONS
 
            Defendant
objects to Plaintiff’s exhibits, which consist of discovery responses, the
waiver, a photo of the treadmill, equipment item services history, and portions
of deposition transcripts. The Court declines to rule on the objections because
consideration of the exhibits does not change the Court’s rulings herein.
 
            Defendant
further objects to Plaintiff Mirano’s declaration which does not contain a
proper certification by a qualified interpreter. The Court agrees. However,
consideration of the declaration does not change the Court’s rulings herein.
 
            Defendant
also objects to Guillermo Munoz Mirano’s Declaration. Again, the Court declines
to rule on the objections because consideration of the declaration does not
change the Court’s rulings herein.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this
manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify
issues rather than to determine issues. 
Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the
issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence­–Premises
Liability
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The elements of a cause of action for premises
liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and
damages. (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
664, 671.) 
 
Release and Express Assumption of the Risk 
 
“A written release may exculpate a tortfeasor from future
negligence or misconduct. [Citation.] To be effective, such a release ‘must be
clear, unambiguous, and explicit in expressing the intent of the subscribing
parties.’ [Citation.] The release need not achieve perfection. Exculpatory
agreements in the recreational sports context do not implicate the public
interest and therefore are not void as against public policy.”  (Benedek
v. PLC Santa Monica, LLC (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1351, 1356.)  “A
release of all premises liability in consideration for permission to enter
recreational and social facilities for any purpose does not violate public
policy.”  (Id. at 1359.)  Private parties may enter into
voluntary transactions in which one party “agrees to shoulder a risk which the
law would otherwise have placed upon the other party.”  (Id.) 
A defendant may require parties to sign a release of any and all
liability.  (Id. at 1358-59.)  With respect to the question of
express waiver, the “issue is not whether the particular risk of injury is
inherent in the recreational activity to which the release applies, but rather
the scope of the release.”  (Id. at 1357.)   
 
“[T]he defendant bears the burden of raising the defense
and establishing the validity of a release as applied to the case at
hand.”  (City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th
747, 780 n. 58 (citations omitted); see also Eriksson v. Nunnink (2015)
233 Cal.App.4th 708, 733-34 [Defendant bears the burden of establishing that
the liability waiver is “binding and enforceable.”].)  
 
Civil Code Section 1812.80 et seq., also referred to as the
Dance Act, “followed a long investigation of the business of operating dance
and health studios.” (People v. Arthur Murray, Inc. (1965) 238
Cal.App.2d 333, 343.) The Legislature found “that there exists in connection
with a substantial number of contracts for health and dance studio services,
sales practices and business and financing methods, which have worked a fraud,
deceit, imposition, and financial hardship upon the people of this State.” (Id.
(quoting Civil Code Section 1812.80).) The Legislature declared that the
purpose of the Dance Act “is to safeguard the public against fraud, deceit,
imposition and financial hardship, and to foster and encourage competition,
fair dealing, and prosperity in the field of health and dance studio services
by prohibiting or restricting false or misleading advertising, onerous contract
terms, harmful financial practices, and other unfair, dishonest, deceptive,
destructive, unscrupulous, fraudulent and discriminatory practices by which the
public has been injured in connection with contracts for health and dance
studio services. (Id.)
 
The Dance Act, Civil Code Section 1812.82, provides: “Every contract for health studio services
shall be in writing and shall be subject to the provisions of this title. A
copy of the written contract shall be physically given to or delivered by email
to the customer at the time he or she signs the contract.” Civil Code Section
1812.81 provides: “ ‘contract for health studio services’ means a contract for
instruction, training or assistance in physical culture, body building,
exercising, reducing, figure development, or any other such physical skill, or
for the use by an individual patron of the facilities of a health studio,
gymnasium or other facility used for any of the above purposes, or for
membership in any group, club, association or organization formed for any of
the above purposes.” Moreover, Civil Code Section 1812.91 provides: “Any
contract for health studio services which does not comply with the applicable
provisions of this title shall be void and unenforceable as contrary to public
policy.”
 
Analysis
 
Fitness argues that Mirano expressly released and waived all
negligence claims against Fitness. Fitness offers the following facts in
support of its argument: 
 
-         
Plaintiff Berta Mirano was a member of LA
Fitness on the date of the subject incident. (UMF 1.)
-         
She signed up to become a member of LA Fitness
on April 30, 2019. (UMF 2.)
-         
The Waiver and Assumption of Risk (“Waiver”)
contains plaintiff’s signature and has the following language: “I acknowledge
that I have voluntarily chosen to use LA Fitness’s facilities, services,
equipment and/or premises and/or to participate in one or more physical
exercise or fitness activity or sport programs (collectively, and including any
classes, functions, testing, activities or other services that I participate
in, the “Services”). I acknowledge (i) the nature of the risks to my person and
property of participating in or using the Services and risks to any minors for
whom I have guardianship and have requested use of the Services (including
“Kids Klub” services) and (ii) the strenuous nature of the Services. I
understand, for example, the risks associated with abnormal blood pressure and
of physical injury, heart attack and even death; the risk of property damage or
loss; and the risks associated with the negligence of LA Fitness or any other
entity, organization or individual participating or involved in providing or
promoting the Services (including without limitation the owners, officers,
directors, employees and representatives of such parties). By signing below, I
expressly assume all risk for my health, well-being and property and I
expressly assume the risks associated with the Services, including but not
limited to the negligence of LA Fitness and any other entity, organization or
individual participating or involved in providing or promoting the Services
(including without limitation the owners, officers, directors, employees and
representatives of such parties). On behalf of myself, my heirs (including any
minors for whom I have requested use of the Services), personal representatives
and assigns, I hereby release, waive, discharge and covenant not to sue Fitness
International, LLC (“LA Fitness”) . . . . at any time hereafter, from any and
all demands, liabilities, losses or damages (including death, bodily injury and
property damage or loss) caused or alleged to be caused in whole or part by the
active or passive negligence of any Releasees. I have read and I understand
this waiver and express assumption of risk. I understand I am releasing LA
Fitness, HW, ASH and the other Releasees from all liability to me (and to my
heirs, minors for whom I am responsible, and our assigns) for any and all loss
or damage to me or such minors, and I forever give up any claims therefor on
account of injury to person or property, whether caused by the active or
passive negligence of any of the Releasees. This waiver and release shall
survive the term of any agreement I may have with LA Fitness, HW or ASH. . . .
This Waiver and Assumption of Risk shall survive the term of any agreement I
may have with LA Fitness, HW or ASH.” (UMF 3; Park Decl., Exh. 3.)
-         
Plaintiff contends that after that five minute
mark, the treadmill suddenly accelerated and she fell. (UMF 8.)
 
Plaintiff offers her own declaration wherein she states:
 
-         
“It
is imperative to add, since, I am not fluent in English language, Mr. Mirano
would translate all conversations between David and I and David and Mr. Mirano
both from English to Spanish and vice versa.” (Mirano Decl. ¶ 4.)
-         
“The
salesman who spoke English only began entering information into his tablet. He
then asked me to sign in a little box on the tablet. I asked him why I needed
to sign anything; he responded in order to use the services; I must sign.”
(Mirano Decl. ¶ 6.)
-         
“I
did not know about the waiver of liability and assumption of risk until my
attorney in this litigation showed me a copy.” (Mirano Decl. ¶ 9.)
-         
“At
my oral deposition, the defendant’s attorney also showed me a copy of the
waiver and asked me to confirm if I recognize the signature on the form. The
signature seemed identical to my signature; however, several months prior to
taking my oral depositions, defendant’s attorney demanded I produce through
production of document 40 exemplars of my signature, with 20 of those signed my
name in 2019.
-         
“Looking
at the signature portion of the waiver and comparing it with other lines in the
form, it clearly shows my signature has been transposed on the waiver illegally
and for the purposes of this litigation in order to avoid paying damages for
her injuries.” (Mirano Decl. ¶ 11.)
-         
“At
no time did the page that I placed my signature in a little box on a Tablet
look like the page that is now presented as waiver of liability and assumption
of risk. The page I placed my signature on had a logo where the waiver does
not.” (Mirano Decl. ¶ 12.)
-         
“At
no time did I ever see or sign a Waiver form as described by Defendant FITNESS.
I only saw a copy of the Waiver in this litigation.” (Mirano Decl. ¶ 20.)
 
The Court finds that Defendant has met its burden to show that
there are no triable issues of material fact because Mirano’s executed waiver
serves as a complete defense. The Court finds that the release is clear,
unambiguous, and explicit in expressing the intent of the parties to exculpate
Fitness from future negligence. The release states, among other things: “By
signing below, I expressly assume all risk for my health, well-being and
property and I expressly assume the risks associated with the Services,
including but not limited to the negligence of LA Fitness … I understand I am
releasing LA Fitness, HW, ASH and the other Releasees from all liability to me
(and to my heirs, minors for whom I am responsible, and our assigns) for any
and all loss or damage to me…” Defendant has also set forth evidence that
Plaintiff signed the waiver. (Park Decl., Exh. 5 at 104:2-6.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff does not
appear to dispute that the language of the release is clear, unambiguous, and
explicit, and covers Plaintiff’s claims here. Rather, Plaintiff first attempts
to create an issue of fact with regard to her signature, by arguing that when
comparing the signature portion of the waiver it shows that her signature has
been transposed illegally. Plaintiff presents no admissible evidence, but
merely speculates that someone placed her signature on the waiver without her
permission.[1] She
makes this argument despite acknowledging that she signed a box on the tablet,
and despite acknowledging that she testified that she recognized it was her
signature on the waiver. “Facts are the lifeblood of summary judgment
proceedings because absent a factual dispute, trial is unnecessary. …A party
cannot avoid summary judgment by asserting facts based on mere speculation and
conjecture, but instead must produce admissible evidence raising a triable
issue of fact.” (Christina C. v. County of Orange (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
1371, 1378 (quotations and citations omitted).)
 
Plaintiff also argues that the
waiver is invalid because she did not read or understand it. However, “[it] is
well established, in the absence of fraud, overreaching or excusable neglect,
that one who signs an instrument may not avoid the impact of its terms on the
ground that he failed to read the instrument before signing it. … Ordinarily,
one who accepts or signs an instrument, which on its face is a contract, is
deemed to assent to all its terms, and cannot escape liability on the ground
that he has not read it. If he cannot read, he should have it read or explained
to him.” (Randas v. YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles (1993) 17Cal.App.4th
158, 163) (rejecting claim of plaintiff who was literate in Greek but not
English).)
 
Plaintiff primarily argues that the
waiver is a “contract for health studio services” pursuant to the Dance Act,
and because Mirano did not receive a copy, the waiver is void and
unenforceable.[2] However,
Plaintiff does not argue that the waiver is part of any membership agreement,
or other “contract for instruction, training or assistance in … exercising, …
or for the use by an individual patron of the facilities of a … gymnasium….”
(Civ. Code § 1812.81.) Rather, the document, entitled “Waiver and Assumption of
Risk,” is presented in these proceedings as a separate document, namely a
release of liability. Plaintiff does not point to any provision of the Dance
Act that applies to tort liability waivers, such as here, a waiver that does
not establish membership commitments. The Court concludes that the provisions
of the Dance Act do not void the waiver at issue here.
 
Finally, although not addressed by
Plaintiff, there is no allegation or evidence of gross negligence, such that
the conduct would fall outside the scope of the waiver. Rather, Plaintiff
alleges that the treadmill suddenly accelerated and she fell. Plaintiff does
not present any evidence that Defendant’s conduct amounted to an extreme
departure from the ordinary standard of conduct, or a “want of even scant
care.”
 
      After
consideration of the evidence in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to establish that there are
triable issues of material fact.[3]
Accordingly, the Court grants summary judgment in favor of Fitness.
 
Loss of
Consortium 
 
Fitness argues that, as a matter of law, Guillermo Munoz
Mirano’s loss of consortium claim cannot survive on its own without the
negligence and premises liability claims. A loss of consortium cause of action
requires a “tortious injury to the plaintiff’s spouse.” (Vanhooser v.
Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 921, 927.) Although a loss of
consortium claim is an independent tort that “does not rise or fall with the
procedural fate of the injured party’s personal injury claim,” (Leonard v.
John Crane, Inc. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1274, 1280), here the granting of
summary judgment as to Mirano’s negligence and premises liability claims is not
on procedural grounds, but rather because there are no triable issues of fact.
Accordingly, summary judgment is proper.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant
Fitness International, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 


