 Case Number:  22STCV04537    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  28, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV04537




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Motion to Compel Independent Medical Examination
(2)  
  Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Palisades Village Center
  Associates 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
   



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On February 4, 2022, Plaintiff Adelmo
Rivera filed a complaint for negligence and negligence per se after allegedly injuring
his head at a construction site. Defendant Palisades Village Center Associates (Defendant)
now moves to compel an independent medical examination of Plaintiff, as well as
Plaintiff’s deposition, and seeks sanctions. In the alternative, Defendant also
seeks to dismiss Plaintiff’s action with prejudice. No oppositions have been
filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motion to Compel IME
 
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for
personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the
plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within
75 miles of the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 2032.220,
subd. (a).)¿ 
¿ 
“If a defendant who has demanded a physical examination
under this article, on receipt of the plaintiff's response to that demand,
deems that any modification of the demand, or any refusal to submit to the
physical examination is unwarranted, that defendant may move for an order
compelling compliance with the demand. This motion shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., section
2032.250, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion for an examination under subdivision (a) shall
specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., section
2032.310, subd. (b).) 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand for
a physical examination, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 2032.250.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.410 provides that if a
party is required to submit to a physical or mental examination under Article 2
or 3 but fails to do so, the court, on motion of the party entitled to the
examination, may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of
an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or terminating sanction. In lieu of or
in addition to that sanction, the court may, on motion of the party, impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 commencing with section 2023.010. 
 
Monetary
sanctions for the reasonable expenses incurred may be imposed for misuse of
discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.030, subd. (a).) Failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery constitutes a misuse
of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.010, subd. (d).)
Reasonable expenses incurred as a result of discovery
misuse includes attorney fees, filing fees, referee fees, and other costs
incurred. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020)
56 Cal.App.5th 771, 790.) 
 
Motion to Compel
Deposition
 
Any
party may obtain discovery by taking in California the oral deposition of any
person.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)¿ “If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action…without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)¿¿
 
“If
a motion under [Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450] subdivision (a) is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and
against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless
the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)¿¿¿¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant’s motions state that Plaintiff is currently a
self-represented litigant. The proofs of service attached to the motions
indicate service on “Plaintiff in Pro Per,” and not Plaintiff’s counsel of
record.
 
On May 8, 2023 Plaintiff’s counsel failed to appear at the hearing on
counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel, and the motion was taken off
calendar.
 
On May 12, 2023, counsel filed another motion to be relieved.
 
On May 18, 2023, counsel filed an ex parte application to advance the
motion to be relieved.
 
On May 18, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a notice of withdrawal of
both the ex parte application and the motion to be relieved, without any
further explanation.
 
To date, counsel for Plaintiff has not been relieved by order of the
Court, and no substitution form appears to have been filed.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff remains represented by counsel, and counsel has
not received notice of the hearing on these motions. The Court therefore denies
the motions as procedurally defective, without prejudice.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant Palisades
Village Center Associates’ motion to compel an independent medical examination and
motion to compel deposition of Plaintiff are denied without prejudice.
 
Defendant shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such. 