 Case Number:  22STCV31068    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO STRIKE SUPPLEMENTAL EXPERT
DESIGNATION
Hearing Date: 10/18/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV31068 MISTY STEVENSON
vs VICTOR S KAO, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant City of Los Angeles 
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: GRANTED 
 
Background
·       
On August 1, 2024, Plaintiff served
Defendant City with her expert designations.
·       
On the same day, Defendant City served
Plaintiff with its expert designations, identifying Jeffrey Korcheck, M.D., as
an orthopedic expert. 
·       
On August 19, 2024, Defendant City
served Plaintiff with a supplemental designation of expert witnesses,
designating a second orthopedic surgeon, Stewart Shanfield, M.D., to testify on
the same subject matter as its previously designated expert. 
·       
Plaintiff now moves the Court to strike
Defendant's supplemental expert designation.
Legal Standard 
“Any party may demand a
mutual and simultaneous exchange by all parties of a list containing the name
and address of any natural person, including one who is a party, whose oral or
deposition testimony in the form of an expert opinion any party expects to
offer in evidence at the trial.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2034.210, subd. (b).)¿ The
exchange of expert witness information shall include either of the following:
(1) a list setting forth the name and address of a person whose expert opinion
that party expects to offer in evidence at the trial, or (2) a statement that
the party does not presently intend to offer the testimony of an expert
witness.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2034.260, subd. (b).)¿ On
objection of any party who has made a complete and timely compliance with
Section 2034.260, the trial court shall exclude from evidence the expert
opinion of any witness that is offered by any party who has unreasonably failed
to do any of the following: (1) list that witness as an expert under Section
2034.260; (2) submit an expert witness declaration; (3) produce reports and
writings of expert witnesses under Section 2034.270; or make that expert
available for a deposition.¿(Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.300.) 
CCP § 2034.230 states
“(b) The demand shall specify the date for the exchange of lists of expert
trial witnesses, expert witness declarations, and any demanded production of
writings. The specified date of exchange shall be 50 days before the initial
trial date, or 20 days after service of the demand, whichever is closer to the
trial date, unless the court, on motion and a showing of good cause, orders an
earlier or later date of exchange.” 
Discussion
The central issue in
this motion is whether the designation of Dr. Shanfield constitutes a
permissible supplemental designation under CCP § 2034.280. Defendant argues
that it has the right to supplement here because it is adding an expert to
address a subject matter on which the opposing party plans to offer expert
testimony.
Defendant concedes that
under certain circumstances, the use of supplemental designations is
impermissible, such as: (1) adding an expert on subjects already designated by
the City in its original exchange; (2) adding experts on new subjects not
raised by an opposing party's designation; or (3) substituting for an
already-designated expert. [CCP § 2034.280(a); see Basham v. Babcock
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1717, 1723, 52 Cal.Rptr.2d 456, 460—party dissatisfied
with a designated expert's deposition testimony could not call a supplementally
named expert to testify on the same subjects at trial.] However, Defendant
argues that this situation does not fall under those categories, as Dr.
Shanfield, a foot and ankle specialist, is designated to address a subject raised
by Plaintiff through her designation of Dr. Ouzounian, also a foot and ankle
specialist. Defendant cites Du-All Safety, LLC v. Superior Ct., 34
Cal.App.5th 485, 498–99, for the position that a party has the right to
supplement its expert witness exchange by adding experts to cover subjects on
which the other party indicates it plans to offer expert testimony, and on
which the opposing party had not previously retained an expert to testify.
This argument, however,
is not supported by the evidence. First, Defendant attached no exhibits or
declarations, such as one from Dr. Shanfield, attesting to his specialty as a
foot and ankle specialist. Second, defense counsel’s declarations regarding both
the initial expert disclosure of Dr. Korchek and the supplemental disclosure of
Dr.Shanfield show that they are both orthopedic surgeons, and the area of
testimony is exactly the same. (Ex. G and Ex. I to Motion.)
In the initial
designation, defense counsel declares that “Dr. Korchek will testify as to his
examination of plaintiff and his review of records related to plaintiff’s
claims, as well as the deposition testimonies offered in this case and related
documents and films, diagnostics, and x-rays/MRIs/CT scans pertinent to this
action. His testimony will include, but is not limited to his opinions
regarding the nature and extent of plaintiff’s alleged injuries and claims, and
his findings, diagnosis, and prognosis. It is expected that Dr. Korchek will
testify plaintiff’s past, present, and future medical condition and care, and
the reasonableness of the care of plaintiff, plaintiff’s treatment and
diagnoses, causation, alleged damages, and any rebuttal testimony. Dr. Korchek
may also testify with regard to opinions expressed by the other parties’
experts whose testimony falls within the doctor’s area of expertise. Such
testimony regarding other experts’ opinions may be provided at his deposition
if said deposition occurs after that of the other parties’ experts.”
In the supplemental
declaration, defense counsel declares that “Dr. Shanfield will testify as to
his review of records related to plaintiff’s claims, as well as the deposition
testimonies offered in this case and related documents and films, diagnostics,
and x-rays/MRIs/CT scans pertinent to this action. His testimony will include,
but is not limited to his opinions regarding the nature and extent of
plaintiff’s alleged injuries and claims, and his findings, diagnosis, and
prognosis. It is expected that Dr. Shanfield will testify plaintiff’s past,
present, and future medical condition and care, and the reasonableness of the
care of plaintiff, plaintiff’s treatment and diagnoses, causation, alleged
damages, and any rebuttal testimony. Dr. Shanfield may also testify with regard
to opinions expressed by the other parties’ experts whose testimony falls
within the doctor’s area of expertise. Such testimony regarding other experts’
opinions may be provided at his deposition if said deposition occurs after that
of the other parties’ experts.”
Aside from the name,
the subject matter and area of expertise in which both experts will testify is
exactly the same. There is no reference to ankles or feet in Dr. Shanfield’s
designated testimony subject matter.
Finally, Dr.
Shanfield’s CV does not show any specialty in ankles or feet, as alleged by
Defendant. Based on the evidence submitted, the Court finds that the
supplemental designation attempts to add an expert on subjects already
designated by the City in its original exchange, which is an impermissible use
of supplemental designations, as acknowledged by Defendant. Thus, Plaintiff’s
motion to strike is granted.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 