 Case Number:  23STCV05037    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 10/17/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV05037 EMILY WILSON vs
JOSEPH ANTHONY CORRADO, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE
GRANTED
 
Background
On April 8, 2024,
Plaintiff served a notice for Defendant Corrado’s deposition, initially set for
May 2, 2024. On April 15, 2024, counsel for Defendant Lyft, not Defendant
Corrado, objected to the notice, claiming it was unilaterally scheduled.
Plaintiff’s counsel met and conferred with counsel for both Defendants, and all
parties agreed to reschedule Defendant Corrado’s deposition for May 22, 2024.
On May 16, 2024, Defendant Corrado’s counsel requested a two-week postponement
due to unexpected leave.  The parties
agreed to continue the deposition to June 12, 2024. On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff
sent an amended notice of Deposition. Defendants did not file an objection. On
June 11, 2024, Defendant responded to Plaintiff’s meet and confer email,
confirming that the deposition would proceed as scheduled the following day. On
June 12, 2024, less than one-hour before the deposition, Defendant Corrado
cancelled the deposition. From June to September 2024, the parties met and
conferred to re-schedule Corrado’s deposition and discuss whether Defendant
would stipulate to liability, which could eliminate the need for the
deposition. Defendant refused to stipulate and failed to provide any
alternative dates. Plaintiff now moves to compel Defendant Corrado’s
deposition. Defendant did not file an opposition.
Legal Standard 
¿¿¿¿ 
Any party may obtain any discovery
of information, documents, land, property, or electronically stored information
so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is relevant to the
subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450¿provides in pertinent part the
following:¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
“(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with both of the following:¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040¿or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.
 
Discussion
All the requirements
for the present motion to compel are met. On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff served
Defendant with an amended deposition notice for a deposition on June 12, 2024.
Defendant did not file an objection and failed to appear at the scheduled deposition,
despite the fact that it was confirmed a day prior, on June 11, 2024. Defendant
also did not file an opposition. The motion is therefore granted.
Plaintiff requests
sanctions in the amount of $2,335. The Court finds that Defendant Corrado did
not act with substantial justification, and sanctions are appropriate under the
circumstances. Although the deposition was confirmed, it had been continued multiple
times to accommodate Defendant Corrado. When Defendant failed to appear for the
June 12, 2024, deposition, no further dates were provided thereafter. However,
the Court reduces the requested sanctions to $1,500 given the simplicity of the
issues and the lack of an opposition.
Defendant’s counsel
indicated difficulties in controlling his client, stating that Defendant
Corrado refused to participate in the litigation and was unwilling to appear
for deposition. (Exhibit 15.) Under such circumstances, counsel should have
moved to withdraw.  Counsel did not do so
and thereby effectively condoned the conduct of his client.  Accordingly, the Court orders sanctions in
the amount of $1,500 against Defendant Corrado and his counsel payable to
Plaintiff within 20 days.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.