  Case Number:  23TRCV00433    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                           Tuesday,
April 16, 2024 Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar
No. 8
 
  
PROCEEDINGS
 
Nicolle
Arroyo v. Dave & Busters of California, Inc., et al.
23TRCV00433
1.      Nicolle Arroyo’s Motion for Reconsideration 

TENTATIVE RULING
 
Nicolle Arroyo’s Motion for Reconsideration is denied.
 
 
Background 
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on February 14, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff was a waitress employed by Defendants.
Plaintiff was subjected to sexual harassment and was terminated after
complaining of the harassment. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of
action: 1. Constructive Discharge 2. Failure to Prevent Harassment,
Discrimination, and Retaliation 3. Hostile Work Environment 4. De Facto Sexual
Harassment. 
 
            On September 5, 2023, Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration was granted. On September 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for
reconsideration.
 
            Objections
 
            Defendants’ objections 1 to 6 are overruled. The
objections are overruled on the grounds raised by Defendants. However, this
ruling does not mean that the Court determines that the evidence specifically
objected to is relevant or has any persuasive value. 
 
            Motion for
Reconsideration
 
            CCP § 1008(a)
states: “When an application for an order has been made to a or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that
made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order.  The party making the application
shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what
judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” 
In addition, the party seeking reconsideration must provide not just new
or different facts, circumstance, or law, but a satisfactory explanation for
the failure to produce it at an earlier time.  See, Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 674, 690. 
 
            Pursuant to CCP § 1008, Plaintiff moves for
reconsideration of the September 5, 2023  order granting Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration.  The motion is made “on the
grounds that Plaintiff has recently discovered new law that demonstrates
Plaintiff’s arbitration agreement was unconscionable.”  (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 6-7.)
 
            Plaintiff’s motion is denied because Plaintiff fails to
provide new facts, circumstances, or law to warrant reconsideration of the
Court’s prior order. Plaintiff’s purported new law are recitations to Murrey
v. Superior Court (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 1223 and CCP § 1001.  However, neither Murrey nor CCP § 1001
are new law as both were in existence at the time that Defendants’ motion to
compel arbitration was heard.  Instead,
Plaintiff appears to concede that this is not new law and that Plaintiff’s
counsel simply neglected to make additional arguments in its opposition and
oral argument.  However, this is not
sufficient grounds to grant a motion for reconsideration.
 
            In addition, Plaintiff fails to provide any valid
explanation as to why the purported new facts, circumstances, or law were not
presented earlier.  Garcia v. Hejmadi
(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690.  Plaintiff
clearly had knowledge of the existence of Murrey at the time of the
hearing.  In fact, Murrey was
specifically cited in the opposition. The fact that Plaintiff’s counsel did not
consider an additional unconscionability argument that was similar to one
raised in Murrey is not a new fact, circumstance, or law to warrant
reconsideration of the prior ruling. 
 
            Finally, as an aside, the Court notes that the
confidentiality provision raised in Murrey only supported a ground for
substantive unconscionability. A court can invalidate an arbitration
agreement when it is unconscionable or against public policy.  See,
Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th
83, 99.  Unconscionability contains two
elements:  procedural unconscionability
and substantive unconscionability. “[U]nconscionability has
both a procedural and a substantive' element, the former focusing on
‘oppression' or 'surprise' due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on
'overly harsh' or 'one-sided' results. 
The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive
unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to exercise its
discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of
unconscionability.” Id. at 114.  Here,
Plaintiff’s motion does not address at all the procedural unconscionability
component that must also exist to invalidate an arbitration agreement. 
 
            Therefore, for the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s motion
for reconsideration is denied.
 
            Defendants are ordered to give
notice of this ruling.