  Case Number:  23STCV02134    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ CHARLES BERNAL, et al., Plaintiff(s), vs. CHRISTOPHER MAGGIORE, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV02134 Hearing Date: October 21, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Charles Bernal (“Bernal”) and Artist Worldwide Agency, LLC filed this action against defendants Christopher Maggiore (“Maggiore”), Artists Worldwide, Jamison Properties, Inc., Force Protection Agency, Inc., Doe 1, and Does 2-25 premised upon various allegations of interference with AWA’s business, breach of contract, assault, and battery. On July 18, 2024, Plaintiff Bernal filed the instant motion to compel the deposition of defendant Maggiore, in addition to the imposition of monetary sanctions. Plaintiff Bernal argues Maggiore’s deposition was noticed for May 30, 2024, and that on May 28, 2024, Maggiore agreed to be deposed on July 1, 2024. However, after Maggiore’s counsel informed Plaintiff’s counsel that Maggiore suffered a stroke, his counsel has failed to provide any update on when the deposition could take place. On September 30, 2024, Maggiore filed an opposition averring that Maggiore’s deposition can be set for November 12, 2024. Maggiore avers that the discovery disputes between the parties were due to his medical condition, rather than any bad faith or unwillingness to fulfill their litigation obligations. Maggiore requests the Court deny the motion on a contingency basis. On October 11, 2024, Plaintiff Bernal filed his reply arguing that Maggiore did not object to the deposition notice, and that he was forced to file the motion because Maggiore’s counsel ignored attempts to meet and confer and requests for an update. On October 18, 2024, Maggiore’s counsel filed a supplemental declaration stating that the parties have agreed to set the deposition for November 12, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.  II. LEGAL STANDARD CCP § 2025.450(a) provides, “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”¿CCP § 2025.450 requires the Court to compel the deposition unless it finds a valid objection was served under §2025.410.  III. DISCUSSION At this juncture, the Court is familiar with the parties and the discovery disputes between them. Regardless of the health issues Maggiore suffered previously which delayed his deposition, the salient point is that Maggiore is that he did not object to the deposition notice and that he is now available and willing to be deposed. Further, Maggiore provides that his deposition is currently set for November 12, 2024.  Considering the delays in moving forward with this deposition, the Court finds it appropriate to grant the motion notwithstanding the current deposition date set since there is no guarantee that it will necessarily proceed as scheduled. CCP § 2025.450(g)(1) requires the court to impose sanctions unless it finds the deponent acted with substantial justification or there are circumstances that render imposition of sanctions unjust. Under the circumstances, the Court declines to award any sanctions.  VII. CONCLUSION & ORDER The Court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff Bernal’s motion to compel Maggiore’s deposition subject to the following. Maggiore is ordered to appear for deposition at a date, time, and location to be noticed by Plaintiff Bernal. The parties are ordered to meet and confer on a mutually agreeable date for the deposition to proceed and to be completed by no later than November 15, 2024. If Maggiore does not meaningfully participate in the meet and confer discussion, Plaintiff Bernal may unilaterally notice Maggiore’s deposition, and Maggiore is ordered to appear for the deposition on a date, time, and location at Plaintiff Bernal’s election. However, Plaintiff Bernal must give at least ten days’ notice of the deposition (notice extended per Code if by other than personal service)  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: October 18, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 