 Case Number:  23STCV24336    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ BEVERLY M. HALLER, et al., Plaintiff(s), vs. SANTA PAULA POST ACUTE, LLC, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV24336 Hearing Date: October 21, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO SEAL  Plaintiffs Beverly M. Haller by and through her Successor-In-Interest, Richard A. Haller, Richard A. Haller, and Melissa Haller (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against defendants Santa Paula Post Acute, LLC dba Santa Paula Post Acute Center, LBCSP Skilled, LLC, Matthew Haller and Does 1 through 200 arising from the death of decedent Beverly M. Haller. The complaint sets forth four causes of action for (1) Elder Abuse, (2) Negligence, (3) Violation of Residents Rights, and (4) Wrongful Death. On August 27, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion seeking to seal their Motion under CCP §664.6 for an Order and Entry of Judgment Enforcing the Terms of The Settlement Agreement (referred to hereinafter as “Motion to Enforce Settlement” or “Motion”). The motion is unopposed. The motion was initially heard on September 25, 2024, wherein the Court denied Plaintiffs’ motion to seal the entirety of the Motion to Enforce Settlement due to its overbreadth. However, the Court also stated it would consider the motion to seal should Plaintiffs provide a new redacted version that is narrowly tailored to serve the specific overriding interest sought. The Court then continued Plaintiffs’ motion and instructed Plaintiffs to submit a proposed redacted version for approval no later than five court days prior to the continued hearing. (Min. Order, Sept. 25, 2024.) Thereafter, Plaintiffs have provided this Court with a newly redacted Motion to Enforce Settlement and Reply which has cured the previously noted defects. The Court finds that a confidentiality provision may support an overriding interest pursuant to Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, Plaintiffs have articulated prejudice absent closure/sealing of the settlement amount, the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored to serve the overriding interest by redacting only the monetary amount, and there is no less restrictive means of achieving the overriding interest. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).) Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs motion to seal is GRANTED. Currently, there is no hearing on a motion to enforce settlement on calendar. If and when Plaintiffs reserve the hearing date, Plaintiffs are to file the redacted copies as provided and approved by this Order. Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: October 18, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 