 Case Number:  23STCV23671    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ BLAIR COBB, et al., Plaintiff(s), vs. ELSIE I. WYNN, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV23671 Hearing Date: October 21, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Blair Cobb and Adam Eatroff (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against defendants Elsie I. Wynn, 3557 Stoner, LLC, Thomas James Capital, Inc., Thomas Beadel, and Does 1 to 25 for damages arising from construction and destruction of a stone retaining wall, resulting in loss of use and loss of value of property. The FAC sets forth two causes of action for negligence and nuisance.¿ On July 24, 2024, defendants Elsie I. Wynn (“Wynn”), 3557 Stoner, LLC, Thomas James Capital, Inc. (“TJC”), and Thomas Beadel (“Beadel”) (collectively, “Defendants”) filed the instant demurrer to the FAC on the grounds that the FAC is uncertain because it does not connect any defendant to any specific cause of action, and that the FAC fails to state facts to constitute causes of action against them. On August 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. On October 14, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.  II. PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENT Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a).)¿¿¿ Defendants’ counsel declares that on July 11, 2024, he met and conferred telephonically with Plaintiffs’ counsel to discuss the deficiencies in the FAC, including the primary grounds for a demurrer. (Cosico Decl. ¶ 3.) The Court finds Defendants fulfilled the meet and confer requirement prior to filing the demurrer.  III. LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿¿ “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 (internal citations omitted).)¿¿  IV. DISCUSSION Defendants argue that the only allegations against TJC and Beadel are that they held power of attorney for 3557 Stoner, LLC, of which Wynn is alleged to be the sole member. Defendants contend that the FAC aims to create theories of liability that do not exist. Defendants further argue that the FAC does not articulate what duty they had to Plaintiffs in terms of the negligence cause of action.  The Court has reviewed the FAC, which alleges in pertinent part the following: Plaintiffs own and reside at the property located at 3557 Stoner Ave. in Los Angeles, CA 90066 (“Mar Vista Property”). (FAC ¶ 1.) Wynn formerly owned the Mar Vista Property, and transferred it to 3557 Stoner, LLC. (Id. ¶ 2.) 3557 Stoner, LLC is a dissolved LLC, and Wynn was its agent for service of process, manager, and sole member at all times of its existence. (Id. ¶ 3.) TJC is an entity and Beadel an individual for whom 3557 Stoner, LLC recorded a power of attorney as to the Mar Vista Property. (Id. ¶¶ 5-6.) All Defendants, including TJC, oversaw the construction and also the destruction of a stone retaining wall in the Mar Vista Property’s rear yard and its replacement with an unpermitted concrete block non-retaining wall. (Id. ¶ 7.) After Defendants performed unpermitted work to replace the former stone retaining wall, some of them then sold the Mar Vista Property to Michelle K. Bergren and Peter C. Bergren (collectively, the “Bergrens”). (Id. ¶ 10.) On September 28, 2021, the Bergrens deeded the Mar Vista Property to Plaintiffs, and Plaintiffs did not know and could not have known that Defendants built the rear non-retaining wall without permits or that it was negligently engineered, designed, and built. (Id. ¶ 11.) In early 2023, the rear wall collapsed. (Id. ¶ 12.) As a result of Defendants’ actions and inactions, the FAC alleges the incident may have destabilized the house and a power pole, and that Defendants’ actions have threatened the use, value, safety, and marketability of the Mar Vista Property. (Id. ¶¶ 14-15.) Notably, Defendants provide no authority, nor do they properly develop their contention, which supports the proposition that they owed no duty to Plaintiffs because the FAC does not articulate a specific duty. Civil Code §1714(a) provides, “Everyone is responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself.” “In California, the “general rule” is that people owe a duty of care to avoid causing harm to others and that they are thus usually liable for injuries their negligence inflicts. [Citation].” (S. California Gas Leak Cases (2019) 7 Cal. 5th 391, 398.) “The only exceptions to this rule are those created by statute or clear public policy.” (Herrle v. Est. of Marshall (1996) 45 Cal. App. 4th 1761, 1765.)  Defendants do not articulate any exception or overriding policy to the general rule that every person is responsible for injuries caused by the failure to use ordinary care or skill in the management of his property. Further, the FAC sufficiently alleges Defendants’ involvement pertaining to the construction of the alleged unpermitted concrete block non-retaining wall in that they oversaw the wall’s construction and destruction. (See Dillard v. County of Kern (1943) 23 Cal. 2d 271, 279 [A demurrer should not be sustained on the ground of uncertainty regarding which defendant committed the alleged conduct, where the pleading alleged that all defendants were responsible.].) Additionally, uncertainty is a disfavored basis for demurrer and only applies when the demurrer is sufficiently unintelligible that a responding party would have no idea how to direct their litigation efforts.¿(Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Ludgate Insurance Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 592, 608.) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.”¿(Chen v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822.) Lastly, Defendants moving papers only attack the sufficiency of the first cause of action for negligence. The Court will not consider any new arguments raised for the first time in the reply regarding the second cause of action for nuisance. (Marriage of Khera & Sameer (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1467, 1477 [“Obvious reasons of fairness militate against consideration of an issue raised initially in the reply brief.”].)  V. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC is OVERRULED.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: October 18, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 