  Case Number:  21STCV44259    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  61 HEXADYNE CORPORATION, A DELAWARE CORPORATION vs MASON ELECTRIC COMPANY, INC., A DELAWARE CORPORATIONTENTATIVECross-Defendants Hexadyne Corporation and Robert Sanchez’s Motion for a Trial Continuance is GRANTED.Moving party to provide notice.DISCUSSION“In passing on the motion for a continuance, which rests to a great extent in the sound discretion of the trial court, the trial judge may inquire into the merits of the defense, pass on any questions presented as to any possible prejudice to either of the parties which would result from granting or denying the motion, and determine whether there is good cause therefor.” (Schwartz v. Magyar House, Inc. (1959) 168 Cal.App.2d 182, 188–89.)In evaluating a request for continuance, the court should consider:(1) The proximity of the trial date;(2) Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;(3) The length of the continuance requested;(4) The availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance;(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;(7) The court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial;(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance;(10) Whether the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.(CRC Rule 3.1332, subd. (d).)Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Hexadyne Corporation (Hexadyne) seeks a six-month continuance of trial and reopening discovery to permit it to conduct discovery into Defendant and Cross-Complainant Mason Electric Company, Inc.’s (Mason) cross-complaint, and to file a dispositive motion on Mason’s claims. Plaintiff contends that Mason’s responses to discovery since it filed its Cross-Complaint by leave of court on April 15, 2024, have been obstructive and non-responsive.(Motion at pp. 6–7.) Hexadyne also contends that since this court sustained its initial demurrer to the cross-complaint with leave to amend on June 25, 2024, and took its second demurrer under submission on October 23, 2024, it has not yet been able to file a responsive pleading or assert affirmative defenses.(Motion at pp. 12–13.)Mason argues that the motion is untimely, as notice was given without the two additional court dates prescribed for electronic service under Code Civ. Proc. § 1010.6. (Opposition at pp. 9–10.) Mason argues that Hexadyne has unreasonably delayed bringing the present motion, and has only belatedly attempted to meet and confer regarding the discovery they claim is outstanding. (Opposition at pp. 10–16.) Mason further argues that Hexadyne had an opportunity to file a dispositive motion, and need not wait to file an answer to do so. (Opposition at pp. 16–17.)Hexadyne has moved reasonably promptly for a continuance. It is true that the motion was filed on October 30, 2024, in compliance with the 16-court-day notice requirement for motions under Code of Civil Procedure § 1005, subd. (b), but not with the two court-day extension for electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure § 1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(B).) But the late filing of the paper only gives the court “discretion” to “refuse[] to consider” it. (Cal. Rules of Court (CRC) Rule 3.1300, subd. (d).) Here, Mason articulates no prejudice resulting from the tardy service, and given the substantial prejudice that may result from denying the continuance sought, the motion is properly considered.Mason is mistaken when it claims that Hexadyne did not previously seek a continuance of trial. It reaches this conclusion by ignoring the motion to sever trial that Hexadyne filed on September 9, 2024, which sought a bifurcation of trial between its own claims, which it claimed were ready for trial, and Mason’s cross-claims, which it contended were not ready to be tried. The motion was a de facto request for a continuance of trial on Mason’s claims, and was denied in part on the representations of both Mason and Hexadyne that they preferred a unified jury trial for all claims.Responsibility for the delay of trial is equally shared by the parties. Trial in this matter was initially set for trial On May 7, 2024, and continued pursuant to the parties’ stipulation on March 29, 2024, to allow time to brief Mason’s request to file the cross-complaint and Hexadyne’s demurrers thereto. The first demurrer was sustained in part with leave to amend on June 25, 2024. No responsive pleading to the cross-complaint has yet been filed, and necessarily no discovery has taken place on any affirmative defenses pleaded therein.No date is currently set for trial, having been vacated at the final status conference of October 14, 2022. The length of the requested continuance is only six months, not long in relation to the relatively short time Mason’s cross-complaint has been a live concern in this case. Mason articulates no prejudice resulting from the continuance sought by Hexadyne, save for the sunk costs incurred in preparing for the previous trial date, already vacated, and in opposing the motion, which are the same regardless of whether trial is set soon or six months from now.Good cause also favors extension and reopening of discovery dates to match the continued trial date. Such an extension may be granted in the court’s discretion upon consideration of factors including the following:(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery.(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.(Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.050, subd. (b).)The court need not determine at this time whether Hexadyne’s claims of Mason’s obstructionism are meritorious, because Hexadyne has shown, first, that no discovery has been or could have been conducted upon its affirmative defenses, which necessarily await adjudication of its recent demurrer, taken under submission on October 23, 2024. Moreover, Hexadyne notes that Mason has identified trial witnesses that it did not previously disclose in discovery. (Motion at p. 8.) Mason in opposition does not contest that it did not previously identify these witnesses, but argues only that their names appeared at various points in the parties’ document production. (Pismarov Decl. ¶ 43.) Hexadyne has shown good cause for the discovery to be sought and reasonable diligence in seeking it.Accordingly, the motion for trial continuance is GRANTED.