 Case Number:  23AHCV01622    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ZIXUAN AN, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AMERICAN
   FRANCHISE REGIONAL CENTER, LLC,
  et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01622
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S APPLICATION FOR DEFAULT JUDGMENT AGAINST HU
   & ASSOCIATES, LLC, JOHN DEYONG HU, SYLVIA YOUNG, AND UNIVERSO HOLDINGS,
   INC.
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   20, 2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
          On
July 14, 2023, plaintiff Zixuan An (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
defendants Agnes Sinclair aka Agnes Yen (“Yen”), American Franchise Regional
Center LLC (“American Franchise”), Americana Hesperia Retirement Funding LLC (“Americana
Hesperia”), Sylvia Young (“Young”), John Deyong Hu (“Hu”), Hu & Associates,
LLC (“Hu & Associates”), and Universo Holdings, Inc. (“Universo”). 
          On
January 30, 2024, the Court dismissed American Franchise, Americana Hesperia, and
Yen (collectively, “Dismissed Defendants”) after sustaining their demurrer to
the Complaint. Now, Plaintiff seeks a default judgment against Hu, Young, Hu
& Associates, and Universo (collectively, “Defaulted Defendants”). 
II.     FACTUAL
ALLEGATIONS
          Plaintiff
alleges that in or about July 28, 2015, Hu held various seminars with Yen and
Americana Hesperia for Chinese investors and promoted a project to construct a
senior care facility in Hesperia, California. (Compl., p. 6.) Investors in this
project would qualify for an EB-5 visa and Hu, Hu & Associates, and Yen
represented that investing in the project would have minimal risk because the
land upon which the facility would be built was worth $22 million. (Compl., pp.
6-7.) 
Plaintiff
alleges that on or about July 28, 2016, he entered into a written
attorney-client fee agreement with Hu as well as Hu & Associates wherein Hu
and his law firm agreed to provide immigration legal services. (Compl., p. 8.) Plaintiff
also signed a subscription agreement and invested $500,0000 to purchase a
one-unit membership unit from Americana Hesperia, who agreed to provide,
supply, and prepare the necessary documentation for Plaintiff’s immigration
petition. (Compl., pp. 8-9.) 
On or about
July 28, 2017, Yen sent an email advising investors that the project had been
delayed. (Compl., p. 9.) Although Yen stated that investors would be kept
updated, none of the Defendants provided any further update after this email.
(Compl., p. 9.) 
Plaintiff
alleges that he later discovered in 2018 and 2019 that the land on which the
project was supposed to be built was actually worth $600,000, not $22 million
as represented. The land was previously owned by Apollo Construction LLC
(“Apollo Construction”), which purchased the land from Universo in November
2017. Plaintiff alleges that Young, Hu’s wife, is the sole shareholder of
Universo. (Compl., p. 10.) 
III.    DISCUSSION
         Plaintiff
argues he is entitled to judgment on his causes of action for breach of
contract, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, conspiracy to commit fraud,
breach of fiduciary duty, professional negligence, unauthorized practice of
law, and unfair business practices in violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200 et seq. (“UCL”). However, if the complaint fails to state a
cause of action, no default judgment may be entered. (Kim v. Westmoore
Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 282.) 
Here, the
face of the Complaint shows that most of these claims are barred by the applicable
statute of limitations. First, Plaintiff’s claim for violation of the UCL is
subject to a 4-year statute of limitations. (Bus. & Prof. Code, §
17208.)  Second, Plaintiff’s claims
against Hu and Hu & Associates for breach of contract, breach of fiduciary
duty, and professional negligence are subject to Code of Civil Procedure
section 340.6, which requires an action against an attorney for a wrongful act
or omission in the performance of professional services, other than for actual
fraud, to be commenced “within one year after the plaintiff discovers, or
through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the facts
constituting the wrongful act or omission, or four years from the date of the
wrongful act or omission, whichever occurs first.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.6,
subd. (a).) Third, Plaintiff’s fraud and negligent misrepresentation claims
against Hu and Hu & Associates are subject to Code of Civil Procedure
sections 338(d) and 339(1), which provide for a 3-year and 2-year statute of
limitations, respectively.
Plaintiff’s
claims are time-barred because on or about July 28, 2017, Yen sent an email
advising investors that the project had been delayed, therefore placing
Plaintiff on notice that the project timeline would not be honored. (Compl., p.
9.) Plaintiff also alleges that in or around the end of 2018, he became aware
that Hu misrepresented the value of the land on which the project was supposed
to be built. Therefore, Plaintiff was on notice of the facts giving rise to his
claims against Hu and Hu & Associates for more than 4 years before he filed
this action on July 14, 2023. Additionally, since Plaintiff does not have a
viable claim for fraud, Plaintiff’s Sixth Cause of Action against Young and
Universo for conspiracy to commit fraud fails. 
The only
causes of action which are not time-barred on the face of the complaint are
Plaintiff’s Eleventh Cause of Action for the unauthorized practice of law.
Plaintiff alleges that Hu is licensed to practice in New York, not California, and
that Hu and Hu & Associates illegally maintain an office in California to
provide “immigration legal services” in violation of Business and Professions
Code section 6125. (Compl., ¶ 116.) However, the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services (USCIS) is an agency of the United States Department of
Homeland Security (“DHS”) and administers immigration matters including the
issuance of visas, including EB-5 visas. Congress authorized the Secretary of
Homeland Security to “establish such regulations . . . as he deems necessary
for carrying out his authority.” (8 U.S.C. 1103(a)(3).) DHS has thus adopted a
set of regulations specifying those who may provide representation before the
USCIS. In particular, any “attorney”, as defined in 8 C.F.R. 1.2, may provide
representation before the USCIS. (8 CFR 1.2.) In turn, 8 C.F.R. 1.2 defines
“attorney” as “any person who is eligible to practice law in, and is a member
in good standing of the bar of, the highest court of any State, possession,
territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or of the District of
Columbia, and is not under any order suspending, enjoining, restraining,
disbarring, or otherwise restricting him or her in the practice of law.” 
Here, Plaintiff
alleges that Hu is licensed to practice law in New York and was retained to
“assist Plaintiff and his family to obtain an EB-5 immigration visa.” (Compl.,
p. 8.) Therefore, Hu was federally authorized to provide representation in
immigration matters and not engaged in the unauthorized practice of law under
California state law. (See People v. Salcido (2019) 42
Cal.App.5th 529, 543 [citing Sperry v. Florida (1963) 373 U.S. 379,
385.) 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the application
for default judgment is DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 20th
day of September 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 