  Case Number:  21STCV09956    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



RICARDO CALVARIO, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MICHAEL
   HOMAYUN, D.D.S., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )


     CASE NO.:  21STCV09956
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
   FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET ONE) FROM DEFENDANT ORAL AESTHETIC ADVOCACY
   GROUP, INC. dba COSMETIC DENTISTRY GRANTS  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   20, 2024




 


)


 



 
Plaintiff Ricardo Calvario
(“Plaintiff”) moves for an order compelling defendant Oral Aesthetic Advocacy
Group, Inc. dba Cosmetic Dentistry Grants (“Defendant”) to serve further
responses to Requests for Production of Documents and Things (Set One) Nos. 1
through 27. 
Although the motion is unopposed, and
Defendant necessarily fails to meet its burden to show how its objections have
merit, Plaintiff must make a threshold showing that good cause justifies each
of his document requests. A motion to compel a further response to document
requests “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)  Under this standard, Plaintiff’s motion is
GRANTED with respect to RFP Nos. 1-10, 12-19, 21-23, 25. 
Plaintiff fails to show good cause for RFP
Nos. 11, 20, 24, 26, and 27. 
First, RFP No. 11 is too broad because
it demands all documents relating to Defendants “policies and procedures in
effect at any time in the last 10 years,” regardless of whether those policies
and procedures have any relationship to Plaintiff’s claims.  
Second, RFP No. 20 demands all
documents relating to Defendant’s document retention policies in the last 10
years, but there are no allegations relating to document retention. 
Third, RFP No. 24 demands all documents
“pertaining to any lawsuits [Defendant] [has] been a party or witness to,
including, but not limited to, deposition transcripts, written discovery, and
medical examinations.” Plaintiff argues that Defendant has been sued at least
once as a dental “grant” or “referral company” and that Plaintiff should be
entitled to investigate those lawsuits. While Plaintiff may be entitled to
investigate the facts underlying those lawsuits to determine if there is any
pattern of fraud warranting punitive damages, Plaintiff fails to show good
cause for “all documents” pertaining to any lawsuits, without any qualification
as to the type of claims asserted in that lawsuit or whether Defendant was a
defendant in that lawsuit. 
Last, RFP Nos. 26 and 27 seek “any and
all” documents relating to co-defendants Michael Homayun, D.D.S. and Michael
Homayun Dental Corporation dba Comfort Dental Center. Plaintiff does not
establish good cause for inspecting every document relating to Dr. Homayun and
his medical corporation; these catch-all document requests are not tailored
towards any aspect of Defendant’s relationship with them. 
In conclusion, Plaintiff’s motion is
GRANTED with respect to RFP Nos. 1-10, 12-19, 21-23, and 25. Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED and imposed against Defendant in the amount of
$1,050, consisting of 3 hours at Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate of $350. Further
responses must be served and sanctions must be paid within 20 days of the date
of this Order. 
Dated
this 20th
day of September, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 