  Case Number:  23SMCV03382    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant Carolwood Homeowners Association, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of
Issues is GRANTED as to the first issue, relating to violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200, and DENIED as to the second issue, relating to
punitive damages.
 
Defendant Carolwood Homeowners Association, Inc. to give notice.
 
REASONING
 
Defendant
Carolwood Homeowners Association, Inc. (“the HOA”) moves for summary
adjudication of the following issues: (1) Plaintiffs Chloe Fogel, Arthur Fogel, and the Arthur Fogel/Kaleen Lemmon
Family Trust (“Plaintiffs”) cannot recover on their fourth cause of
action for violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 against the
HOA because the HOA is not a business for purposes of the statute, and (2)
Plaintiffs cannot recover punitive damages against the HOA because Plaintiffs
cannot establish conduct by the HOA which constitutes oppression, fraud, or
malice.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
The
HOA requests judicial notice of The First Restatement To The Declaration Of
Covenants, Conditions, And Restrictions Establishing A Plan For Condominium
Ownership For Carolwood
Homeowners
Association, Inc., recorded in the Official Records of Los Angeles County on
July 14, 2015, as Document No. 20150845374 (“CC&Rs”), as well as
Plaintiffs’ complaint in this action. The HOA’s request is GRANTED pursuant to
Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (c) and (d).
 
Legal
Standard
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl.
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
 
“On a
motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant
. . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr.
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467 (Avivi).)
 
“Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “[T]he court must consider all of the evidence set
forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an
objection) . . . in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see
also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
Analysis
The HOA
first argues that Plaintiffs cannot recover on their fourth cause of action for
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 against the HOA because
the HOA is not a business for purposes of the statute. The HOA presents
evidence that it is a nonprofit, mutual benefit corporation, a Common Interest
Development association governed in accordance with the Davis-Stirling Act
governing nonprofit mutual benefit corporations, and a governing body for the
planned development commonly known as Carolwood Condominiums in West Hollywood.
(Def.’s UMF Nos. 1-3.) Plaintiffs are the owners of Unit T7, 1033 Carol Drive,
in West Hollywood. (Def.’s UMF No. 4.) The HOA is governed by a five-person
volunteer Board of Directors, and the HOA and properties within are governed
pursuant to CC&Rs applicable to the property and specific rules and
regulations, including that the HOA is responsible for managing and maintaining
common areas. (Def.’s UMF Nos. 5, 9-11.) The HOA argues that case law makes
clear that homeowners associations are not businesses operating commercial
activity for purposes of Business and Professions Code section 17200 (“the
UCL”), such that Plaintiffs’ cause of action against the HOA for violation of
the UCL cannot continue. The HOA cites That
v. Alders Maintenance Association (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1419, 1426-1427,
which stated that a homeowners association was not a business for the purposes
of applying the UCLA to an election dispute.
 
Plaintiffs
argue that That v. Alders Maintenance
Association, supra, 206 Cal.App.4th 1419 is limited to
application in an election dispute. The Court is not convinced. The appellate
court stated clearly that no case law supported treating a homeowners
association as a business under the UCL, and it did not state that its application
was limited to only election disputes. Instead, the appellate court stated that
the UCL could apply to a homeowners association where the association engages
in commercial activity such as selling products or services that are voluntary
purchases for members or nonmembers. (Id.
at p. 1427.) Here, the conduct alleged is the failure to follow the CC&Rs,
which require maintenance of the common areas, and there is no basis to
conclude this is a commercial activity. The UCL serves “to protect both
consumers and competitors by promoting fair competition in commercial markets
for goods and services” (ibid.), and
the Court cannot conclude that application of the UCL is proper here where Plaintiffs
simply take issue with the HOA’s failure to comply with the CC&Rs. Further,
it is well established that cause of action for unfair competition “is not an
all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action” (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th
163, 173), and Plaintiffs have brought this claim for violation of the UCL as a
substitute for a claim for violation of the CC&Rs. Thus, the Court finds
that Plaintiffs cannot bring a claim against the HOA for violation of Business
and Professions Code section 17200, and the HOA’s motion for summary
adjudication is GRANTED as to the first issue.
 
The HOA
also contends that Plaintiffs cannot recover punitive damages against the HOA because
Plaintiffs cannot establish conduct by the HOA which constitutes oppression,
fraud, or malice. The HOA argues that Plaintiffs’ claims for punitive damages
arise exclusively from claims of breach of the CC&Rs, and Plaintiffs also
cannot demonstrate an intent to induce injury. The HOA provides evidence that
Plaintiff Chloe Fogel complained of flooding at the unit, and the HOA responded
quickly to investigate and with remedial work. (Def.’s UMF Nos. 12-14.) The HOA
also provides evidence that there is a pending application for permits for
common area repair work. (Def.’s UMF Nos. 15-16.)
 
Punitive
damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression.
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to
cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and
conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th
53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and
unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud” is an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by
defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise
cause injury. (Ibid.)
 
First, it
is not clear from the complaint that Plaintiffs are seeking punitive damages
only from contract, as the HOA alleges. Plaintiffs have alleged several tort
claims, and punitive damages may be warranted if the trier of fact concludes
that the HOA’s “inattention to the danger” of water intrusion and failure to
maintain the commons areas, causing alleged mold in Plaintiffs’ unit, “showed a
complete lack of concern regarding the harmful potential [and] the probability
and likelihood of injury.” (Nolin v.
National Convenience Stores, Inc. (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 288.) Second,
the HOA’s argument that an intent to injure is an element that must be proven
before recovering punitive damages is not well taken, as it is clear that
malice, oppression, and fraud can be proven without an intent to injure. Plaintiffs
provide evidence that the damage to the unit was never adequately remediated
and repaired, Plaintiff Chloe Fogel lived in uninhabitable and dangerous
conditions due to the HOA’s failure to repair, requests to repair were not
addressed, and Plaintiff Chloe Fogel suffered physical and emotional distress
due to the issues. (Pls.’ UMF Nos. 23, 24, 28, 30, 65.) This provides a basis
for punitive damages. Accordingly, the HOA’s motion for summary adjudication is
DENIED as to the second issue.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
The HOA
objects to certain statements within the declaration of Chloe Fogel and
exhibits thereto. The HOA’s objections are OVERRULED.