  Case Number:  23STCV04182    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  76 NOTICE TO PARTIES:  IF ALL PARTIES SUBMIT ON THE FOLLOWING TENTATIVE RULING, THE COURT WILL ADOPT THE TENTATIVE AND WILL CONTINUE THE TRIAL SETTING CONFERENCE TO DECEMBER 13, 2024 AT 8:30 A.M.            Plaintiffs
allege elder abuse and wrongful death relating to decedent’s stay at
Defendants’ facilities.
Defendant
PIH Health Whittier Hospital dba PIH Health Home Healthcare and Hospice
[erroneously sued as Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital dba Hospice of
Presbyterian – Doe 1] and Defendant PIH Health Downey Hospital [Doe 2] demur to
the Complaint and move to strike portions thereof. 
TENTATIVE RULING          
Defendant
PIH Health Whittier Hospital dba PIH Health Home Healthcare and Hospice
[erroneously sued as Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital dba Hospice of
Presbyterian – Doe 1] and Defendant PIH Health Downey Hospital [Doe 2]’s
demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the first,
second and third causes of action.
Plaintiff
is given 30 days’ leave to amend.
Given
the ruling on the demurrers, there are currently no viable causes of action
against Doe 1 and Doe 2. As such, the motions to strike are MOOT.
ANALYSIS
Defendant PIH Health
Whittier Hospital dba PIH Health Home Healthcare and Hospice [erroneously sued
as Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital dba Hospice of Presbyterian – Doe 1]
and Defendant PIH Health Downey Hospital [Doe 2]’s Demurrers
            The Court
addresses both demurrers at once, as they both raise the same issues.
Meet and Confer
            The form
Declaration of Nicole G. Wells reflects that Defendant’s counsel satisfied the
meet and confer requirement set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41.
 Discussion
Defendant
PIH Health Whittier Hospital dba PIH Health Home Healthcare and Hospice
[erroneously sued as Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital dba Hospice of
Presbyterian – Doe 1] and Defendant PIH Health Downey Hospital [Doe 2] demur to
the Complaint as follows:
1.         Second
Cause of Action (Negligence) and Third Cause of Action (Wrongful Death).
            Defendants
argue that the one-year statute of limitations set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, §
340.5 bars these claims “for injury or death against a health care provider
based upon such person’s professional negligence.”
            Civ.
Proc. Code, § 340.5 provides in pertinent part:
In an action
for injury or death against a health care provider based upon such person’s
alleged professional negligence, the time for the commencement of action shall
be three years after the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff
discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered,
the injury, whichever occurs first. In no event shall the time for
commencement of legal action exceed three years unless tolled for any of the
following: (1) upon proof of fraud, (2) intentional concealment, or (3) the
presence of a foreign body, which has no therapeutic or diagnostic purpose or
effect, in the person of the injured person. . . . .
 
For the
purposes of this section:
 
(1) “Health
care provider” means any person licensed or certified pursuant to Division 2
(commencing with Section 500) of the Business and Professions Code, or licensed
pursuant to the Osteopathic Initiative Act, or the Chiropractic Initiative Act,
or licensed pursuant to Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1440) of Division
2 of the Health and Safety Code; and any clinic, health dispensary, or health
facility, licensed pursuant to Division 2 (commencing with Section 1200) of the
Health and Safety Code. “Health care provider” includes the legal
representatives of a health care provider;
 
(2) “Professional
negligence” means a negligent act or omission to act by a health care provider
in the rendering of professional services, which act or omission is the
proximate cause of a personal injury or wrongful death, provided that such
services are within the scope of services for which the provider is licensed
and which are not within any restriction imposed by the licensing agency or
licensed hospital.

     (Civ. Proc. Code, § 340.5 [bold
emphasis added].)
            Civ.
Proc. Code, § 364 provides for a possible 90-day extension of the applicable
statute of limitations following the expiration thereof.
(a) No
action based upon the health care provider’s professional negligence may be
commenced unless the defendant has been given at least 90 days’ prior notice of
the intention to commence the action.
 
(b) No
particular form of notice is required, but it shall notify the defendant of the
legal basis of the claim and the type of loss sustained, including with
specificity the nature of the injuries suffered.
 
(c) The
notice may be served in the manner prescribed in Chapter 5 (commencing with
Section 1010) of Title 14 of Part 2.
 
(d) If
the notice is served within 90 days of the expiration of the applicable statute
of limitations, the time for the commencement of the action shall be extended
90 days from the service of the notice.
 
(e) The
provisions of this section shall not be applicable with respect to any
defendant whose name is unknown to the plaintiff at the time of filing the
complaint and who is identified therein by a fictitious name, as provided in
Section 474.
 
(f) For
the purposes of this section:
 
(1) “Health
care provider” means any person licensed or certified pursuant to Division 2
(commencing with Section 500) of the Business and Professions Code, or licensed
pursuant to the Osteopathic Initiative Act, or the Chiropractic Initiative Act,
or licensed pursuant to Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1440) of Division
2 of the Health and Safety Code; and any clinic, health dispensary, or health
facility, licensed pursuant to Division 2 (commencing with Section 1200) of the
Health and Safety Code. “Health care provider” includes the legal
representatives of a health care provider;
 
(2) “Professional
negligence” means negligent act or omission to act by a health care provider in
the rendering of professional services, which act or omission is the proximate
cause of a personal injury or wrongful death, provided that such services are
within the scope of services for which the provider is licensed and which are
not within any restriction imposed by the licensing agency or licensed
hospital.

     (Civ. Proc. Code, § 364.)
            Plaintiff's decedent died on December 25, 2021. (Complaint, ¶ 1.) The Complaint alleges
that on December 13, 2022, Defendants mailed a Civ. Proc. Code, § 364 letter to
Defendants Whittier Hospital and PHHH. (Compliant, ¶ 7.) The instant Complaint
was filed on February 27, 2023, which is 1 year 2 months and 2 days after
decedent passed away. As such, the Complaint was timely filed as to the
Defendants named in the Complaint.
However, the
Doe Defendants were not substituted in until June 10, 2024, which is 2 years, 5
months and 16 days after decedent passed away. As such, the Complaint is
time-barred as to the second and third causes of action against the Doe
Defendants, unless the amendments relate back to the filing on the Complaint.  
Civ. Proc. Code § 474 provides
in pertinent part: 
When the plaintiff is ignorant
of the name of a defendant, he must state that fact in the complaint, or the
affidavit if the action is commenced by affidavit, and such defendant may be
designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true name is
discovered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended accordingly; . . . .  
Plaintiff’s ignorance of the identity of the person named
as Doe defendant is measured as of the time of the filing of the complaint, and
such ignorance must only be real, even if due to misinformation or negligence;
there is no duty of reasonable inquiry to discover the defendant’s identity. (Balon v. Drost (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 483, 487-90.)  Moreover, even if plaintiff knew the defendant’s identity but did not know the
facts gave rise to a cause of action against that defendant, plaintiff may
properly utilize the fictitious name statute. (Motor City Sales, supra, 31
Cal.App.3d 342, 345-46.) 
However:
It is established that where a
defendant is designated by a fictitious name in an original complaint and
no attempt made therein to state any cause of action against such defendant,
the statute of limitations is not tolled as to such defendant. If there is an
attempt to assert a cause of action in an amended complaint against such
defendant, the statute of limitations is computed from the date of the alleged
 [*862]  acts to the date of the filing of the amended
complaint. (Kolodziejski v. Hover, 124 Cal.App.2d
731, 732-733 [269 P.2d 163]; Sullivan v. Wright,
124 Cal.App.2d 836 [269 P.2d 671]; Gates v. Wendling
Nathan Co., 27 Cal.App.2d 307 [81 P.2d 173
     (Williams v.
Goodman (1963) 214 Cal.App.2d 856, 861-862.)
            Here, the
demurring Defendants were substituted in as Does 1 and 2. However, the
Complaint did not allege what  Does 1 and
2 did or the capacity in which they should be held responsible. Indeed, ¶ 8
makes allegations as to Does 10 – 50 as licensed and unlicensed individuals
and/or entities, and employees of Whittier Hospital who rendered care and
services to Chavez and whose conduct caused the injuries, and damages alleged
herein. ¶ 9 makes allegations as to Does 51 – 90 as caregivers and other
persons employed by PHHH to provide nursing care, home health care, or other
related services. (See also ¶ 33.) ¶ 14 makes allegations as to Does 91-
149 as members of the “Governing Body” of WHITTIER HOSPITAL and PHHH
responsible for the creation and implementation of policies and procedures for
the operation of their hospitals and home health agencies and for supervising
the administration of the same pursuant to 42 C.F.R. §483.75 and 22 C.C.R.
§70035. ¶ 10 only makes a boilerplate blanket allegation that “Plaintiffs are
ignorant of the true names and capacities of those Defendants sued herein as
Does 1 through 200, and for that reason have sued those Defendants by such
fictitious names. Plaintiffs will seek leave from the court to amend this
Complaint to identify said Defendants when their identities are ascertained.”
            Because
Plaintiff did not specify that Does 1 and 2 engaged in any conduct or existed
in any capacity for which they can be held liable, there is no basis to hold
that that Doe Amendments relate back to the filing of the original Complaint.
            As such,
the demurrer to the second and third causes of action is SUSTAINED with leave
to amend.
2.         First
Cause of Action (Elder Abuse).
            Defendants
argue that this cause of action is barred by the two-year statute of
limitations set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 335.1, which applies to “[a] action
for assault, battery, or injury to, or for the death of, an individual caused
by the wrongful act or neglect of another.”
[Civ. Proc. Code §] 335.1
 [*126]  statute of limitations (applicable to
causes for “assault, battery, or injury to, or for the death of, an
individual caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another”) is facially
applicable to elder abuse actions and provides a two-year
limitation period, and is subject to tolling for “insanity” as defined in Code
of Civil Procedure section 352.
(Benun v. Superior Court
(2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 113, 125-126.)
            Here, Plaintiff decedent died on December 25, 2021. (Complaint, ¶
1.) The Complaint alleges that on December 13, 2022, Defendants mailed a Civ.
Proc. Code, § 364 letter to Defendants Whittier Hospital and PHHH. (Compliant,
¶ 7.) The instant Complaint was filed on February 27, 2023, which is 1 year 2
months and 2 days after decedent passed away. As such, the Complaint was timely
filed as to the Defendants named in the Complaint.
However,
the Doe Defendants were not substituted in until June 10, 2024, which is 2
years, 5 months and 16 days after decedent passed away. As such, the Complaint
is time-barred as to the first cause of action against the Doe Defendants,
unless the amendments relate back to the filing on the Complaint.
For the
reasons discussed above re: the second and third causes of action, the allegations
of the Complaint do not demonstrate that the Doe 1 and Doe 2 amendments relate
back to the filing of the Complaint. 
As such,
the demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Plaintiff
is given 30 days’ leave to amend. 
Defendant PIH Health
Whittier Hospital dba PIH Health Home Healthcare and Hospice [erroneously sued
as Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital dba Hospice of Presbyterian – Doe 1]
and Defendant PIH Health Downey Hospital [Doe 2]’s Motions To Strike
            Given
the ruling on the demurrers, there are currently do viable causes of action
against Doe 1 and Doe 2. As such, the motions to strike are MOOT.
 