 Case Number:  24CHCV00132    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  10/24/24




Case
  Name: Kazzi Angelo-Tupper and Justin Botticelli v. FCA USA LLC, and Does 1
  through 50




Case No.
  24CHCV00132



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

OCTOBER 24, 2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE 

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV00132

 
Motion
filed: 9/16/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Kazzi Angelo-Tupper and Justin
Botticelli 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant FCA US LLC
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order compelling FCA to produce supplemental responses to Plaintiffs’ first set
of Requests for Production, Set One Nos. 7, 10, 16, 18-21, 37, and 39
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs
Kazzi Angelo-Tupper and Justin Botticelli (“Plaintiffs”)
filed this Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”) lawsuit over
alleged defects in their 2022 Jeep Grand Cherokee (the “Subject Vehicle”),
which was manufactured by Defendant FCA US LLC (“Defendant” or “FCA”).
Plaintiffs allege that they purchased the Subject Vehicle on or about November 23,
2022, receiving an express written warranty by FCA. (Compl. ¶¶ 7, 12.)
 
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint
against Defendants FCA and Does 1 through 50, alleging the following causes of
action: (1) Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (2) Violation
of Subdivision (b) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (3) Violation of Subdivision
(a)(3) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (4) Breach of Express Written Warranty
Civil Code Section 1791.2 Subdivision (a), Section 1794, and (5) Breach of
Implied Warranty of Merchantability Civil Code Section 1791.1, Section 1794.
Subsequently, FCA filed its Answers to the Complaint on February 16, 2024.
 
On September 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (“RFP”), Set One (the
“Motion”).
 
Subsequently, on October 14, 2024, FCA filed its Opposition,
and Plaintiffs replied on October 17, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that …
[a] statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete[;] … [a]
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive[;
or] … [a]n objection in the response is without merit or too general.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)
 
A.   
Procedural
Requirements 
 
1.     
Timeliness
 
A motion to compel further responses to
requests for production must be brought within 45 days of service of the
verified response, supplemental verified response, or on a date to which the
propounding and responding parties have agreed to in writing; otherwise, the
propounding party waives the right to compel further responses. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c); but see Golf & Tennis Pro Shop, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 127, 134-136 [suggesting that the
45-day deadline does not apply to (i.e., it does not begin to run with service
of) objections-only responses; it only applies to responses that are required
to be verified].)
 
“[T]he time within which to make a
motion to compel production of documents is mandatory and jurisdictional just
as it is for motions to compel further answers[.]” (Sexton v. Superior Court
(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) The 45-day deadline “is ‘jurisdictional’ in
the sense that it renders the court without authority to rule on motions to
compel other than to deny them.” (Ibid.)
            
Here, FCA served its responses to Plaintiffs'
first set of RFP on May 16, 2024. (Gibson Decl. ¶ 19.) Later the parties agreed
to extend Plaintiffs’ deadline to file this Motion up to and including
September 15, 2024, which is a Sunday, making the deadline September 16, 2024.
(Id. ¶ 21.)
 
Here, the Motion was served and filed on September 16, 2024,
meeting the agreed-on deadline. 
 
Therefore, the Court finds the Motion is filed timely. 
 
2.      Meet
and Confer 
 
“A motion [to compel further responses to requests for
production] shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (b)(1).) “A meet and confer
declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs have satisfied the meet and confer
requirement. (Gibson Decl. ¶¶ 23-29.) 
 
3.      Separate
Statement
 
The California Rules of Court rule
3.1345 (a)(3) explicitly states that “Any motion involving the content of a
discovery request or the responses to such a request must be accompanied by a
separate statement. The motions that require a separate statement include a
motion: ... (3) To compel further responses to a demand for inspection of
documents or tangible things[.]”
 
Here, Plaintiffs have fulfilled the
requirement by concurrently filing a separate statement with the Motion.
 
B.    
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to RFP Nos. 7, 10, 16, 18-21, 37, and 39
 
1.     
Mootness
 
FCA argues that the Motion
is moot because it supplemented its responses on October 11, 2024 (Skanes Decl.
Ex. “D”), reflecting that it will conduct a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry to comply with Plaintiff’s requests in full. (Opp’n. at p.
2.)  
 
In their Reply, Plaintiffs contend that FCA’s supplemental
responses are unverified and were served on the same day as its Opposition.
Additionally, Plaintiffs assert that FCA’s unverified supplemental responses
still do not specifically addressed RFP Nos. 7, 37 and 39. (Reply at p. 3.) 
 
The Court notes that Plaintiffs
correctly point out that unverified responses, in the circumstances, are equivalent
to no responses at all, pursuant to Appleton v. Superior Court (1988)
206 Cal.App.3d 633, 636.
 
Because FCA’s supplemental
responses are unverified and they do not address RFP Nos. 7, 37, and 39, part
of the issues raised in the Motion, the Court concludes that the Motion is not
moot.
 
2.     
Moving Party’s
Showing of Good Cause 
 
A motion to compel further responses to requests for
production shall “set forth specific facts showing good cause”. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) To establish “good cause,” the moving party
must show (1) the items demanded are relevant to the subject matter and (2)
specific facts justify the discovery of the requested items (e.g., why such
information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent surprise at
trial). (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1); see Glenfed Develop.
Corp. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) If “good cause”
is shown by the moving party, the burden is then on the responding party to
justify any objections made to document disclosure. (Kirkland v. Superior
Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs have the burden of showing good cause for
the following RFP Nos.
 
RFP No. 7 seeks, “The Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual
published by YOU and provided to YOUR authorized repair facility(s), within the
state of California, from 2021 to the present. [This request will be understood
to include production of any and all versions of such manual as distributed to
YOUR dealerships during the relevant time frame].
 
RFP No. 10 requests, “A copy of the Workshop Manual
specifying diagnosis and repair procedures for vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
RFP No. 16 seeks, “All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited
to electronically stored information and electronic mails, concerning or
relating to any internal analysis or investigation by YOU or on YOUR behalf
regarding POWERTRAIN DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as
the SUBJECT VEHICLE. [This request shall be interpreted to include, but not be
limited to, any such investigation to determine the root cause of such
POWERTRAIN DEFECT, any such investigation to design a permanent repair procedure
for such POWERTRAIN DEFECT, any such investigation into the failure rates of
parts associated with such POWERTRAIN DEFECT, any cost analysis for
implementing a proposed repair procedures, any savings analysis not
implementing a proposed repair procedures, etc.]
 
RFP No. 18 seeks, “All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited
to electronically stored information and electronic mails, concerning or
relating to any decision to issue any notices, letters, campaigns, warranty
extensions, technical service bulletins and recalls concerning the POWERTRAIN
DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
[This request shall be interpreted to include any such investigation to
determine the root cause of the POWERTRAIN DEFECT, any such investigation to
design a permanent repair procedure for the POWERTRAIN DEFECT, any such
investigation into the failure rates of parts associated with the POWERTRAIN
DEFECT, any cost analysis for implementing a proposed repair procedures, any
savings analysis not implementing a proposed repair procedures, etc.]
 
RFP No. 19 requests, “All DOCUMENTS, including but not
limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails, concerning
customer complaints, claims, reported failures, and warranty claims related to
POWERTRAIN DEFECT, including but not limited to any databases in YOUR
possession with information from dealers, service departments, parts
departments, or warranty departments, and all documents concerning YOUR
response to each complaint, claim or reported failure in vehicles of the same
year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
RFP No. 20 seeks, “All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited
to electronically stored information and electronic mails, concerning failure
rates of vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE as a
result of POWERTRAIN DEFECT.”
 
RFP No. 21 requests, “All DOCUMENTS, including but not
limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails, concerning
or relating to any fixes for POWERTRAIN DEFECT in vehicles of the same year,
make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
RFP No. 37 seeks, “All DOCUMENTS which evidence, describe,
refer, or relate to procedures used by YOU for the handling of complaints by
consumers regarding vehicles YOU manufactured or distribute.” 
 
RFP No. 39 requests, “All DOCUMENTS issued by YOU or on YOUR
behalf which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to policies, procedures,
and/or instructions since 2021 that YOUR employees and agents should follow
when evaluating a customer request for a refund of the price paid for a vehicle
or replacement of a new motor vehicle manufactured or distributed by YOU.”
 
(Gibson Decl. Ex. “7.”)
 
Plaintiffs argue that the
above-listed RFP Nos., essentially seeking FCA’s internal policy and
investigation documents, are directly relevant to Plaintiffs’ claims under the
Song-Beverly Act. Specifically, they contend that the warranty policy and
procedure manual will shed light on how the repair facility treats and handles
any particular repair visit, show the dealership knows what is and is not
covered by Defendant’s express warranty and how to submit warranty claims, detail
any instructions from Defendant to its dealership regarding Lemon Law related
issues, and detail any instructions from Defendant to the dealership regarding
how to handle repeat visits for the same complaint. Additionally, Plaintiffs assert
that the requested documents are pertinent to the issues related to Defendant’s
good faith compliance with the Song-Beverly Act. (See generally Pl.’s Separate
Statement.)
 
Furthermore, Plaintiffs argue
that even if the requested documents involve vehicles other than theirs,
Defendant is still obligated to produce them if they are relevant to the
claims. (Mot. at p. 18.) The Court agrees.
 
In Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th
138, 154 (Donlen), the Third District held that the trial court had not
erred in denying Ford’s motion in limine to exclude evidence of other
customers’ complaints about the same transmission model Ford installed in
plaintiff’s truck and other vehicles. (Underlines added.) Similarly, in Jensen
v. BMW of North America, LLC (S.D.Cal. 2019) 328 F.R.D. 557, 562-63 (Jensen),
the federal district court in San Diego found that, “information regarding
whether the same defects were reported to BMW in other cars of the same
make, model, and year as [p]laintiff’s subject vehicle could conceivably be
relevant to whether BMW acted reasonably in denying [p]laintiff’s warranty
claim. A fact finder may find BMW’s knowledge or lack of knowledge about the
same defects to be a consideration in deciding whether BMW acted in good faith
as to [p]laintiff’s specific case.” (Underlines added.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges that the Subject Vehicle contained
and developed defects, including defective accelerating system, defective
safety system, defective electrical system, defective engine, and defective
body system, which Defendant has been unable to service or repair after a
reasonable number of opportunities. (Compl. ¶¶ 13, 22.) Additionally, the
Complaint asserts that Plaintiffs are entitled to a civil penalty under the
statute for FCA’s willful failure to comply with its responsibilities. (Id.
¶ 24.)
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that the information
sought in the above-listed RFP Nos. is relevant to the claims in the Complaint.
It particularly notes that RFP Nos. 16, and 18-21 specifically seek information
“regarding POWERTRAIN DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as
the SUBJECT VEHICLE,” thereby narrowing the scope of discovery to directly
relevant information. 
 
Therefore, in alignment with established precedents,
including those set in Donlen and Jensen, the Court concludes
that good cause exists, and the information sought is relevant and not
overbroad.
             
3.     
FCA’s Responses
 
In its Opposition, FCA confirms
that it agreed to comply in full with Plaintiff’s requests, conduct the
requested documents searches and in response, produce documents related to
other customer concerns, warranty claims data, and failure rate data related to
Plaintiffs’ defect definition. (Opp’n. at p. 2.) FCA further acknowledges that
it agreed to conduct searches for any TSBs, recalls, Customer Satisfaction
Notifications (“CSNs”) and internal investigations that may have been conducted
that relate to the allegations in Plaintiffs’ defect definition. (Ibid.)
As a result, FCA asserts that no additional documents are responsive to the RFP
Nos. remain. (Ibid.)
 
Given that FCA’s supplemental
responses are unverified, the Court will continue to review FCA’s substantive
responses and objections asserted in its supplemental responses, with the
assumption that FCA will provide a verification.
 
i)                  
RFP
Nos. 7, 37, and 39
 
Plaintiffs argue that FCA’s
unverified supplemental responses still have not specifically addressed RFP
Nos. 7, 37 and 39. (Reply at p. 3.) Thus, the Court will next proceed to
examine FCA’s initial responses to RFP Nos. 7, 37, and 39.
 
FCA’s response to RFP No. 7
states, in part, “After a diligent search
and reasonable inquiry, FCA US will comply in full with this request and
produce, subject to a protective order, all responsive documents within its
possession, custody or control, namely, a copy of the Warranty Administration
Manual, including prior versions to the extent they exist dating from 2017 to
the present.”
 
FCA’s responses to RFP Nos. 37
and 39 claims, in part, “FCA US will
comply in full with this request and produce all responsive documents, subject
to a protective order, within its possession, custody or control, namely, a
copy of the Dealer Policy Manual, a copy of the Warranty Administration Manual,
including prior versions to the extent they exist dating from 2017 to the
present, a copy of the policies and procedures of its Customer Assistance
Center regarding handling of customer complaints and requests for refund or
replacement of their vehicle, and a copy of any training materials and as a
copy of its organizational charts for its customer relations group.”
 
The Court finds, to the extent FCA’s statements are
interpreted as complying with the particular requests, its responses to RFP Nos.
7, 37 and 39 are in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.210,
subdivision (a)(1). However, the Court overrules the objections asserted alongside
the responses on the grounds of overbreadth, as this does not overcome the
Court’s prior findings of good cause by Plaintiffs.
 
ii)                
RFP No. 10
 
Furthermore, Plaintiffs argue that FCA’s supplemental
response to RFP No. 10 is improper as it instructs Plaintiffs to a pay a small
fee to access the requested documents. (Reply at p. 10.)
 
FCA’s supplemental response to RFP No. 10 states, “FCA
US refers Plaintiff to www.TechAuthority.com for a copy of the Workshop Manual
for the Subject Vehicle [https://www.techauthority.com/dashboard/products].
Plaintiff may obtain a copy of the Service Manual for the Subject Vehicle, for
a fee, as it is equally available to the Plaintiffs in the same manner as it is
for FCA US.” (Def.’s Separate Statement at p. 7.) 
 
The Court finds this response improper. Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.010 authorizes any party to obtain discovery and demand
inspection and production of documents, including electronically stored
information, in the possession, custody, or control of any other party to
the action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.010, subd. (a).) Here, FCA does not claim that the Workshop Manual for the
Subject Vehicle is not in its possession, custody, or control, nor does it
establish that the Workshop Manual is not reasonably accessible because of
undue burden or expense. Therefore, FCA shall produce the documents rather than
merely setting forth a website link, as an alternative source, to access the
document.
 
iii)              
RFP
Nos. 19 and 20
 
Plaintiffs argue that FCA has not completed the search,
and no documents have been produced at this time. (Reply at p. 4.)
 
FCA’s
supplemental response to RFP No. 19 states, “FCA US will conduct a diligent
search and reasonable inquiry and comply in full with this request and produce,
subject to protective order, all responsive documents found relating to
customer concerns, including emails between customers and FCA US, based upon
the conditions outlined in Plaintiff’s ‘POWERTRAIN
DEFECT’ definition,
in other vehicles of the same make, model, and model year as the Subject
Vehicle. Further, FCA US will conduct a diligent search and reasonable inquiry
and produce, subject to protective order, all responsive documents found
related to warranty claims and failure rates (c/1000 and MOP/MIS) data for the
same make, year, and model of in other vehicles of the same make, model, and
model year as the Subject Vehicle, as they relate to
Plaintiff’s ‘POWERTRAIN DEFECT’ definition.”
(Skanes Decl. Ex. “D.”)
 
FCA’s
supplemental response to RFP No. 20 states, “FCA US will conduct a diligent
search and reasonable inquiry and comply in full with this request and produce,
subject to protective order, all responsive documents found relating to failure
rates (c/1000 and MOP/MIS) data for the same make, year, and model of in other
vehicles of the same make, model, and model year as the
Subject Vehicle, as they relate to Plaintiff’s ‘POWERTRAIN DEFECT’ definition.” (Skanes Decl. Ex.
“D.”)
 
The Court finds that FCA’s
supplemental responses to RFP Nos. 19 and 20 comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.210, subdivision
(a)(1). 
 
As for Plaintiffs’ argument, assuming it to be true, that
Defendant has failed to complete the search and production in accordance with
its statement of compliance, Plaintiffs shall properly move separately for an
order compelling compliance, which is distinct than the instant Motion. 
 
iv)              
RFP
Nos. 16, 18, and 21
 
Plaintiffs dispute Defendant’s
claim that no documents ever existed responsive to the requests, arguing that
they have already identified some Technical Service Bulletins (“TSBs”)
responsive to the above-listed RFP Nos. (Gibson Decl. ¶¶ 10-14.)
 
FCA’s responses to RFP Nos. 16,
18, and 21 state, “FCA US has conducted a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry and is unable to comply with this
request. FCA US conducted a diligent search and reasonable inquiry for any
Recalls, Customer Satisfaction Notifications, or internal investigations
applicable to the Subject Vehicle, and concerning conditions outlined in
Plaintiff’s “POWERTRAIN DEFECT” definition and located none. Therefore, no
documents, including emails, exist or have ever existed responsive to this
request.” (Skanes Decl. Ex. “D.”)
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel
presents the following TSBs: TSB 09-015-22 “Engine Vibration Noise When Idling
in Gear” (issued June 16, 2021), TSB 09-019-23 “Cold Engine Ticking Noise From
Exhaust Manifold Area” (issued October 7, 2023), TSB 09-015-24 “Engine Ticking
Noise” (issued June 26, 2024), TSB 18-024-24 REV. A “Flash: Powertrain Control
Module (PCM) Updates” (issued August 29, 2023), and TSB 18-024-24 “Flash:
Powertrain Control Module (PCM) Updates” (issued March 21, 2024). (Gibson Decl.
Ex. “2”-“6.”)            
 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs
have presented sufficient evidence to support their claim of inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive representation of FCA’s inability to comply.
Accordingly, given that the supplemental responses remain unverified, the Court
directs the parties to further meet and confer with regard to RFP Nos. 16, 18,
and 21. 
 
In sum, the Court GRANTS the Motion on several
independent grounds. First, FCA’s supplemental responses remain unverified.
Second, FCA’s response to RFP No. 10 is inadequate and improper. Third, FCA’s
responses to RFP Nos. 16, 18, and 21 are inadequate and incomplete in light of Plaintiffs’
evidence demonstrating the existence of responsive documents. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production, Set One, is GRANTED.
 
FCA
USA, LLC is ordered to provide verified further responses or verification of
its supplemental responses dated May 16, 2024, to Responses to Requests for
Production, Set One,  Nos. 7, 10, 16,
18-21, 37, and 39 within 20 days.
 
Plaintiffs
and Defendant are ordered to further meet and confer regarding Requests for
Production, Set One, Nos. 16, 18, and 21.
 
Moving
party to give notice.