  Case Number:  22STCV15958    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California 
County of Los Angeles 
Department 78 
 



ADRIANA RENOVATO,
Plaintiff,
          vs.
CARTERS
  INC., et al.,
Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV15958




Hearing Date:


April 3, 2024




[TENTATIVE] RULING
  RE: 
MOTION
  TO STRIKE DEPOSITION CORRECTIONS FILED BY DEFENDANTS CARTER’S, INC., CARTER’s
  RETAIL, and LIsa quibilan



 
Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s deposition corrections is DENIED.
Moving party to give notice.
FACTUAL BACKGROUND
This is an action for breach of contract, breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, wrongful termination, violations of
the FEHA, violations of the Labor Code, fraudulent inducement, intentional
infliction of emotional distress, violation of Business and Professions Code,
section 17200, and violation of the CLRA. Plaintiff alleges that while she was
Defendants’ employee, Defendants forced her to transfer, harassed her, and refused
to accommodate her disabilities on account of her status as a mother and her gender,
appearance, and weight.
PROCEDURAL HISTORY
On May 13, 2022,
Plaintiff Adriana Renovato filed her Complaint against Defendants Carters,
Inc., Carters Retail, Inc., and Lisa Quibilan.
On December 1, 2023, Defendants filed their motion for
summary judgment.
On February 21, 2024, Defendants filed their motion to
strike deposition testimony.
On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.
On March 25, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.
DISCUSSION
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s proposed corrections to the
deposition transcript of Plaintiff’s deposition taken on November 7, 2023.
Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.520 provides, in relevant part, 
 
(a) If the deposition testimony is stenographically recorded, the
deposition officer shall send written notice to the deponent and to all parties
attending the deposition when the original transcript of the testimony for each
session of the deposition is available for reading, correcting, and signing,
unless the deponent and the attending parties agree on the record that the
reading, correcting, and signing of the transcript of the testimony will be
waived or that the reading, correcting, and signing of a transcript of the
testimony will take place after the entire deposition has been concluded or at
some other specific time. 
 
(b) For 30 days following each notice under subdivision (a),
unless the attending parties and the deponent agree on the record or otherwise
in writing to a longer or shorter time period, the deponent may change the form
or the substance of the answer to a question, and may either approve the
transcript of the deposition by signing it, or refuse to approve the transcript
by not signing it. 
…
(f) If the deponent fails or refuses to approve the transcript
within the allotted period, the deposition shall be given the same effect as
though it had been approved, subject to any changes timely made by the
deponent.
(g) Notwithstanding subdivision (f), on a seasonable motion to
suppress the deposition, accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, the court may determine that the reasons given for the failure or
refusal to approve the transcript require rejection of the deposition in whole
or in part.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.520,
subd. (a)-(g).) 
Here, Defendants
took Plaintiff’s deposition on November 7, 2023. (Vongcanglor Decl., ¶3.) On
November 8, 2023, the reporter provided the parties with a copy of Plaintiff’s
deposition transcript. (Id., ¶8.) On December 1, 2023, Defendants filed
their motion for summary judgment. (Id., ¶9.) On December 8, 2023, within
30 days after the deposition transcript became available, Plaintiff sent a
correction certificate to the court reporter and Defendants’ counsel containing
78 corrections changing the substance of Plaintiff’s deposition testimony. (Id.,
¶¶10-11.) 
Defendants
move to strike Plaintiff’s deposition testimony changes because they are
contradictory. First, although Defendants cite Code Civ. Proc., section
2025.520, this section does not allow the Court to strike proposed corrections
to a deposition transcript. Rather, Code Civ. Proc., section 2025.520(g)
provides that a court may suppress a deposition by determining whether the
reasons given for a failure or refusal to approve a deposition transcript would
require rejection of the deposition in whole or in part. In other words, the
Court is only empowered to suppress a deposition if a deponent fails or refuses
to approve the transcript. Here, Plaintiff is not refusing to approve the
transcript, but is proposing to make changes to the transcript. Defendants cite
no authority stating the Court may strike changes to the form and substance of
answers to deposition questions which are permitted under Code Civ. Proc.,
section 2025.520(b).
Defendants
argue that the corrections are contradictory and may be stricken under the sham
declaration doctrine. Defendants allege that Plaintiff made the changes to
avoid the consequences of her prior admissions at deposition. Defendants rely
on cases where deponents filed affidavits contrary to prior deposition
testimony or changed their deposition testimony after the deposing party had
already filed a motion for summary judgment. 
For
example, in D'Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21-22
(D’Amico), the California Supreme Court ruled that a party may not
oppose summary judgment by filing a declaration which would impeach his or her
own prior sworn testimony. Defendant cites Tiffany Builders, LLC v. Delrahim
(2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 536, 547 (Tiffany) and Vulk v. State
Farm Gen. Ins. Co. (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 243, 258 (Vulk), both of
which support the same rule as D’Amico. 
In Gray
v. Reeves (1977) 76 Cal.App.3d 567, 574, a deponent did not sign a
deposition transcript, the deposing party filed a motion for summary judgment
nearly two years after the deposition, and the deponent then made changes to
his deposition testimony. The court there ruled that a deponent may not counter
an admission by changing the content of his answer at deposition when there is
no assertion that the original answer was incorrectly transcribed, or the
question was misleading or ambiguous.
D’Amico, Tiffany, and Vulk do not concern whether a deponent
may make substantive changes to deposition testimony within the statutory
period. Rather, they concern whether a deponent may create a triable issue of
material fact in opposition to summary judgment by making an affidavit which
would impeach the deponent’s earlier testimony. The sham declaration doctrine is
not applicable here because Plaintiff is not making a declaration contrary to
her deposition testimony in opposition to a motion for summary judgment but
exercising her right to make changes to her deposition answers within the
statutory period.
Gray likewise
does not stand to bar deponents from making substantive changes to deposition
transcripts. The deponent in Gray made changes to the deposition
transcript 19 months after the deposition took place and made no assertion that
the testimony changed was incorrect or made due to a misleading question. Here,
Plaintiff is making substantive changes as permitted under Code Civ. Proc.,
section 2025.250(b) within the statutory period. 
Because
Plaintiff is permitted to make changes to the form and substance of her
deposition answers within 30 days of the availability of the original
transcript, Defendants motion to strike Plaintiff’s deposition corrections is
denied.
DATED:  April 3, 2024
______________________
Hon. Jill Feeney 
Judge of
the Superior Court
 