 Case Number:  23BBCV01085    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
audrey
  tatavosian, a minor by and through her guardian ad litem, ailin ghokasian, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
providence
  saint joseph medical center, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
Case
  No.:  23BBCV01085
 
Hearing
  Date:  December 15, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to vacate judgment of Court under ccp 473
 



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations

Plaintiffs
Audrey Tatavosian, a minor by and through her guardian ad litem Ailin
Ghokasian, and Ailin Ghokasian (“Plaintiffs”) allege that they are the
surviving minor daughter and wife of Decedent Geghard Tatavosian
(“Decedent”).  They allege that Decedent
died on May 17, 2022.  Plaintiffs allege
that Decedent was a patient of and consulted with Defendant Josephine Mee
Devaraj D.O. (“Dr. Devaraj”) as his primary care physician, complaining of
stomach pain, stomach bloating, and bloody stool.  Plaintiffs allege that Decedent died as a
result of Defendant Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center (“Providence”) and
Dr. Devaraj’s negligence and their failure to monitor, diagnose, and treat his
condition at the standard of care.  They
allege this led to Decedent’s death due to metastatic colon adenocarcinoma,
septic shock, and urosepsis caquexia. 
The complaint,
filed on May 15, 2023, alleges a single cause of action for wrongful death.  
B.     Motion
on Calendar 
On October 17,
2023, Plaintiffs filed a motion to vacate the dismissal that was entered
against them on October 11, 2023.  
The Court is not
in receipt of an opposition brief. 
DISCUSSION
            On
October 11, 2023, the Court held a Case Management Conference and an OSC re:
Failure to File Proof of Service of the Summons and Complaint.  The Court noted that there was no proof of
service of the summons and complaint. 
There were no appearances by the parties though Plaintiff’s counsel was
informed of the October 11, 2023 hearing at the last hearing on July 27,
2023.  The Court dismissed the action
without prejudice pursuant to CCP § 583.150 and Government Code, §
68608(b)(2).  
            Plaintiffs
move to set aside the dismissal of the case pursuant to CCP § 473(b).  In support of the motion, they provide the
declaration of their counsel, Jason Halpern. 
(The declaration lacks pagination and paragraph numbers.)  Mr. Halpern states that the failure to
respond was due to his inadvertence, surprise, mistake, or excusable neglect or
lack of notice.  He states that he works
in Long Beach and that internet service is not the most reliable in his
building.  He states that he attempted to
connect on numerous occasions to make a telephonic appearance at the CMC but
was unsuccessful in doing so.  He states
that on October 11, 2023, he drove an out-of-state visitor to the airport and from
7:30 a.m. tried to get through to the clerk of Department B, but was
unsuccessful until 8:00 a.m. when he was told that a personal appearance was
needed by 8:30 a.m.  He states that since
he was in Long Beach, there was no way he could physically appear in Department
B and that he contacted the clerk again around 8:15 a.m. and was told that the
remote system might be down and that he should stay by the phone to receive a
call from the court when his matter was called. Counsel states that he waited
until 9:45 a.m. and called the court to inquire about the matter, but was
advised that his matter had been called, there had been no response, and the
case had been dismissed.  He states that
as a result of the miscommunication, the action was dismissed and, thus, he is
filing this motion.  He states that he
filed the CMC statement, mailed the relevant service documents to the named
defendants, and that he is ready, willing, and able to pursue this matter by
personally serving Defendants.  
            Based on the
declaration of Mr. Halpern, the Court finds there is substantive merit to the
motion.  Further, the motion was timely
brought within 6 months of the dismissal and the motion is unopposed.  Thus, the motion to vacate the dismissal
pursuant to CCP § 473(b) is granted.   
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Plaintiffs
Audrey Tatavosian, a minor by and through her guardian ad litem Ailin
Ghokasian, and Ailin Ghokasian’s motion to vacate the dismissal is
granted.  
The Court sets a
Case Management Conference and OSC re: Failure to File Proof of Service of
Summons and Complaint on February 8, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  
Plaintiffs shall give notice of
this order.  
 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
DATED: December
15, 2023                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court