 Case Number:  23BBCV02059    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
maricela rangel,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ford motor
  company, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV02059
 
Hearing
  Date:  December 15, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Maricela Rangel (“Plaintiff”) allege
that on February 19, 2022, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contact with
Defendant Ford Motor Company (“FMC”) regarding a 2022 Ford Ranger vehicle.  Plaintiff alleges that the warranty contract contained various warranties, including but not limited to the bumper-to-bumper
warranty, powertrain warranty, emission warranty, etc.  Plaintiff alleges that the defects and
nonconformities to the warranty manifested themselves during the applicable
warranty period, including but not limited to, transmission defects,
infotainment defects, electrical defects, body defects, among other defects and
non-conformities.  Plaintiff alleges that
FMC failed to replace the vehicle or make restitution.  
Plaintiff
alleges that she delivered the vehicle to Defendant Sunrise Ford of North
Hollywood (“Sunrise”) for substantial repair on at least one occasion, but
Sunrise failed to use ordinary care and skill to properly store, prepare, and
repair the subject vehicle.  
The complaint, filed September 7, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of Civil Code, § 1793.2(D); (2) violation
of Civil Code, § 1793.2(B); (3) violation of Civil Code, § 1793.2(A)(3); (4)
breach of the implied warranty of merchantability (Civil Code, §§ 1791.1, 1794,
and 1795.5); (5) fraudulent inducement – concealment; and (6) negligent repair.
    
B.    
Demurrer on Calendar 
On October 4, 2023, Defendants Ford and Sunrise
filed a demurrer to the complaint.  
On November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
On November 30, 2023, Defendants filed a
reply brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
demur to the 5th and 6th causes of action for fraudulent
inducement – concealment against Ford and negligent repair against
Sunrise.  
A.    5th
cause of action: Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment
The elements for fraudulent concealment are the following: (1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact; (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.  (Lovejoy v. AT&T Corp. (2004) 119
Cal. App. 4th 151, 157-158.) “As with all fraud claims, the necessary elements of a
concealment/suppression claim consist of (1) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity
(scienter); (3) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce reliance); (4) justifiable
reliance; and (5) resulting damage. [Citations.]”  (Hoffman v. 162 North
Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1185–1186 [internal
quotation marks and citations omitted].) 
This
cause of action is a tort of deceit and the facts constituting each element must be
alleged with particularity; the claims cannot be saved by referring to the
policy favoring liberal construction of pleadings. (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Since the
claim must be pleaded with particularity, the cause of action based on
misrepresentations must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the misrepresentations were tendered.  (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)
In the 5th cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that
she purchased the vehicle as manufactured with Ford’s 10-speed automatic
transmission.  (Compl., ¶57.)  She alleges that Ford committed fraud by
allowing the vehicle to be sold to her without disclosing that the vehicle and
its transmission were defective and susceptible to sudden and premature
failure.  (Id., ¶58.)  Plaintiff alleges that prior to acquiring the
vehicle, Ford was aware of and knew the transmission installed in the vehicle
was defective, but failed to disclose this fact to Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶59.)  She alleges that Ford knew vehicles equipped
with the same transmission as the subject vehicle suffered from defects that
can cause the vehicles and their transmissions to experience hesitation and/or
delayed acceleration, harsh/hard shifting, jerking, shuddering, and/or
juddering.  (Id., ¶60.)  Plaintiff alleges that Ford acquired this
knowledge of the transmission defect from sources not available to consumers
like Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶61.)  She alleges that though Ford knew of the
defect and its safety risks, Ford concealed and failed to disclose the
defective nature of the vehicle and transmission at the time of sale and
repair.  (Id., ¶62.)  Plaintiff alleges Ford was under a duty to
disclose the defective nature of the subject vehicle because it acquired
knowledge of the defect, it was in a superior position to know the truth of the
facts, consumers complained about the defect since January 2018, and Plaintiff
could not have reasonably been expected to learn or discover the defect.  (Id., ¶64.)  
            Ford
demurs to the 5th cause of action, arguing that the complaint does
not allege fraud with the requisite specificity, a fiduciary/transactional
relationship did not exist such that there was no duty to disclose facts on the
part of Ford, and the cause of action is barred by the economic loss rule.  
            First,
Ford argues that Plaintiff has not alleged facts regarding what material facts
were concealed.  However, the
transmission defect is defined and alleged in paragraph 60.  
            Next,
Ford argues that Plaintiff has not alleged facts regarding its duty to disclose
the information omitted.  There is a duty
to disclose: “(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship
with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material
facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (Heliotis v. Schuman
(1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651.)  To
establish a duty based on a transactional relationship, “[s]uch a transaction
must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the
defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large.”  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc.
(2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 312.)  The Bigler-Engler
court stated that even with respect to half-truths, “a duty to disclose arises in this context only
where there is already a sufficient relationship or transaction between the
parties. [Citations.] Where … a sufficient relationship or transaction does not
exist, no duty to disclose arises even when the defendant speaks.”  (Id.) 

            As summarized above, Plaintiff
alleges that the information about the transmission defect was solely in Ford’s
knowledge and Ford did not make this knowledge publicly available nor did
it disclose the information to Plaintiff. 
Plaintiffs allege that Ford has exclusively knowledge about the
transmission defect since 2018 from its internal reports and technical service
bulletins, yet it sold its 10-speed transmission without disclosing these facts.  (Id., ¶¶25-35, 59-64.)  Further, for a duty to arise from a transactional
relationship, Plaintiff must allege facts showing that the transaction arose
between Plaintiff and Ford.  According to
the complaint, Plaintiff purchased the subject vehicle (without naming any
dealership or who Plaintiff purchased the vehicle from), which was manufactured
and/or distributed by Ford.  (Compl.,
¶9.)  As currently pled and taking the
allegations of the complaint as true, Plaintiff has alleged facts that Ford
alone possessed exclusive knowledge of the material facts and that Plaintiff
was in a transaction relationship with Ford through its network of dealers.  (Id., ¶64(a).)  The Court declines to sustain the demurrer on
this basis.  
            Nevertheless,
having examined the pleading, the Court finds that the
complaint does not present a claim for fraud that is distinguishable from the
basic claim of breach of warranty. As stated in paragraph 11 of the FAC, the
alleged defects in the transmission are subject to the express warranty and
that “[t]hese causes of action arise out of the warranty obligations of FMC in
connection with a motor vehicle for which FMC issued a written warranty.”  (Compl., ¶¶13-14.)  
A fraud involves a
concealment or misrepresentation of a cold, hard fact: something that a judge
or jury can discern to be false. The underlying defects with the vehicle here
are vague and subjectively described. (See Compl., ¶60.)  Moreover, the question is made vaguer still
because Ford supposedly knew about similar defects from consumer complaints and
TSBs regarding similar complaints about other Ford vehicles that use the same
transmission. These are matters that, if they can be addressed at all by the law,
are best left to a determination of the warranty that was specifically
bargained for and that is co-existent and co-equal with the representations
themselves. 
Here the parties
have bargained for a warranty that the vehicle is free from defects that rise
to the standard described in the warranty and the law. The legislature has
provided extraordinary remedies and procedural advantages to any plaintiff
alleging to have been financially damaged by any breach of such warranty. The
representation and the reliance are fully contained in the contract itself,
which covers the risk of defect that is a known possibility for any
manufactured product. The consumer’s reliance is on the contractual
promise.  She has bargained for a
specific remedy and been given additional remedies by statute.  She has no extra-contractual reliance; indeed,
any greater reliance is unreasonable based on the transaction itself, which
disclaims other promises.  Here,
Plaintiff has suffered no loss that takes this case out of the ordinary
commercial venue in which the parties specifically bargained for a commercial
solution to an economic issue. Common law fraud is not a coterminous overlay
for breach of a commercial warranty. Otherwise, contracts and torts would be
the same class in law school. 
            For
the reasons discussed above, the demurrer to the 4th cause of action
is sustained with leave to amend.
B.     6th
cause of action: Negligent Repair 
The elements of a negligence cause of
action are “duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages.”  (Carlsen
v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 892.)  
First, Sunrise argues that the 6th
cause of action is barred by the economic loss rule and that Plaintiff has not
alleged a duty that is independent from a contract (warranty) or that Sunrise
acted intentionally.  Sunrise argues that
because there are no allegations of physical property damage or personal
injury, Plaintiff’s damages are for economic losses alone, which are limited to
contract only and not tort.  
The economic loss
rule prevents the law of contract and law of tort from dissolving into
one another.  (Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.)  Economic losses consist of damages for
inadequate value, cost of repair, replacement of defective products or
consequent loss of profits—without any claim of personal injury or damages to
other property.  (Id.)  The rule requires a
purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise.  (Id.) 
“Tort damages have been permitted in contract cases where a
breach of duty directly causes physical injury [citation]; for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing in insurance contracts [citation]; for
wrongful discharge in violation of fundamental public policy [citation]; or
where the contract was fraudulently induced. [Citation.] In each of these cases, the duty that gives rise to tort
liability is either completely independent of the contract or arises from
conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm. [Citation.]”  (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21
Cal.4th 543, 551–552.)
            In the 6th cause of
action for negligent repair, Plaintiff alleges: 
73.
Plaintiff delivered the Subject Vehicle to Defendant SUNRISE for substantial
repair on at least one occasion. 
74.
Defendant SUNRISE owed a duty to Plaintiff to use ordinary care and skill in
storage, preparation and repair of the Subject Vehicle in accordance with
industry standards.
75.
Defendant SUNRISE breached its duty to Plaintiff to use ordinary care and skill
by failing to properly store, prepare and repair the Subject Vehicle in accordance
with industry standards.
76.
Defendant SUNRISE's negligent breach of its duties owed to Plaintiff was a proximate
cause of Plaintiff's damages.
(Compl., ¶¶73-76.) 
The complaint also alleges that said defects/nonconformities
substantially impair the use, value, or safety of the vehicle.  (Id., ¶15.)  
As currently alleged, the 6th
cause of action does not allege a duty above and beyond that of bringing the
vehicle into conformity with the warranty. 
In order to overcome the economic loss rule, Plaintiff is required to
allege fact showing intentionality of the conduct and of the harm.  The allegations as currently alleged are
general and cursory. Further allegations should be alleged to state sufficient
facts for this cause of action.  
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that there
is an exception to the economic loss rule for negligent repair claims where subcomponents
of a vehicle cause damage to a larger component or where the component causes
damages to the vehicle into which it has been incorporated.  (Opp. at p.14 [citing Jimenez v. Superior
Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 473, Velasco v. Ford Motor Co. (S.D. Cal.
2022) 2022 WL 2287258 at *4 (“Multiple district
courts, including this Court, have recognized the potential applicability of
the component exception in cases involving negligent repair claims against
parties sought to be joined in breach of warranty cases against manufacturers.”)].)  
According
to the allegations of the complaint, there was a transmission defect in Plaintiff’s
vehicle, she took the vehicle for repairs to Sunrise, and Sunrise failed to
repair the vehicle.  She alleges that the
defects impaired the use, value, and safety of the vehicle.  However, she has not alleged specific facts
showing that Sunrise negligently repaired or damaged a component part of the
vehicle.  
Second,
Sunrise argues that Plaintiff has not pled the element of damages, such as
whether she paid out-of-pocket for repairs. 
Instead, the repairs were covered by the warranty.   The damages alleged in
the 6th cause of action are not specified.  (See Compl., ¶76.)  It is unclear what the nature of Plaintiff’s
damages are—i.e.,
out of pocket costs to repair the vehicle, damage to the vehicle while stored
at Vista’s facilities, etc.  Further
facts should be alleged to support this element.  
The demurrer to the 6th cause
of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Defendants’
demurrer to the 5th and 6th causes of action in the
complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 
Defendants shall give notice of
this order.  
 
DATED: December 15,
2023                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  