 Case Number:  21BBCV00536    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
yegishe
  torosyan,
  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
adil a. barakat, et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
Case
  No.: 21BBCV00536
 
  Hearing Date:  December 15, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for terminating sanctions
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff
Yegishe Torosyan (“Plaintiff”) alleges that Plaintiff leased the premises at
11722 Saticoy St., Unit 16, North Hollywood, CA 91605 from Defendants Adil A.
Barakat, The Barakat Trust, and Adil A. Barakat as trustee of The Barakat Trust
(“Defendants”).  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants own, operate, manage, and maintain the property.  Plaintiff alleges that the property has
uninhabitable conditions, such as a broken and hazardous heater, peeling paint,
damaged walls and floors, cracked ceilings, lack of hot water, and presence of
mold in violation of the Civil Code and the Health and Safety Code.  (FAC, ¶2.) 

The first
amended complaint (“FAC”), filed November 2, 2021, alleges causes of action
for: (1) private nuisance; (2) breach of the warranty of habitability; (3)
negligence; (4) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (5) breach
of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment; (6) IIED; (7) violation of Civil
Code, § 1942.4; and (8) constructive eviction. 
B.    
Motions on Calendar
On August 31,
2023, Plaintiff a motion for terminating sanctions against Defendant Nuha
Barakat, individually and as trustee of the Barakat Trust (“Nuha Barakat”).  
On December 4,
2023, Nuha Barakat filed an opposition brief.
On December 8,
2023, Plaintiff reply brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
moves for terminating sanctions against Nuha Barakat.  
Plaintiff argues
that he served Requests for Production of Documents, set one (“RPD”) on Nuha
Barakat on January 31, 2022, but Nuha Barakat had failed to provide responses
by March 4, 2022.  Plaintiff then filed 3
motions to compel initial responses from Nuha Barakat for Form Interrogatories
(“FROG”), Special Interrogatories (“SROG”) and the RPD on January 13, 2023,
which the Court granted on February 10, 2023. 
Pursuant to the Court’s order, Nuha Barakat was to provide initial
responses and pay $2,180 in sanctions within 20 days of notice of the
order.  Plaintiff gave notice of the
order on February 10, 2023 by electronic mail. 
Plaintiff’s counsel contacted defense counsel about the responses and
sanctions and it was not until March 17, 2023 (2 weeks after responses were
due) that Nuha Barakat served discovery responses to the RPD, which Plaintiff
found to be insufficient.  Plaintiff
argues that his counsel attempted to meet and confer on RPD Nos. 1-30 and
requested further responses, but such efforts were unsuccessful.  Plaintiff then filed a motion to compel
further responses from Nuha Barakat for the RPD on May 26, 2023, which the
Court granted on June 30, 2023 and ordered Nuha Barakat to pay $1,035 in
sanctions within 20 days of notice of the order.  Plaintiff gave notice of the June 30, 2023
that same day, such that further responses were due by July 20, 2023.  Plaintiff states that his counsel received
the $1,035 sanctions on August 7, 2023, but not the $2,180 sanctions or the
further discovery responses.  Plaintiff
states that as of the filing of the motion (August 31, 2023), Nuha Barakat and
her counsel have not yet paid the $2,180 sanctions from the February 10, 2023
order and have not provided further responses in compliance with the July 20,
2023 order.  
A.    Terminating
Sanctions 
According to CCP § 2023.030(d), the court
may impose terminating sanctions dismissing the action.  (See also CCP § 575.2.)  Misuse of the discovery process includes
failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery, disobeying a
court order to provide discovery, and failing to confer with counsel in a
reasonable and good faith attempt to informally resolve discovery
disputes.  (CCP § 2023.010(d), (g),
(i).)  The Court weighs the following
factors when considering the present motion: (1) plaintiff’s conduct,
indicating whether his/her actions were willful; (2) the detriment to the party
seeking discovery; and (3) the number of formal and informal unsuccessful
attempts to obtain discovery.  (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th
1225, 1246.)  Ultimate discovery
sanctions are justified where there is a willful discovery order violation, a
history of abuse, and evidence showing that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with discovery rules. 
(Van Sickle v. Gilbert (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516.) 
Plaintiff argues that terminating
sanctions are appropriate because Nuha Barakat has
refused and willfully failed to provide further responses, despite the Court’s
June 30, 2023 order.  Plaintiff argues
that issue/evidence sanctions would be futile and that no other sanctions than
terminating sanctions can remedy Nuha Barakat’s abuses.  Plaintiff argues that his counsel has given
notice to Nuha Barakat’s counsel about the Court’s prior discovery orders and
that Plaintiff’s counsel has followed up with Nuha Barakat’s counsel via email
approximately 30 times.  
In opposition, Nuha
Barakat acknowledges that she did not respond to the initial discovery or the
motions to compel that followed because James McCone (defense counsel), though
admittedly served by email, had not seen the email or initially received it and
therefore did not forward it to Nuha Barakat. 
(McCone Decl., ¶3.)  Mr. McCone
states that his Gmail account did not funnel any email from Marine Nahpetyan
(the person who electronically served the discovery) in his inbox and he only
discovered the email more than a year later. 
(Id.)  Similarly, he states
that he did not see an email from Nicollette Doomany regarding the motions to
compel.  (Id., ¶4.)  He states that he only received emails from
Haig Kazandjian and Raffi Tapanian, and discovered the Court’s ruling on the
motions to compel when Raffi Tapanian emailed him on February 6, 2023.  (Id.) 
Nuha Barakat argues that once the first round of discovery motions had
been granted, Nuha Barakat responded to the discovery without objection on
March 21, 2023.  (Id., ¶5.)  Nuha Barakat argues that when Plaintiff’s
counsel claimed he had not received the responses, defense counsel sent the
documents via mail and sent another copy. 

            There
have been significant delays in providing discovery responses, which Nuha
Barakat and her counsel do not deny.  Most
of the issue appears to have been due to Mr. McCone’s failure to see emails and
to have emails directed into the wrong folders. 
However, Nuha Barakat has eventually responded to the discovery, albeit
late.  (To the extent that they may be
unsatisfactory, a motion to compel further responses would be better suited to
address such concerns as responses were technically provided.)  The opposition papers show that Nuha Barakat’s
failure to timely comply with discovery deadlines and the Court’s prior orders
was not a willful failure and disobedience of discovery obligations and the Court’s
orders.  Although the delays in discovery
are not ideal, the Court declines to impose terminating sanctions against Nuha
Barakat at this time.
            As
for Nuha Barakat’s failure to timely pay sanctions, the Court does not find
that this would be a sufficient ground to impose terminating sanctions against Nuha
Barakat.  Rather, Plaintiff may
enforce the order that imposed monetary sanctions through the execution of
judgment laws.  (Newland v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal. App. 4th 608, 615 [noting
that many attorneys seem to be unaware that monetary sanction orders are
enforceable through the execution of judgment laws].)  Orders imposing monetary sanctions have the
force and effect of a money judgment, and are immediately enforceable through
execution.  (Id.)
            The
motion for terminating sanctions is denied. 

B.     Monetary
Sanctions 
CCP § 2023.030(a) states: “The
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may also
impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has engaged
in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised that
assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
According to
the notice of motion, Plaintiff seeks $5,835 in monetary sanctions against Nuha Barakat. 
Page 11 of the memorandum of points and authorities in support of the
motion includes the heading “MONETARY SANCTIONS AGAINST DEFENDANT ARE
WARRANTED,” but then the memorandum cuts off. 
It appears that page 12 (and beyond) are missing such that the arguments
regarding why monetary sanctions should be imposed are missing.  However, in the reply brief, Plaintiff argues
that Nuha Barakat engaged in a misuse of the discovery process, that Plaintiff
has properly served documents throughout this action, and Nuha Barakat did not
properly serve the second copy of discovery responses with a tracking number or
timely serve responses.   According to
Raffi Tapanian’s declaration, he spent $5,835 leading up to this motion for
13.5 hours meeting and conferring and drafting he motion, and an anticipated 3
hours to attend the hearing and draft a reply brief, at $350/hour, plus $60 in
filing fees.  (Tapanian Decl., ¶32.)  
The lack of timely responses by Nuha Barakat does not appear to be the
failing of Defendant, but rather of defense counsel and his emailing
system.  As such, the Court will impose
sanctions against defense counsel only.  The Court will impose a reasonable amount of monetary sanctions against
Nuha Barakat’s counsel of
record in the amount of $2,000, plus $60 in filing fees.  Nuha Barakat and her counsel are cautioned to
comply with discovery requests and check email folders for communications
regarding this matter.  If there are more
delays or discovery abuses, the Court may impose larger sanctions in the
future.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Plaintiff Yegishe Torosyan’s motion for
terminating sanctions against Defendant Nuha
Barakat is denied.  The request for
monetary sanctions is granted against defense counsel only, the Law Offices of
Vincent Real, in the total amount of $2,060. 
Defense
counsel is ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $2060 to Plaintiff, by and through counsel, within 20 days of notice
of this order.
Plaintiff shall provide
notice of this order.
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
 
DATED: December 15, 2023                                     ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 