 Case Number:  22BBCV00765    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B





 
krista
  pansini, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
burbank
  unified school district,                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  22BBCV00765
 
   Hearing Date:  December 15, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE: 
Motion to sever and order separate trials



 
Background
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiffs Krista Pansini, Jane Creager,
Vick Astamendi Edwards, Michelle Funston, Andrea Graber, Theresa Heldt-Valverde,
Tracy Henry, Tricia Henry, Michael Kimmel, and Marlene Wieden (“Plaintiffs”)
allege that they were employees of Defendant Burbank Unified School District (“Defendant”
or “BUSD”) at all times relevant for this action. Plaintiffs allege that they
filed charges with the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing
(“DFEH”) and were issued right-to-sue letters. 

The FAC alleges that the BUSD, through its
board, adopted a resolution mandating that its employees be vaccinated with
respect to COVID-19. (FAC ¶¶23-24.) According to the FAC, this requirement was based
on misleading and exaggerated claims, and not based on scientific data. (Id.,
¶¶25-33.)  The policy stated that “a
limited number of individuals” “may” be exempt if they provide a statement
“declining vaccination based on Religious Beliefs ….”  (Id., ¶¶31, 34.)  Additional policies were enacted providing for
specific accommodations that were not offered to Plaintiffs.  (Id., ¶¶31-37.)
Plaintiffs allege that they requested an
exception for BUSD’s COVID-19 vaccination policy as a reasonably accommodation
to their sincerely held religious beliefs and/or medical conditions. Plaintiffs
allege that the work requirement of being vaccinated conflicted with their
religious beliefs that “their bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit and that to
inject medical products that have any connection whatsoever to aborted fetal
cell lines would be defiling the temple of the Holy Spirit.”  (FAC, ¶44.) 

Plaintiffs allege that they each received
a similar denial stating that BUSD was not disputing the sincerity of their
religious beliefs at that time, but BUSD was unable to identify a reasonable
accommodation that would permit Plaintiffs to work on site and satisfy the
health and safety protections of vaccinations, except unpaid leave, that would
not pose an undue burden on BUSD.  (FAC,
¶21.)  The letter further stated that if Plaintiffs
elected not to get vaccinated, then their only options were to submit a request
for unpaid leave of absence or submit their resignation.  (Id.) 
Plaintiffs argue that they know for certain that unvaccinated
individuals can work safely in school environments with safety protocols in
place, and that these protocols were not offered to them.  (Id., ¶33.)  Plaintiffs allege that BUSD failed to provide
factual evidence to support its claim of undue burden and failed to follow the
law for religious exemption and reasonable accommodation.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
February 9, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) religious discrimination
violation of Government Code, § 12940(a) et seq.; (2) religious discrimination
– failure to provide reasonable accommodations in violation of Government Code,
§ 12940(1) et seq.: (3) harassment in violation of Government Code, §
12940 et seq.; and (4) retaliation in violation of Government Code, § 12940(h,
l) et seq. 
B.    
Motions on Calendar 
On November 3, 2023, Defendant filed a
motion to sever each Plaintiffs’ claims and order separate trials for each Plaintiff.
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition brief.
On December 8, 2023, Defendant filed a
reply brief. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
            CCP
§ 378 states:
(a) All persons may join in one action as
plaintiffs if:
(1) They assert any right to relief
jointly, severally, or in the alternative, in respect of or arising out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences and if
any question of law or fact common to all these persons will arise in the
action; or
(2) They have a claim, right, or interest
adverse to the defendant in the property or controversy which is the subject of
the action.
(b) It is not necessary that each
plaintiff be interested as to every cause of action or as to all relief prayed
for. Judgment may be given for one or more of the plaintiffs according to their
respective right to relief.
(CCP
§ 378.) 
            CCP § 379.5 states: “When parties have been joined under Section 378 or
379, the court may make such orders as may appear just to prevent any party
from being embarrassed, delayed, or put to undue expense, and may order
separate trials or make such other order as the interests of justice may
require.”  
CCP § 1048(b)
states in relevant part:
The
court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate
trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial
of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a
cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action
or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the Constitution
or a statute of the state or of the United States.
(CCP § 1048(b).)  
DISCUSSION
Defendant moves to sever each of the 10
Plaintiffs’ claims and order separate trials for each Plaintiff.  Defendant argues that Plaintiffs are tenured and
substitute teachers, an occupational therapist, an instructional aide, and a
finance clerk; their experience with the accommodations process differed (i.e.,
some elected not to have accommodations meetings, some signed a leave of
absence form when offered, and some alleged they were harassed during and after
their accommodation meetings).  Defendant
also argues that each Plaintiffs’ claims is distinct, different experts will be
required to address differing damages claims, and it will suffer undue
prejudice if Plaintiffs’ claims are not severed as the jury will be confused.  In the alternative, Defendant requests of severance of at least some of
Plaintiffs’ claims (e.g., trial for Plaintiffs who only alleged
harassment/retaliation based on the general implementation of the vaccination
mandate versus distinct instances of alleged harassment/retaliation; those who
alleged severe emotional distress versus those who are not).  (Reply at p.5.)  
Defendant
summarizes each of the Plaintiffs as follows:

(1)
     Jane Creager is an English as a Second Language teacher at one of the
     adult school sites. On October 7, 2021, she requested a religious
     exemption because she could not benefit from the abortion industry, attended
     an accommodations meeting, and was informed that BUSD could not provide a
     reasonable accommodation other than unpaid leave of absence.  Creager signed the leave of absence
     form, which she alleges she did under duress.  She resigned from BUSD in September 2022
     and began working as an ESL teacher at San Marino Unified School District.
     
(2)
     Andrea Graber is an occupational therapist at a special education site
     since 2015.  She sought a religious accommodation,
     identifying as a devout Lutheran and Christian Scientist.  When BUSD offered an accommodation in
     the form of unpaid leave of absence, Graber elected to forgo the accommodation
     and refused to sign the form.  She
     did not participate in an accommodations meeting. After receiving a notice
     of intent to dismiss from BUSD, she requested a Skelley hearing, which is
     still pending.  She currently works
     per diem as an occupational therapist at the Haynes Family of Programs/S.T.A.R.
     Academy.  
(3)
     Vicki Edwards was a senior finance clerk at BUSD beginning in September
     2010.  On September 1, 2021, Edwards requested
     a
religious
     exemption from the vaccination mandate, stating that she was a Christian
     and did not want to inject a biological substance into her body.  She attended an accommodations meeting on
     October 21, 2021 and was informed that BUSD could only
     provide a reasonable accommodation of an unpaid leave of absence.  Edwards was placed on unpaid leave on
     October 25, 2021 and submitted a separation form for resignation to apply
     retroactively to October 25, 2021.  Edwards
     now works at the Original California Car Duster Co.
(4) Michelle
     Funston worked as a teacher at Edison Elementary School since 2013.  On October 15, 2021, Funston requested a
     religious exemption based on her core beliefs.  She attended an accommodations meeting
     on October 15, 2021 and was informed by BUSD that it could only offer unpaid
     leave of absence as a reasonable accommodation.  Funston signed the leave of absence form
     with a notation that it was under duress. 
     In January 2023, she began working for Sulphur Springs Union School
     District and requested that her resignation have an effective date of August
     4, 2022.  
(5)
     Theresa Heldt worked
     as a teacher at Edison Elementary School since 2001.  On October 1, 2021, Heldt requested a
     religious exemption based on the lack of evidence of the vaccine’s
     efficacy and concerns about the use of aborted fetal cells.  She attended an accommodations meeting
     on October 21, 2021 and was informed that her exemption was granted but
     that BUSD could not grant her appeal to work remotely or work indirectly
     with students given that not all her work duties could be performed
     remotely.  On April 7, 2023, Heldt
     emailed BUSD requesting she be released from her employment contract and
     she resigned 3 days later.  In April
     2022, she started working as a substitute teacher and special education instructional
     coach at Sulphur Springs School District. 
     
(6) Tricia Henry was
     a substitute teacher since August 2000 and became a reading
     interventionist in 2020.  On September
     20, 2021, Tricia Henry requested a religious exemption based on her Christian
     beliefs.  She attended an accommodations
     meeting and was informed by BUSD that it could only offer unpaid
     leave of absence as a reasonable accommodation given her at-will employee
     status.  After being placed on a leave
     of absence, she and her husband formed Henry School, a tutoring service,
     in November 2021.  Since the lifting
     of the vaccination mandate on July 1, 2023, she has been eligible to
     return to her position as a substitute with BUSD.  
(7) Tracy Henry was
     a substitute teacher since 2007 and was an instrumental music cough and
     reading interventionalist.  On September
     24, 2021, he requested a religious exemption based on his Christian
     beliefs.  He attended an accommodations
     meeting on October 11, 2021 and was informed by BUSD that it could only
     offer unpaid leave of absence as a reasonable accommodation
     given his at-will employee status.  After
     being placed on a leave of absence, he and his wife formed Henry School.  Since the lifting of the vaccination
     mandate on July 1, 2023, he has been eligible to return to his position as
     a substitute with BUSD.  
(8)
     Michael Kimmel was an ESL teacher at multiple adult school sites within
     BUSD since 2017 as an at-will employee. 
     On September 16, 2021, he requested a religious exemption based on his
     faith, but stated that he did not require any special accommodations since
     he can wear a face shield.  He
     attended an accommodations meeting and was informed by BUSD that it could
     only offer unpaid leave of absence as a reasonable
     accommodation.  He signed a leave of
     absence form and is currently unemployed. 
(9)
     Krista Pansini was an elementary school teacher at BUSD since 2015.  On October 5, 2021, Pansini
     requested a
     religious exemption based on her Catholic beliefs.  She attended an accommodations meeting
     on October 6, 2021) and Father Bob Garon of the St. Didacus Church
     attended the meeting with her) and was informed by BUSD that it could only
     offer unpaid leave of absence as a reasonable accommodation.  She was placed on an unpaid leave of
     absence and signed the leave of absence form.  She was released from employment with
     BUSD for failure to meet her conditions of employment.  Since August 2022, she has been working as
     an education facilitator at iLEAD Exploration.  
(10) Marlene
     Wieden has worked for BUSD since 2017 and her most recent position was as Intervention
     Teacher.  On October 19, 2021, Wieden
     requested a religious exemption based on her Catholic beliefs.  She was informed by BUSD that it could
     only offer unpaid leave of absence as a reasonable
     accommodation.  She states that BUSD
     refused to terminate her employment so she could access her retirement
     funds.  She currently works for the
     City of Glendale Human Resources/Employees Safety Section Department. 

Defendant argues that while there are some similarities between the
Plaintiffs claims in that they sought religious exemptions and were allegedly not
provided reasonable accommodations other than unpaid leave of absence, the
circumstances of each Plaintiffs’ situations, religious beliefs/affiliations, the
accommodations process (or lack thereof), and their emotional distress damages are
different.  
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the FAC alleges facts from the same
transactions, occurrences, or series of transactions or occurrences because
BUSD passed, approved, and adopted Resolution 7 (regarding the vaccination
requirement) on September 2, 2021, the vaccination requirement was to go into
effect on October 22, 2021, employees were allowed to request a religious or medical
exemption and submit to testing 2 times per week, each Plaintiff made an
exemption request, and each Plaintiff was sent the same letter by BUSD offering
only unpaid leave of absence.  Plaintiffs
argue that severing the claims into 10 separate trials would not be conducive
to expedition and economy as the Court and the parties would be required to
endure 10 separate trials, 10 separate voir dire and 10 separate juries, repeated
testimonies of witnesses and experts, and additional weeks of time to conduct
trials.  Plaintiffs argue that BUSD’s
arguments are speculative that the jury would be confused regarding the
emotional distress and harassment testimony and argues that safeguards can be
put into place to ensure the information is presented in a manner for the jury
to understand. 
The common issues presented by the case with regard to Defendant’s policy
and its application to these ten teachers indicate that there will be a gross
inefficiency in trying the issue of liability ten times. Most of the differences
between Plaintiffs go to the issue of their damages. So far, Plaintiffs are
desiring to stay together to present their claims.  It could be that the eventual proof that will
be offered will justify the separation of liability and damage phases of the
trial depending on the multiplicity of proof offered at trial as to each
individual. Most of the Plaintiffs have suffered similar damages for lost
income and have obtained similar replacement employment.  So far, most of the perceived difficulty seems
to arise out of potentially differing claims regarding emotional distress
damages.  At this time, the Court does
not see that the damage claims will present such difficult problems of proof
that the trial will be unduly prolonged, and any efficiency of a joint trial
lost.  The Court will re-examine the
order of witnesses at the final status conference to see if the multiplicity of
witnesses and exhibits regarding damages necessitates the bifurcation of the
trial with respect to damages. The motion for 10 separate trials, however, is
denied. 
Lastly, Defendant requests that the action
remain consolidated for the purposes of discovery and that it be permitted to
file a single, consolidated motion for summary judgment that exceeds the
25-page limit by 20 pages.  In opposition,
Plaintiff does not address this request. 
The Court finds that this is a reasonable request given the number of Plaintiffs.  As such, the request to increase the page
limitation by 20 pages for Defendant’s eventual motion for summary judgment is
granted.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion to sever the trial of each
of Plaintiffs’ claims and order separate trials for each Plaintiff is denied.
The Court will examine the order of witnesses at the final status conference to
determine whether the trial should be bifurcated with respect to liability and
damages, or whether there are sufficient common witnesses on that issue to
permit a single consolidated trial of all issues. 
Defendant’s request to exceed the page limit
by 20 pages for its consolidated motion for summary judgment against the 10
Plaintiffs is granted. Defendant shall give notice of this order.
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.  
 
 
DATED: December 15, 2023                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 