 Case Number:  21BBCV00311    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
deep green
  housing and community development, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
plumbers on demand, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case
  No.: 21BBCV00311
 
  Hearing Date:  December 15, 2023 
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to set aside entry of default and default judgment    



 
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Deep Green Housing and Community
Development (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on November 9, 2018, Plaintiff and
Defendant Plumbers on Demand (“Defendant”) entered into an oral agreement
pursuant to which Defendant agreed that it would perform plumbing services for
various properties under Plaintiff’s management and control.  (Compl., ¶6.) 
Pursuant to the oral agreement, Defendant completed and ceased providing
its plumbing services on July 2, 2020.  (Id., ¶7.)  Plaintiff alleges that
the work Defendant provided required it to be properly licensed as a contractor
at all times during the performance of its work. Plaintiff believes Defendant
was not properly licensed.  (Id., ¶¶8-9.)  Plaintiff
alleges that it paid Defendant $207,377.84 based on Defendant’s billing and
thus Plaintiff seeks to recover $207,377.84 against Defendant pursuant to
Business & Professions Code, § 7031(b). 
(Id., ¶¶10-12.) 
The complaint, filed on March 30, 2021,
alleges a single cause of action for disgorgement of money paid to unlicensed
contractor (violation of Business & Professions Code, § 7031(b)).
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On October 5, 2023, Defendant filed a
motion to set aside the entry of default and default judgment.  
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief.
On December 8, 2023, Defendant filed a
reply brief.  
DISCUSSION
A.   
Relevant Background
            On November 4, 2022, counsel Michael
D. Kolodzi, Esq. was relieved as counsel for Defendant.[1]  The Court set an OSC re: Status of
Representation of Defendant (a corporate entity) for January 10, 2023.  
On January 10, 2023, Defendant did not
appear and there was no indication that it was represented by counsel.  As such, the Court struck the answer of
Defendant and Plaintiff represented it would proceed by default.  
On April 5, 2023, the default of Defendant
was entered.  
            On July 15, 2023, the default
judgment of Defendant was entered in the amount of $207,893.39. 
            On October 5, 2023, Defendant filed
a Substitution of Attorney, stating that Defendant is now being represented by
Mr. Kolodzi.  
B.    
Merits of Motion

            Defendant
moves to set aside entry of default and default judgment pursuant to CCP §
473(b)’s discretionary prong. 
            In support of the motion, Zohrab
Sarkisyan, president of Defendant, submitted his declaration arguing that it
supports a showing of “excusable neglect.” 
Mr. Sarkisyan states that beginning in March 2022, as a result of
marital and business stress, he began to experience severe anxiety attacks and
so he tried to avoid anything that would trigger anxiety, including this
lawsuit.  (Sarkisyan Decl., ¶2.)  He states that he actively avoided or
neglected any types of issues concerned with it, including his failure to
respond to Mr. Kolodzi’s communications, which ultimately resulted in Mr.
Kolodzi’s withdrawal.  (Id.)  He states that as a result of the severe
anxiety attacks, he sought treatment with Spasoje M. Neskovic, MD, AAFP, in
June 2022, who diagnosed him with severe anxiety disorder with severe stress
syndrome and was prescribed Clonazepam (Rivotril) for his attacks, which he
takes to this day.  (Id., ¶3; Ex.
A [Dr. Neskovic’s current treatment letter].) 
He states that as a result of his mental illness and impairments, he did
not pursue a replacement attorney or appear to the OSC, which resulted in
Defendant’s default.  (Id.,
¶4.)  He states that he realizes his
avoidance of the lawsuit and communications from Mr. Kolodzi, the court, and
Plaintiff’s counsel was a mistake, but that he had avoided the lawsuit to avoid
triggers and additional panic attacks.  (Id.)  He states that on September 12, 2023, he
reached out to Mr. Kolodzi regarding the status of the case and he re-retained
Mr. Kolodzi on behalf of Defendant for the purpose of this motion.  (Id., ¶5.) 
He states that on September 22, 2023,
clinical psychologist Hayk Jernazian further diagnosed him with F41.1
Generalized Anxiety Disorder, which was “significantly exacerbated for the past
9-12 months due to significant stressful life changes.”  (Id., ¶6, Ex. B [Dr. Jernazian’s
current treatment letter].)
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant has not presented any facts
justifying relief on behalf of Defendant. 
Plaintiff argues that the parties had been communicating with timing and
continuing matters, but that during Plaintiff’s communications with Mr. Kolodzi
(prior to his withdrawal), there had been no mention of any mental infirmity of
a party representative.  Plaintiff argues
that Defendant improperly bases its motion on the mistaken belief that a
personal issue experienced by an individual connected with a corporate
defendant is sufficient to set aside a default/default judgment based on
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Plaintiff argues that Defendant has corporate
officers other than Mr. Sarkisyan, which includes Piruza Kazryan and Arthur
Davtian (according to the Statement of Information), such that Defendant had
other corporate officers who were capable of retaining counsel to represent the
corporation’s interests.  (Mot., Ex. 1 [8/16/19
Statement of Information].)  
            Here,
the circumstances of the default and default judgment are unconventional, yet
the Court finds that there is substantive merit to granting the motion.  The motion was timely brought within 6 months
of the default and default judgment. 
Defendant is once again represented by counsel and the reasons its
counsel initially withdrew and Defendant’s present was inactive in this case for the
past several months have been explained. 
Defendant also argues that the 2019 Statement of Decision is not
sufficient to show that the motion should be denied as Plaintiff did not
provide a more recent copy of the Statement of Decision.[2]  Finally, the policy of the law is to have a
hearing on the merits wherever possible and appellate courts are much more
disposed to affirm an order when the result is to compel a trial on the merit
than it is when the judgment by default is allowed to stand, and it appears
that a substantial defense could be made.  
(Thompson v. Sutton (1942) 50
Cal.App.2d 272, 276.)  These factors and
considerations weigh in favor of granting the motion to set aside the default
and default judgment.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Plumbers
on Demand’s motion to set aside the default and default judgment is
granted.  Defendant is to pay $1,000 in
penalties to Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel. 
A Case Management
Conference is set for May 15, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in this Department B.
Defendant shall give notice of
this order.  
 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
DATED: December
15, 2023                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


