  Case Number:  23NWCV02312    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  C HIGGINS v. LBJ
HEALTHCARE PARTNERS, INC., ET AL.
CASE NO.: 23NWCV02312
HEARING:  January 7,
2024 @ 10:30 a.m.
JUDGE:  RAUL A.
SAHAGUN
 
#3
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendants Special
Service for Groups, Inc. and Linda Torres’s Demurrer to the Fourth Amended
Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
Defendants to give
notice. 
 
Background
 
This is a wrongful death action. On July 24, 2023 Plaintiff
Patrick Higgins (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants LBJ
Healthcare Partners, Inc. Special Service for Groups, Inc., Amada Enterprises,
Inc., Linda Torres, and Does 1 to 50. On October 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
Second Amended Complaint adding Laura Clark as a Plaintiff, pursuant to the parties’
stipulation. On February 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Third Amended Complaint. On
March 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Fourth Amended Complaint (FAC). The FAC alleges
that Nicole Lacea Higgins (“Decedent”) was struck by a motor vehicle and died
after walking out of Villa Luren, a healthcare facility owned by Defendant LBJ
Healthcare Partners, Inc. The FAC alleges that the County of Los Angeles
Department of Mental Health, Office of the Public Guardian, was appointed by
the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles, as a conservator for
Decedent. Defendant Special Service for Groups, Inc. contracts with the County
of Los Angeles, and other Defendants, to coordinate mental health services for
disabled adults. Defendant Linda Torres is a case manager that works for Special
Service for Groups, Inc. Defendant Amada Enterprises, Inc. owns View Heights
Convalescent Hospital, the nursing facility that Decedent previously resided at
before the incident.
 
The FAC alleges that Defendants negligently placed Decedent
in a facility with a lower level of supervision, Villa Luren, even though
Defendants were on notice of Decedent’s history of walking away. The FAC
alleges Defendants’ acts were the proximate cause of the death of Decedent. The
FAC alleges the following causes of action: 1) Negligence, 2) Premises
Liability, 3) Wrongful Death, and 4) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, or
Retention of Employee. 
 
Defendants Special Service for Groups, Inc. and Linda Torres
(collectively, “Defendants”) now demur to the first cause of action for
negligence and third cause of action for wrongful death on the grounds of
uncertainty and failure to state a cause of action.
 
Legal Standard
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer
tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  
  
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff
to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis
v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there
is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of
action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman
v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245) 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a)
requires meeting and conferring “in person or by telephone.” Defendants’
counsel has met and conferred numerous times with Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding
the first Complaint. (Rosenberg Decl., ¶ 5.) Defendants sent meet and confer
letters regarding the second and third Complaints, but Plaintiff did not
thereafter remedy the deficiencies identified. (Ibid.) On April 19,
Defendants’ counsel sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff’s counsel
regarding the Fourth Amended Complaint, but there was no response. (Ibid.)
Although the Court finds the meet and confer requirement has not been met
because the parties met and conferred by letter only, the Court will address
the merits of the Demurrer in the interests of judicial efficiency.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion
 
First Cause of Action for
Negligence (Survival Action) and Third Cause of Action for Wrongful Death
 
In order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must
allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach
of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) “The
elements of a cause of action for wrongful death are a tort, such as
negligence, and resulting death.” (Lopez v. City of Los Angeles (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 675, 685.)
 
Defendants argue the allegations are uncertain, ambiguous,
conclusory, and are not stated with particularity—the FAC does not state
specific facts regarding the role of Defendants in Decedent’s death. Defendants
further argue that the FAC does not identify the specific type of duty
Defendants owed to Decedent. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that negligence may be
alleged in general terms, and the FAC contains sufficient allegations to
support causes of action for negligence and wrongful death. Plaintiffs argue
that no heightened pleading standard applies at the demurrer stage. Defendants
rely on cases at the motion for summary judgment stage to support their
contention that the element of duty must be specifically pled.
 
In reply, Defendants reiterate that the Complaint fails to
allege a specific duty they owed to Decedent. 

 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer for
uncertainty should be overruled when the facts as to which the complaint is
uncertain are presumptively within the defendant's knowledge. (Chen v.
Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822.)
 
The Court finds the FAC sufficiently alleges causes of
action for negligence and wrongful death. At the demurrer stage, no heightened
pleading standard is required—the Court assumes the truth of the complaint’s
properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (E-Fab, Inc., supra, 153
Cal.App.4th at p. 1315.) Here, the FAC allege Decedent was in the care of
Defendants, and that Decedent and Defendants were in a “a special relationship
due to Decedent’s disabling mental health disorder that rendered her incapable
of taking care of herself.” (FAC, ¶ 35.) The FAC alleges Defendants owed a duty
of care to keep Decedent safe from harm. (FAC, ¶ 36.) It can be reasonably
inferred from the allegations that Defendants, as contractors with County of
Los Angeles, the conservator of Decedent, were involved in the management
Decedent’s mental health services. (FAC, ¶¶ 7-8, 22-28.) The FAC alleges
Defendants breached their duty by failing to properly evaluate Decedent,
recommending an inappropriate level of residential living care, and allowing
her to walk out of the facility despite their knowledge of Decedent’s mental
health history. (FAC, ¶ 37.) The FAC alleges the breach was a proximate cause
of Decedent’s injuries and death. (FAC, ¶¶ 38-49.) Taking the allegations as
true, Court finds all elements of negligence and wrongful death have been
adequately alleged. 
 
Application of MICRA 
 
Defendants further demur on grounds that medical malpractice
is the only appropriate cause of action, where Plaintiffs allege Defendants are
healthcare providers that owed a special duty to Decedent to provide healthcare
services. Defendants argue that the FAC should allege medical malpractice, such
that Medical Injury Compensation Recovery Act (MICRA) should apply. Defendants
argue that, if a plaintiff brings a claim against a healthcare professional
other than one for professional negligence, that a court must nonetheless
determine whether the claim is based on the provider’s professional negligence
and whether MICRA would apply, citing Larson v. UHS of Rancho Springs, Inc.
(2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 336, 347.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they are entitled to
plead general negligence, as opposed to medical malpractice or professional
negligence. Defendants misstate that the FAC designates Defendants as
“healthcare providers.” Plaintiffs argue that MICRA only applies to healthcare
providers and healthcare institutions as defined by law, citing Kotler v.
Alma Lodge (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1381. Lastly, Plaintiffs argue this issue
should be determined at the summary judgment stage, where Defendants bear the
burden of production to show they fall under the procedural regulations of
MICRA.
 
In reply, Defendants argue the scope of professional
negligence is broad, citing Flores v. Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital
(2016) 63 Cal.4th 75, 88. Defendants argue that the Complaint alleges
Defendants provided a healthcare service by “authorizing step-down to a
facility that provided a lower level of supervision and care.” (FAC, ¶ 23.)
Defendants argue such conduct is a healthcare service that allegedly led to
Plaintiff’s injury. Thus, Plaintiff’s claims should have been alleged as
professional negligence and covered by MICRA.
 
The Court initially finds the Larson and Flores
cases are inapplicable because there, it was presupposed that defendants, an
anesthesiologist and hospital, respectively, were healthcare providers. In
those cases, the issue was whether Defendants’ conduct was a healthcare service
and should have been alleged as professional negligence. Here, it is unclear
whether Defendants are healthcare providers. Thus, the threshold issue is
whether Defendants are healthcare providers such that MICRA should apply. 
 
MICRA defines “health care provider” as the following:
 
“(1) “Health care
provider” means any person licensed or certified pursuant to
Division 2 (commencing with Section 500) of the Business and Professions Code,
or licensed pursuant to the Osteopathic Initiative Act, or the Chiropractic
Initiative Act, or licensed pursuant to Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section
1440) of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code; and any clinic, health
dispensary, or health facility, licensed pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 1200) or Chapter 1.3 (commencing with Section 1248) of Division 2
of the Health and Safety Code, and does not include health care institutions
that are defined in paragraph (2).”View
Options

Add
     To Folder

Add To Folder
 
(Civ. Code, § 3333.2.)
 
The issue of whether a Division 2 licensed residential
facility was a health care provider under MICRA was at issue in Kotler v.
Alma Lodge (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1381, 1391. The Court of Appeals first
considered the legislative intent of MICRA, which was to “remedy a health care
crisis attributed to the high cost of malpractice insurance.” (Ibid.) The
Court found that “only Division 2 licensees entitled to the protections of
MICRA are those licensed as clinics, health dispensaries or health facilities.”
(Id. at p. 1391.) The court next examined the statutory definitions of
“clinic,” “health dispensary,” and “health facility.” (Ibid.) A clinic
is “an organized outpatient health facility which provides direct medical,
surgical, dental, optometric, or podiatric advice, services, or treatment to
patients who remain less than 24 hours.” (Health & Saf. Code, § 1200, subd.
(a).) A health facility is “any facility, place, or building which is
organized, maintained, and operated for the diagnosis, care, prevention, and
treatment of human illness, physical or mental, including convalescence and
rehabilitation. . .to which the persons are admitted for a 24-hour stay or
longer. . .” (Health & Saf. Code, § 1250.) The court found that, while “health
dispensary” is not statutorily defined, a one case declared a blood bank is a health
dispensary. (Id. at p. 1394.) The Court reasoned Defendant was not a
health dispensary because it was not licensed to distribute health products. (Id.
at p. 1395.) The court ultimately found defendant was not a healthcare provider
under MICRA, and MICRA did not apply. (Ibid.)
 
The Court finds that Defendants have not adequately substantiated
how either of them are “healthcare providers” as defined by MICRA. Defendants
merely argue that, because the FAC alleges Defendants provided services to coordinate
Decedent’s mental health services, that they are healthcare providers. The
Court finds that nothing in the FAC suggests that either Defendant falls under
the statutory definitions of “healthcare provider.” Defendants have provided no
additional evidence. Because it is unclear whether Defendants are healthcare
providers under MICRA, the Court finds no grounds for demurrer based on failure
to allege medical malpractice. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules the Demurrer to
the first and third causes of action. 