 Case Number:  23NWCV04153    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  C FOUR STAR
DISTRIBUTION & DELIVERY, LLC v. MEDMEN ENTERPRISES, INC., ET AL. 
CASE NO.: 23NWCV04153
HEARING:  January 7,
2024 @ 9:30 a.m.
JUDGE: RAUL A. SAHAGUN
 
#2
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Counsel for
Defendants’ Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED.
 
Counsel to give
notice. 
 
Background
 
This is a breach of contract action. Counsel for all MedMen Defendants,
Scott J. Leipzig and Tim C. Hsu, on behalf of Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory
& Natsis LLP, now move to be relieved as counsel. 
 
On December 27, 2024, Counsel filed a notice of
non-opposition to the Motion.
 
Legal Standard
 
Good cause exists to grant a motion to be relieved as
counsel based on any of the grounds under Rules of Professional Conduct Rule
3-700(c). Rule 3-700(c) provides that an attorney may withdraw based on any of
the following: (1) The client (a) insists upon presenting a claim or defense
that is not warranted under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith
argument for an extension, modification, or reversal of existing law, or (b)
seeks to pursue an illegal course of conduct, or (c) insists that the member
pursue a course of conduct that is illegal or that is prohibited under these
rules or the State Bar Act, or (d) by other conduct renders it unreasonably
difficult for the member to carry out the employment effectively, or (e)
insists, in a matter not pending before a tribunal, that the member engage in
conduct that is contrary to the judgment and advice of the member but not
prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (f) breaches an agreement
or obligation to the member as to expenses or fees; (2) The continued
employment is likely to result in a violation of these rules or of the State
Bar Act; (3) the inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best
interests of the client likely will be served by withdrawal; (4) The member's mental
or physical condition renders it difficult for the member to carry out the
employment effectively; (5) The client knowingly and freely assents to
termination of the employment; or (6) The member believes in good faith, in a
proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will find the existence
of other good cause for withdrawal. 
 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362 requires that the
following be submitted in support of an attorney’s motion to be relieved as
counsel pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2): (1) a
notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made on Notice of Motion
and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-051));
(2) a declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on
Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
(Judicial Council Form, MC-052)); (3) a proof of service evidencing service of
the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client
and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) a proposed
order relieving counsel (prepared on Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-053)). (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (d), (e).) 
 
Discussion
 
Counsel has filed a filed a Notice of Motion and Motion to
be Relieved as Counsel. (See Form MC-051.) Counsel has also filed a proposed
order. (See Form MC-053.) Attorney Tim C. Hsu’s declaration demonstrates good
cause for withdrawal based on an irreconcilable breakdown of the
attorney-client relationship, such that “ethical and professional
considerations and obligations justify a termination of the relationship.” (Hsu
Decl., ¶ 2.) Attorney Hsu states that the clients were served copies of the
motion papers by mail at the clients’ last known addresses, which were
confirmed by public filings and electronic mail in the past thirty (30) days. (Hsu Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
Accordingly, the Court grants the Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel. 