This is a habitability matter.  Defendant Candelario Flores seeks to enforce his settlement with Plaintiffs Rosa, Juan, and Andrew Mancillas.   The settlement agreement requires that Flores tender $67,500 to Plaintiffs.  The settlement was entered into on May 22, 2023.On December 6, 2022, a judgment in the amount of $26,575 was entered in case no. 22STUD03693 (unlawful detainer action) in favor of Flores and against Rosa, Juan and Andrew, but also against Kimberly and Tiffany Mancillas, who are not parties to this suit.  On June 1, 2023, Flores filed a judgment lien in this suit with respect to the judgment in 22STUD03693.This Motion has been filed because “insurance defense counsel were reluctant to pay any monies on the Settlement Agreement” after “counsel for the Plaintiffs, Mr. Jacob Partiyeli and his associate attorney Armando Reyes, threatened separate legal actions if the lien was not released, and threatened the filing of the exact same lawsuit against Mr. Flores, if he did not release his lien. On June 23, 2023, counsel did in fact file the same exact lawsuit, (LASC Case Number 23STCV14639), against Mr. Flores, alleging the same facts and events that were settled in full in LASC Case Number 21STCV-35677.”The instant Motion essentially seeks a judgment against Flores, but only in the amount of $35,052.18 after giving an offset with respect to Flores’ judgment lien. Plaintiffs argue that the Motion should be denied because (1) Flores seeks relief outside the scope of Code Civ. Proc. § 664.6; (2) the parties mutually agreed to release all clams, which would include the judgment in the unlawful detainer action; (3) Defendant breached the settlement agreement by not paying; (4) the Court cannot apply the lien with respect to the obligations of Kimberly and Tiffany, who are not parties to this action or the settlement herein; and (5) the settlement arising from Plaintiffs’ personal injury claims is exempt to the extent necessary for the support of the debtor and the debtor’s spouse and dependents.  The Court is authorized to enter judgment pursuant to a stipulated settlement.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 664.6.)  In reviewing a motion to enforce a settlement, the Court determines “whether the parties entered into a valid and binding settlement.”  (Hines v. Lukes (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1182.)  “A settlement is enforceable under section 664.6 only if the parties agreed to all material settlement terms.  [Citations.]  The court ruling on the motion may consider the parties’ declarations and other evidence in deciding what terms the parties agreed to, and the court’s factual findings in this regard are reviewed under the substantial evidence standard.  [Citations.]  If the court determines that the parties entered into an enforceable settlement, it should grant the motion and enter a formal judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.”  (Id. at pp. 1182-1183; see also Osumi v. Sutton (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1355, 1357 [“Strong public policy in favor of the settlement of civil cases gives the trial court, which approves the settlement, the power to enforce it”].)The Court is required to enter a judgment according to the parties’ settlement agreement.  The Court concludes that the parties entered into a valid settlement agreement that included a payment to Plaintiffs in the amount of $67,500.  The Court will enter a judgment accordingly.The Court will not include an offset/credit based on Flores’ judgment lien because the agreement does not permit the Court to take extraneous credits or liens into account.  There is no discussion of the lien/past judgment in the settlement agreement.  Whether the lien is valid and enforceable is a separate matter that is irrelevant to the inquiry for the instant Motion under Code Civ. Proc. § 664.6.Seemingly, however, the issue of the release can eventually be asserted by Plaintiffs as breach of the settlement agreement, and so the Court will briefly examine that issue.  By its plain language, the subject release is only with respect to claims asserted by Plaintiffs.  There is no general release by Defendant and certainly no waiver of preexisting judgments.  There is indeed a mutual waiver of Civ. Code § 1542, which states, “A general release does not extend to claims that the creditor or releasing party does not know or suspect to exist in his or her favor at the time of executing the release and that, if known by him or her, would have materially affected his or her settlement with the debtor or released party.”  But, this waiver by Defendant is irrelevant as Defendant did not release anything in the first place—only the Plaintiffs executed a general release.  Thus, the settlement’s release does not relate to the judgment lien.In sum, the Motion to Enforce Settlement Agreement is granted in part.  The Court will enter a judgment in the amount of $67,500 in favor of Plaintiffs and against Defendant Flores (the judgment will also be in accordance with the settlement’s other terms).  The Court finds that there was no prevailing party on the Motion such that attorneys’ fees will not be awarded.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 