 Case Number:  21STCV23784    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      December 12, 2023                                     TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                                GH Palmer, Inc., et al. v. Aquatherm, L.P., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV23784
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs
GH Palmer, Inc., et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
On June 25, 2021, Plaintiffs, GH Palmer, Inc., Palmer/Flower
Street Properties, and GHP Management Corporation, initiated this action
against Defendants, Aquatherm, L.P., AENA NA, L.C., and Aquatherm GMBH, for (1)
Breach of Express Warranty, (2) Strict Products Liability – Manufacturing
Defect, and (3) Strict Products Liability – Design Defect.  The Complaint alleges that Aquatherm Green
Piping leaked.
 
On August 25, 2023, Plaintiffs filed this motion for leave
to file the First Amended Complaint.  
 
On December 5, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of
Non-Opposition to the motion.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            The court
may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading, including adding or
striking out the name of any party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a party,
or a mistake in any other respect.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)¿
“Public policy dictates that leave to amend be liberally granted.”¿ (Centex
Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23,
32.)¿ “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in
permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to
and including trial . . . this policy should be applied only ‘where no prejudice
is shown to the adverse party.’¿ [Citation].¿ A different result is indicated
‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is
shown.¿ [Citation.]” ¿(Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)¿ 
 
            A motion to
amend a pleading must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments and must state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)¿ The motion shall also be accompanied by a declaration
attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and
proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered,
and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 1.324, subd. (b).)¿ 
 
            In ruling
on a motion for leave to amend the complaint, the court does not consider the
merits of the proposed amendment, because “the preferable practice would be to
permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by
demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate
proceedings.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)¿ While the court may deny leave to amend where the
proposed amendment is insufficient to state a valid cause of action or defense,
such denial is most appropriate where the insufficiency cannot be cured by
further amendment—i.e., where the statute of limitations has expired or the
insufficiency is established by controlling caselaw. (California casualty
Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281,
disapproved on other grounds in Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines
Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)¿ 
 
III.       APPLICATION
 
Plaintiffs seek leave to file the proposed first amended
complaint to add the following: (1) new allegations regarding leaks from
Aquatherm Green Piping in Plaintiffs’ other properties that were discovered
only after the Complaint was filed; (2) new causes of action against all named
Defendants for Breach of Express Warranty, Manufacturing Defect, Design Defect,
and Failure to Warn; and 3) new Plaintiffs Palmer Temple Street Properties LLC,
918 Broadway Associates LLC, and LR 9th & Broadway LLC.
  
The motion complies with the requirements of California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1342, subdivision (a).  Further, as the motion is unopposed, the Court
finds no prejudice will result if leave is granted to file the amended
complaint.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The unopposed
motion for leave to file the First Amended Complaint is GRANTED.  The First Amended Complaint is deemed filed
and served on this date.  Plaintiffs are
directed to separately file the First Amended Complaint.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   December 12,
2023                                    




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the
  Superior Court


 




 