 Case Number:  23STCV24224    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December
12, 2023                            TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Samuel Wineman v. AMC
Networks, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      23STCV24224
 





















 
APPLICATION
TO BE ADMITTED PRO HAC VICE



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Applicant
Pamela I. Atkins
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On October 19, 2023, Applicant, Pamela I. Atkins, filed this
application to appear pro hac vice on behalf of Plaintiff, Samuel Wineman, in
this action.
 
            The application
is unopposed.
                     
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            California
Rules of Court, rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another
jurisdiction may apply to appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of
California by filing a verified application together with proof of service by
mail of a copy of the application and notice of hearing on all parties who have
appeared in the case and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco
office, with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a
resident of the State of California, and is not regularly engaged in
substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State of
California.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40.) 
 
            The
application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office addresses; (2)
the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member of good standing in those
courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any
court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed
an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding
two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and
(6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member of the State
Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local action.  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).) 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Pamela I.
Atkins seeks a court order allowing her to appear as counsel pro hac vice to
represent Plaintiff in this action. 
 
            The
application does not comply with California Rules of Court, rule 9.40.  In her declaration, Applicant states, “I
agree to pay the applicable fee.” 
Applicant further states that a “copy of the petition shall be filed
with the State Bar of California ...” 
However, Applicant does not submit any proof that the $50 fee has been
paid.  Nor is there proof that the
parties or the State Bar of California have been served with notice of this
application.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            Accordingly,
the application is CONTINUED to January 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  Applicant is to file a supplemental
declaration addressing the defects noted in this order no later than 5 court
days before the hearing. 
 
            Moving
party to give notice. 
 
 
Dated:   December 12,
2023                                    




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the
  Superior Court


 




 
 
            
 