 Case Number:  23STCV12713    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December
12, 2023                                        TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Kendall Key v. Robert Pereira, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV12713
 





















 
MOTION
TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA 
FOR
PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS RECORDS FROM A THIRD PARTY



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Robert Pereira, et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Kendall
Key
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
This is a breach of contract action concerning unpaid work and
reimbursement for the renovation of two properties on 49th Street and Roy
Street in Highland Park, California.  The
parties are in the business of flipping houses. 
On June 5, 2022, Plaintiff, Kendall Key dba A Paper Street, filed a
Complaint against Defendants, Robert Pereira and Vista Park Properties, LLC.  On September 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants alleging causes of action
for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Intentional Misrepresentation, (3) Negligent
Misrepresentation, (4) Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200, (5)
Defamation, (6) Unjust Enrichment, and (7) Quantum Meruit.
 
The Complaint alleges as follows:  In 2019, Defendants and Plaintiff entered
into a working relationship for Plaintiff to provide services as a landscape
designer and construction professional to prepare Defendants’ properties at
Valleybrink Rd. (“Valleybrink Property”), Verdugo Rd. (“Verdugo Property”), and
two properties on Aldama Street in Highland Park (the “Aldama Properties”) for
market.  After the Valleybrink Property,
Verdugo Property, and Aldama Properties were finished and sold, Plaintiff, on
behalf of Defendants, located additional properties in Highland Park at 49th
Street (“49th Street Property”) and Roy Street (“Roy Street Property”).  Plaintiff negotiated their purchase and provided
Defendants with estimates of the work to be done.  Defendants approved the estimates and construction
ensued.  The 49th Street Property was
eventually completed and sold.  At the
completion of the work and the beginning of escrow, Plaintiff provided
Defendants and escrow a final invoice of $60,670 to be paid out of the proceeds
from the 49th Street Property sale. 
However, Defendants instructed escrow not to pay the invoice by
informing escrow that the parties had reached an agreement to settle the
invoice.  This was false.  Escrow then closed and Plaintiff was not paid.  Plaintiff demanded payment, but Defendants
refused.  When it became clear that
Defendants would not pay Plaintiff the amounts due on the 49th Street Property,
Plaintiff stopped all work on the Roy Street Property.  At that point, Plaintiff had personally expended
approximately $35,000 on materials for the Roy Street Property.  
 
 Later, problems arose
with the 49th Street Property and Aldama Street Properties.  The buyers of the 49th Street Property raised
issued regarding the roof and HVAC.  The
water proofing failed at the Aldama Properties.  Defendants blamed Plaintiff for the foregoing issues
even though she had no part in the installation of those aspects of the
renovation projects.  Plaintiff believes
that Defendants disparaged Plaintiff to other members of the community which
negatively impacted her ability to market her business and gain new
clients.   Plaintiff now seeks to recover
$60,670 for her work on the 49th Street Property and $35,000 in personal
expenditures on the Roy Street Property. 
Plaintiff also seeks punitive damages.
 
On October 17, 2023, Plaintiff served a subpoena for
production of business records (the “Subpoena”) from third party Glen Oaks
Escrow, Inc. (“Escrow”).  
 
On November 14, 2023, Defendants filed this motion to quash the
Subpoena, or alternatively, a protective order limiting its scope.  Defendants request sanctions against Plaintiff
and her counsel of record.
 
On November 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  Plaintiff requests sanctions against
Defendants and their counsel.
 
On December 4, 2023, Defendants replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD FOR QUASHING A DEPOSITION SUBPOENA 
 
A deposition subpoena may request (1) only the attendance
and testimony of a deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony, as well as the production of
business records.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)  The court, upon
motion or the court’s own motion, “may make an order quashing the subpoena
entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or
conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the court may make any other
orders as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) “A deposition
subpoena that commands only the production of business records for copying
shall designate the business records to be produced either by specifically
describing each individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category
of item . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd. (a).)  
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
In making an order pursuant to motion made
under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under Section 1987.1,
the court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses
incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s
fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.”  (Code of Civ.
Proc. §1987.2.)
 
If sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity of the person against
whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction requested, that the motion
be supported in the points and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a
declaration supporting the amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿ 
 
Sanctions against counsel:¿ The court in Kwan
Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (Hennings)
noted that discovery sanctions against an attorney are governed by a different
standard than sanctions against a party:¿ 
 
By the terms of the statute, a trial court under section
2023.030(a) may not impose monetary sanctions against a party’s attorney unless
the court finds that the attorney “advised” the party to engage in the conduct
resulting in sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 256, 261, 24
Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿ “Unlike monetary sanctions against a party, which are based
on the party’s misuse of the discovery process, monetary sanctions against the
party’s attorney require a finding the ‘attorney advis[ed] that conduct.’ ” (Ibid.)
“It is not enough that the attorney’s actions were in some way improper.” (Corns
v. Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247 (Corns).)
Because an attorney’s advice to a client is “peculiarly within [his or her]
knowledge,” the attorney has the burden of showing that he or she did not
counsel discovery abuse. (Ibid.) Accordingly, when a party seeking
sanctions against an attorney offers sufficient evidence of a misuse of the
discovery process, the burden shifts to the attorney to demonstrate that he or
she did not recommend that conduct. (Id. at pp. 200–201, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247; Ghanooni, at p.
262, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿¿¿ 
 
III.       EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            Plaintiff submits objections to paragraphs 2 and 3 of the
Declaration of Grant K. Peto and two Exhibits 1 and 2 attached to the
declaration.  As the objections are not
material to the Court’s disposition of the motion, the Court does not rule on
them.
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
The Subpoena is composed of 34 categories.  It generally seeks production of documents of
any and all documents related to the purchase/sale of the six properties (Valleybrink,
Verdugo, Aldama Properties, 49th Street, and Roy Street) from January 1, 2018
to present.  (See Declaration of Grant K.
Peto, Ex. 6.)
 
 Defendants move for
an order quashing the Subpoena or, alternatively, modifying the Subpoena for
the following reasons: (1) Plaintiff failed to serve Notice to Consumer on any
of the buyers or sellers whose records are the subject of the Subpoena, (2) the
Subpoena seeks irrelevant information, and (3) the Subpoena seeks information
that is protected by privacy rights.[1]  The Court addressees each argument in turn.
 
A.  Notice to Consumer
 
Defendants argue the Subpoena should be quashed because
Plaintiff did not serve a Notice of Consumer to the buyers and sellers of the
six properties.  In support, Defendants
cite Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652 for
the proposition that nonparties are entitled to notice and an opportunity to
object to a subpoena which seeks disclosure of their financial files.  Valley Bank of Nevada is not on
point.  That case concerned the service
of a deposition notice on a party plaintiff with an accompanying request
to bring documents to the deposition.  
 
Here, Plaintiff is required to serve a Notice of Consumer to
nonparties to afford them an opportunity to object to the subpoena.  Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3
provides that service of a deposition subpoena for the “personal records” of a
“consumer’ must be accompanied by the consumer’s written release of the
records, or proof of service of a special notice to the consumer that the
records are being subpoenaed.  “The
purpose is to give the consumer a chance to seek appropriate orders protecting
the privacy of such records.  (Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 2020.510(c), 1985.3(e).)”  (Weil
& Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), ¶
8:566.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff does not dispute that Notices to Consumer
were not served in connection with the Subpoena.  Instead, Plaintiff argues the motion should
be denied because Defendants did not meet and confer on this issue.  A review of the email correspondence supports
Plaintiff’s position.  Defendants do not raise
this issue in the months leading to the filing of this motion. Nonetheless, the
motion is procedurally defective.  
 
B.  Other Issues
 
Additionally, in the hopes of obviating the need for the
filing of a future motion to quash regarding this Subpoena, the Court offers
the following observations.
 
Relevancy
 
Defendants argue the Subpoena does not seek relevant
information from Escrow because the anticipated responsive documents are not
relevant to the causes of action in the FAC. 
In support, Defendants point to the sole allegation concerning Escrow in
the FAC, which states that “Defendants instructed escrow not to pay the Invoice
by informing escrow that the parties had reached an agreement to settle the
Invoice.”  (FAC, ¶ 21.)
 
Plaintiff contends the Subpoena seeks information and
documents regarding each cause of action. 
Specifically, the Subpoena will elicit information to show Defendants’
pattern and practice to pay invoices through escrow proceeds, the scope of
Plaintiff’s work, Defendants’ intention not to pay the invoice, and other
communications between Escrow and Defendants showing that Defendants took
advantage of others.  (See Opposition, pp.
8:24-10:8.) 
 
The Subpoena undoubtedly seeks relevant information.  (See Peto Decl., Ex. 6.)   However, the Court is concerned with the
breadth of the Subpoena, the categories and privacy interests.  The parties will be ordered to meet and
confer on this issue. 
 
Privacy Rights
 
A right of privacy exists as to a party’s financial affairs,
even if the information sought is relevant to litigation.  (City of Carmel by the Sea v. Young
(1970) 2 Cal.3d 259, 268.) Additionally, the owner of a trade secret has a
privilege to refuse to disclose and prevent others from disclosing the secret.  (Evid. Code §1060.)
 
Defendants argue that the Subpoena must be quashed because
it seeks privileged information such as Defendants’ banking information, tax
information, social security numbers, and specifics on Defendants’ profits,
losses, and expenditures.  Defendants
further contend that the Subpoena also improperly seeks Defendants’ trade
secrets.  Some of these points are true;
others aren’t.  Plaintiff’s offer to enter
into protective order and/or redact information may ameliorate these
concerns.  (See Declaration of Jonathan
Gerber, ¶ 7.)  But Defendant’s point that
such redacts might not be manageable given the scope of the request has some
merit.  
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
The parties each request sanctions against the other and
their counsel.  Notwithstanding the
Court’s disposition of the motion, the Court finds sanctions are not warranted
against any party.  This was a close
matter involving sensitive, financial information of nonparties.  Accordingly, the Court declines to impose
sanctions.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION         
 
The motion is Granted for failure to provide consumer notice.  Prior to issuing any further subpoena, the Parties
are to meet and confer over the scope and categories of information and the appropriate
use of a protective order and/or redactions.  
 
The requests for sanctions are denied.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   December 12,
2023               




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 


