 Case Number:  23VECV04833    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  W J. A. vs BLUE
CROSS OF CALIFORNIA DBA ANTHEM BLUE CROSS
 
motion to compel
further responses to demand for discovery and production, set one and motion
for protective order 
 
Date of Hearing:        May
13, 2024                                    Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04833
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff J.A., a minor by and through his
Guardian ad Litem, and Michael Allen filed a complaint against Defendant Blue
Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross for 1. Breach of the Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 2. Breach of Contract; and 3. Violations of
Business & Professions Code Section 17200. Plaintiff alleges this action
arises out of Anthem’s repeated wrongful and bad faith denials of inpatient
hospital admission so that J.A. can have medically necessary brachial plexus
(nerve repair) surgery. Plaintiff alleges J.A.’s surgery was cancelled because
Anthem denied the required inpatient hospital admission in the intensive care
unit (ICU) required for his surgery. As of the date of this complaint, J.A. is
still waiting to have surgery.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Blue Cross of California dba
Anthem Blue Cross’ for Protective Order Regarding Plaintiff’s Demands for
Production of Documents, Sets Nos. 1 and 2 is GRANTED as to RPD Nos. 28-30.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Demand for Discovery and Production, Set One, From Defendant Blue
Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross is GRANTED, IN PART. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff
submits evidentiary objections to the declaration of Jennifer Macasieb
submitted in support of its Motion for Protective Order Regarding Plaintiff’s
Demands for Production of Documents, Set Nos. 1 and 2 as well as submitted in
support of Defendant’s opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Demand for Discovery and Production, Set One. 
 
Plaintiff’s
objections 1 – 6 are OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
DEFENDANT BLUE CROSS OF CALIFORNIA DBA
ANTHEM BLUE CROSS FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER REGARDING PLAINTIFF’S DEMANDS FOR PRODUCTION
OF DOCUMENTS, SETS NOS. 1 AND 2
 
Defendant Blue Cross of California dba
Anthem Blue Cross moves this court for a protective order against demands set
forth in Plaintiff J.A.’s Demands for Production of Documents, Sets 1 and 2. Specifically,
Anthem Blue Cross seeks a protective order (1) limiting Demands Nos. 5-12, 21,
38-44, 46, 47, 49-51, 54-56 and 68-79 to those Anthem Blue Cross policies and
procedures relied upon in connection with the utilization management review of
the pre-service request for an inpatient admission based on the Current
Procedure Terminology (“CPT”) codes provided by the treating physician (i.e.,
64912, 64913, 64861, 64856 and 64901) and (2) not requiring the production of
any documents responsive to Demands Nos. 20, 22-24 and 28-30 at all.
 
The court shall limit the scope of
discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that
discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. 
The court may make this determination pursuant to¿a motion for
protective order by a party or other affected person.  This motion shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040.  (CCP¿§ 2017.020(a).)  “A meet and confer declaration in support of
a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each¿issue presented by the motion.”  (CCP¿§ 2016.040.)¿¿ 
 
The court shall restrict the frequency
or extent of use of a discovery method provided in if it determines either of
the following: (1) The discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or
duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source that is more convenient,
less burdensome, or less expensive; or (2)¿ The selected method of discovery is
unduly burdensome or expensive, taking into account the needs of the case, the
amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the
litigation.¿¿ (CCP § 2019.030(a).)¿
 
Defendant argues RPD Nos. 5-12, 21,
38-44, 46, 47, 49-51, 54-56 and 69-78 (“policies and procedures”) are grossly
overbroad and unduly burdensome as they cover at least eight distinct
operational areas of Anthem Blue Cross – including inpatient utilization
management pre-service review, claims, customer service, retrospective review,
medical director/peer-to-peer review, grievances and appeals, training and compliance/accreditation
(as well as all documents and communications relating thereto) – but also for
all possible medical procedures, across all product lines, for all types of
requests and claims and for a period of over 3 to 4 years. Defendant contends given
the extraordinarily broad scope of the 34 document demands, it would be
extremely time-consuming to identify, collect, review and produce all of the
policies, procedures and related documents sought. Defendant contends for all
eight of these operational areas, it would involve approximately 20 people and
take a total of 192 hours. As such, the requests should be limited to those
Anthem Blue Cross policies and procedures relied upon in connection with the
utilization management review of the pre-service request for an inpatient admission
based on the CPT codes provided by the treating physician here (i.e., 64912,
64913, 64861, 64856 and 64901). 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
document requests at issue seek information directly relevant to this case.
Plaintiff contends the discovery requests are designed to discover the
policies, guidelines, and practices that were used, or should have been used,
in the handling, processing and/or investigation that was done in connection
with Plaintiff’s request for benefits for the brachial plexus repair surgery
and post-surgery admission to the ICU and the medical
necessity review purportedly necessitated by the latter. Moreover, Defendant’s
contention that there was a “peer to peer” review between Dr. Amirnovin and Dr.
Meisel on June 20, 2023, purportedly discussing the CPT codes directly puts at issue
Anthem’s practices regarding peer to peer reviews and establishes that the
requested documents are relevant. Plaintiff goes on to argue Defendant has not
made the required showing to entitle it to a protective order and moreover, the
time period sought for the RPDs is reasonable and justified. 
 
The court finds Defendant has
demonstrated good cause for limiting the scope of Demands Nos. 5-7, 9, 41, 42,
46, 47, 49-51, and 54-55 are grossly overbroad.   Request No. 5, as just one example, requests
all policy manuals and any documents that set forth “company practices or
policies regarding the handling, processing and/or investigation of requests
for services or authorization for services (collectively “Manuals”)” without
limitation to any services at issue in this case.  No. 6 and 7 are equally vague and  overbroad, as are the other requests listed
above. Defendant has established that the searches would require multiple
personnel and consume more than 190 hours of time.  Given the overbreadth of these requests,
there is no justification for requiring defendant to expend this amount of time
in response to these requests.   
 
The court finds that Requests No. 8, 10,
11, 12, 21, 38, 39, 40, 43, 44, 56, and 68-79 are narrowly enough drawn and
relates to the procedure at issue in this case, such that defendant can answer
this request without undue effort or expense, provided that they are narrowed
to only require production of policies and procedures in effect at the time of
the requested procedure in this case. 
 
As for RPD Nos. 20, 22-24, and 28-30,
Defendant argues these documents are overbroad, irrelevant and impede
Defendant’s employee’s privacy right interests. According to Defendant, Demand
Nos. 20, 22-24, seek private documents relating to employees of Anthem Blue
Cross including information about employment agreements, compensation packages,
performance evaluations, and any statistics relating to “reviews” worked on. The
court agrees that defendant has established that its employees’ privacy rights
outweigh any vague allegations set forth by plaintiff to support this
extraordinarily overbroad request for information.  Plaintiff can ask at deposition of the person
most knowledgeable or other person with knowledge as to whether there are
financial or other incentives for denial of coverage and how such incentives
work. 
 
Concerning RPD Nos. 28-30, Defendant
argues there is no indication that the burden to Anthem Blue Cross in having to
identify, collect, review and produce all of this advertising, marketing and
promotional material is outweighed by any benefit that this information would
provide to any of the parties in this litigation. Defendant notes there is not
even any allegation that Plaintiff or his parents saw any Anthem Blue Cross advertising
or promotional materials.
 
The court agrees. The portions of the
complaint Plaintiff references in opposition address the contract between the
parties, and not any advertising or promotional materials. As such, the court
finds such request will not lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant Blue Cross of
California dba Anthem Blue Cross for Protective Order Regarding Plaintiff’s
Demands for Production of Documents, Sets Nos. 1 and 2 is GRANTED in part and
denied in part. 
 
II.                 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
TO DEMAND FOR DISCOVERY AND PRODUCTION, SET ONE, FROM DEFENDANT BLUE CROSS OF
CALIFORNIA DBA ANTHEM BLUE CROSS; AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS AGAINST ANTHEM AND
ITS COUNSEL IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,000.00
 
Plaintiff moves the court for an order
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300 that compels Defendant
Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross to provide further verified
responses and production of documents to Plaintiff’s first set of demands for
production. Specifically, Plaintiff seeks an order requiring Anthem to provide
further responses which: (1) Remove the Preliminary Statement and General Objections
as they are not provided for or authorized by the Code of Civil Procedure; (2)
Remove all specific objections including but not limited to objections
contending
that requests are vague and ambiguous,
overly burdensome, and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence; and (3) Agree to produce all non-privileged responsive
documents and information within Anthem’s possession, custody or control. 
 
A motion to compel further responses to
a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be brought based
on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or
incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (CCP §
2031.310(c).) A motion to compel further production must set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand. (See CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).) It is not necessary for the motion
to show that the material sought will be admissible in evidence. “Good cause”
may be found to justify discovery where specific facts show that the discovery
is necessary for effective trial preparation or to prevent surprise at trial.
(See Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior Court (1967) 65 Cal.2d
583, 586-588; see also CCP §§ 2017.010, 2019.030(a)(1).) 
 
Plaintiff argues Anthem’s responses to
Request Nos. 4-12, 19-24, 27-30, 34, 37-44, 46-51, 53-56, and 60-62 contain
only boilerplate and general objections while the responses to Request Nos.
1-3, 13-18, 31- 33, 57-59, and 63-68 are not code-compliant. 
 
RFP Nos. 1-4, 56
 
This category of documents seeks
information specifically relating to plaintiff (RFP 1), communications about
plaintiff, including those between Anthem and plaintiff’s parents and his providers
(RFP 2), plaintiff’s policy and application/enrollment form (RFP 3 & 4),
and representations to members with brachial plexus injuries about what
treatments or services are covered for a brachial plexus injury (RFP 56).
 
Plaintiff argues these requests should
be uncontroversial and are necessarily relevant. Particularly, given that in
his declaration Dr. Amirnovin purports to have communicated with Dr.
Stevanovic’s office on several occasions and he admits that plaintiff’s parents
directly communicated with Anthem’s Blue Cross’ Solution Central.
 
Defendant argues it has already
produced all non-privileged documents to RFP 1-3 and for RFP 4, Defendant
argues Plaintiff has made no effort to explain why these documents are relevant
to this case.
 
The court finds good cause to compel
further responses. Defendant cannot unilaterally limit the production to Plaintiff’s
request for preauthorization of an ICU admission following a “brachial plexus
repair surgery”. Communications about Plaintiff as well as Plaintiff’s policy’s
may lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, similarly with
representations made about brachial plexus injuries. 
 
RFP Nos. 5-17, 21, 38-51, 57-68
 
This category of documents seeks the
manuals, policies and procedures used or which should have been used to process
the request for the in hospital admission to the ICU, including revisions to
the same (RFPs 5-8), documents and communications utilized in evaluating grievances
or appeals (RFP 9), training materials and guidelines for the individuals
involved in the review of plaintiff’s request for benefits (RFPs 10-12, 21),
documents relied upon in reaching the conclusions presented in the denial
letters at issue in this case (RFP 8, 13, 57, 60, 63, 66), as well as all
screenshots reflecting actions done and entries made or viewed during the investigation
resulting in said denial letters (RFPs 14-15, 58-59, 61-62, 64-65, 67-68), the
file containing all work done and information considered in investigating and processing
plaintiff’s request for benefits, including medical records and communications
(RFPs 16-17), documents regarding evaluating requests for in hospital admission
to the ICU immediately following surgery (RFPs 38-40) as well as for evaluating
“medical necessity” (RFPs 49-51) and Anthem’s policies for coverage of in
hospital admission to the ICU immediately following surgery (RFPs 41-44, 46-47)
and its communications with regulators regarding the same (RFP 48). 
 
Plaintiff argues it is long-established
law that claims handling policies, procedures, and guidelines are relevant and
discoverable in bad faith cases. Here, the requested documents are directly
relevant to plaintiff’s allegations that Anthem has implemented and designed a
utilization review system that prevents a full, fair, and thorough investigation before denying coverage, that Anthem’s failure
to authorize the in hospital admission to the ICU breached the contract, and
that Anthem’s business practices, including its utilization of software
interfaces which prevent full, fair, and thorough investigations, constitute
acts of unfair, unlawful, misleading, and fraudulent business practices as set
forth in Business & Professions Code section 17200 et seq. Further, the
requested documents are necessary to establish that Anthem’s mishandling of the
request for benefits in this case was part of Anthem’s pattern and practice of
failing to investigate and properly handle claims. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues these
are extraordinarily overbroad and are pending Defendant’s motion for protective
order. Moreover, Defendant has already produced all non-privileged, responsive
documents reasonably believed to be relevant to the specific pre-service
request at issue. As the court has denied the motion for protective order as to
8, 10, 11, 12, 21, 38-40, 43, 45, 68-79, but with the limitations set forth
above, the motion to compel further responses is GRANTED as to those demands. 
 
The court notes Plaintiff seeks further
responses to additional demands (RFP Nos. 13-17, 48, and 57-68). There,
Defendant contends it has provided a code-compliant statement that it will
produce the documents requested, in part. Moreover, Anthem Blue Cross’s
responses reflect a good faith effort to provide Plaintiff with the subset of
non-privileged documents that specifically relate to the pre-service request at
issue, while preserving its objections to the remainder of the overly broad
demands. Specifically as to RFP No. 60 – 62, Defendant argues these demands
seek documents relating specifically to a June 15, 2023 denial letter. However,
there was no denial of coverage or a denial letter on that date. 
 
In reply, Plaintiff contends
Defendant’s production is incomplete or unilaterally narrows what it is
producing. The parties must work together to determine what needs to be
produced and if Defendant cannot fully produce the requested documents,
Defendant must provide a code compliant response stating why it cannot. As
noted above, documents outside of Plaintiff’s preservice request may lead to
discovery of admissible evidence. As to RFP No. 60 – 62, if this letter has
never been in Defendant’s possession, Defendant must comply with Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.230. 
 
RFP Nos. 18-20, 22-24
 
This category of documents relate to
Anthem’s employees and/or agents who were involved in the utilization review
process and/or in making decisions on Anthem’s behalf regarding the request for
in hospital admission to the ICU post-surgery. 
 
Plaintiff argues the requested
documents are directly relevant to plaintiff’s claims against Anthem for bad
faith and violation of the UCL claim, as well as his claim for punitive
damages. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues these
are unequivocally personal information relating to non-parties. Applying the
required balancing test, Plaintiff has utterly failed to demonstrate how the
significant and undeniable privacy rights of Anthem Blue Cross’s employees are
outweighed by any need. Specifically, as to RFP No. 19, Plaintiff has made no
effort to explain why any written job descriptions for everyone who was
involved in the handling of Plaintiff’s pre-service request for the inpatient
admission at issue – from customer service representatives taking calls to the
medical directors reviewing the request and making the ultimate coverage
decision and everyone in between. 
 
As previously noted, Defendant has
adequately shown that Defendant’s employee’s privacy rights outweigh the
importance of the requested discovery when it involves direct allegations by
Plaintiff.   
 
The court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to
compel further responses to RFP Nos. 18-20, 22-24. 
 
RFPs 27 & 37 
 
This category of document requests
letters denying coverage for in hospital ICU admission to other members
diagnosed with brachial plexus injuries (RFP 37) and decisions by any
regulators regarding insureds requests for in hospital admission to the ICU
immediately following brachial plexus repair surgery (RFP 27) since Jan. 1,
2020.
 
The court agrees that provision of this
information would invade the privacy rights of patients and violates
HIPAA.   The request also is overly
burdensome.  The court would allow
discovery of the numbers of patients seeking pre-admission approval for
brachial plexus injuries and the number approved or denied, but this would have
to be presented through a different discovery vehicle.  
 
RFPs 53-55
 
This category of documents seeks
information regarding Anthem’s policies and practices related to “peer to peer”
reviews.
 
Plaintiff argues in this case, Anthem
alleges that there was a “peer to peer” review between Dr. Amirnovin and Dr.
Meisel on June 20, 2023. This allegation directly puts at issue Anthem’s
policies and practices regarding peer to peer reviews and establishes that the
requested documents are relevant or, at a minimum, reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
 
The court finds good cause to compel
further responses. Defendant objects on the grounds the requests are
irrelevant, overbroad, seek confidential information, and so forth. However,
information about the peer to peer reviews are relevant and may lead to
discovery of admissible evidence. Moreover, Anthem fails to articulate why
compliance would be unduly burdensome, difficult, or expensive or what trade secrets
or proprietary or sensitive financial information is purportedly at issue.
Defendant may also designate the documents as confidential pursuant to the
protective order. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel
further as to RFP Nos. 53 to 55 is GRANTED. 
 
RFPs 28-30
 
These requests seek documents relating
to Anthem marketing activities. As noted in the motion for protective order,
Plaintiff has failed to show good cause for these requests. Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RFPs 28-30 is DENIED. 
 
RFPs 31-34
 
These requests seek documents relating
to Anthem’s Answer including defenses pertaining to Anthem’s contentions of
comparative fault and plaintiff’s claimed damages.
 
Defendant argues it has already
produced all non-privileged, responsive documents reasonably believed to be
relevant to the specific pre-service request at issue as to RFP 31 – 33 and as
for RFP 34, Anthem Blue Cross has already produced all relevant documents and when
ordered by this court, it will also provide a listing of trial exhibits. However,
Defendant will not provide a response to a discovery request seeking to know
which documents Anthem Blue Cross intends to use at trial.
 
As noted above, Defendant cannot choose
to limit the responses to pre-service requests as Plaintiff has shown that
documents outside the pre-service request may lead to discovery of admissible
evidence. As for RFP No. 34, Defendant is not required to identify which
documents it intends to use at trial, as that requests violates the attorney
work product privilege at this stage.    
 
Objections
 
Plaintiff also seeks to overrule
Defendant’s objections. The court has addressed many of Plaintiff’s requests
above and will not address them here. As for the omnibus objections and
preliminary statement and general objections, the court OVERRULES the
objections. 
 
Sanctions
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.310(h) provides for mandatory monetary sanctions “against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(CCP § 2031.310(h).)  
 
Plaintiff requests $1,000 in sanctions
against Anthem as Plaintiff provided Anthem with detailed authority on why its
requests were proper but Anthem still refuses produce documents central to
plaintiff’s bad faith case. 
 
In opposition, Defendant also requests
$1,000 in sanctions against Plaintiff on the grounds Plaintiff did not properly
meet and confer at all regarding certain demands. 
 
The court DENIES both requests for
sanctions.   
 
 