 Case Number:  23SMCV00517    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   NETWORK EXPERTS, INC.,   Plaintiff, v.  BEVERLY HILLS IT SERVICES, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV00517     Hearing Date:  November 7, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE:   defendant mostafa baboli’s    motion to disqualify counsel for    plaintiff network experts, inc.   BACKGROUND  This is theft of trade secrets case.  Plaintiff Network Experts, Inc. provides computer sales. consulting and IT services.  Defendant Mostafa Karbalei Ahmad Baboli aka Stephen Parsa (“Baboli”) was employed by Plaintiff to serve as an IT specialist/director.   Baboli later formed Beverly Hills IT Services and Beverly Hills Services (the “Entity Defendants” and together with Baboli, “Defendants”) which then contracted with Plaintiff to perform IT services.  Baboli informed Plaintiff that the Entity Defendants would contract with Plaintiff as an independent contractor, servicing Plaintiff’s clients, while also servicing the Entity Defendants’ own clients as well.   Plaintiff claims Defendants misappropriated its trade secrets to poach Plaintiff’s clients.  Plaintiff also claims Baboli borrowed $9,540 pursuant to a promissory note which he has failed to repay.   The operative complaint (the “First Action”) alleges claims for (1) misappropriation of trade secrets, (2) breach of promissory note, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) breach of duty of loyalty, (5) unfair competition, (6) intentional interference with prospective economic relations, (7) negligent interference with prospective economic relations, (8) conversion and (9) trespass to chattel. This hearing is on Baboli’s motion to disqualify counsel for Plaintiff.  Baboli argues that Novian & Novian (“Novian”) provided “two consults” to Baboli, by and through its paralegal, Roberto Carmona, and “gleaned confidential information before revealing their intention to represent the opposing parties.”     LEGAL STANDARD “A trial court’s authority to disqualify an attorney derives from the power inherent in every court ‘[t]o control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter pertaining thereto.’” (People ex rel. Dept. of Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135, 1145; see also¿Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(5).) “The issue of disqualification ultimately involves a conflict between the clients’ right to counsel of their choice and the need to maintain ethical standards of professional responsibility. The paramount concern, though, must be the preservation of public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of the bar. The recognized and important right to counsel of one's choosing must yield to considerations of ethics that run to the very integrity of our judicial process.” (Metro-Goldwyn Mayer v. Tracinda Corp. (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1832, 1838.)¿ In ruling on a motion to disqualify, the court should weigh: (1) the party’s right to counsel of choice; (2) the attorney’s interest in representing a client; (3) the financial burden on a client of change of counsel; (4) any tactical abuse underlying a disqualification motion; and (5) the principle that the fair resolution of disputes requires vigorous representation of parties by independent counsel. (Mills Land & Water Co. v. Golden West Refining Co. ¿(1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 116, 126.)  To have standing to bring a motion to disqualify, a moving party, “must show a legally cognizable interest that is or would be harmed by the attorney’s conflict of interest. This means that, except in limited circumstances [], a party seeking disqualification must have or have had an attorney-client relationship with the ‘target’ attorney.” (Cal. Prac. Guide Prof. Resp. Ch. 4-G, (The Rutter Group 2020) ¶4:322.10.)   Whether an attorney should be disqualified is a matter addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court. (Henriksen v. Great American Savings & Loan¿(1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109, 113.)  "[A] motion to disqualify normally should be decided on the basis of declarations and documents submitted by the parties." (In¿re Complex Asbestos Litigation (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 572, 583 fn. 5.)  REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Baboli requests judicial notice of (1) the complaint filed in this action on February 3, 2023, (2) his declaration of September 20, 2023, filed in this action, (3) judgment entered in this action on March 4, 2024, (4) complaint filed in Case No. 23STCV 31366 in the matter of Parsa v. Network Experts, et al., (5) the minute order entered in this matter on July 25, 2024; (6) the declaration of Roberto Carmona filed in this action on October 6, 2023, and (7) declaration of Farhad Novian filed in this action on March 7, 2024.  The Court denies the request as to (1)-(3) and (5)-(7), as these are documents filed in this action, and a request to judicially notice them is unnecessary.  Baboli can simply refer to documents filed in this action.  The Court grants the request as to (4), as a record of “any court of this state” pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code § 452(d).  DISCUSSION Baboli argues that he is a prospective client of Novian, and therefore, Novian should be disqualified from representing Plaintiff.  The Court disagrees. Rule 1.18 of the California Rules of Professional Conduct generally prohibits a lawyer from representing a client with interests materially adverse to those of a prospective client where the attorney has received confidential information from the prospective client that is material to the matter.  For purposes of Rule 1.18, a prospective client is defined as “[a] person who, directly or through an authorized representative, consults a lawyer for the purpose of retaining the lawyer or securing legal service or advice from the lawyer in the lawyer's professional capacity, is a prospective client.”  This definition is limited, however, by Comment 2 to Rule 1.18, which states:  Not all persons who communicate information to a lawyer are entitled to protection under this rule. A person who by any means communicates information unilaterally to a lawyer, without reasonable expectation that the lawyer is willing to discuss the possibility of forming a lawyer-client relationship or provide legal advice is not a “prospective client” within the meaning of paragraph (a).  In addition, a person who discloses information to a lawyer after the lawyer has stated his or her unwillingness or inability to consult with the person (People v. Gionis (1995) 9 Cal.4th 1196 [40 Cal.Rptr.2d 456]), or who communicates information to a lawyer without a good faith intention to seek legal advice or representation, is not a prospective client within the meaning of paragraph (a).  Here, Baboli claims he became a prospective client of Novian due to his conversations with Novian’s paralegal, Roberto Carmona.  Carmona, however, disputes Baboli’s claim.  According to Carmona, Baboli was merely venting his frustrations about Plaintiff during their call, not seeking to retain Novian. (Carmona Dec. at ¶3.)  Understandably, Carmona listened to Baboli’s ranting but did not solicit any information which he would normally ask of a prospective client because he did not treat this call as a client intake call.  (Id. at ¶4.)  At no point during that call did Baboli ask to retain Novian or even speak with an attorney at the firm. (Id.)  Nevertheless, Carmona made a point to inform Baboli that whatever he decided to do about his gripes with Plaintiff, Novian could not help him. (Id. at ¶5.) When Carmona received another call from Baboli on the following day, Carmona informed Baboli again that Novian could not represent him because, given its close ties with and former representation of Plaintiff, doing so would be a conflict of interest.  (Id.)   Applying the comment to Rule 1.18 to these facts, Baboli was never a prospective client of Novian.  At no point did Baboli have a reasonable expectation that Novian was willing to be his attorney.  Not only was he specifically informed of this by Carmona on multiple occasions, but he was also aware of Novian’s deep and longstanding relationship with Plaintiff and Boudaie and prior engagements to act as their legal counsel, well before he first called Carmona to gripe about his work disputes.  That Baboli continued to correspond with Carmona, despite these warnings, was not the fault of Novian.  There is also no evidence that Baboli disclosed confidential information.  Where preliminary consultations with a prospective client does not result in the attorney’s formal retention, disqualification is appropriate only where the prospective client can show the consultation “resulted in disclosure of confidential information or that it would be reasonable to infer such disclosure.” (Med-Trans Corp., Inc. v. City of California City (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 655, 667; In re Marriage of Zimmerman (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 556, 564-565.)  Baboli fails to make this showing here.   Circumstances indicating that confidential information was not disclosed include: (1) the attorney did not represent the prospective client other than in the most preliminary, insubstantial and peripheral manner; (2) the attorney performed no work for the prospective client; (3) although the attorney may have offered initial impressions, the attorney was not called upon to formulate a legal strategy; (4) no actual confidential disclosures were claimed by the prospective client; and (5) the nature of the relationship between attorney and the prospective client was such that no confidential information material to the current dispute would normally have been imparted to the attorney. (Med-Trans Corp., Inc. v. City of California City, 156 Cal.App.4th at 667; In re Marriage of Zimmerman, 16 Cal.App.4th at pp. 564-565.)  Two of these factors are present here. First, Novian’s representation, if any, was insubstantial and peripheral at best.  In fact, Baboli never directly spoke with an attorney at Novian about his matter, except for the informal meeting with Novian seeking to mediate the parties’ dispute, and even then, his communications were made in the presence of a third party, his uncle, and his adversary, Boudaie.  (See Evid. Code, § 952; Novian Decl. at ¶4.)  Second, Novian performed no work for Baboli and was never called upon to formulate a legal strategy. (Novian Decl. at ¶4.)  Carmona’s alleged statement to Baboli that Plaintiff and Boudaie were “liable” for employment claims worth “at least $350,000 to $400,000” can hardly be considered a legal strategy, even if they were made.   In Syre v. Douglas (2024) 104 Cal.App.5th 280, 297, the court distinguished case-related information revealed by a potential client as not confidential, even when some of the information is later used in legal action.  In doing so, the court stated, “We cannot consider communication of the nature of plaintiff's anticipated action against defendant to be confidential information where plaintiff was seeking representation in anticipation of filing a lawsuit based on that information in court . . . [i]t does not require prescience to predict that the basis of these allegations would be explored in discovery in this litigation. Plaintiff cannot reasonably assert that the preliminary information about the ‘issue’ in the case was a confidential communication.” (Id. at p. 297.) In other words, “information could not be viewed as confidential where it related to the theory of recovery she intended to pursue, and which would have been disclosed in the pleadings.” (Id. at 298.)  Baboli identifies the alleged confidential information which he claims to have conveyed to Carmona in his declaration as consisting of “information and details respecting my employment-related claims, my breach of partnership claims respecting BEVERLY HILLS SMART HOME, and fraudulent activity committed by BOUDAIE, NETWORK’s owner and principal.” Unsurprisingly, this same information is set forth in Baboli’s Proposed Cross Complaint and is the proper subject to discovery in the instant litigation. (Kandel Decl. at ¶12, Ex. E.) Therefore, this information is not confidential and cannot prevent Novian’s representation of Plaintiff in this matter.  Even if Baboli was a prospective client of Novian and disclosed confidential information, he has not demonstrated how that information could be significantly harmful to him in this matter.  A prospective client is not elevated to the status of a former client and representation of a new client is not barred unless the attorney obtained information from the prospective client that could be significantly harmful to that person in the matter. (Syre, 104 Cal.App.5th at p. 297.)  Baboli argues that the alleged confidential information regarding a potential “breach of partnership claims” wherein he “talked openly about the formation of Beverly Hills Smart Home (hereinafter “BHSH”), in which Network Expert, Inc.’s principal was a partner owning equal equity” is significantly harmful with respect to his claims.  It is not.  Plaintiff’s first, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action concern Defendants’ misappropriation of Plaintiff’s trade secrets, their breach of fiduciary duty and duty of loyalty to Plaintiff, and their unfair competition.  Beverly Hills Smart Home, and its organization is not significantly harmful in this context, much less relevant.  Further, that alleged confidential information appears in the allegations of his proposed Cross Complaint. (See Kandel Decl. at ¶12, Ex. E; Syre, 104 Cal.App.5th at 298.)  Baboli cannot claim that the allegations he intends to assert against Plaintiff and Boudaie are harmful, let alone significantly harmful, to him.  In ruling on a motion to disqualify, the court must also consider the party’s right to counsel of choice, the financial burden on a client of changing counsel and any tactical abuse underlying a disqualification motion. (Mills Land & Water Co. v. Golden West Refining Co. (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 116, 126 [superseded by rule on other grounds].) Particularly relevant here, last-minute recusal motions that appear to be “trial tactics” may be denied on the ground of laches.  (River West, Inc. v. Nickel (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1297, 1304; Liberty Nat’l Enterprises, L.P. v. Chicago Title Ins. Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 839, 847; see also City & County of San Francisco v. Cobra Solutions, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 468, 474-475 (delay in moving to restrict access unreasonable, and prejudice from delay extreme, resulting in waiver of right to restrict access to disqualified counsel's work product).)  As Baboli acknowledges, “[u]nquestionably, this motion is long overdue.”  Indeed, it is. Baboli first raised this issue in his first attempt to set aside default back in September of 2023. (Kandel Decl. at ¶11.)  Over a year has passed since then, and this motion appears to be tactical, filed shortly before Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions is set to be heard on November 8, 2024.  By filing the motion, Plaintiff now faces the threat of having to secure alternative counsel 24 hours before the hearing on its motion for sanctions.  On top of that, Plaintiff will be deprived of its counsel of choice, Novian, and will have to bear the financial burden of securing and educating new counsel.  When the party opposing the motion shows unreasonable delay causing prejudice, the burden shifts to the moving party to justify the delay. (Liberty Nat’l Enterprises, L.P. v. Chicago Title Ins. Co., supra, 194 Cal.App.4th at 845.)  There is no reasonable excuse for Baboli’s delay.   CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court DENIES the motion to disqualify. DATED:  November 7, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 