 Case Number:  23SMCV02168    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  O’Brien v. Midway Rent a Car,
Inc, et al.



Case No.:


23SMCV02168


Complaint Filed:


5-17-23           




Hearing Date:


4-9-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


10


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Midway Rent a Car,
Inc.
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Torin O’Brien

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            
            Defendant
Midway Rent a Car, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment as to the Plaintiff Torin
O’Brien’s Complaint is GRANTED. Defendant met their burden to provide material
facts to negate multiple elements of the Plaintiff’s complaint, and to
establish an affirmative defense. Plaintiff did not meet their burden to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or defense. 
 
            Where a defendant seeks summary
judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the
cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to that cause of action.” (Code of Civil Procedure
§437c(o)(2).) A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim
“cannot be established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential
element of the claim. (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.) Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts
to plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists
as to that cause of action or defense thereto.” (Id.) If unable to prove
the existence of a triable issue of material fact, summary judgment or summary
adjudication in favor of the defendant is proper. (Id.)
 
I.     
Defendant Meets Burden to Negate Multiple
Elements of Plaintiffs Causes of Action
 
            “The elements of a cause of
action for negligence are well established. They are ‘(a) a legal duty to use
due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the
proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.’” (Ladd v. County of San
Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.)
 
            “A rental car company may be held liable for negligently
entrusting one of its cars to a customer . . . . [D]efendant's conduct is to be
measured by what an ordinarily prudent person would do in similar
circumstances. Vehicle Code section 14608 prohibits a rental car agency
from renting to unlicensed drivers. A rental car agency may therefore be liable
for negligently entrusting a car to an unlicensed driver. [citation] Other
jurisdictions have sensibly recognized a rental car agency may be liable for
negligently entrusting a car to a customer known to the agency to be
intoxicated at the time of the rental.” (Osborn v. Hertz Corp. (1988)
205 Cal.App.3d 703, 709.) “Liability for negligent entrustment is determined by
applying general principles of negligence.”  (Allen v. Toledo (1980) 109 Cal.App.3d
415, 421.)
 
            The Graves Amendment bars motor
vehicle and general negligence claims against Rental Car companies when the
following conditions are met: 
 
An
owner of a motor vehicle that rents or leases the vehicle to a person (or an
affiliate of the owner) shall not be liable under the law of any State or
political subdivision thereof, by reason of being the owner of the vehicle (or
an affiliate of the owner), for harm to persons or property that results or
arises out of the use, operation, or possession of the vehicle during the
period of the rental or lease, if--
(1)
the owner (or an affiliate of the owner) is engaged in the trade or business of
renting or leasing motor vehicles; and
(2)
there is no negligence or criminal wrongdoing on the part of the owner (or an
affiliate of the owner).
 
            (49 U.S.C.A. § 30106.)
 
            “[A] rental car agency complies with [Vehicle Code] section
14608 by visually examining the license and verifying either the signature on
the license or the photograph (Enterprise Rent-A-Car of Los Angeles v.
Superior Court (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 1, 10.) California Vehicle Code §
14608 states:
 
 
(a)
A person shall not rent a motor vehicle to another person unless both of the
following requirements have been met:
(1)
The person to whom the vehicle is rented is licensed under this code or is a
nonresident who is licensed under the laws of the state or country of his or
her residence.
(2)
The person renting to another person has inspected the driver's license of the
person to whom the vehicle is to be rented and compared either the signature
thereon with that of the person to whom the vehicle is to be rented or the
photograph thereon with the person to whom the vehicle is to be rented.
 
       (Veh. Code, § 14608.)
 
 
            Defendant Midway Rent a Car, Inc. (“MRC”) establishes
that it is in the business of renting or leasing motor vehicles, and the
vehicle at issue, the 2022 Ford Mustang EcoBoost (the “Vehicle”), was owned by
Midway HFCA LLC and leased to MRC. (SSUF, ¶¶ 1, 2; Kim Decl., ¶¶ 3–5, Ex A;
LoCascio Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. H, p. 6:1–10.) MRC establishes that Co-Defendant Eddie
Loza (“Loza”) was not employed by MRC and was never involved in a joint venture
with MRC. (SSUF, ¶¶ 3, 7, 12; Kim Decl., ¶ 4; Locascio Decl., ¶ 5, Ec. H, p.
5:1–28.) MRC establishes that there is no evidence that the Vehicle was
negligently maintained or repaired, or that the mechanical condition of the
vehicle contributed to the vehicle collision giving rise to the lawsuit. (SSUF,
¶¶ 9, 14, 15; LoCascio Decl., ¶¶ 2–8 Ex E–K; Kim Decl., ¶ 5.) MRC establishes
that Loza satisfied MRC’s rental criteria by presenting a facially valid
California’s Driver’s license at the time the Vehicle was rented; Loza’s
Driver’s License picture matched Loza’s appearance at time of the rental, and
Loza did not appear to be unfit to drive. (Johnson Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. D.)
 
            MRC provides declarations, evidence, and material facts
to negate Plaintiff Torin O’Brien (“O’Brien’s”) claim elements of Duty and
Breach. Furthermore, MRC’s provides material facts to show that the Graves
Amendment bars any tort liability contributed to MRC in this action. MRC has
met their burden to provide material facts to dispute one or more elements and
provide a complete defense as to O’Brien’s Complaint, and thus the burden moves
to O’Brien to provide disputed material facts.
 
II.  
Plaintiff fails to Meet Burden to Provide
Disputed Material Facts
 
O’Brien does not dispute any
material facts within MRC’s SSUF. (See SSUF, ¶¶ 1–17.) O’Brien provides no
declarations, evidence, material facts or applicable authority to dispute that
MRC did not negligently entrust the Vehicle to Loza, or that MRC did not
negligently maintain the vehicle. Furthermore, O’Brien does not dispute that
MRC is in the business of leasing cars, MRC leased the car to Loza, and MRC
followed the proper procedures under Veh. Code, § 14608 in renting the Vehicle
to Loza. Thus, O’Brien does not meet their burden to show a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or the Graves
Amendment preemption defense.
 
 MRC’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED