 Case Number:  22SMCV02568    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 24, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV02568




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Adam Bold




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Emily Bold



 
BACKGROUND
 
The settlement of a prior lawsuit between Plaintiff Adam Bold
(“Plaintiff”) and Defendant Emily Bold (“Defendant”) required, among other
things, that Defendant return to Plaintiff various Apple electronic devices which
were used to access Plaintiff’s online accounts, including an iPad in a
butterfly case that was used by their young daughter.  (Motion at pp. 2-3.)  On August 3, the Court granted Plaintiff
leave to amend the complaint to add two short statements that “Defendant
breached other terms of the Settlement Agreement.”  (August
3, 2023 Minute Order.)
 
Following an IDC on September
11, 2023, Plaintiff now seeks to amend the complaint to change paragraphs 21,
22, and 39 from referencing Plaintiff’s “accounts” generally to specifying Plaintiff’s
“Google, Apple and Amazon accounts and no other accounts.”
 
            Defendant
opposes the motion and Plaintiff replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Amendments
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”
 
            To wit, without notice to the other
party the Court has wide discretion to allow either party (i) to add or strike
the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in the name of a party or a
mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as
may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage
of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to
the other party, the Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend
pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1). Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.”
 
            Judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an
established policy in California since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter
(1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150,
155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) Moreover, “it is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing party did not
establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The court may grant leave to amend
the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter
Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely justified if the
motion is timely made and granting the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.) However, if the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at
¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not
grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or
prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails.
Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if
sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins
v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) “Prejudice exists where
the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical
evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. . . .
But the fact that the amendment involves a change in legal theory which would
make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of
prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil & Brown, supra, at
¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            “Even if some prejudice is shown,
the judge may still permit the amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is
authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be proper.’” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.) For example, the court
may cause the party seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in
preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del
Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural Requirements
 
            Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
            In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate
declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff has included a
declaration[1] indicating:
 
The Proposed Fourth Amended Complaint clarifies
certain allegations in the operative Third Amended Complaint referring to Mr.
Bold’s “private accounts and information.” 
These amendments are necessary and proper to narrow the scope of this
case and streamline it, as discussed by this Court at the parties’ September
11, 2023 IDC.  Further, because Mr. Bold
brings these amendments just a few weeks after the parties’ September 11, 2023
IDC, where they were discussed by this Court, Mr. Bold has not been dilatory in
seeking to bring the instant motion.
 
(Morris
Decl. ¶ 11.)  Plaintiff attached copies
of the Third Amended Complaint, the Proposed Fourth Amended Complaint, and a
redline showing the differences between the two versions.  Therefore, Plaintiff has satisfied the
procedural requirements of Rule 3.1324.
 
            Defendant opposes the motion,
arguing that the proposed amendments are not “in furtherance of justice”
because they are merely a “ploy” for Plaintiff to avoid the outstanding
discovery requests Defendant has already propounded regarding Plaintiff’s other
electronic accounts, while “continu[ing] to conduct this very discovery”
against Defendant, seeking information about Defendant’s access of Plaintiff’s other
online accounts, including his Arlo and email accounts.  Defendant argues the outstanding discovery
she has propounded regarding Plaintiff’s other online accounts is relevant not
only to Plaintiff’s current claims, but also to Defendant’s affirmative
defenses of unclean hands, waiver, estoppel, and laches.
 
            Defendant also argues that the
proposed amendments would not limit discovery in any event, because the
proposed amended complaint still alleges Defendant breached and/or violated
“other terms and conditions of the Settlement Agreement.”  Moreover, Defendant argues this is an attempt
by Plaintiff to limit Defendant’s ability to conduct discovery, while
continuing his own fishing expedition, based on these other “vague allegations
of misconduct.”  
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
2017.010 provides, “Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the
party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.”  (Emphasis added.)  Therefore, to the extent Defendant’s
outstanding discovery relates to her affirmative defenses, or to Plaintiff’s
claims that Defendant breached “other terms and conditions of the Settlement
Agreement,” such information would presumably still be discoverable.  
 
            Conversely, to the extent such
information is no longer relevant to the lawsuit, neither Plaintiff nor
Defendant is entitled to such discovery. 
Therefore, the appropriate scope of discovery would be limited and/or
broadened as to both Plaintiff and Defendant equally.  As such, the Court finds that Defendant will
not be prejudiced by the proposed amendment.
 
            As for Defendant’s argument that the
scope of discovery would not be limited at all by the proposed amendments, the
proposed amendments do limit the scope of Plaintiff’s fraud action against
Defendant.  For that reason, it does
narrow the issues.
 
            Finally, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff was dilatory in bringing the proposed amendment, because Plaintiff
could have originally pleaded a narrower claim for fraud.  The Court does not find that Plaintiff was
dilatory here.  Plaintiff has promptly
moved to amend the complaint to narrow the scope of the fraud claim, following
the parties’ IDC in September.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            For the foregoing reasons, the Court
grants Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend the complaint.  Plaintiff shall file and serve the proposed
fourth amended complaint on or before November 7, 2023, and file a proof of
service regarding the same
 
 Plaintiff shall provide notice
of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  October 24, 2023                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


