  Case Number:  23TRCV03586    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  B Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesSouthwest DistrictTorrance Dept. B THEODORE J. COHEN, as trustee,    Plaintiff, Case No.:  23TRCV03586 vs.  [Tentative] RULING  LESTER PIOCH, et al.,   Defendants.       Hearing Date:                         June 20, 2024 Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff Theodore J. Cohen, as trustee of the TJC Law Group, LLP Profit Sharing PlanResponding Party:                  Defendants Lester Pioch and Michael Prior (1)  Application for Right to Attach Order and Issuance of Writ of Attachment(2)  Application for Right to Attach Order and Issuance of Writ of Attachment             The Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.RULINGThe applications for a right to attach order and issuance of writ of attachment are GRANTED in the amount of $589,948.76.            The granting of the applications is conditioned upon plaintiff posting an undertaking in the amount of $10,000 as to each defendant and submission of a proposed right to attach order and order for issuance of writ of attachment after hearing (Form AT-120).BACKGROUND            On October 27, 2023, plaintiff Theodore J. Cohen, as trustee of the TJC Law Group, LLP Profit Sharing Plan filed a complaint against Lester Pioch and Michael Prior for breach of promissory note.            On April 10, 2024, defendants filed an answer.LEGAL AUTHORITY“Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this article for a right to attach order and a writ of attachment by filing an application for the order and writ with the court in which the action is sought.”  CCP § 484.010.The application shall be executed under oath and must include: (1) a statement showing that the attachment is sought to secure the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment may be issued; (2) a statement of the amount to be secured by the attachment; (3) a statement that the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based; (4) a statement that the applicant has no information or belief that the claim is discharged or that the prosecution of the action is stayed in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. section 101 et seq.); and (5) a description of the property to be attached under the writ of attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is informed and believes that such property is subject to attachment.  CCP § 484.020.“The application [for a writ of attachment] shall be supported by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the attachment is based.”  CCP § 484.030.The court shall issue a right to attach order if the court finds all of the following:(1)  The claim upon which the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued.(2)  The plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based.(3)  The attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based.(4)  The amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than zero.CCP § 484.090.            “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.”  CCP § 481.190.DISCUSSION            Plaintiff Theodore J. Cohen, as trustee of the TJC Law Group, LLP Profit Sharing Plan seeks a right to attach order and an order for issuance of writ of attachment against defendants in the total amount of $614,948.76, including $1000 in costs and $24,000 in attorney fees.The complaint alleges that on May 5, 2015, FSC Group, LLC entered into a promissory note whereby it promised to pay plaintiff $400,000 together with accrued and unpaid interest and costs no later than May 5, 2016.  Complaint, ¶6.  FSC Group and plaintiff also entered into a Pledge and Security Agreement dated May 5, 2015.  Id., ¶7.  Pursuant to the Security Agreement, in order to secure FSC Group’s obligations under the FSC Group Note, FSC Group granted plaintiff a security interest in (a) a replica 1971 Porsche 917 automobile and (b) a promissory note dated May 5, 2015 between Lester J. Pioch, Michael J. Prior, and FSC Group, whereby Pioch and Prior agreed to pay FSC Group $500,000 with unpaid and accrued interest and costs on demand.  Plaintiff has the original Pioch/Prior Note in its possession.  Id., ¶8. The FSC Group Note became due and payable on May 5, 2016.  Id., ¶9.  FSC Group failed to pay the balance due on the FSC Group Note and therefore was in default.  Id., ¶10.  The complaint further alleges that on April 16, 2019, plaintiff, FSC Group, Pioch, and Prior entered into a tolling agreement whereby they agreed to suspend the running of the statutes of limitations applicable to the obligations of FSC Group, Pioch, and Prior to plaintiff under the FSC Group Note, Security Agreement, and Pioch/Prior Note through and including May 5, 2021.  The Tolling Agreement also provides that nothing in the agreement shall be construed to prohibit plaintiff from taking legal action at any time.  Id., ¶11.  After its default, FSC Group made several payments to plaintiff, including a payment of $3000 on March 16, 2022.  FSC did not pay the balance due.  Because a balance remained due on the FSC Group Note, FSC Group agreed to convey the Porsche to plaintiff in consideration for a credit of $250,000 against the amount due under the FSC Group Note.  Accordingly, on January 9, 2023, FSC Group and plaintiff entered into an Agreement re Conveyance of Collateral to Lender and a credit of $250,000 against the FSC Note.  Id., ¶12.  The amount due under the FSC Group Note as of August 5, 2023 is/was $910,000.  Id., ¶13. Under the cause of action for breach of promissory note, the complaint alleges that pursuant to Commercial Code §9607(a), upon FSC Group’s default under the FSC Group Note, plaintiff is entitled to enforce any rights and remedies that FSC Group may have under the Pioch/Prior Note for its benefit, including the right to receive and collect all amounts due to FSC Group under the Pioch/Prior Note and apply such amounts on account of the FSC Group Note.  Id., ¶15.  The amount due under the Pioch/Prior Note as of September 26, 2023 is/was $583,977.74.  Id., ¶16.  On September 26, 2023, plaintiff made a written demand to Pioch and Prior that they pay the full balance due under the Pioch/Prior Note no later than October 6, 2023.  Id., ¶17.  They failed to remit payment to plaintiff.  Id., ¶18.                        Probable Validity of Claim            This motion is based on a claim for breach of a promissory note.  To establish a claim for breach of contract, a plaintiff must prove: (1) existence of a contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach of the contract, and (4) damages incurred by plaintiff as a result of the breach.  Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal. App. 4th 1350, 1367.            Plaintiff presents evidence of the FSC Group Promissory Note, Pledge and Security Agreement, Pioch/Prior Note, Tolling Agreement, and Conveyance of Collateral Agreement.  See Theodore Cohen decl., Exhibits.            Plaintiff explains that the Pioch/Prior Note was collateral for the FSC Group Note as set forth in the Security Agreement.  Plaintiff contends that because the FSC Group was in default, on September 26, 2023, plaintiff exercised its rights and demanded Pioch/Prior to pay the balance on the Pioch/Prior Note, but that they did not.  See Cohen decl.            Plaintiff argues that it has established the probability validity of its claim because the FSC Group Note is enforceable, plaintiff has a right to pay down the balance due on the FSC Group Note by enforcing the Pioch/Prior Note, and defendants have failed to pay the balance due on the Pioch/Prior Note upon or following demand.            In opposition, defendants argue that plaintiff’s claim on the Pioch/Prior Note is barred because the FSC Note is barred by the statute of limitations under Civil Code §2911(“A lien is extinguished by the lapse of time within which, under the Code of Civil Procedure, an action can be brought upon the principal obligation.”) and CCP §337 (four year statute of limitations on breach of contract).  Defendants assert that the FSC Note was in default on May 5, 2016, it was tolled from April 16, 2019 through May 5, 2021, and the complaint was filed on October 27, 2023—thus, defendants argue, five years, five months, and two days elapsed from when FSC Group was in default.  Thus, defendants argue, Civil Code §2911 bars any affirmative action by plaintiff against security to collect the barred debt, although plaintiff “maintains the negative right to retain the pledged security of the Pioch/Prior Note, meaning he is still secured against that note.”  Defendants further argue that plaintiff’s rights under the Security Agreement are also barred by the statute of limitations because when the FSC Note was in default, the Security Agreement was also in default.  Moreover, defendants argue, CCP §338 provides for a three-year statute of limitations for action upon a liability created by statute, and thus, plaintiff’s rights under Commercial Code §9607 are expired.            Defendants further argue that plaintiff fails to provide any evidence that it is the successor of the SCM Plan and entitled to enforce SCM Plan Rights because plaintiff has not shown that TJC Law Group, LLP Profit Sharing Plan was formerly known as Spolin, Cohen, Mainzer LLP Profit Sharing Plan.            Defendants further contend that the Pioch/Prior Note and Security Agreement and interest charged on the FSC Note violate Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct Rule 1.8.1.  This section states in part that a lawyer shall not enter into a business transaction with a client unless each of the following requirements has been satisfied:  (a) the transaction is and its terms are fair and reasonable to the client and the terms and the lawyer’s role in the transaction are fully disclosed; (b) the client either is represented in the transaction by an independent lawyer of the client’s choice or the client is advised in writing to seek the advice of an independent lawyer; and (c) the client thereafter provides informed written consent to the terms of the transaction and to the lawyer’s role in it.  Defendants assert that they were not advised to have separate counsel and were not advised in writing to seek separate counsel or given the opportunity to do so.             In reply, plaintiff reiterates that it has established the probable validity of its claim.  Plaintiff argues that defendants have no statute of limitations defense.  Plaintiff contends that the statute of limitations has not expired on the FSC Group Note and lien on the Pioch/Prior Note based on two exceptions:  partial payments were made on the loan (see CCP §360) before the expiration and the debt was acknowledged, thus giving rise to a new contract and new cause of action.  Plaintiff asserts that given the date of default and tolling agreement, the statute of limitations was set to expire on May 25, 2022, but on March 16, 2022, Pioch, a member of FSC Group, made a partial payment in the amount of $3000.  Also, FSC Group acknowledged the debt through the Conveyance of Collateral Agreement on January 9, 2023.  As to Commercial Code §9607, plaintiff contends that a plain reading of that section provides a mechanism for stepping in the shoes of a debtor and does not create liability, and thus the three-year statute of limitations under Civil Code §338 is inapplicable, and the debt is collectible.            Plaintiff also contends that it is the proper party and that it alleged and provided supporting declarations that plaintiff is the trustee of TJC Trust that was formerly known as the SCM Trust.  See Bank of America v. Salinas Nissan, Inc. (1989) 207 Cal. App. 3d 260, 273 (“Under the Attachment Law, the court will generally evaluate the attachment application based solely on the pleadings and supporting affidavits without taking additional evidence.”).            Moreover, plaintiff argues, it has not violated Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 1.8.1 because neither of defendants was ever a client of plaintiff Cohen or SCM and that their assertion that they were not represented by independent counsel is false.  See Cohen decl., Exh. A (conflict waiver).  Plaintiff further argues that defendants have failed to cite to any case law that provides that a purported ethical violation is a defense to breach of contract. The Court finds that plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to support all elements of a breach of contract claim against defendants and to establish the probable validity of its claim. Defendants have not shown that the claim is barred by any statute of limitations or that the promissory note is unenforceable.                        Basis of Attachment            “[A]n attachment may be issued only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which is based upon a contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney’s fees.”  CCP § 483.010(a).  “An attachment may not be issued on a claim which is secured by any interest in real property arising from agreement . . . .”  CCP § 483.010(b).            “If the action is against a defendant who is a natural person, an attachment may be issued only on a claim which arises out of the conduct by the defendant of a trade, business, or profession.”  CCP § 483.010(c).  “An attachment may not be issued on a claim against a defendant who is a natural person if the claim is based on the sale or lease of property, a license to use property, the furnishing of services, or the loan of money where the property sold or leased, or licensed for use, the services furnished, or the money loaned was used by the defendant primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.”  Id.            Plaintiff contends that its claim is for money based on a written contract and that the claim is for a “fixed or readily ascertainable amount” of at least $500, and the claim is unsecured and arises from a commercial transaction.            In opposition, defendants argue that plaintiff cannot show that the amount sought is readily ascertainable, definite, and certain.  Defendants contend that plaintiff seeks an amount in excess of what is owed to them as it has failed to credit security and payments already made toward the Pioch/Prior Note, including with credit for the $250,000 retained by plaintiff in relation to the Porsche.  Defendants assert that plaintiff is only entitled to the amount owed on the FSC Note ($400,000 - $250,000 = $150,000) and not on the entire Pioch/Prior Note.            In reply, plaintiff reiterates that its claim is for a “fixed or readily ascertainable amount” as the Pioch/Prior Note explicitly sets forth the principal amount of the debt and calculation of interest, and no payments have been made. Further, plaintiff argues, defendants’ contention that the $250,000 credit should be given to the Pioch/Prior Note is contrary to the explicit terms of the FSC Group Note, Security Agreement, and Conveyance of the Collateral Agreement.            The Court finds that plaintiff’s applications for issuance of a writ of attachment are based on an express contract—i.e., the Pioch/Prior Note.  The total amount allegedly due on the agreement is readily ascertainable and more than $500.  Plaintiff has also demonstrated that the claim arises out of a business transaction.                        Purpose and Amount of Attachment            CCP § 484.090 states that the court shall issue a right to attach order if “the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based . . . [and] the amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than zero.”  CCP § 484.090.            Plaintiff declares that the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than recovery on its claim.  Application, ¶ 4.  The amount to be secured is greater than zero.                        Subject Property            Plaintiff requests attachment against natural persons.            CCP § 487.010 provides that where the defendant is a natural person, all of the following property is subject to attachment:(1)           Interests in real property except leasehold estates with unexpired terms of less than one year.(2)           Accounts receivable, chattel paper, and general intangibles arising out of the conduct by the defendant of a trade, business, or profession, except any such individual claim with a principal balance of less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150).(3)           Equipment.(4)           Farm products.(5)           Inventory.(6)           Final money judgments arising out of the conduct by the defendant of a trade, business, or profession.(7)           Money on the premises where a trade, business, or profession is conducted by the defendant and, except for the first one thousand dollars ($1,000), money located elsewhere than on such premises and deposit accounts, but, if the defendant has more than one deposit account or has at least one deposit account and money located elsewhere than on the premises where a trade, business, or profession is conducted by the defendant, the court, upon application of the plaintiff, may order that the writ of attachment be levied so that an aggregate amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000) in the form of such money and in such accounts remains free of levy.(8)           Negotiable documents of title.(9)           Instruments.(10)        Securities.(11)        Minerals or the like (including oil and gas) to be extracted.CCP § 487.010(c).            As to individual Lester Pioch, plaintiff seeks attachment of “any property of a nonresident defendant.”            As to individual Michael Prior, plaintiff seeks attachment of (1) real property located at 112 Sawtelle Court, Simi Valley; (2) Wells Fargo checking account x3473; (3) Wells Fargo Personal H.Y. Savings x4588; (4) Michael Prior Consulting & Business Services, LLC checking account x8686; (5) Michael Prior Consulting & Business Services, LLLC savings account x4588; (6) Logix Federal Credit Union checking x3700-S09; and (7) Logix Federal Credit Union savings x3700-S00.The request for attachment of this property is appropriate under CCP §487.010(c).                        Reduction of Amount to be Secured            CCP § 483.015(b) provides the amount to be secured by the attachment shall be reduced by:(1)  The amount of any money judgment in favor of the defendant and against the plaintiff that remains unsatisfied and is enforceable(2)  The amount of any indebtedness of the plaintiff that the defendant has claimed in a cross-complaint filed in the action if the defendant’s claim is one upon which an attachment could be issued(3)  The amount of any claim of the defendant asserted as a defense in answer pursuant to Section 431.70 if the defendant’s claim is one upon which an attachment could be issued had an action been brought on the claim when it was not barred by the statute of limitations(4)  The value of any security interest in the property of the defendant held by the plaintiff to secure the defendant’s indebtedness claimed by the plaintiff, together with the amount by which the value of the security interest has decreased due to the act of the plaintiff or a prior holder of the security interestCCP § 483.015(b).            “[T]o sustain reduction in a writ amount, most courts require that the defendant provide enough evidence about its counterclaims and/or defenses to prove a prima facie case [for attachment against Plaintiff].”  Ahart, California Practice Guide: Enforcing Judgments and Debts, ¶ 4:64 (1998 rev.).            Defendants have not asserted any reductions pursuant to CCP §483.015(b) and thus have not shown that the amount of attachment should be further reduced.                        Undertaking            CCP § 489.210 requires the plaintiff to file an undertaking before issuance of a writ of attachment.  Pursuant to CCP § 489.220, the amount of the undertaking will be $10,000 as to each defendant absent an objection.  The failure to post an undertaking prior to the issuance of the writ of attachment renders the writ of attachment void ab initio.  Vershbow v. Reiner (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 879, 883.            Neither party has addressed nor argued for a different amount of undertaking.                        Costs            CCP § 482.110 provides the court with discretion to include an estimated amount for costs and allowable attorney’s fees in the amount to be secured by the attachment.  CCP § 482.110(a).            Plaintiff seeks attorney’s fees in the amount of $24,000 and costs in the amount of $1000.  Although these amounts appear to be reasonable, plaintiff has not provided its attorney’s declaration in support.  Thus, the Court is inclined not to include these amounts.  Based on the foregoing, the applications for a right to attach order and issuance of writ of attachment are GRANTED. ORDERThe applications for a right to attach order and issuance of writ of attachment are GRANTED in the amount of $589,948.76.            The granting of the applications is conditioned upon plaintiff posting an undertaking in the amount of $10,000 as to each defendant and submission of a proposed right to attach order and order for issuance of writ of attachment after hearing (Form AT-120).            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the ruling.