 Case Number:  23VECV04066    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV04066
Yerkanyan v Thorpe
 
Tentative
ruling: Motion to vacate the dismissal with prejudice.  Grant. 
The dismissal with prejudice is vacated and a dismissal without
prejudice is entered.  Clerk of the court
to enter and give notice.
 
Plaintiffs
seek an order setting aside a dismissal with prejudice and entering, instead, a
dismissal without prejudice on the grounds that they did not settle all of
their claims and they did not authorize plaintiffs’ counsel to dismiss the case
with prejudice.
 
Plaintiffs
filed their complaint on 9/14/2023 based upon an auto collision occurring on
12/9/2022.  Plaintiff claimed wage loss,
loss of use of property, hospital and medical expenses, general damages,
property damages, loss of earning capacity and punitive damages.
 
In March
2023, plaintiffs sought a claim for diminution in value of the plaintiffs’
Mercedes Benz, which was denied because plaintiffs were not the owners of the vehicle.  The vehicle was leased.
 
In May
2023, defendant’s insurance carrier paid plaintiffs’ insurance carrier property
damage in the amount of $33,945.69.
 
On
11/16/2023, plaintiffs signed a Full and Final Release of All Claims.  The release stated:
 
The
undersigned Edgar Yerkanyan accepts One Hundred Thousand Dollars and Zero Cents
($100,000) in full compromise settlement and satisfaction of, and as sole consideration
for, the final release and discharge of all actions, claims and demands whatsoever
that now exist or may accrue in the future against William Thorpe, all other persons,
their heirs, agents, firms, or corporations (collectively referred to as
Released Parties). This settlement pertains to all damages whatsoever for
bodily injury sustained by the undersigned as a result of the accident or
incident which occurred on or about 12/9/22 at or new US Highway 101 in or near
the city of Santa Clara California. 
 
It is
understood and agreed this is a full and final release of all claims of every
nature and kind whatsoever and pertains to claims that are now unknown and
unsuspected. In this regard, the undersigned expressly waives any rights under
California Civil Code Section 1542, which reads as follows: “A general release
does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist
in his or her favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him
or her must have materially affected his or her settlement with the debtor.” 
 
The funding
of this settlement agreement by the Releasee is made in reliance on Releasor and
Releasor’s counsel of record’s agreement to fulfill the obligations set forth
in paragraph 1, 2, and 3 above. The provisions of paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 above
shall survive the execution of this Release Agreement and shall be enforceable
at any time in the future, and Releasor specifically agrees and acknowledges
that any potential Statute of
Limitations
defense is waived forever with regard to the above-stated duty to hold harmless,
indemnify and defend and shall be finding upon Releasor’s heirs, successors and
assigns.
 
It is
understood and agreed this is a compromise settlement of a disputed claim, and payment
for this release shall not be deemed or construed as an admission of liability
of the Released Parties. It is understood the Released Parties deny any
liability and shall not be barred from pursuing any claim or cause of action
any of the Released Parties may have against the undersigned or any others.
 
For your
protection California law requires the following to appear on this form: Any
person who knowingly presents false or fraudulent information to obtain or
amend insurance coverage or to make a claim for payment of a loss is guilty of
a crime and may be subject to fines and confinement in state prison”
 
On
11/16/2023, plaintiffs filed a Notice of Settlement of the entire case.  
 
Travelers
paid $100,000 to plaintiffs and their counsel.
 
Thereafter,
plaintiffs’ counsel dismissed the case with prejudice on 1/2/2024.
 
On
2/27/2024, a new lawsuit was filed by plaintiff with new counsel seeking
property damages only.  
 
The court
grants the request for relief.  This is
based upon the following factors:
 

The evidence from plaintiffs is that they
     did not give consent to their lawyer to dismiss the case with prejudice.
The check from Travelers says, “Bodily
     Injury $100,000.00.”        
The release says that it is in settlement
     of all claims for bodily injury. 
     
Before the case was dismissed, new counsel had contacted Travelers to
     make a claim for the property damage.
Travelers had written communication to new
     counsel about the property damages claim after the dismissal
     concerning the diminution in value claim. 
     If they thought all claims were settled, there would have been no
     need to have an adjuster assigned to work on that claim.

 
For these
reasons, including the lack of authorization to dismiss the entire case with
prejudice, the court grants relief.
 
This decision does not effect the ability of defendant to assert any
relevant defenses.