 Case Number:  24VECV03678    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV03678 PALMA V ZAVALA
TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants William Alvarado Arevalo and B A L
Truck Inc.’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED in Part and DENIED in Part.  The motion is GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND as to the Complaint, par. 27 and Prayer page 8, line 14 and DENIED as to
Complaint, pars. 25 and 26.
Introduction 
Defendants William Alvarado
Arevalo (Arevalo) and B A L Truck, Inc. (BAL) (collectively, Defendants) moved
to strike Plaintiffs Manuel Moro Palma and Monica Marcos’ (collectively,
Plaintiffs) factual allegations and the claim for punitive damages alleged in
the Complaint.  Specifically, the motion
placed into issue Complaint, paragraphs 25-27 and page 8, line 14.  
Discussion 
Preliminarily, the Court noted
that the fourth cause of action (COA) is titled, “for negligent hiring,
retention and supervision” and “punitive damages.”  Both parties appear to characterize the COA
as a claim for negligence that also included a request for punitive
damages.  The Court reviewed the COA in
the same manner (i.e., separating out the COA from the request for punitive
damages).
Defendants argued that the
request for punitive damages is conclusory and lacks specific fact pleading as
to malice, oppression, or fraud.  (Civ.
Code, sec. 3294.)  As to Complaint
paragraphs 25 and 26, Plaintiffs alleged that Defendants allowed Co-Defendant
Nicholas Fidel Zavala (Zavala) to drive a truck and trailer without a
commercial driver’s license and with a history of accidents.  Because the factual allegations support both
the fourth COA and the request for punitive damages, Defendants arguments to
strike these two paragraphs is unpersuasive because Defendants did not address
the fourth COA.  Defendants only made
argument as to these two paragraphs in relation to the request for punitive
damages.  Even if Defendants are arguing
that the two paragraphs are immaterial to the COA, the Court disagrees.  The factual allegations are pled to support
the breach element of negligence. 
Because the two paragraphs are properly alleged to support the fourth
COA, the motion to strike Complaint, paragraphs 25 and 26, is
unpersuasive.  
The motion to strike Complaint,
paragraphs 25 and 26, is DENIED.
As to Complaint paragraph 27 and
page 8, line 14, these two allegations/requests are expressly requests for
punitive damages.  The allegation/request
for punitive damages is reviewed in conjunction with the paragraphs 25 and 26
alleging lack of a commercial truck license and possessing a history of
accidents.  Although alleging that
Defendants permitted Zavala to drive a truck and trailer without a license and
with knowledge of a history of accidents, the allegations lack sufficient fact
pleading to support the despicable or egregious quality of the
authorization/permission in having Zavala drive the truck and trailer.  The factual allegations as to
authorization/permission merely amount to negligence.  Plaintiffs fail to allege facts to show how
Defendants authorization/permission rises to the level of egregious or
despicable conduct.  Without more fact
pleading, the request for punitive damages is insufficiently supported.
The motion to strike Complaint
paragraph 27 and the Prayer for punitive damages at Complaint, page 8, line 14,
is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.