  Case Number:  22AHCV00758    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      November 15, 2023                            TRIAL DATE: March 19, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         ESTEPHANIE SANCHEZ
v. AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., a California Corporation, and DOES 1 through
10, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00758
 
            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Estephanie Sanchez
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed September 6, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed November 1, 2023
 
REPLY:                                   Filed November 7, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to her requests for the production of documents and special
interrogatories. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Estephanie
Sanchez’s (“Plaintiff”) lemon law claim for a 2022 Honda Odyssey, Vehicle
Identification Number 5FNRL6H81NB058994 (“Subject Vehicle”).
Plaintiff filed her complaint on September 30, 2022. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff’s motions to
compel further responses are DENIED as moot.
 
            Plaintiff’s requests
for sanctions are DENIED. 
             
LEGAL STANDARD
 
On receipt of a response to discovery requests, the party requesting may
move for an order compelling further responses for interrogatories (Code Civ.
Proc. 2030.300), requests for admission (Cod. Civ. Proc. section 2033.290), and
request for production (Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.310). “Unless notice of
this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or
any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the
requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
requesting party waives any right to compel further response to the requests
for admission.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2033.290, subd. (c).
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Special
Interrogatories
 
            Special
Interrog. No. 25: Describe all training given by YOU to PERSONS
tasked with evaluating eligibility for a vehicle repurchase pursuant to the
Song-Beverly Act from 2022 to the present
 
            Special
Interrog. No. 30: Describe the manner in which YOU track the number
of Honda vehicles that have been repurchased or replaced in California, if at
all, from 2022 to the present.
 
            Special
Interrog. No. 31: Describe YOUR policies and procedures for
proactively complying with the Song-Beverly Act in California by offering a
repurchase of a qualifying vehicle without a consumer request to do so.
 
            Special
Interrog. No. 42: State all facts supporting YOUR contention that
YOU maintain a qualified third-party dispute resolution process in California.
 
            Special
Interrog. No. 46: State the repairs per thousand vehicles sold
(R/1000) for 2022 Honda Odyssey vehicles.
 
            Special
Interrog. No. 47: Identify in order the five symptoms with the
highest repairs per thousand (R/1000) for 2022 Honda Odyssey vehicles, and the
corresponding repairs per thousand.
 
            Special
Interrog. No. 48: Identify in order the five components with the
highest repairs per thousand (R/1000) for 2022 Honda Odyssey vehicles, and the
corresponding repairs per thousand.
 
            Requests
for Production
 
            RFP No. 18: The operative Franchise Agreement, if any,
on the date of sale of the SUBJECT VEHICLE between YOU and the dealership that
sold the SUBJECT VEHICLE to Plaintiff.
 
            RFP No. 22: All training materials regarding the
handling of consumer requests for a vehicle repurchase in California since
2022.
 
            RFP No. 23: All training materials for YOUR employees
or agents tasked with determining whether a vehicle is eligible or a vehicle
repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act since 2022.
 
            RFP No. 26: All DOCUMENTS describing YOUR policies,
procedures, and parameters for determining what constitutes a “non-conformity”
to determine eligibility for a vehicle repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly
Act since 2022.
 
            RFP No. 27: All DOCUMENTS describing YOUR policies,
procedures, and parameters for determining what constitutes a “substantial
impairment” of a vehicle’s use, value, or safety to determine eligibility for a
vehicle repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act since 2022.
 
            RFP No. 28: All DOCUMENTS describing YOUR policies,
procedures, and parameters for defining what constitutes a “reasonable number
of repair attempts” to determine eligibility for a vehicle repurchase pursuant
to the Song-Beverly Act since 2022.
 
            RFP No. 29: All DOCUMENTS describing YOUR policies,
procedures, and parameters for establishing the turn-around time to respond to
a vehicle repurchase request pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act since 2022.
 
            RFP No. 30: All DOCUMENTS that YOU utilize to determine
whether a vehicle is eligible for a repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act
since 2022.
 
            RFP No. 32: All DOCUMENTS describing YOUR policies and
procedures from 2022 to the present for proactively complying with the
Song-Beverly Act in California by offering a repurchase or replacement of a
qualifying vehicle without a consumer request to do so.
 
            RFP No. 45: All DOCUMENTS evidencing complaints by
owners of 2022 Honda Odyssey vehicles regarding any of the complaints that the
SUBJECT VEHICLE was presented to YOUR or YOUR authorized repair facilities for
repair during the warranty period
 
            RFP No. 46: All DOCUMENTS evidencing warranty repairs
to 2022 Honda Odyssey vehicles regarding any of the components that YOU or YOUR
authorized repair facilities performed repairs on under warranty.
 
            RFP No. 48: Produce all DOCUMENTS showing any
application to the California Department of Consumer Affairs for certification
of a third-party dispute resolution process from 2022 to the present.
 
            RFP No. 49: Produce all DOCUMENTS showing any response
to the California Department of Consumer Affairs to any application by YOU for
certification of a third-party dispute resolution process from 2022 to the
present.
 
            Analysis
and Application
 
            Plaintiff
seeks an order compelling further responses to her special interrogatories and
requests for the production of documents. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions
associated with the present motion. Plaintiff provides she served her discovery
requests on Defendant on February 15, 2023. (Tran Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff provides that
Defendant served deficient responses on April 4, 2023. (Id. ¶ 4.) There
are two issues with Plaintiff’s present motions.
 
            The first issue is that
Plaintiff’s motions are mooted by the fact that Defendant served supplemental
responses on November 1, 2023. (Hancox Decl. ¶ 12.) Plaintiff does not contest
that Defendant served supplemental responses. Thus, Plaintiff’s motions and
separate statements are no longer an accurate depiction of the discovery
requests at issue. 
 
The second issue with Plaintiff’s motion are her separate
statements. California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires a separate
statement to include “[a] statement of the factual and legal reasons for
compelling further responses, answers, or production as to each matter
in dispute”. While Plaintiff facially complies with this requirement by
including a “reason why a further response should be compelled” next to each
discovery request, Plaintiff’s merely copy and pasted similar, if not
identical, language that references multiple discovery requests for each reason
to compel further. Plaintiff merely includes stock language claiming the
responses are insufficient and that Defendant’s objections are meritless and
boilerplate. 
 
Plaintiff’s separate statements fail to
adequately establish a proper reason for this court to compel further responses
as to the specific discovery request. Plaintiff merely lumps all requests
together and fails to demonstrate why further responses should be ordered as to
each matter. Each response is followed by roughly eight and half pages of
copy-pasted language that does not adequately address the specifics of the
discovery request or the response. “Civil discovery is intended to
operate with a minimum of judicial intervention. ‘[I]t is a “central precept”
of the Civil Discovery Act ... that discovery ‘be essentially
self-executing[.]’ ” (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 402.) Plaintiff’s motion
to compel further responses are denied. If Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s
supplemental responses are still deficient, Plaintiff may file another motion
to compel further with a code-compliant separate statement. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s motions to
compel further responses are DENIED as moot.
 
            Plaintiff’s requests
for sanctions are DENIED. 
 
            Moving Party to give
notice. 
 
 
 
Dated:   November 15,
2023                                       ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court

