 Case Number:  22STCV13243    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MARIA CRISTINA SOTO, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
REAL TIME STAFFING SERVICES, LLC.,
  et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV13243
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 7, 2023
 Calendar Number:  2



 
 
 
Defendant Real Time Staffing Servies, LLC d/b/a Select
Staffing (“Select Staffing”) moves for sanctions against Plaintiff Maria
Cristina Soto (“Plaintiff”). Select Staffing requests $1,915.00 in deposition
costs and $4975.50 in attorney’s fees.
 
The Court DENIES Select Staffing’s motion.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this action on April 20, 2022 against Select
Staffing, St. Clair Plastics, Inc. (“St. Clair”), and Novel Alamilla. Plaintiff
seeks relief against Select Staffing for (1) gender based harassment; (2)
sexual harassment; (3) failure to prevent discrimination and harassment; (4)
failure to correct and remedy discrimination and harassment; (5) retaliation
for complaints of discrimination and harassment; (6) violation of
whistle-blowing law; (7) wrongful termination; (8) hostile work environment; (9)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; (10) negligent infliction of
emotional distress; and (11) failure to permit inspection of personnel and
payroll records in violation of Labor Code section 1198.5.
 
          Following
a thorny meet and confer process to set Plaintiff’s deposition, the Court
granted an ex parte application by Select for an order compelling Plaintiff to
appear for deposition on September 6, 2023 and continuing trial to June 24,
2024.
 
          On
September 5, 2023, the night before Plaintiff’s deposition, Plaintiff’s counsel
contacted Select Staffing’s counsel and offered to dismiss the action against
Select Staffing with prejudice in exchange for a waiver of costs. (Runge Decl.
¶ 15, Exh. N.) Select Staffing’s counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel seeking
confirmation that Plaintiff agreed and stated that Select Staffing would get a
settlement agreement together. (Runge Decl. ¶ 15, Exh. N.) Plaintiff’s counsel
confirmed that those were the terms of the offer. (Runge Decl. ¶ 15, Exh. N.)
 
          Later
that evening, Select Staffing’s counsel sent an email to Plaintiff’s counsel
and the other parties stating “[w]e apologize for the late notice, but
tomorrow’s deposition is off.” (Agadzhanyan Decl. ¶ 3; Exh. B.)
 
          On
September 7, 2023, Select Staffing’s counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel a draft settlement
agreement. (Runge Decl. ¶ 16, Exh. O.) Plaintiff characterizes this agreement
as a counteroffer because it sought release with prejudice of all known and
unknown claims Plaintiff may have against Select Staffing, as well as a waiver
of Civil Code section 1542. (Agadzhanyan Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. C.) Plaintiff’s
counsel responded to Select Staffing’s counsel objecting to both of the
foregoing clauses. (Agadzhanyan Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
          On
September 11, 2023, Select Staffing’s counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel a
revised agreement, this time only seeking a dismissal with prejudice of all
known claims and a covenant not to sue over any events or conduct that were the
subject of this action. (Agadzhanyan Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
          On
September 12, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Select Staffing’s counsel,
saying that he had just learned of new information and the dismissal would be
without prejudice. (Agadzhanyan Decl. ¶ 7.) Later that day, Plaintiff’s counsel
emailed Select Staffing’s counsel again, stating that the offer of dismissal
was only for the causes of action alleged, and that Plaintiff was willing to
stipulate to a dismissal with prejudice for the alleged causes of action only.
(Agadzhanyan Decl. ¶ 7.) Defendant did not accept this offer. (Agadzhanyan
Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
          On
September 15, 2023, Select Staffing served Plaintiff with a new notice of
deposition for October 18, 2023. (Runge Decl. ¶ 20.) Select Staffing also sent
Plaintiff’s counsel a letter requesting reimbursement for the $1,915.00 that
was incurred as a result of cancelling the September 6, 2023 deposition. (Runge
Decl. ¶ 20, Exh. S.)
 
On September 15, 2023, Select Staffing’s counsel sent
Plaintiff’s counsel an email requesting that Plaintiff seek leave to amend her
complaint regarding the purported new information. (Runge Decl. ¶ 21.)
Plaintiff did not amend her complaint. (Runge Decl. ¶ 21.)
 
          Select
Staffing filed this motion on October 20, 2023. Plaintiff filed an opposition
and Select Staffing filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5, subd. (a) authorizes
the Court to sanction a party or the party’s attorney for “[1] actions or
tactics, [2] made in bad faith, [3] that are [a] frivolous or [b] solely
intended to cause unnecessary delay.” (Ibid.) 
 
“‘Actions or tactics’ include, but are not limited to, the
making or opposing of motions or the filing and service of a complaint,
cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive pleading. The mere filing of a
complaint without service thereof on an opposing party does not constitute ‘actions
or tactics’ for purposes of this section.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5, subd.
(b)(1).) “’Frivolous’ means totally and completely without merit or for the
sole purpose of harassing an opposing party.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5, subd.
(b)(2).) Intention to harass or cause unnecessary delay is measured by a
subjective standard. (Wallis v. PHL Associates, Inc. (2008) 168
Cal.App.4th 882, 893.)
 
The award of sanctions for a frivolous action under Code of
Civil Procedure section 128.5 is within the sound discretion of the trial
court. (Bach v. McNelis (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 852, 878.)
 
Discussion
 
Select Staffing argues that Plaintiff improperly reneged on
the proposed agreement to dismiss the action with prejudice as to Select
Staffing, forcing Select Staffing to incur deposition cancellation fees in
cancelling the deposition and attorney’s fees in bringing this motion. (Motion
at p. 9:5-7.)
 
As a general matter, sanctions do not appear to be warranted
because, at most, this appears to be a case where the parties believed they had
a settlement of the case but differences arose when they attempted to draft the
agreement.  This is unfortunate, but it
is not grounds for sanctions. 
 
Analyzing the legal and factual issues briefed by the
parties in more depth, the Court concludes as follows.
 
First, it appears that Plaintiff’s characterization of
Select Staffing’s September 7, 2023 draft settlement as a counteroffer is
correct.
 
“[A] dismissal with prejudice is the equivalent of a final
judgment on the merits, barring the entire cause of action” under the doctrine
of res judicata. (Boeken v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th
788, 793.) “To determine whether two proceedings involve identical causes of
action for purposes of claim preclusion, California courts have consistently
applied the ‘primary rights' theory.” (Id. at p. 797 [internal
quotations and citation omitted].) “Under this theory, a cause of action arises
out of an antecedent primary right and corresponding duty and the delict or
breach of such primary right and duty by the person on whom the duty rests.” (Id.
at pp. 797-798 [internal quotations and citation omitted] [cleaned up].) “[U]nder
the primary rights theory, the determinative factor is the harm suffered. When
two actions involving the same parties seek compensation for the same harm,
they generally involve the same primary right.” (Id. at p. 798.)
 
Plaintiff’s settlement offer was dismissal of this action,
with prejudice. Under the primary rights doctrine, that offer extended to any
causes of action arising out of the same harms alleged here – i.e., gender
based harassment (under multiple theories); sexual harassment (under multiple
theories); discrimination (under multiple theories); failure to prevent and
correct the foregoing; wrongful termination; intentional and negligent
infliction of emotional distress; whistleblowers’ rights, and failure to permit
inspection of personnel and payroll records. 
 
Select Staffing contends that “any claims that Plaintiff may
raise against Select Staffing in a subsequent lawsuit would presumably arise
from their employment relationship” and that any new lawsuit would therefore be
barred by the primary right doctrine. However, the Court sees no basis to
assume that Select Staffing’s first assumption – that any further claims raised
by Plaintiff would necessarily arise out of Plaintiff’s employment relationship
with Select Staffing – is correct. There are a plethora of other types of
claims that exist. The inclusion of “unknown” causes of action in Select
Staffing’s draft agreement further supports this concern. Furthermore, even if
any other claims Plaintiff could have against Select Staffing would
categorically arise out of the parties’ employment relationship, that does not
mean that they arise out of the same primary right. For example, if Select
Staffing failed to provide meal and rest breaks or pay overtime wages, those
causes of action would potentially arise out of a separate right from the ones
here, which generally involve gender-based discrimination and harassment. Thus,
Select Staffing’s draft agreement was a counteroffer, and Plaintiff behaved
reasonably in negotiating against it.
 
Furthermore, even if Select Staffing’s draft agreement were
consistent with Plaintiff’s offer, Select Staffing’s cancellation of the
deposition was still its own decision. Select Staffing cancelled the deposition
on its own initiative. Plaintiff did not request that Select Staffing cancel
the deposition, nor did Select Staffing’s counsel communicate to Plaintiff’s
counsel that he would cancel the deposition if Plaintiff confirmed her offer to
dismiss Select Staffing from the case. Although Select Staffing’s counsel may
have subjectively believed that Select Staffing’s role in the case had reached
its end, the fact is that the parties had not, in fact, finalized the
settlement. Select Staffing’s counsel knew this because he told Plaintiff’s
counsel shortly before cancelling the deposition that he would draft the
settlement agreement and, furthermore, did not send Plaintiff the draft
agreement until September 7, 2023, two days after the settlement discussions
and one day after the deposition would have occurred.
 
For these reasons, the Court does not find that sanctions
are warranted.