..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary of the tentative ruling:

```
Case Number: 24STCP02763
Plaintiff's Name: Petitioner
Defendant's Name: None (no defendant listed)
People-Names: Petitioner
Company-Names: None
Places: Clerk's Office, Room 112
Dates:
  - Hearing Date: November 5, 2024
  - Date of the hearing: Not specified
Events: Petition for name change, hearing
Money: None (no monetary amounts mentioned)
Intentions: To grant the petition for name change
Facts: Proposed decree not clearly written and correctly spelled
Disputes: None (no disputes mentioned)
Acts: Petitioner must review and correct proposed decree
Agreements: None (no agreements mentioned)
Laws: None (no specific laws mentioned)
Case Citations: None (no citations to prior cases mentioned)
Statutes: None (no references to statutes mentioned)
Roles:
  - Petitioner: Named individual seeking name change
  - Judge: Author of the tentative ruling
Significant Statements:
  - Petitioner must double check the spelling and legibility of the new name on the proposed decree.
  - If the new name is not clearly written and correctly spelled on the proposed decree, Petitioner must appear at the hearing to submit a corrected proposed decree.
  - The petition is granted.
  - A copy of the signed decree will be available in Room 112 of the Clerk's Office seven days after the date of the hearing.
  - Once the proposed decree is signed, it cannot be amended without a new petition to change name.
```

And here is a text summary of the tentative ruling:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling in a petition for name change. The petitioner must review the proposed decree and ensure that the new name is clearly written and correctly spelled. If the name is not in order, the petitioner must appear at the hearing to submit a corrected proposed decree. The petition is granted, and a copy of the signed decree will be available at the Clerk's Office seven days after the hearing. Once the decree is signed, it cannot be amended without a new petition.
