

 
BACKGROUND
 
On January
31, 2023, Plaintiff State Farm Automobile Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) filed
a Complaint against Defendants Everardo Navarro dba Navarro Trucking
(“Navarro”), RG Transportation LLC (“RG”), and Does 1 to 10 (collectively, the
“Defendants”), alleging a single cause of action for Subrogation. Also, on January
31, 2023, the Summons was issued and filed.  
 
On June
22, 2023, the First Amended Summons was issued and filed. 
 
Plaintiff
filed three separate proofs of service indicating service of the summons, first
amended summons, and complaint on Defendant RG. 
 
            On
April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served the instant unopposed Motion for Leave
to File Second Amended Summons and First Amended Complaint (the “Motion”).
Pursuant to the Motion, Plaintiff moves for an order granting Plaintiff leave
to file second amended summons and first amended complaint. 
 
            On June 5, 2024, due to the Court’s
unavailability, the Court, on its own motion, continued the hearing on the
Motion from June 24, 2024 to July 8, 2024. (06/05/24 Minute Order.) The Court’s
minute order provides that “Judicial Assistant is directed to give notice to
Plaintiff, who upon receipt of this minute order is directed to give notice to
any party legally entitled, and to file proof of service of said notice.” (06/05/24
Minute Order.) The Court’s June 5, 2024 minute order was mailed to Plaintiff’s
counsel on such date. (06/05/24 Certificate of Mailing.) Despite being ordered
by this Court to provide notice of the continued hearing date, Plaintiff has
failed to file proof of service showing that notice was given to all interested
parties. Since Defendants were served with the Motion, Defendants should have
been given notice of the Court’s June 5, 2024 minute order. Thus, Defendants
were not given notice of the continued hearing date on the Motion. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
argues that it filed the First Amended Summons to correct an error in the
spelling of Defendant RG’s name. Subsequently, Plaintiff learned the Complaint
incorrectly names Defendant Everardo Navarro dba Navarro Trucking and such
defendant’s correct name is Navarro Trucking, LLC. Plaintiff seeks to correct
this error by correcting the name of Defendant Everardo Navarro dba Navarro
Trucking in each location it appears on the summons and complaint. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            No
opposition brief filed as of July 2, 2024.    
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
brief filed as of July 2, 2024.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Leave to
Amend  
A.               
Legal Standard 
            The trial court has discretion to allow amendments to pleadings in the
furtherance of justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) “Any judge, at
any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice,
and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) “There is a policy of great liberality in permitting
amendments to the pleadings at any stage of the proceeding.” Berman v.
Bromberg (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945, citation omitted. “An application
to amend a pleading is addressed to the trial judge’s sound discretion.” Ibid.,
citation omitted. 
A party seeking
leave to amend must attach a copy of the proposed pleading to the motion for
leave to amend. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(1).) 
B.        Discussion   
            The
Court finds that the Motion is procedurally deficient. First, Plaintiff did not
provide notice of the continued hearing date to Defendants. Also, the Court
finds that the declaration of Tristan P. Espinosa (“Espinosa”) in support of
the Motion is not compliant with Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324. Plaintiff
has failed to attach a copy of the proposed first amended complaint. 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to
file a second amended summons and first amended complaint is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE. 
 
            The Moving party is ordered to give notice of this Court’s
Ruling and to attach a copy of the Court's Tentative Ruling, as exhibit “A” to
said notice.
 