

 
BACKGROUND
 
On April
5, 2022, Plaintiff State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendants Marvin Sosa-Reyes (“Defendant”) and Does 1
to 10 alleging a cause of action for Subrogation. 
 
The Complaint alleges the following: Robin Godfrey (the
“Insured”) had a policy of insurance with Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶ 6.) On or
about May 2, 2021, Defendant caused the Insured to incur a loss that was
covered under the policy. (Complaint, ¶ 6.) Defendant negligently operated a
motor vehicle and caused an accident. (Complaint, ¶ 6.) The Insured suffered
damages in the amount of $7,648.33. (Complaint, ¶ 6.) As required by both the
insurance policy and Plaintiff’s duty of good faith and fair dealing with its
insured, Plaintiff investigated the loss, determined it was covered, and paid
the claim. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) The total loss was $7,648.33. (Complaint, ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff seeks subrogation of its payment from all Defendants. (Complaint, ¶
8.) 
 
On October
24, 2022, Defendant filed an Answer to the Complaint setting forth a general
denial and five affirmative defenses.
 
On
November 1, 2022, Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint against Rosemary Armenta
and Roes 1 to 10, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Indemnity; (2)
Contribution; and (3) Declaratory Relief. 
 
On May
24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to deem the Requests for Admission, Set One,
it propounded on Defendant as admitted. 
 
On June
26, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to deem its Requests for
Admission, Set One as admitted. (06/26/23 Minute Order.) 
 
Pursuant
to its June 26, 2023 order, the following matters in Plaintiff’s RFAs were
admitted:
 
1.     
Admit that at the time of the INCIDENT, you were
driving a motor vehicle. (For purposes of these requests, the term INCIDENT
refers to the accident upon which this action was based occurring on or about
May 2, 2021 at or near STRANWOOD AVE NEAR RINALDI ST MISSION HILLS, CA 91345).
2.     
Admit that at the time of the INCIDENT, you failed to
drive with reasonable care.
3.     
Admit that your driving was the sole cause of the
COLLISION with plaintiff’s INSURED VEHICLE. (For purposes of these requests,
the term COLLISION refers to the motor vehicle accident which is the basis of
the INCIDENT; the term INSURED VEHICLE refers to the other vehicle involved in
the INCIDENT for which plaintiff is seeking to recover damages.)
4.     
Admit that you were at least 1% at fault in causing the
COLLISION.
5.     
Admit that you were 100% at fault in causing the
COLLISION.
6.     
Admit that as a result of the COLLISION, you caused the
INSURED to incur damages. (For purposes of these requests, the term INSURED
refers to the owner of the INSURED VEHICLE.)
7.     
Admit that as a result of the COLLISION, you caused the
INSURED to incur damages of at least $7,648.33. 
8.     
Admit that plaintiff as the insurer for the INSURED has
been damaged in the amount of at least $7,648.33, the amount which it paid its
INSURED on the claim its INSURED made for his/her losses arising from INCIDENT
plus any other uncovered losses the INSURED suffered and assigned to plaintiff.

9.     
Admit that the affirmative defenses you have asserted
in this matter lack merit and evidentiary support. 
 
(See 06/26/23 Minute Order; see
also 05/24/23 Motion.) 
 
On February 1, 2024, pursuant to a
stipulation between the parties, the Court entered an 
order continuing trial from February 8, 2024 to August 6,
2024.
 
            On April 19,
2024, Plaintiff filed and served the instant unopposed Motion for Judgment on
the Pleadings. Any opposition to the motion was required to have been filed and
served at least nine court days prior to the hearing pursuant to CCP § 1005(b).
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
contends that, due to the Court granting its motion to deem its Requests for
Admission, Set One as admitted, any issues raised by Defendant under a general
denial or any affirmative defenses are removed. 
 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            No
opposition brief filed as of July 5, 2024.    
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
brief filed as of July 5, 2024.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings 
A.               
Meet and Confer Requirement 
            Before filing a motion for judgment
on the pleadings, a moving party's counsel must meet and confer, in person, by telephone,
or by videoconference with counsel for the party who filed the pleading “that
is subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings for the purpose of
determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the claims to be
raised in the motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (CCP § 439(a).) “A
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to grant or deny the motion for judgment on the
pleadings.” (CCP § 439(a)(4).) 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel, Tristan P. Espinosa (“Espinosa”), declares that on March 26, 2024, his
office served a meet and confer letter on Defendant. (Espinosa Decl., ¶ 1; Ex.
1.) To date, Mr. Espinosa has received no contact from Defendant. (Espinosa
Decl., ¶ 2.)    
            The
Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has not been met as counsel did
not meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by videoconference. The Court,
however, will assess the merits of the motion for judgment on the pleadings. 
The Court reminds the
parties of the need to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil
Procedure. 
B.        Judicial Notice  
            The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice pursuant to Evid. Code §§
452 and 453. The Court therefore takes judicial notice of Defendant’s Answer,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Admissions, and the Court’s June 26, 2023 order
granting Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Admissions. 
C.         Legal Standard 
“A party may move for
judgment on the pleadings.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (b)(1).) “If the
moving party is a plaintiff, [the motion may only be made on the grounds] that
the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action
against the defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense to the complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(A).)
In assessing a motion for judgment on the pleadings, a court “may consider
matters that may be judicially noticed.” Pang v. Beverly Hosp., Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 986, 990, citation omitted. A motion for judgment on the
pleadings may be filed by a plaintiff if “the defendant has already filed his
or her answer to the complaint and the time for the plaintiff to demur to the
answer has expired.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f)(1).) A motion pursuant
to CCP § 438 “may be made . . . if a pretrial conference order has been entered
pursuant to Section 575, or within 30 days of the date the action is initially
set for trial, whichever is later, unless the court otherwise permits.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (e).) 
 “A motion for
judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a general demurrer, and
hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters
that can be judicially noticed.” Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 995, 999. “A motion for judgment on the pleadings is akin to a
general demurrer; it tests the sufficiency of the complaint to state a cause of
action.” Wise v. Pacific Gas and Elec. Co. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 725, 738.  
“Judicial admissions may
be made in a pleading, by stipulation during trial, or by response to request
for admission.” Barsegian v. Kessler & Kessler (2013) 215 Cal.Ap.4th
446, 451, citations omitted. “[I]n discovery when a party propounds
requests for admission, any facts admitted by the responding party constitute
judicial admissions.” Id. at p. 452. “A judicial admission is therefore
conclusive both as to the admitting party and as to that party’s opponent.”
Ibid., emphasis in original. “[I]f a factual allegation is treated as a
judicial admission, then neither party may attempt to contradict it—the
admitted fact is effectively conceded by both sides.” Ibid., emphasis
in original. 
1.         Appropriateness
of Granting the Instant Motion   

 
            Plaintiff
argues that the Court’s order granting its motion to deem admissions which,
when read with the facts that have been deemed admitted, remove any issue
raised by Defendant under a general denial or any affirmative defenses raised
in his Answer. (Memorandum of Points and Authorities at p. 3:23-26.)   
 
            The
Court finds that the Notice of Motion is defective as it merely states that
Plaintiff “will and does hereby move for an order granting Plaintiff’s Judgment
on the Pleadings against Defendant MARVIN SOSA-REYES. Said motion will be based
on this Notice, the Memorandum of Points and Authorities, Declaration of Tristan
P. Espinosa, Esq., and the Request for Judicial Notice which establish that
Plaintiff is entitled to such relief.” (Not. of Mot. at p. 1:21-25.) 
 
            However,
“[a] notice of motion must state in the opening paragraph the nature of the
order being sought and the grounds for the issuance of the order.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1110(a).) Here, the Notice of Motion is void of any indication
of the basis for Plaintiff’s request for judgment on the pleadings. Given that
Plaintiff is the moving party, the motion can only be made on the grounds “that
the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action
against the defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense to the complaint.” (CCP § 438(c)(1)(A).) Here, Plaintiff
does not even argue that the Complaint states facts to constitute a cause of
action against Defendant. Plaintiff also does not explicitly argue that the
Answer fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the
Complaint. To the contrary, Plaintiff argues that, due to the Court’s order
granting its motion as to deem the RFAs as admitted, its motion for judgment on
the pleadings is proper. 
 
            The
Court is unsure whether Plaintiff is asking the Court to determine that the
Complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action along with a
determination that—based on the Court’s June 26, 2023 Minute Order—Defendant’s
Answer fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a defense. “[D]ue process
requires a party to be fully advised of the issues to be addressed and to be
given adequate notice of what facts it must rebut in order to prevail.” Fenn
v. Sherriff (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1466, 1481. 
 
            Additionally,
the Court finds that Plaintiff is improperly relying on the truth of deemed requests
for admissions to seek judgment on the pleadings against Defendant. The Court notes
that on a motion for judgment on the pleadings, the Court analyzes the
pleadings and does not rely on deemed admissions granted through discovery
motions. Barker v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 224. Plaintiff’s cited
authority also does not support the proposition which it advances. The case of Barsegian,
supra, 215 Cal.App.4th 446 is inapposite as such case addressed
judicial admissions in the context of a motion to compel arbitration and not a
motion for judgment on the pleadings. Plaintiff’s citation to Addy v. Bliss
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 205 is also inapposite as such case involved judicial
admissions concerning a motion for summary judgment. 
 
It appears that Plaintiff is arguing
that there is no factual dispute concerning the Complaint or Defendant’s Answer
based on the Court’s June 26, 2023 order. The appropriate motion for Plaintiff
to file is not a motion for judgment on the pleadings, but rather a motion for
summary judgment. If Plaintiff contends that there are no triable issues of
fact, then Plaintiff should file a motion for summary judgment since a motion
for summary judgment allows the Court to determine whether there is any triable
issue of material fact. Saldana v. Globe-Weis Systems Co. (1991) 233
Cal.App.3d 1505, 1511. Only the legal sufficiency of allegations in a
pleading are tested pursuant to a motion for judgment on the pleadings. Lee
v. Kotyluk (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 719, 728. Here, pursuant to the instant
motion, Plaintiff improperly requests that the Court make a factual
determination that certain issues of fact have been determined in Plaintiff’s
favor pursuant to the Court’s ruling on a discovery motion, and therefore
judgment should enter in Plaintiff’s favor and against Defendant. Thus, the
basis for the instant motion is improper.  
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings is DENIED. 
 
            The Moving party is ordered to give notice of this Court’s
Ruling and to attach a copy of the Court's Tentative Ruling, as exhibit “A” to
said notice.
 