


BACKGROUND 
 
On November
7, 2023, Plaintiff Laura Elena Valencia (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendant Hugo Valencia, Jr. (“Defendant”) for (1) negligence, (2) strict
liability (Civil Code section 3342), (3) negligence per se, and (4) negligent
entrustment.
 
The complaint
alleges that on November 7, 2021, Plaintiff was attacked and scratched by an unsupervised,
off-leash dog owned by Defendant when she was standing in her front yard.
Plaintiff alleges that the dog left Defendant’s property through an open gate.
 
On June 7, 2024,
Defendant filed this demurrer. No opposition has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) The court “treat[s] the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994).) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra,
147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that
a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
B.    
Discussion
 
Defendant
demurs to the causes of action for negligence per se and negligent entrustment
in the complaint, arguing they fail to state sufficient facts and are
uncertain.
 
The Plaintiff’s
Complaint provides: 
 
“On November 7, 2021, the Plaintiff, Laura Elena Valencia (Plaintiff)
while standing in her front yard located at 10709 Amery, South Gate,
California, was attached and scratched by an unsupervised, off-leash dog that
is owned, kept, harbored, controlled and/or maintained by Defendant, at 10715
Amery, south Gate, California.
 
The dog, unsupervised and off-leash left the Defendant’s property
through an open gate. The attack on the Plaintiff was unprovoked and without
warning.  The sudden and vicious attack
by Defendant’s dog, thereby, caused the Plaintiff to suffer severe lacerations
and bodily injuries to her back, shoulders and legs which has left Plaintiff
scared and emotionally frightened. Defendant breached his duty as a dog owner
and was negligent as follows: Failure to maintain his animal under proper
restraint and control; failure to give full time and attention; failure to obey
leash laws and statutes; reckless endangerment; failure to pay proper attention
to protect the public from his dog; failure to take preventative measures such
as by use of muzzle; failure to warn; failure to entrust the dog to a person
competent to maintain control and restraint; maintain adequate fencing to keep
the dog from leaving the property and running loose and viciously attacking
Plaintiff in her own yard.” 
 
I.                   
Third Cause of Action for Negligence Per Se
 
Defendant
argues this cause of action fails because negligence per se is a rebuttable
evidentiary presumption and not an independent cause of action. 
 
            Plaintiff alleges in her Complaint for Negligence Per Se
that Defendant violated municipal authority including but not limited to Los
Angeles Municipal Code Section 53.06 and 53.34.1 and Los Angeles County Code
Section 10.32.010.  
 
“’Negligence per se’ is an evidentiary doctrine codified at Evidence
Code section 669. Under subdivision (a) of this section, the doctrine creates a
presumption of negligence if four elements are established: (1) the defendant
violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation of a public entity; (2) the
violation proximately caused death or injury to person or property; (3) the
death or injury resulted from an occurrence the nature of which the statute,
ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent; and (4) the person suffering
the death or the injury to his person or property was one of the class of
persons for whose protection the statute, ordinance, or regulation was adopted.
These latter two elements are determined by the court as a matter of law.” (Quiroz
v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1285, internal
citations omitted.)  “Thus, the doctrine of negligence per se does not
establish tort liability.  Rather, it merely codifies the rule that a
presumption of negligence arises from the violation of a statute which was
enacted to protect a class of persons of which the plaintiff is a member
against the type of harm that the plaintiff suffered as a result of the
violation.  Even if the four requirements of Evidence Code section 669,
subdivision (a), are satisfied, this alone does not entitle a plaintiff to a
presumption of negligence in the absence of an underlying negligence
action.”  (Ibid., internal citations omitted, emphasis in
original.)  “Accordingly, to apply negligence per se is not to state an
independent cause of action. The doctrine does not provide a private right of
action for violation of a statute.  Instead, it operates to establish a
presumption of negligence for which the statute serves the subsidiary function
of providing evidence of an element of a preexisting common law cause of
action.”  (Id. at 1285-86, internal citations omitted.) 
 
“ ‘The presumption of negligence created by Evidence Code section 669
concerns the standard of care, rather than the duty of care.’  In
order for the presumption to be available, ‘either the courts or the
Legislature must have created a duty of care.’  ‘[A]n underlying claim of
ordinary negligence must be viable before the presumption of negligence of
Evidence Code section 669 can be employed.... “[I]t is the tort of negligence,
and not the violation of the statute itself, which entitles a plaintiff to recover
civil damages.” ’ ” (Millard v. Biosources, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th
1338, 1353, citations omitted, original italics.)   
 
Notwithstanding, a party can still allege a negligence per se cause
of action.  In Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, the
California Supreme Court noted that, while the plaintiff's allegations of
violations of statutes did not state a separate cause of action in the sense
that they did not allege a different violation of a primary right, i.e. the right
to be free from bodily harm, they could still be alleged either together in a
single count, or as separate counts.  (Id. at 413.)  Likewise,
in Millard, the Court of Appeal found that, although negligence per se
was not a true independent cause of action, plaintiff nevertheless needed to
plead allegations that supported the negligence per se theory in order to rely
on that theory in opposition to summary judgment. Since plaintiff had failed to
make any such allegations in the complaint, he could not rely on a negligence
per se theory to defeat summary judgment. (Millard, supra, 156
Cal.App.4th at 1353.)
 
Although
Defendant is correct that negligence per se is not a separate “cause of action”
in the sense of alleging a different violation of a primary right, Plaintiff
nevertheless can allege negligence per se as a separate count of
negligence.
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the cause of action for negligence per se is OVERRULED.
 
II.                
Fourth Cause of Action for Negligent Entrustment
Defendant argues the facts in Plaintiff’s Complaint
arise out of an alleged dog attack, which is inapplicable to any claim for
negligent entrustment. Defendant also argues the cause of action for negligent
entrustment is duplicative of the cause of action for negligence because it is
based on the same facts.
“Every owner of a motor vehicle is liable and responsible
for the death or injury to person or property resulting from a negligent or
wrongful act or omission in the operation of the motor vehicle, in the business
of the owner or otherwise, by any person using or operating the same with the
permission, express or implied, of the owner.”  (Vehicle Code §
17150.)  “Liability arises solely from the owner’s status as owner
of the vehicle, not from any independent fault or wrongdoing on the owner’s
part.”  (Galvis v. Petito (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 551, 555 (emphasis
in original).) 
 
To hold a defendant liable for negligent entrustment, the
plaintiff must prove that (1) the driver was negligent in operating the
vehicle; (2) that the defendant was an owner of the vehicle operated by the
driver; (3) that the defendant knew, or should have known, that the driver was
incompetent or unfit to drive the vehicle; (4) that the defendant permitted the
driver to use the vehicle; and (5) that the driver’s incompetence or unfitness
to drive was a substantial factor in causing harm to the plaintiff.  (Jeld-Wen,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 863-64.) 
 
Under the theory of negligent
entrustment, liability is imposed on¿the vehicle¿owner or permitter because of
the owner’s independent¿negligence¿and not the¿negligence¿of the driver. (Safeco
Ins. Co. v. Gilstrap¿(1983) 141 Cal.App.3d 524, 530.) A person who places
or entrusts his motor vehicle in the hands of another “whom he knows, or from
circumstances is charged with knowing, is incompetent or unfit to drive, may be
held liable for an injury inflicted by the use made thereof by that driver,
provided the plaintiff can establish that the injury complained of was
proximately caused by the driver's disqualification, incompetency, inexperience
or recklessness.” (Flores v. Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co.¿(2010) 188
Cal.App.4th 1055, 1063.)
 
There are no allegations that would
show anyone entrusted a vehicle to another. Further, there are no allegations
of entrusting the dog to another person either. It is unclear how this cause of
action applies in this case. 
 
In
addition, Plaintiff has already alleged a cause of
action for negligence based on the same facts as Plaintiff’s claim for
negligent entrustment.  Thus, the negligence and negligent entrustment
causes of action are duplicative.  (Rodrigues v. Campbell Industries
(1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501 (stating that a demurrer may be sustained when a
cause of action is duplicative of another cause of action and “thus adds
nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory of recovery”; see Palm
Springs Villas II Homeowners Association, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248
Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)  
 
As such, the demurrer to the cause
of action for negligent entrustment is SUSTAINED on these grounds without leave
to amend.  
 
 
 Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing,
Defendant’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is OVERRULED as to third cause of
action for negligence per se and SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the
fourth cause of action for negligent entrustment. 
 
Defendant’s Answer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint to be filed within 20-days. 
 
The
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this Court’s Ruling and to attach a
copy of the Court's Tentative Ruling, as exhibit “A” to said notice.
 