 Case Number:  24STLC01858    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  25 HEARING DATE:   Mon., July 8, 2024                                          JUDGE /DEPT:        Mkrtchyan /25
CASE NAME:           Park v. Hanmi Bank                                       COMPL. FILED:      03-15-24
CASE NUMBER:     24STLC01858                                                DISC. C/O:                 N/A
NOTICE:                   OK                                                                  DISC. MOT. C/O:     N/A

                                                                                                            TRIAL DATE:          09-12-24
            


 
PROCEEDINGS:     DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY:   Defendant
Hanmi Bank
RESP. PARTY:         None
 
 DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT
(CCP § 430.10)
 

            

 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
The Demurrer to Complaint is SUSTAINED
with 20 days leave to amend.
 

            

 
 
SERVICE: 

 
[X] Proof of Service Timely
Filed (CRC 3.1300)                  OK
[X] Correct Address (CCP 1013,
1013a)                               OK
[X] 75/80 Day Lapse (CCP 12c
and 1005 (b))                       OK
 
OPPOSITION:                                                                                  [   ]
Late                      [X] None
REPLY:                                                                                             
[   ] Late                      [X]
None
 
SUPP. DEF. OPPO:                                                                          [   ] Late                      [X]
None
SUPP. PLF. REPLY:                                                                        [   ] Late                      [X]
None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background

 
On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff JUNG HONG
PARK dba HS EXPRESS AMERICA, INC. (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendant HANMI BANK and DOES 1 to 10 (“Defendants”), alleging Defendants
proceeded with an online transfer despite recognizing the account as suspicious
and without informing Plaintiff. 
 
On June 10, 2024, Defendant Hanmi Bank filed the instant
Demurrer to the Complaint. The demurrer is unopposed. 
 
II.                
Legal
Standard 
 
“The primary function of a
pleading is to give the other party notice so that it may prepare its case
[citation], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party
cannot be said to affect substantial rights.” (Harris v. City of Santa
Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)¿
 
“A¿demurrer¿tests the legal
sufficiency of the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of
America, N.A.¿(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to whether
“the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action or discloses
a complete defense.” (Id.) The Court does not “read passages from a
complaint in isolation; in reviewing a ruling on a demurrer, we read the
complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.) The Court
“assume[s] the truth of the properly pleaded factual allegations, facts that
reasonably can be inferred from those expressly pleaded and matters of which
judicial notice has been taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p. 240.)
“The court does not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions or
conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)¿¿¿ 
¿           
A general demurrer may be
brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted or under
section 430.10, subdivision (a), where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject
of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. All other grounds listed in
Section 430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision (f), are special
demurrers. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
¿           
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)¿¿
 
 
III.             
Meet
and Confer 
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is
required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to
for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a
filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41.)¿¿¿ 
 
Here, Defendant Hanmi Bank advances the declaration of
its counsel of record, Wil J. Rios, attesting to the meet and confer efforts
made in regard to the issues raised in the demurrer prior to filing as required
by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. Specifically, Rios states that he
sent a meet and confer email to Plaintiff on May 6, 2024 outlining the
deficiencies of the Complaint and requesting Plaintiff voluntarily dismiss the
Complaint. (Rios Decl., ¶3, Ex. A.) Plaintiff decided not to dismiss the Complaint
to address the deficiencies identified by defense counsel. (Id. at
¶4.) 
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant Hanmi Bank has
fulfilled the meet and confer requirement.
 
IV.             
Discussion

 
Defendant Hanmi Bank demurs to the entire Complaint on
the grounds that Plaintiff fails to allege enough facts that would be
sufficient to constitute any cause of action against it. 
 
The
Complaint alleges as follows:
 
“If the bank proceeded with an online
transfer despite recognizing the account as suspicious, the responsibility may
lie with the bank. Banks operate detection system for suspicious transactions
or accounts to prevent money laundering, and it is their duty and responsibility
to operate such systems to block suspicious transactions and notify the
relevant parties.” (Attachment 1, ¶1.)
 
“However, despite being aware of this
fact, the representative of Hanmi Bank proceeded with the online transfer
without informing the client, and therefore, the bank should bear
responsibility for this act.” (Id. at ¶2.)
 
“In the case of California, banks are
required to comply with strong regulations and procedures for preventing money
laundering and financial crimes. In California, banks are obligated to submit a
Suspicious Activity Report (SAR), which mandates reporting of suspicious transactions
or activities to the domestic Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN).” (Id.
at ¶3.)
 
“Therefore, if the bank proceeded with
an online transfer without informing the client despite recognizing the account
as suspicious, it appears that the bank did not properly comply with the
regulations on its own. Consequently, the bank executed such a request without
any doubt. This may be a violation of financial regulations in California, and
the bank must take responsibility.” (Id. at ¶4.)
 
“Accordingly, the plaintiff seeks a judgment requiring
Hanmi Bank to fully compensate for the amount transferred.” (Id. at ¶5.)
 
On the face of the Complaint,
Plaintiff fails to state sufficient facts to support a legally cognizable cause
of action against Defendant Hanmi Bank. In fact, the Complaint does not
identify any causes of actions for which the allegations are being brought
under. The attachment to the Complaint does not list any causes of action.
While the Complaint references violations of financial regulations that
Defendant Hanmi Bank might have violated, it does not identify which financial
regulations have been violated. Likewise, the alleged facts are too vague to
determine what financial regulations are being referenced. As such, it is
unclear what claims Plaintiff is alleging to adequately put Defendant Hanmi
Bank on notice of what defenses it might raise in response. Nonetheless,
Plaintiff does allege facts concerning an obligation under FinCEN, which
suggests that the Complaint is capable of reasonable amendment.
 
V.               
Conclusion
& Order 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant
Hanmi Bank’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days
leave to amend. 
 
The Moving party is ordered to give notice of this Court’s
Ruling and to attach a copy of the Court's Tentative Ruling, as exhibit “A” to
said notice.
 