

 
BACKGROUND
 
On February
1, 2023, Plaintiff State Farm General Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against Defendants Jesus Lucas (“Defendant”) and Elizabeth Torres
(“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 10 alleging one cause of action for Subrogation. 
 
On November
3, 2023, Defendant Elizabeth Torres filed an Answer to the Complaint setting
forth a general denial and four affirmative defenses.
 
On May 8,
2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to deem the Requests for Admission, Set One, it
propounded on Defendant Elizabeth Torres, on December 19, 2023, as admitted. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff requests
that Court grant its motion to deem its Requests for Admission, Set One as
admitted, since no responses have been received as of the date of the filing of
the subject motion.  
 
OPPOSITION
 
            Declaration
of Mary Sims, Esq. filed on June 25, 2024 provides that their office has been
unable to contact Defendant Elizabeth Torres. (Sims Decl., ¶ 5) Counsel’s
Declaration purports to attach various Exhibits to the Declaration; however, none
were attached.  Counsel requests that sanctions
not be imposed against Defendant Elizabeth Torres. 
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
brief filed as of July 5, 2024.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.         Legal Standard 
“Any party
may obtain discovery . . . by a written request that any other party to the
action admit the genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified
matters of fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A
request for admission may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the
parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.010.)
“Within 30 days after service of requests for admission, the party to whom the
requests are directed shall serve the original of the response to them on the
requesting party, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have
appeared.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
2033.250(a).)
 
When a party fails to serve a timely response to requests for admission
“[t]he party to whom the request was directed waives any objection to the
requests, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product.” (Code Civ. Proc § 2033.280(a).) “The requesting party can move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary
sanction.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(b).) The court shall issue this order
unless the party to whom the request was made serves a response in substantial
compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)
“It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction . . . on the party
or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for
admission necessitated [the] motion.” Id. 
 
Any party may obtain discovery . . . by inspecting, copying, testing, or
sampling documents, tangible things, land or other property, and electronically
stored information in the possession, custody, or control of any other party to
the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010, subd. (a).) Where a party fails to
timely respond to demand for inspection, copying, testing or sampling “[t]he
party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(a).) Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b) provides that “[t]he party making the
demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.”
 
 1.        Appropriateness
of Granting the Instant Motion   

 
            On December
19, 2023, Plaintiff served Request for Admission, Set Two, on Defendant Torres.
(Espinosa Decl., ¶ 1; Exh. A.) The responses were due on January 22, 2024.
(Id., ¶ 3.) At defense counsel's request, several extensions were granted,
making the responses due on March 27, 2024. (Id.) To date, responses have not
been provided. (Id., ¶ 4.)
 
In opposition, defense counsel
states that Defendant moved to Brazil and has not been able to respond and they
do not have her contact information. 
 
Because Plaintiff properly served
the request for discovery, and Defendant has failed to provide responses, the
Court finds Plaintiff is entitled to an order establishing the truth of the
matters in the request for admission served on Defendant. Therefore, the motion
is granted. 
 
Plaintiff also
requests sanctions. Sanctions are mandatory in connection with a motion to deem
the truth of the matter in the requests for admission admitted. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2033.280(c).) Thus, the request for sanctions in connection with this
motion is granted. As such, the Court imposes monetary sanctions against
Defendant in the amount of $460 ($200 per hour, for two hours, plus $60 filing
fee) to be paid within 20 days of this order.
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Request for Admission Admitted
is GRANTED. The truth of the matters in the request for admission, set one,
served on Defendant Elizabeth Torres are admitted.  
 
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED. The Court orders Defendant Elizabeth Torres
to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $460 within 30 days of this Court’s  order.
 
            The Moving party is ordered to give notice of this Court’s
Ruling and to attach a copy of the Court's Tentative Ruling, as exhibit “A” to
said notice.
