 Case Number:  24STCV12097    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  19  WRIGHT v. PANORAMA GROUP,
INC. 
TENTATIVE RULING 
After consideration of the briefing filed and oral
argument at the hearing, Plaintiff
Wendy B. Wright’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint, filed on
August 23, 2024, is DENIED without prejudice. 
Counsel for Defendant The Panorama Group, Inc. to give
notice. 
STATEMENT OF FACTS 
 
This action arises out of alleged breach of contract. Plaintiff Wendy B. Wright
(“Plaintiff”) brings suit against Defendants The Panorama Group, Inc.
(“Panorama”) and Fidelity National Title Company (“Fidelity”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) alleging the following causes of action:
1.             
Breach
of Contract [against The Panorama Group, Inc. only];
2.             
Common
Count [against The Panorama Group, Inc. only]; and
3.             
Declaratory
Relief [against Defendants]. 
The Complaint alleges that, pursuant to the “Residential Income Property
Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instruction,” attached to the Complaint as
Exhibit A (the “Purchase Agreement”), Defendant Panorama agreed to purchase
real property located at 835/837 S. Holt Avenue Los Angeles, CA 90035 from
Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Panorama breached the agreement and
is entitled to $75,000.00 being held by Defendant Fidelity National Title
Company in escrow. 
In the Second Amended Cross-Complaint (the “SACC”), Defendant The
Panorama Group, Inc. (“Cross-Complainant”) brings suit against Plaintiff, Onna
Casey, Sherwin Soumekh, BRC Advisors-BH, Inc., and Forward Sunset Inc. dba
Keller Williams Hollywood Hills (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) alleging the
following causes of action:
1.             
Breach of Contract;
2.             
Conversion;
3.             
Breach of Civil Code § 1057.3;
4.             
Declaratory Relief;
5.             
Equitable Indemnity;
6.             
Indemnity; and
7.             
Contribution. 
Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Leave to File
First Amended Complaint (the “Motion”). 
GROUNDS FOR MOTION 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 378, 473,
and 576, Plaintiff moves for an order granting leave to amend to file a First
Amended Complaint to add a second plaintiff, i.e., “Robert A. Miller, trustee,
Jean R. Schechet Trust dated August 23, 1996” (“Miller”) on the ground that
Miller’s ¿claims
closely mirror those Plaintiff’s claims because their respective contracts are
both with the same buyer, i.e., Defendant Panorama, and both relate to the same
series of transactions, i.e., an attempt by Defendant Panorama to acquire
Plaintiff’s and Miller’s properties for purposes of building a long-term care
facility. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
On November 18, 2024, Plaintiff concurrently filed with
her reply papers a request to take judicial notice of Attachments 1 through 7. 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request to take judicial
notice of Attachments 1 through 5. 
Attachments 1 through 5 are United States Supreme Court
opinions and therefore do not contain any judicially noticeable facts. The
Court will consider all case authority cited by the parties in their briefing. 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request to take judicial
notice of Attachment 6. (Evid. Code, § 452(d).) 
Although the general rule of motion practice is that new
evidence is not permitted with reply papers, (Maleti v. Wickers (2022)
82 Cal.App.5th 181, 227; Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522,
1537), such evidence may be considered in the exceptional case so long as the
other party is given an opportunity to respond. (Jay, supra, 218
Cal.App.4th at 1537-1538; Alliant Ins. Services, Inc. v. Gaddy (2008)
159 Cal.App.4th 1292, 1308 (citing Plenger v. Alza Corp. (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 349, 362, fn. 8).) 
The Court finds that taking judicial notice of the
existence of Attachment 6, which is a petition to compel arbitration filed by
Defendant Panorama in Case No. 24STCP02834, is appropriate under the
circumstances because, in its Opposition brief, Defendant Panorama refers to
the petition, suggesting that the Court “should allow the petition to be
heard,” (Opposition, p. 2), and arguing that it “¿has not, and will not (now) engage
this Court to decide or litigate any issues related to Miller, including, whether
Defendant waived its rights to arbitration,” because, once the petition is
granted, “¿Miller
can raise his arguments regarding waiver before the arbitrator and Defendant
will reply,” (Id. at p. 5.) 
Thus, the Court takes judicial notice of the existence of
Attachment 6. 
Since Attachment 7 is the operative SACC in this action,
the Court also GRANTS Plaintiff’s request to take judicial notice of Attachment
7. (Evid. Code, § 452(d).) 
However, the Court notes that it does not take judicial
notice of the truth of statements or their proper interpretation when the facts
are in dispute. (See Fremont Indem. Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113-14 [“Taking judicial notice of a document is not the
same as accepting the truth of its contents or accepting a particular
interpretation of its meaning.”]; StorMedia Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 449, 457 n. 9 [“When judicial notice is taken of a document ... the
truthfulness and proper interpretation of the document are disputable.”]; see
also Cruz v. County of Los Angeles (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 1131, 1134
[holding that judicial notice does not require acceptance of the truth of
factual matters that might be deduced therefrom].) 
 
DISCUSSION 
A.   
Procedural Requirements 
Under California Rules of
Court Rule, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a), a motion to amend a pleading shall: 
(1)  Include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
 
(2)  State what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
 
(3)  State what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.
(Cal. Rules Ct., rule
3.1324(a).) 
Under California Rule of
Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (b), a separate declaration must accompany the
motion and must specify: 
(1)  The effect of the amendment;
 
(2)  Why the amendment is
necessary and proper;
 
(3)  When the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and
 
(4)  The reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier.
(Cal. Rules Ct., rule
3.1324(b).) 
The Court finds that
Plaintiff complies with the requirements of California Rules of Court Rule,
rule 3.1324. (See John D. Zemanek Decl., ¶¶ 3-13.) 
B.    Analysis 
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking
out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party,
or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time
for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice
to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(a)(1).) “Any judge, at any time
before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon
such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or
pretrial conference order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) 
The policy in California is that leave to amend is to be granted
liberally, to accomplish substantial justice for both parties. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 488-89.) “If the motion to amend is timely made and the
granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to amend.”  (Morgan v. Sup. Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d
527, 531.) “Generally, leave to amend must be liberally granted provided there
is no statute of limitations concern, nor any prejudice to the opposing party,
such as delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation.” (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd.
New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.) 
Here, Plaintiff argues that leave should be granted to amend the
Complaint to add Miller as a Plaintiff and to add four causes of action that
are “virtually” identical to the four causes of action alleged in the Complaint
except the new causes of action will concern Miller’s purchase agreement with
Defendant Panorama concerning “¿829/831 S Holt Ave, Los Angeles, CA 90035-1806.” (Motion, p. 1; Zemanek
Decl. at ¶¶ 3-4.)
 
Plaintiff contends that leave should be granted on the grounds that
Miller’s joinder as a plaintiff is permitted under Code of Civil Procedure
section 378, subdivision (a)(1) because Miller’s claims arise out of the same
series of transactions or occurrences, namely, Plaintiff’s and Miller’s “¿simultaneous signing of
contracts to sell their adjacent properties to the same buyer,” i.e., Defendant
Panorama, with Defendant Panorama “acquiring both properties for a common
purpose, on terms which are virtually identical, except for the exact property
and the purchase price, which
contracts, according to Panorama, have ‘cross-conditions’ with each
other whereby Panorama can
excuse its performance under one contract by failing to close on the
other contract, and vice versa.” (Motion at pp. 2-3.) Plaintiff contends that
her claims and Miller’s claims “¿entail questions of law and fact common to both Wright and Miller, in
that their affirmative claims are essentially identical (i.e., Panorama failed
to close by the agreed closing date of March 11, 2023, giving Wright and Miller
the right to the earnest money deposits), and Panorama’s defenses and
cross-assertions appear to be substantially the same (revolving around alleged
agreements by Wright and Miller to extend, and their alleged failures to provide
certain disclosures).” (Id. at p. 3.) 
However, Plaintiff also concedes that, unlike Plaintiff’s purchase
agreement with Defendant Panorama, Miller’s purchase agreement with Defendant
Panorama contained an arbitration clause. (Id.) Yet, Plaintiff contends
that Defendant Panorama “¿unequivocally waived its right to arbitrate.” (Id.; see id.
at pp. 5-9.) 
Defendant Panorama argues that, while Plaintiff’s purchase agreement and
Miller’s purchase agreement ¿used a California Association of Realtor's purchase and sale agreement
form, the agreements contain sufficient material differences, including an
arbitration agreement in Miller’s purchase agreement that is not in Plaintiff’s
purchase agreement, such that Miller’s claims should not be allowed to be added
in this action. (Opposition at pp. 3-4.) 
Defendant Panorama states that, in Case No. 24STCP02834, it is seeking
to compel Miller into arbitration, that the Court “¿should allow the petition
to be heard and to determine whether Miller, should be compelled to arbitrate
his claims as required by his purchase and sale agreement.” (Id. at p.
2.) 
While Plaintiff asks that the Court determine whether or not Defendant
Panorama waived its right to compel Miller to arbitrate his claim pursuant to
Miller’s purchase agreement, (Motion at pp. 4-9; Reply, pp. 4-9), the Court
finds, as argued by Defendant Panorama, (Opposition at pp. 2-5), that it cannot
make such a determination at this time because Miller is not presently a party
to this action. 
Rather, the Court finds that the issue of whether Miller must arbitrate
his claims must first be determined before the Court can determine whether
Miller’s claims may be properly added to the instant action. As such, the Court
agrees with Defendant Panorama that a ruling on Defendant Panorama’s pending
petition to compel in Case No. 24STCP02834 is required before the Court can
determine whether Miller’s claims may be properly added to the instant action.
 Accordingly, the Motion is DENIED without prejudice.