 Case Number:  22STCV01155    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  19 RIVERA v. GORDON MCGRATH et al.
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
After consideration of the briefing filed and
oral argument at the hearing, the Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of
Proceeds of Judgment for Minor, filed by Plaintiff Rocio A Zapata Rodriguez as
parent and guardian ad litem for minor Plaintiff Tania Aracely
Sabalza-Zapata, is GRANTED.
The Court signs the [Proposed] Order Approving Compromise of Claim or
Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person with a
Disability filed on October 10, 2024, after indicating in the caption and in
Section 1 that the hearing date was November 26, 2024 rather than February 25,
2025. 
Counsel for Plaintiff Rocio A Zapata Rodriguez to give notice. 
STATEMENT
OF THE CASE 
This is a habitability action. In the First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”), numerous Plaintiffs (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) bring suit
against Defendants Gordon McGrath, Reality Holdings PSJC, LLC, E2M Property
Management, LLC, and 1135 Martin Luther, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”)
alleging the following causes of action:
1.             
Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4;
2.             
Tortious Breach of the Warranty of Habitability;
3.             
Private Nuisance; 
4.             
Business & Professions Code § 17200 et seq.; and
5.             
Negligence. 
The action arises out of alleged habitability
violations at 1135 Martin Luther King Avenue, Long Beach, California, 90813
(hereinafter the “Subject Property”) where Plaintiffs rented units. 
Plaintiff Rocio A
Zapata Rodriguez (hereafter, “Petitioner”) filed the instant Petition for
Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor (the “Petition”) for minor Plaintiff Tania Aracely Sabalza-Zapata
(hereafter, “Claimant”). 
On January 14, 2022, Petitioner was appointed
guardian ad litem for Claimant. 
PETITION TO APPROVE MINORS’ COMPROMISE 
A.   
Legal Standards
A petition for
approval of the compromise of a minor’s claim is governed by Code of Civil
Procedure section 372, California Rules of Court, rules 7.950 through 7.955, and
Probate Code sections 3500 and 3600 through 3613. The petition “must be
verified by the petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all
information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise,
covenant, settlement, or disposition.” (Cal. R. Ct., 7.950.) Except for
petitions for expedited approval of a compromise as provided in California
Rules of Court, rule 7.950.5, “the petition must be submitted on a completed
Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of
Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person With a Disability (form MC-350).” (Id.)
 
California Rules of Court, rule 7.951
provides that:
 
If the petitioner
has been represented or assisted by an attorney in preparing the petition for
approval of the compromise of the claim or in any other respect with regard to
the claim, the petition must disclose the following information:
 
(1)  The name, state bar number, law firm, if any,
and business address of the attorney;
 
(2)  Whether the attorney became involved with the
petition, directly or indirectly, at the instance of any party against whom the
claim is asserted or of any party's insurance carrier;
 
(3)  Whether the attorney represents or is
employed by any other party or any insurance carrier involved in the matter;
 
(4)  Whether the attorney has received any attorney's
fees or other compensation for services provided in connection with the claim
giving rise to the petition or with the preparation of the petition, and, if
so, the amounts and the identity of the person who paid the fees or other
compensation;
 
(5)  If the attorney has not received any
attorney's fees or other compensation for services provided in connection with
the claim giving rise to the petition or with the preparation of the petition,
whether the attorney expects to receive any fees or other compensation for
these services, and, if so, the amounts and the identity of the person who is
expected to pay the fees or other compensation; and
 
(6)  The terms of any agreement between the
petitioner and the attorney.
(Cal. R. Ct., 7.951.)
 
Further, California Rules of Court, rule
7.953, provides as follows: 
 
(a) Acknowledgment
of receipt by financial institution. In any case in which the court orders that
funds to be received by a minor or a person with a disability must be deposited
in a financial institution and not disbursed without further order of the
court, the order must include a provision that a certified or filed endorsed
copy of the order must be delivered to a manager at the financial institution
where the funds are to be deposited, and that a receipt from the financial
institution must be promptly filed with the court, acknowledging receipt of
both the funds deposited and the order for the deposit of funds. 
 
(b) Order
permitting the withdrawal of funds by a former minor. If, in the order
approving the compromise of a minor's claim, there is a finding that the minor
will attain the age of majority on a definite date, the order for deposit may
require that the depository permit the withdrawal of funds by the former minor
after that date, without further order of the court.
(Cal. R. Ct., 7.953(a))
 
California Rules of Court, rule 7.955, subdivision
(a) requires the court to use a reasonable fee standard when approving and
allowing the amount of attorney's fees payable from money or property paid or
to be paid for the benefit of a minor, unless the Court approved the fee
arrangement in advance. (Cal. R. Ct., 7.955(a)(1).) “The court must give
consideration to the terms of any representation agreement made between the
attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a disability and
must evaluate the agreement based on the facts and circumstances existing at
the time the agreement was made, except where the attorney and the
representative of the minor or person with a disability contemplated that the
attorney's fee would be affected by later events.” (Cal. R. Ct., 7.955(a)(2).) In
a petition requesting court approval and allowance of attorney's fees, California
Rules of Court, rule 7.955, subdivision (c) requires the attorney to submit a
declaration that addresses the following nonexclusive factors applicable to the
matter before the court that the court may consider:
 
(1)  The fact that a minor or person with a
disability is involved and the circumstances of that minor or person with a
disability.
(2)  The amount of the fee in proportion to the
value of the services performed.
(3)  The novelty and difficulty of the questions
involved and the skill required to perform the legal services properly.
(4)  The amount involved and the results obtained.
(5)  The time limitations or constraints imposed
by the representative of the minor or person with a disability or by the
circumstances.
(6)  The nature and length of the professional
relationship between the attorney and the representative of the minor or person
with a disability.
(7)  The experience, reputation, and ability of
the attorney or attorneys performing the legal services.
(8)  The time and labor required.
(9)  The informed consent of the representative of
the minor or person with a disability to the fee.
(10)  The relative sophistication of the attorney
and the representative of the minor or person with a disability.
(11)  The likelihood, if apparent to the
representative of the minor or person with a disability when the representation
agreement was made, that the attorney's acceptance of the particular employment
would preclude other employment.
(12)  Whether the fee is fixed, hourly, or
contingent.
(13)  If the fee is contingent:
(A)  The risk of loss borne by the attorney;
(B)  The amount of costs advanced by the attorney;
and
(C)  The delay in payment of fees and
reimbursement of costs paid by the attorney.
(14)  Statutory requirements for representation
agreements applicable to particular cases or claims.
(Cal. R. Ct., 7.955(b),
(c).) 
B.   
Analysis
Here, the Petition is brought pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 7.950. The
Petition is verified and submitted on required Judicial Council form MC-350.
 
The Petition seeks approval of an offer by
Defendants 2M Property Management, LLC, Realty Holdings PSJC, LLC, and Gordon
McGrath (“Settling Defendants”) to settle Claimant’s claim for $75,000.00 as
part of a $2,500,000.00 settlement to settle the entire action against Settling
Defendants. (Petition, §§ 10-11, Attachment 11b(5); see Eric E. Castelblanco
Decl., ¶ 11; see also Rocio A Zapata Rodriguez Decl., ¶¶ 5-10.) The Petition
seeks approval of $18,750.00 in attorney’s fees, or twenty-five percent (25%) of
the $75,000.00 settlement amount to Claimant (Id. at §§ 13-15; see Castelblanco Decl. at ¶ 11.) The
Petition does not request reimbursement for any litigation expenses. (Id. at § 13.) As such, after
subtracting the requested attorney’s fees, the Petition seeks approval of a net
settlement to Claimant of $56,250.00.
 
The Petition includes all the required disclosures
of attorney’s interest set forth in California Rules of Court, rule 7.951. (Id. at § 17.) As required by
California Rules of Court, rule 7.955, the Petition includes a declaration from
Plaintiffs’ counsel, Eric E. Castelblanco, addressing the factors applicable in
determining the reasonableness of the requested attorney’s fees and provides a
copy of the written attorney fee agreement. (Id. at §§ 13, 17, Attachment 17a; see id. at Attachment 17f;
Castelblanco Decl. at ¶¶ 6-9, 14.) The Court finds that the requested
attorney’s fees are reasonable. The retainer agreement provides for payment of
attorney’s fees equal to forty-five percent (45%) of any recovery obtained. (See
Attachment 17a, p. 2.)  The Petition
indicates that Plaintiffs’ counsel is representing or employed by other parties
and specifies the parties in Attachment 17e. (Id. at § 17e, Attachment 17e.)
 
The Petition indicates that Claimant has completely
recovered from the effects of the injuries described in item 6, and that there
are no permanent injuries. (Id. at § 8.)
 
The Court finds that Petition contains a full
disclosure of all information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness of
the settlement amount to Claimant and that the settlement amount to Claimant is
reasonable given Claimant’s injuries and lack of medical expenses. 
 
The Petition requests that the net proceeds be
invested in a single-premium deferred annuity, subject to withdrawal only on
authorization of the Court, (id. at § 18(b)), and specifies the terms and conditions of the annuity in
Attachment 18b(3). (Id. at Attachment 18b(3).) 
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petition is GRANTED.
 
OTHER PETITIONS
 
The Court has considered the Petitions to Confirm
Minor’s Compromise filed by counsel for minors, JuanJesus Aguilar-Zapata,
Jermaine Lamar Armstrong, Jr., and Genesis Helayne Armstrong through their
respective guardians.  
 
For all of the reasons discussed above, the Court
hereby GRANTS each of the Petitions filed by JuanJesus Aguilar-Zapata, Jermaine
Lamar Armstrong, Jr., and Genesis Helayne Armstrong.
 
The Court
signs the [Proposed] Orders Approving Compromise of Claim or Action or
Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability. 
 
 
 
 