 Case Number:  21STCV13408    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




db maple avenue, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
450 maple condominium
   owners association

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV13408




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


March
   11, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion for order appointing
  discovery referee
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff DB Maple Avenue, LLC      
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Defendants 450 Maple Condominium Owners
Association, LB Property Management, Inc., Pamela Maxwell, Susan Yeung, and
Victoria Lerman            
Motion for Order Appointing Discovery Referee
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court rules on plaintiff DB Maple Avenue, LLC’s evidentiary
objections, filed on March 4, 2024, as follows:
Objections Nos. 1, 3, and 5-10 are overruled. 
Objections Nos. 2 and 4 are sustained. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff DB Maple Avenue, LLC (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an
order appointing Hon. Howard L. Halm (Ret.) as a discovery referee in this
action (1) to monitor future depositions and (2) to adjudicate any issues that
may arise therein.  Plaintiff contends
that the appointment of a discovery referee is necessary because counsel for
defendants 450 Maple Condominium Owners Association, LB Property Management,
Inc., Pamela Maxwell, Susan Yeung, and Victoria Lerman (“Defendants”) passed a
note to and improperly coached defendant Pamela Maxwell during her deposition. 
“When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the written
motion of any party, or of its own motion, appoint a referee in the following
cases . . . [¶¶] (5) When the court in any pending action determines that it is
necessary for the court to appoint a referee to hear and determine any and all
discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery in the action and to
report findings and make a recommendation thereon.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 639, subd. (a)(5).)  
The court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that it is “necessary” to
appoint a discovery referee to monitor and adjudicate issues arising at future
depositions taken in this action.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 639, subd. (a)(5).)  Although the court recognizes that Plaintiff
has submitted evidence showing that, on one occasion, counsel for Defendants
passed a note to Maxwell during her deposition, the court finds that this
conduct does not necessitate the appointment of a discovery referee to monitor
future depositions.  (Kashfian Decl.,
¶ 19.)  The court therefore exercises
its discretion to deny Plaintiff’s motion. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 639, subd. (a)(5).) 
The Los Angeles County Bar Association has adopted “Guidelines for
Civility in Litigation,” which the Los Angeles Superior Court has adopted as
civility in litigation recommendations to members of the bar.  (Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rules, Rule
3.26, Appendix 3.A.)  The court expects
all counsel to comply with those guidelines for civility, including those
governing conduct in depositions in Appendix 3.A, section (e)(7)-(11).
 
 
 
 
 
  
ORDER
            The court denies plaintiff DB Maple
Avenue, LLC’s motion for discovery referee. 
            The court orders defendants 450
Maple Condominium Owners Association, LB Property Management, Inc., Pamela
Maxwell, Susan Yeung, and Victoria Lerman to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  March 11, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court