 Case Number:  24STCP00384    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  73 01/10/2025
Dept. 73
Rolf M. Treu, Judge
presiding
 
Lopez-Reyes v. County of Los Angeles
Department of Regional Planning (24STCP00384)
 
Counsel for Petitioner/opposing
party:  Rigoberto Lopez-Reyes (Pro Per)
Counsel for Respondent/moving
party:  Dawyn R. Harrison (Los Angeles
County Counsel)
 
Demurrer with motion to strike (filed 11/22/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Respondent’s demurrer to the Petition of Writ of Mandate is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.
 
Respondent’s motion to strike the second, third, and fourth causes of
action of the Amended Petition of Writ of Mandate is GRANTED, without leave to
amend.
 
I.                   
BACKGROUND
 
On February 6, 2024, Petitioner
Rigoberto Lopez-Reyes (“Petitioner”), in pro per, filed a petition
against Respondent County of Los Angeles Department of Regional Planning and
its director, Amy Bodek (together, “Respondent”). On July 26, 2024, Respondent
filed a demurrer to the Petition. The Court sustained Respondent’s demurrer
with leave to amend. 
 
On October 11, 2024, Petitioner
filed an Amendment to the Original Petition. In the Amend to Original Petition,
the Petitioner alleged the following causes of action against Respondent: (1)
violation of Gov. Code §65943, (2) violation of Gov. Code §§ 66031 and 65801,
(3) violation of the Business and Professions Code §§ 16700 et seq., 16720, and
16726, and (4) violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the United States Constitution. Petitioner alleges that
Respondent’s leadership violated several state laws by precluding the
construction of a housing development for homeless senior veterans by denying a
building permit.
 
On November 22, 2024, Respondent filed a
demurrer and a motion to strike portions of the Amended Petition of Writ of
Mandate. 
 
As to the demurrer, Respondent argues:
·                
The entire Amended Petition is uncertain
as to the statutory authority for relief sought.
·                
The second cause of action is uncertain,
as there are no facts alleged to support the relief sought.
·                
There are no facts alleged to constitute
a valid claim for the second, third, and fourth causes of action. 
As to the motion to strike, Respondent
argues:
·                
Petitioner added a second, third, and
fourth cause of action, beyond the scope permitted by the Court’s order
allowing leave to amend.
·                
Petitioner’s second cause of action in
an unintelligible request to order the parties to mediation.
·                
Petitioner’s request for judicial notice
must be stricken due to procedural deficiencies.
Under Civ. Code Proc. § 1005(b), any
papers opposing the demurrer were due on or before December 26, 2024. On
January 3, 2025, Respondent filed a notice of non-opposition. As of January 7,
2025, no opposition papers have been filed.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer Requirement
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)
 
On review of the declaration of Amy J. Cooper, the Court notes
that Respondent has satisfied its meet and confer obligation prior to filing
the instant motion, as Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a),
and section 435.5, subdivision (a), require meeting and conferring “in person
or by telephone.” On November 19, 2024 counsel for Respondent and Petitioner
discussed the merits of the demurrer by telephone but were unable to reach an
agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer. (Decl. of Cooper, ¶¶
3, 4.)
 
B.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).)
When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox
v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper
judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)¿¿ 
 
Respondent
demurs to the Amended Writ of Mandate Petition on the grounds that it is
uncertain and fails to state sufficient facts to support the relief requested
by Code Civ. Proc. §1094.5. (Demurrer, p. 5.) Petitioner maintains that Respondent unlawfully denied his application for proposed housing
for homeless veterans. In the Amended Write of Mandate Petition, Petitioner
reattaches the original denial letter from Respondent and related
correspondence. (Amended Writ of Mandate Petition, Exhibits A and X.) As the
Court previously ruled, the denial letter from Respondent does not provide a
basis for bringing a Writ of Mandate under CCP 1094.5. Petitioner has failed to demonstrate that an
administrative agency has rendered a final adjudication and has relied on the
same evidence presented in the initially filed Writ of Mandate Petition. (id.,
p. 6.)
 
As such, the demurrer to the Petition of Writ of Mandate is
SUSTAINED, without leave to amend.
 
C.      Legal
Standard for Motion to Strike
The Court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1)
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading;
or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the
court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).) 
1.     
Motion to
Strike Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action
 
Respondent moves
to strike the second, third, and fourth causes of action asserted in the
Amended Writ of Mandate Petition on the grounds that Petitioner has added new
causes of action beyond the scope authorized by Court order. (Notice, p. 2.)
 
“Following an order sustaining a demurrer or a motion for judgment
on the pleadings with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or her
complaint only as authorized by the court’s order.  [Citation.]  The
plaintiff may not amend the complaint to add a new cause of action without
having obtained permission to do so, unless the new cause of action is within
the scope of the order granting leave to amend.”  (Harris v. Wachovia
Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.
 
The Court’s October 4, 2024, order on Respondent’s
demurrer granted Petitioner leave to amend the Petition of Writ of Mandate. (See
10/4/2024 Min. Order.) Petitioner must obtain permission before adding
new causes of action against defendants.  (See Leader v. Health
Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 613 [“After
expiration of the time in which a pleading can be amended as a matter of
course, the pleading can only be amended by obtaining the permission of the
court.”].) 
 
Petitioner may amend his petition only as
authorized by the Court’s order and may not amend the complaint to add a new
cause of action without having obtained permission to do so. Petitioner has not
requested permission to add new causes of action beyond the state law claims
initially alleged pursuant to Title 7 chapter 4.3
section 65915(a)(1), 65915(d)(1) and 65915(e)(1) in the original petition.
 
Accordingly, the
Court GRANTS Respondent’s motion to strike to the Amended Petition of Writ’s
second, third, and fourth causes of action.
 
2.     
Motion to Strike Petitioner’s Request for
Mediation
 
Respondent demurs to the second cause of action
as an unintelligible request for mediation. (Demurrer, p. 3.) Petitioner cites
Chapter 9.3, Section 66031, subdivision (a) for the proposition that all legal
challenges relating to development projects (including denials) are not subject
to demurrer because they are subject to mediation. (Amended Petition of Writ,
p. 5.) Given that the second cause of action was improperly raised in this
amendment, the request for mediation is rendered moot.
 
The Court renders Respondent’s motion to strike
the second cause of action of the Amended Petition of Writ as moot.
 
3.     
Motion to Strike Petitioner’s Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Respondent also moves to strike Petitioner’s
request for judicial notice, on the grounds that its form and substance fail to
conform with State law or with the Rules of Court because Petitioner submits a
declaration that fails to cite an Evidence Code section and fails to describe
the documents to be noticed. (Motion, p. 6.)
 
The Court only takes judicial
notice as to “the existence, content and authenticity of public records and
other specified documents” under Evidence Code section 452(d); it does not take
judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents.
(Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 389, 400.) A request for judicial notice can be stricken if it is not
accompanied by certified copies of the documents to be noticed. In People v.
Preslie, the court struck the request for judicial notice because it was
not accompanied by certified copies of the documents desired to be noticed (People
v. Preslie, (1977) 70 Cal.App.3d 486.)
 
Citing Evidence Code sections 452(d) and (h), Petitioner
requests the Court to take judicial notice of certain subsections of Title 22
of the Los Angeles County Ordinance. Petitioner cites sections 22.226.040 and
22.160.10, and includes arguments, which are improperly included.
 

III. DISPOSITION
 
              The demurrer to the Amended Petition of the Writ of
Mandate is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
The motion to strike the second, third, and
fourth causes of action alleged in the Amended Petition of Writ is GRANTED
without leave to amend.
 
              The motion to strike Petitioner’s second cause of
action is MOOT.
 
              The motion to strike Petitioner’s Request for Judicial
Notice is GRANTED.
 
              