 Case Number:  24STCV16819    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  73 1/10/2025
Dept. 73 
Hon.
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
KEISHA MOREHEAD D.D.S. v. LAW OFFICE
OF GREGORY J RAMIREZ (24STCV16819)
 
Counsel for Defendant/moving
party:  Gregory J. Ramirez (Law Office of
Gregory J. Ramirez)
Counsel for Plaintiff/
opposing party: N/A
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE and
FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant’s
unopposed Motion to Change Venue is GRANTED. Venue is improper in Los Angeles
County. Proper venue lies in Ventura County.
 
Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Pursuant to CCP § 399(a), Plaintiff is liable for the
fees and costs of transferring the action.
Matter is ordered transferred to said county upon payment of the transfer fee
in the sum of $50.00 payable to the Los Angeles Superior Court and the
submission of a separate check for the filing fee payable to Ventura County
Superior Court, within 30 days by Plaintiff in the Clerk's Office at the Los
Angeles Superior Court. 
 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of the court’s order
and file a proof of service of such.  
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On July 8, 2024, Plaintiff Keisha Morehead brought this action against
Defendant Gregory Ramirez, alleging a cause of action for legal malpractice. 
The complaint alleges that in May of 2021, Defendant
undertook to provide legal services for Plaintiff in connection with a case.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant committed malpractice and breached fiduciary
duties by failing to explain that a countersuit could be filed, and depositions
should be taken to strengthen the defense in her case, among other things.
Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant falsely claimed to no longer be
Plaintiff’s attorney, without proper pre-trial evidence gathering, excluded the
option of a trial and forced Plaintiff into a costly settlement.
On October 9, 2024, Defendant filed this Motion to Change Venue. Defendant also seeks
monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
On timely motion, the court must order a transfer of
an action “when the court designated in the complaint is not the proper court.”
(CCP §§ 397(a), 396b.) The burden is on the moving party to establish that the
plaintiff's venue selection is not proper. (Fontaine v. Sup.Ct. (Cashcall,
Inc.) (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, 836.) 
As a general rule, “the superior court in the county
where the defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the action
is the proper court for the trial of the action.” (CCP § 395(a); see also Kaluzok
v. Brisson (1946) 27 Cal.2d 760, 763 (“The right of a defendant to have an
action brought against him tried in the county of his residence is an ancient
and valuable right, safeguarded by statute and supported by a long line of
decisions. The right of a plaintiff to have an action tried in a county other
than that of the defendant's residence is exceptional.”).)
However, this “general rule” of venue has effect only
when no other venue provision applies. When there is a more specific venue
statute, the general rule is subordinated. (Brown v. Sup.Ct. (C.C.
Myers, Inc.) (1984) 37 Cal.3d 477, 483.) 
CCP § 395(a) provides in part: 
Subject
to subdivision (b), if a defendant has contracted to perform an obligation in a
particular county, the superior court in the county where the obligation is to
be performed, where the contract in fact was entered into, or where the
defendant or any defendant resides at the commencement of the action is a
proper court for the trial of an action founded on that obligation, and the
county where the obligation is incurred is the county where it is to be
performed, unless there is a special contract in writing to the contrary.
“[T]he county in which such obligation is incurred
shall be deemed to be the county in which it is to be performed.” (Armstrong
v. Smith (1942) 49 Cal.App.2d 528.)
B.      Discussion
 
Defendant moves to transfer the case to Ventura
County, arguing venue in Los Angeles County is improper as he lives in Ventura
County, and his law practice is in Ventura County. (Ramirez Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s venue selection of Los
Angeles County is improper.
Attorneys’
Fees and Costs 
Pursuant to CCP § 396b, “the court may order the
payment to the prevailing party of reasonable expenses and attorney's fees
incurred in making or resisting the motion to transfer.” (CCP §396b(b).) “In
determining whether such order for expenses and fees shall be made, the court
shall take into consideration (1) whether an offer to stipulate to change of
venue was reasonably made and rejected, and (2) whether such motion or
selection of venue was made in good faith given the facts and law the party
making the motion or selecting the venue knew or should have known.” (Mission
Imports, Inc. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 921, 931-932.) 
Here, although Defendant’s counsel contacted Plaintiff
about stipulating to transfer the case to Ventura County, there is no
indication that Plaintiff’s venue selection was made in bad faith. Plaintiff may have
believed venue was proper because it appears the underlying case at issue was
in Los Angeles. However, as Defendant’s law firm is in Ventura County, the
county where the obligation was incurred, this county would be deemed the
county in which the obligation is performed. (Armstrong, supra, 49
Cal.App.2d 528.)
Accordingly,
the court denies attorneys’ fees. Nevertheless, pursuant to CCP § 399(a),
Plaintiff is liable for the fees and costs of transferring the action.
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s unopposed Motion to Change Venue is GRANTED. Venue is improper in
Los Angeles County. Proper venue lies in Ventura County.
 
Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Pursuant
to CCP § 399(a), Plaintiff is liable for the fees and costs of transferring the
action.
Matter is ordered transferred to said county upon payment of the transfer fee
in the sum of $50.00 payable to the Los Angeles Superior Court and the
submission of a separate check for the filing fee payable to Ventura County
Superior Court, within 30 days by Plaintiff in the Clerk's Office at the Los
Angeles Superior Court. 
 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of the court’s
order and file a proof of service of such.  