 Case Number:  21STCV21454    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel the Neuropsychological Examination of
Plaintiff filed by Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.
 
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
This case arises out of an automobile accident on August 26, 2019,
near the intersection of Babcock Avenue and Kittridge Street in Los Angeles.
On June 8, 2021, Plaintiff Dominique Johnston (“Plaintiff”) filed
her complaint against John Fitzgerald Gomillion (“Gomillion”), Uber
Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), and Does 1 through 20 asserting causes of action
for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence.  Uber and
Gomillion filed their answers on January 3 and January 11, 2022.
On February 22, 2024, Uber filed this motion to compel
the neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff.  Plaintiff filed an opposition on March 1,
2024.  Defendant filed a reply on March
8, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
“Any party
may obtain discovery . . . by means of a physical or mental examination of (1) a
party to the action, (2) an agent of any party, or (3) a natural person in the
custody or under the legal control of a party, in any action in which the
mental or physical condition (including the blood group) of that party or other
person is in controversy in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
In a
personal injury case, a defendant may generally notice, without leave of the
court, one physical examination of the plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.)  If a defendant seeks a mental examination (or
more than one physical examination), the defendant must first file a motion and
“obtain leave of court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a
motion must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of
the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the
person or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) 
The
court may grant a motion for a mental examination of a plaintiff “only for good
cause shown.” (Id., § 2032.320, subd. (a).) The examination will be
limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Ibid.) 
A showing of good cause generally requires “that the party produce specific
facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject
matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833,
840.)  By alleging a causal link between
the emotional distress and the defendant's conduct, a plaintiff “implicitly
claims it was not caused by a preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the
question of alternative sources for the distress.”  (Ibid.) 
A
mental examination is appropriate only if the plaintiff alleges continuing
emotional distress. (Doyle v. Super. Ct. ¿(1996) 50
Cal.App.4th¿1878, 1886-1887.)  “While a plaintiff may place his mental
state in controversy by a general allegation of severe emotional distress, the
opposing party may not require him to undergo psychiatric testing solely on the
basis of speculation that something of interest may surface.”  (Vinson,¿supra,
43 Cal.3d at p. 840.) 
“An
order granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or
persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner,
diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (d).) “The
court is to describe¿in detail¿who will conduct the examination, where
and when it will be conducted, the conditions, scope and nature of the
examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be employed.  The
way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in
detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)¿¿ 
The
moving party¿must support the motion with a meet and confer declaration. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A meet and confer declaration
must state facts “showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”¿ (Id., §
2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ 
A court
shall not (except under “exceptional circumstances”) order a mental examination
if the plaintiff stipulates (1) “that no claim is being made for mental and
emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the physical
injuries claimed” and (2) “that no expert testimony regarding this usual mental
and emotional distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for
damages.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (b) & (c).)
Discussion
Uber argues that there is good cause for a
mental examination of Plaintiff, as she has placed her mental health in issue
by complaining of difficulties with memory, difficulties with multitasking,
changes of personality, impairment of ability to work, vision issues, and
insomnia.  (Mem. at p. 4:4-17; see also
Kalechstein Decl., ¶ 7.)  
What is missing from Uber’s motion, however,
is any specific indication of the scope of the examination and what diagnostic
tests and procedures the examiner, Dr. Dylan G. Harwood, will administer.  Uber’s motion is silent on this issue, as is
the proposed order and the supporting declaration from Dr. Ari Kalechstein.  Uber does not submit a supporting declaration
from Dr. Harwood.  Uber’s memorandum states
that Dr. Harwood will perform a clinic interview and testing.  (Mem., at p. 7:17-8:3.)  As to the testing itself, Uber states:
Plaintiff also will be administered a battery
of neuropsychological tests. The tests are considered to be valid and reliable
measures of cognition and emotion, and will assess the following domains: intellectual
function, attention/information processing speed, language/academic
achievement, visuospatial skills, motoric function, memory for auditory and/or
visual information, executive/frontal function, and/or personality/emotional
functioning.
(Id. at p. 7:26-8:2.)
This is far too general to support
the order that Uber seeks.  The statute
requires that the order must “specify the … diagnostic tests and procedures,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2032.320, subd. (d).)  The Court of Appeal has explained that this
means that the order must “describe¿in detail,” among other things,¿“the
conditions, scope and nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and
procedures to be employed.”  (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)  “The way to
describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in detail—is
to list them by name.” (Ibid.)¿
The closest that Uber comes to providing
the necessary information is buried deep in the record, in Exhibit 4 to the
declaration of counsel.  But even this
Exhibit 4 – which is a facially invalid “notice” of a mental examination, in
clear violation of Code of Civil Procedure section § 2032.310, subdivision
(a) – lists (on pages three, four, and five) 28 “possible tests” that Dr.
Harwood might administer.  There is no
indication of which tests she will administer, or plans to administer, and,
equally troubling, Uber provides no explanation anywhere, whether in Exhibit 4
or elsewhere in its moving papers, regarding what these tests are or why they
are appropriately administered in this matter to this Plaintiff to address the
mental health issues that (Uber contends) Plaintiff has placed in issue.
Accordingly, the Court finds that Uber has
failed to provide sufficient evidence to support its motion for an order authorizing
a mental examination of Plaintiff.  The
motion is denied. 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion for an
order for a mental examination of Plaintiff.
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.
 