 Case Number:  22STCV06786    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendants’ Motion for Leave for Mental Examination of Plaintiff
 
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
On February 24, 2022, Plaintiff Molly Jean Sliwoski filed a complaint
against Defendant Extended Stay America, Inc.; ESA P Porfolio
Operating Lessee, LLC (“ESAP”); and Does 1 through 100, asserting causes of
action for negligence and premises liability.  Plaintiff alleges that on September 29, 2020, while
Plaintiff was visiting a guest at Defendant’s premises, she sat on a bench, the
bench collapsed, and she sustained injuries as a result.
On March 20, 2022, Defendant filed its answer.
On July 21, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name ESH
Hospitality, Inc., as Doe 1.
On September 19, 2022, Defendant ESA Management, LLC (“ESAM”),
erroneously sued as Extended Stay America, Inc. and ESH Hospitality, Inc.,
filed its answer.
On June 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  On June 16, 2023, ESAP and ESAM (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed an answer to the FAC. 
On December 20, 2023, Defendants filed this motion for leave to conduct a mental examination
of Plaintiff.  Defendants also seek
sanctions.  Plaintiff filed her
opposition on March 4, 2024, along with her own request for sanctions.  Defendants filed their reply on March 8, 2024.
Legal Standard
“Any party
may obtain discovery . . . by means of a physical or mental examination of (1)
a party to the action, (2) an agent of any party, or (3) a natural person in
the custody or under the legal control of a party, in any action in which the
mental or physical condition (including the blood group) of that party or other
person is in controversy in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
In a
personal injury case, a defendant may generally notice, without leave of the
court, one physical examination of the plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.)  If a defendant seeks a mental examination (or
more than one physical examination), the defendant must first file a motion and
“obtain leave of court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a
motion must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of
the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the
person or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) 
The
court may grant a motion for a mental examination of a plaintiff “only for good
cause shown.” (Id., § 2032.320, subd. (a).) The examination will be
limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Ibid.) 
A showing of good cause generally requires “that the party produce specific
facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject
matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833,
840.)  By alleging a causal link between
the emotional distress and the defendant's conduct, a plaintiff “implicitly
claims it was not caused by a preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the
question of alternative sources for the distress.”  (Ibid.) 
A
mental examination is appropriate only if the plaintiff alleges continuing
emotional distress. (Doyle v. Super. Ct. ¿(1996) 50
Cal.App.4th¿1878, 1886-1887.)  “While a plaintiff may place his mental
state in controversy by a general allegation of severe emotional distress, the
opposing party may not require him to undergo psychiatric testing solely on the
basis of speculation that something of interest may surface.”  (Vinson,¿supra,
43 Cal.3d at p. 840.) 
“An
order granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or
persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner,
diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (d).) “The
court is to describe¿in detail¿who will conduct the examination, where
and when it will be conducted, the conditions, scope and nature of the
examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be employed.  The
way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in
detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)¿¿ 
The
moving party¿must support the motion with a meet and confer declaration. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A meet and confer declaration
must state facts “showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”¿ (Id., §
2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ 
A court
shall not (except under “exceptional circumstances”) order a mental examination
if the plaintiff stipulates (1) “that no claim is being made for mental and
emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the physical
injuries claimed” and (2) “that no expert testimony regarding this usual mental
and emotional distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for
damages.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (b) & (c).)
Discussion
Defendants contend that Plaintiff seeks to
recover for mental health injuries arising from the incident, including
depression, anxiety, anger, frustration, hopelessness, emotional instability,
and a heightened risk of suicide.  (Gibbs
Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)
On May 6, 2023, Defendants noticed a mental
examination of Plaintiff with Dr. Dale Sherman, a neuropsychologist.  (Id., ¶ 6.) 
This was improper, as a prior court order is required, but counsel met
and conferred and reached a stipulated agreement for the examination to proceed
without a court order.  (Farahi Decl., ¶
3 & Exh. A.)  Pursuant to the stipulation,
the parties agreed that the examination would be for a duration of eight hours;
that it was to take place over two days (July 12 and August 2, 2023); that Dr.
Sherman would conduct a clinical interview and administer “some of” 30
enumerated and identified tests; and that various other conditions would apply
to the examination, testing, and test data. 
(Farahi Decl., Exh. A.) 
Defendants were required to transmit the stipulation to Dr. Sherman and direct
the examiner to comply with its terms.  (Id.,
¶ 10.)
What happened next is subject to some
dispute.  Defendants characterize the
events in their briefing and generally blame Plaintiff, but notably they
present no evidence to support their account. 
Plaintiff presents written testimony from an eyewitness, Vanessa Cabral,
RN, a nurse who was assigned to be the nurse observer during the
examination.  (Farahi Decl., Exh. D. [“Cabral
Decl.”], ¶ 2.)  Ms. Cabral testifies that
shortly after Plaintiff appeared for the testing, Dr. Sherman told her that he
had not received a copy of the stipulation. 
(Id., ¶¶ 3-4.)  Dr. Sherman
proceeded to begin the examination and conduct testing, but after less than one
hour Dr. Sherman stated that he did not agree with the terms of the stipulation
and he terminated the examination.  (Id.,
¶¶ 6-7.)
Despite Defendants’ arguments to the contrary,
the only facts in the record indicate that Plaintiff cooperated fully with Dr.
Sherman, that Plaintiff performed her obligations under the stipulation, and Defendants
did not.
Counsel met and conferred further but could
not reach any further agreement on the mental examination of Plaintiff.  (Gibbs Decl., ¶¶ 7-8; Farahi Decl., ¶ 8 &
Exh. F.)
Defendants now move for an order granting
them leave to conduct a mental examination of Plaintiff.  As the moving parties, they are required to
set forth, in their motion, “the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and
nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any,
of the person or persons who will perform the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310,
subd. (b).) 
Defendants have not done so.  They say that the examination should take
place within 30 days, and they state that the examiner will be a neuropsychologist,
but they do not state the identity of the examiner or the place of the
examination.  (Notice of Motion, at p.
2:6; Memorandum, at p. 4:22, p. 6:21-23.) 
Defendants describe the scope and nature of the examination in general
terms but fail to identify the tests that will be administered, other than
offering a list of tests and saying that the unnamed examiner will administer “some
or all” of them.  (Memorandum at p. 7:13-8:23.)  Defendants then propose certain conditions
for the examination, at least one of which (limited recording) is directly
contrary to California law.  (Id.
at p. 8:27-10:4.)
Defendants attempt to remedy some of
these deficiencies in their reply, but the Court will not consider new evidence
presented in the reply. 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to compel is DENIED.
Defendants’ request for sanctions is DENIED.  Defendants have not shown any misuse of the
discovery process or other misconduct by Plaintiff or her counsel.
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.  The only statutory authority cited by
Plaintiff is Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030, but that statute does not provide an independent basis to award
sanctions; to the contrary, the statute expressly states that a sanctions award
must be “authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method or
any other provision of this title.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) 
The Court of Appeal, in an opinion by Justice Moor, recently made this
very point in City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022)
84 Cal.App.5th 466, 504 (“sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 do not independently
authorize the trial court to impose monetary sanctions for misuse of discovery
… without regard to any other provision of the Discovery Act”).  The Court is aware that the California
Supreme Court has granted review of the City of Los Angeles case, but the Court
notes that the order granting review, filed on January 25, 2023, states that
pending review, the appellate opinion “may be cited,” including “for its
persuasive value.”  The Court finds the
reasoning of Justice Moor to be persuasive.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion for leave
to conduct a mental examination of Plaintiff.
The Court DENIES both parties’ requests for
sanctions.
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.
 