 Case Number:  21STCV29691    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike the
Answer/Appearance of Damco Distribution and Maersk, Inc.
 
Tentative
 
The motion to strike is denied.
 
Background
This case arises out of a workplace
accident on or about April 30, 2019. On August 11, 2021, Plaintiff Eduardo Hernandez
(“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint in this action asserting causes of action for
negligence, negligence per se, and premises liability against Simplified Labor
Staffing Solutions, Inc.; Maersk, SG; Maersk, Inc.; Maersk Line Limited; Maersk
Agency, Inc.; and Does 1 through 100.
On August 11, 2022, Maersk, Inc.; Maersk
Agency U.S.A., Inc. (erroneously sued as Maersk Agency, Inc.); and Maersk Line,
Limited (erroneously sued as Maersk Line Limited) each filed an answer to the
complaint.
On August 22, 2022, Simplified Labor
Staffing Solutions, Inc. (“SLSS”) filed a demurrer. After the Court overruled
the demurrer, SLSSS filed its answer on September 26, 2023.
On October 12, 2023, Plaintiff named Damco
Distribution Services, Inc. as Doe 1. 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff named Hudd
Distribution Services, Inc. as Doe 2; Maersk Distribution Services, Inc. as Doe
3; and Maersk Warehousing & Distribution Services USA LLC as Doe 4. 
On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff requested
dismissal of the claims in the complaint against SLSS.
Currently before the Court, and set for
hearing on March 15, is a motion to strike the answer or appearances of Damco
Distribution and Maersk, Inc. filed by Plaintiff on February 20, 2024. Plaintiff
also requests sanctions. Defendants Maersk, Inc. and Damco Distributions
Services, Inc. filed their opposition, along with their own request for
sanctions, on March 4. Plaintiff filed a reply on March 8, 2024.
Initial Procedural
Matter
Plaintiff’s moving and reply
papers do not comply with California Rules of Court, rule 2.108. Subdivision 4
of that rule requires that each page of a document submitted to the court must
have line numbers at the left margin that “must be aligned with a line of type.”
Here, Plaintiff has line numbers 1-28, but each number does not align with a
line of type, and in fact some of the pages have 32 lines of type.
The Court will exercise its discretion
to consider Plaintiff’s papers but directs counsel to comply with the formatting
requirements of the California Rules of Court for all future documents filed in
this matter.
Legal Standard
The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or
at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out
all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws
of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.)
“Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file
a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).)

The right of a domestic or foreign corporation to engage in
business in California may be suspended or forfeited if the corporation fails to
file a tax return, fails to pay its taxes, or fails to submit certain required
filings. (Rev. & Tax. Code, §§ 23301, 23301.5; Corps. Code, § 2205.) A
suspended corporation lacks the capacity to initiate, prosecute, or defend
litigation. (E.g., Palm Valley Homeowners Ass’n v. Design MTC (2000) 85
Cal.App.4tha 553, 560; see also 1 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (2023), ¶ 2:90.) 
A foreign corporation may voluntarily
surrender the right to engage in business in California. Corporations Code
section 2112 It provides:
“(a) Subject to Section 2113, a foreign
corporation which has qualified to transact intrastate business may surrender
its right to engage in that business within this state by filing a certificate
of surrender signed by a corporate officer or, in the case of a foreign
association that has no officers, signed by a trustee stating:
(1) The name of the corporation as shown on
the records of the Secretary of State, and the state or place of incorporation
or organization.
(2) That it
revokes its designation of agent for service of process.
(3) That it
surrenders its authority to transact intrastate business.
(4) That it consents that process against
it in any action upon any liability or obligation incurred within this state
before the filing of the certificate of surrender may be served upon the
Secretary of State.
(5) A post office address to which the
Secretary of State may mail a copy of any process against the corporation that
is served upon the Secretary of State, which address or the name to which the
process should be sent may be changed from time to time by filing a statement
signed by a corporate officer or, in the case of a foreign association that has
no officers, signed by a trustee stating the new address or name or both.
(6) Except in the case of a foreign
association, that a final franchise tax return, as described by Section 23332
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, has been or will be filed with the Franchise
Tax Board, as required under Part 10.2 (commencing with Section 18401) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
(b) The Secretary of State shall notify the
Franchise Tax Board of the surrender.”
 
(Corp. Code § 2112.) 
 
Discussion
As
set forth in the Notice of Motion and Motion, Plaintiff challenges the legal
capacity of two corporate defendants, Maersk, Inc. (“Maersk”) and Damco Distribution,
Inc., to defend themselves in this action.
 
Maersk
was one of the named defendants in the complaint as initially filed. Maersk
appeared and filed an answer on August 11, 2022.
 
There is no party in this action named “Damco
Distribution” or “Damco Distribution, Inc.” 
On October 12, 2023, Plaintiff named Damco Distribution Services, Inc. (“DDS”)
as Doe 1. DDS appeared and filed a motion to dismiss on January 17, 2024, for
delay in service. That motion was heard on March 5 and is under submission. The
Court understands the motion to challenge the capacity of DDS, and apparently
Defendants’ counsel shares that understanding, as counsel filed an opposition to
this motion of behalf of Maersk and DDS.
Turning
to the merits, both Maersk and DDS are foreign corporations. Maersk filed a
certification of surrender in February 2023, and DDS filed a certificate of surrender
in April 2023. (McElfish Decl., Exhs. F(iv) & G(v).)
 
Plaintiff
argues that surrendered corporations, like Maersk and DDS, lack the capacity to
initiate, prosecute, or defend in civil litigation. Plaintiff argues, in
effect, (1) suspended corporations may not initiate, prosecute, or defend cases
(e.g., Palm Valley Homeowners Ass’n, supra); and (2) there is no reason
to treat surrendered corporations different than suspended corporations.
 
But there is. Suspended
corporations have violated their obligations under the law, often by failing to
make required corporate filings or by failing to pay their taxes. Attaching
negative consequences to such violations is appropriate. Surrendered
corporations, in contrast, have done nothing wrong. Surrendered corporations have
followed all requirements of the law and are simply no longer doing business in
the state (here, because of mergers). There is no reason to attach negative
consequences to the foreign corporations in these circumstances.
 
Moreover,
the rule suggested by Plaintiff would have all sorts of unintended and undesirable
consequences. Under Plaintiff’s proposed rule, every time a merger occurred,
the non-surviving corporate entities would be unable to defend themselves and
would therefore be subject to a default judgment in any pending or subsequently
filed litigation. (Surrendered corporations may be easily served with process
through the Office of the Secretary of State. (Corps. Code, § 2114, subd. (b).))
Plaintiff cites no authority to support such a draconian result, and there is
nothing to recommend it in any public policy of which the Court is aware. Mergers
are not disfavored transactions, and there is no reason to impose such extraordinary
consequences on entities that choose to combine through an otherwise lawful
merger agreement.
 
Accordingly,
the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to strike.
 
The
Court has also considered and DENIES each party’s request for sanctions.   
 
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to strike
the answer/appearance of Damco Distribution and Maersk, Inc.
 
The
Court DENIES both parties’ requests for sanctions.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice.
 