  Case Number:  21STCV42411    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  52 Plaintiffs Gerald Meehan and Lois
Meehan’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction
            Plaintiffs
Gerald Meehan and Lois Meehan move for a preliminary injunction prohibiting
defendants Gratitude Recovery, LLC, Kelly Seidlitz, Annette Seidlitz, Pacific
Horizon Holdings, LLC, Royal Crest Sands Asset Group, LLC, Artha Ng, LLC, and
Cliffside Malibu 1 from doing various acts on plaintiffs’ property at 5473
Horizon Drive, Malibu, California.  
Requests for Judicial Notice
            Plaintiffs
request judicial notice of the judgment entered in Pacific Horizon Holdings,
LLC, v. Scott A. Meehan, et al., case No. 20SMCV00786 (“Judgment”).  The request is granted.
            Defendants
Pacific Horizon Holdings, LLC, Royal Crest Sands Asset Group, LLC, Artha
Ng, LLC, and Cliffside Malibu 1 request judicial notice of a printout from the
City of Malibu’s website regarding waste management.  (Varozian Decl., Ex. A.)  The request is granted.
Evidentiary Objections
            Defendants
make six objections to the declaration of Gerald Meehan.  All six objections are overruled. 
Defendants
make three objections to the declaration of Scott A. Meehan.  All three objections are overruled.
Plaintiffs
make 12 objections to defendants’ evidence. 
All 12 objections are overruled.
Background
            Plaintiffs
own property at 5473 Horizon Drive, Malibu, California.  The various defendants own, occupy, possess,
or otherwise use the property directly to the south at 5480 Horizon Drive, also
known as Lot 9.  Pursuant to CC&Rs declared
in 1994, the owners of Lot 9 have an easement over Horizon Drive for "the
ingress and egress of vehicles, for the passage and accommodation of
pedestrians, and for the ingress and egress of construction, repair, service
and maintenance vehicles/or equipment.” 
(Judgment, pp. 2-3.)   
On
September 20, 2023, the court entered a judgment in Pacific Horizon
Holdings, LLC, v. Scott A. Meehan, et al., case No. 20SMCV00786.  That judgment provides, “3. On the Third
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief, the owners of Lot 9 have an express
easement over Horizon Drive as set forth in the 1994 CC&Rs, including the
unpaved strip of land, for the purpose of ingress and egress to Lot 9 only.  Any other use is not within the express
easement and is not necessarily incident to its terms.  4. The easement grants plaintiff Pacific
Horizon Holdings, LLC, owner of Lot 9, permission only for ingress and egress
to Lot 9.”  (Judgment, p. 3.)  The judgment further states, “To the extent
that passage over the unpaved portion of Horizon Drive is necessary to complete
ingress and egress to Lot 9, it is part of the easement.  Any other use of the unpaved portion, such as
storing garbage cans, mounting a mailbox or landscaping, is not part of the
road easement set forth in the 1994 CC&Rs.” 
(Ibid.)
Legal Standard for Preliminary
Injunction
“In
deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction, a court must weigh two ‘interrelated’
factors: (1) the likelihood that the moving party will ultimately prevail
on the merits and (2) the relative interim harm to the parties from issuance or
nonissuance of the injunction.”  (Butt
v. State of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 677–678 (Butt).)  The second factor concerns “the
comparative consequences of the issuance and nonissuance of the
injunction” before trial.  (Common
Cause v. Board of Supervisors (1989) 49 Cal.3d 432, 442 (Common
Cause).)  “The trial court’s
determination must be guided by a ‘mix’ of the potential-merit and interim-harm
factors; the greater the plaintiff's showing on one, the less must be shown on
the other to support an injunction.”  (Butt,
supra, 4 Cal.4th at p. 678.)  
Likelihood of Prevailing
Plaintiffs
show a strong likelihood of prevailing on their cause of action against
defendants for trespass.  “The elements
of trespass are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or control of the property; (2)
the defendant’s intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto the property;
(3) lack of permission for the entry or acts in excess of permission; (4) harm;
and (5) the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the
harm.”  (Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory
Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262.)
It is
undisputed that plaintiffs own the subject property.  Defendants have only the express easement
over it as described in the judgment in Pacific Horizon Holdings, LLC, v.
Scott A. Meehan, et al., case No. 20SMCV00786.  Plaintiffs present sufficient evidence that
defendants have intentionally entered the property in manners exceeding the
scope of that easement.  Plaintiff Gerald
Meehan owns and resides at 5473 Horizon Drive. 
(G. Meehan Decl., ¶ 2.)  He states
that the owners or occupants of Lot 9 place their garbage cans on plaintiffs’
property south of Horizon Drive.  (Id.,
¶ 5, Exs. 3, 5, 6.)  Gerald Meehan
further testifies that “a laborer” working for defendants “removed plants from
Plaintiffs’ Property to fit garbage cans.” 
(Id., ¶ 5, Ex. 3.) 
Finally, he testifies that residents of Lot 9 sometimes “will park on
the Driveway,” that “water bottles [were] left on Plaintiffs’ Property for
approximately one week,” and “defendants’ mailbox is still on Plaintiffs’
Property.”  (Id., ¶ 6, Exs. 7, 10.)  
            Defendants provide minimal evidence
in rebuttal.  They argue plaintiffs’
evidence is speculative.  Plaintiffs’
evidence may not be conclusive on some issues, such as whose vehicles were
parked on the property, but their evidence is more than speculative.  Defendants primarily argue that plaintiffs’
evidence does not establish trespass because their conduct is within the scope
of their easement.  It is not.    
Regarding their mailbox, defendants assert they did
not “mount” it because it has been there since before they acquired the
property.  (Opp., p. 12; Varozian Decl.,
Ex. B, p. 92.)  The issue is not how the
mailbox came to be there.  It is whether
defendants have a right to use their easement over plaintiffs’ property for the
purpose of having a mailbox there.  They
do not.  As discussed above, they have an
easement limited to ingress and egress. 
Receiving mail or deliveries is not a necessary incident of ingress and
egress.  The postal service and others
making deliveries can use the easement to enter defendants’ property to deliver
mail to a mailbox on defendants’ property. 
Defendants’ opposition also quibbles over the
meaning of the word “store” or “storing” as applied to trash bins.  They argue they “store” their trash bins
inside their property, but “place” the bins in front of Horizon Drive to allow
garbage trucks to collect trash.  That
amounts to temporarily “storing” the bins on plaintiffs’ property.  But even if not, placing trash bins on
plaintiffs’ property is not for the purpose of “ingress or egress” and is
therefore exceeds the scope of their easement.
Balance of Hardships
The balance of hardships moderately favors
plaintiffs.  “ ‘ “A trespass of a
continuing nature, whose constant recurrence renders the remedy at law
inadequate, unless by a multiplicity of suits, affords sufficient ground for
relief by injunction.” ’ ”  (Donahue
Schriber Realty Group, Inc. v. Nu Creation Outreach (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
1171, 1184.)  Continuing to suffer from
repeated trespasses, including defendants’ use of the easement to place their
trash bins and to receive mail and deliveries, constitutes meaningful harm.   
Defendants will also suffer interim hardship.  Plaintiffs’ own evidence also supports
defendants’ argument.  The alternative to
having defendants’ mailbox and trash bins on Horizon Drive is having them on
Cuthbert Road, south of defendant’s property. 
Plaintiffs acknowledge this in arguing defendants had “notice and
opportunity to move their mailbox and trash service to Cuthbert Road.”  (Motion, p. 6.)  The structure on defendants’ property is both
far from and uphill of Cuthbert Road. 
(S. Meehan Decl., Exs. B & C; Batzri Decl., ¶ 9.)  Complying with this preliminary injunction
will significantly inconvenience defendants. 

            In arguing defendants will suffer no
interim harm, plaintiffs partially conflate the two factors for preliminary
injunctions.  They argue defendants will
suffer no interim hardship in part because they have no right to do the things
enjoined.  (Reply, p. 9.)  The interim hardship will be having to comply
with the preliminary injunction if plaintiffs do not prevail on the merits at
trial—i.e., assuming defendants have the right to do those things.  
Plaintiffs show a strong likelihood of prevailing on
the merits.  The balance of hardships
moderately favors them.  A preliminary
injunction is appropriate.      
Undertaking
            Defendants argue that, if the court
grants an injunction, it court should require plaintiffs to post an undertaking
of at least $50,000.  “On granting an
injunction, the court or judge must require an undertaking on the part of the
applicant to the effect that the applicant will pay to the party enjoined any
damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified, the party may sustain by
reason of the injunction, if the court finally decides that the applicant was
not entitled to the injunction.”  (CCP §
529(a).)  “[T]he trial court’s function
is to estimate the harmful effect which the injunction is likely to have on the
restrained party, and to set the undertaking at that sum.”  (Abba Rubber Co. v. Seaquist (1991)
235 Cal.App.3d 1, 14 (Abba Rubber).)
Defendants identify only one form of damages they
may sustain by reason of the injunction: attorney’s fees.  “[T]he undertaking must take into account”
damages in the form of “ ‘reasonable counsel fees and expenses incurred in
successfully procuring a final decision dissolving the injunction are
recoverable as “damages” within the meaning of the language of the undertaking,
to the extent that those fees are for services that relate to such
dissolution.’ ”  (Abba Rubber, supra, 235
Cal.App.3d at p. 15.)  
Defendants provide inadequate evidence that those attorney
fees and expenses will cost $50,000.  Their
sole evidence is a conclusory statement by Gal Batzri: “I estimate that, at the
minimum, Defendants will incur at least $50,000 in costs associated with having
to comply with the injunction and to afford the cost of legal defense through
trial.”  (Batzri Decl., ¶ 12.)  Defendants provide no evidence of the hourly
rates and number of hours of attorney fees they expect to incur.  Moreover, they present no reasonable way of allocating
attorney fees through trial to the injunction, as opposed to fees incurred defending
this action in general.  But it is
probable they will incur some attorney fees attributable to the injunction.
Defendants will also suffer significant
inconvenience as discussed above.  That
inconvenience is difficult to quantify in money damages, and defendants provide
no evidence of how to do so.  
The court exercises its discretion to set the amount
of the undertaking at $5,000. 
Disposition
            Plaintiffs Gerald Meehan
and Lois Meehan’s motion for preliminary injunction is granted.  Under Code of Civil Procedure section 529, the
court hereby requires plaintiffs to post an undertaking of $5,000 before
the preliminary injunction will take effect. 

The
court will sign plaintiffs’ proposed order enjoining defendants from (1) removing,
altering, cutting, or placing any object upon, any landscaping/hardscaping from
the property commonly known as 5473 Horizon Drive, Malibu, California
(“Plaintiffs’ Property”), excepting therefrom any plant part or debris that
lies directly above the main concrete driveway leading into defendants’
property from Horizon Drive; (2) from placing any trash, recycle, yard waste
containers on Plaintiffs’ Property; (3) from maintaining/using/accessing any
mailbox on Plaintiffs’ Property; (4) from parking on Plaintiffs’ Property; and
(5) from entering upon any part of Plaintiffs’ Property other than (a) the
asphalt-paved portion of Horizon Drive, and (b) the main concrete driveway
leading into defendants’ property from Horizon Drive, pending trial in this
action.