 Case Number:  BC410835    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  52 (1) Motion Re: Fee Waiver Fraud; (2) Motion
to Expand Injunction 
(1) Defendants Susan Marlowe and Dog at Home,
Inc.’s Motion re: Fee Waiver Fraud and Request for OSC
            Defendants
Susan Marlowe and Dog at Home, Inc. ask the court to set an order to show cause
regarding “fee waiver fraud” by plaintiff Michael Goland.  Courts
may set a hearing to review a party’s fee waiver upon obtaining information
that the party “is not entitled to a fee waiver, or that [his] financial condition has changed so that he
or she is no longer eligible.”  (Gov.
Code, § 68636(b).)  Courts may also set a
hearing to review a party’s fee waiver upon obtaining “information suggesting
that a litigant whose fees and costs were initially waived is obtaining court
services in bad faith, or for an improper purpose such as to harass or cause
unnecessary delay, or to needlessly increase the costs of litigation.”  (Gov. Code, § 68636(f).)
Defendants present
insufficient evidence of those circumstances. 
Even assuming their evidence constitutes such information, it is stale
and no longer relevant.  Their evidence
concerns events no later than 2015. 
(Lewis Decl., Exs. A, B.)    
(2) Defendants Susan Marlowe and Dog at Home,
Inc.’s Motion to Expand the Injunction Imposed by the Court’s October 30, 2009
Pre-Filing Order
            Defendants
Susan Marlowe and Dog at Home, Inc. move the court to expand the pre-filing
order against plaintiff Michael Goland as a vexatious litigant under Code of
Civil Procedure section 391.7.  
            Defendants
provide no authority permitting the relief they seek.  Though the statutory scheme permits finding
someone to be a vexatious litigant for “maintaining” frivolous proceedings (CCP
§ 391; In re R.H. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 678, 692), it does not permit
an order enjoining them from maintaining a proceeding already filed.  Moreover, defendants seek an order enjoining
Goland from participating in an action in another court.  Assuming such an order is permitted, only the
court in that action could properly issue such an order. 
            Defendants
also move to expand the prefiling order to apply to people other than Michael
Goland, the person determined to be a vexatious litigant.  They again provide no authority for doing so.  Furthermore, they seek such an order without
giving the people who would be enjoined notice of or an opportunity to respond
to this motion.
Finally, defendants move the court to hold
Goland in contempt for violating court orders. 
They present insufficient evidence for the court to issue an order to
show cause regarding contempt.
Disposition
            Defendants
Susan Marlowe and Dog at Home, Inc.’s motion re: fee waiver fraud is denied.  Defendants Susan Marlowe and Dog at Home,
Inc.’s motion to expand injunction is denied.