 Case Number:  BC682157    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  52 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 



Zoriall,
  LLC, et al.
                                   Plaintiffs.
  v.
Starr
  Indemnity and Liability Company, et al.,                                                                                           
                                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


Case
  No. BC682157
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  REGARDING MOTIONS IN LIMINE
 
Date: October 31, 2023
 
 



 
DEFENDANT’S MOTIONS IN LIMINE
 
No. 2:             Evidence
Related to Mediation
            Defendant/cross-complainant
Starr Indemnity and Liability Company (Starr) moves in limine to exclude any
evidence or references to mediations in the underlying wrongful eviction
lawsuits against plaintiffs/cross-defendants Zoriall, LLC, Anne Kihagi, and Christina
Mwangi, in a federal court action by AmGuard Insurance Company regarding insurance
coverage for liability in the underlying lawsuits, and in this action.  
            The
Evidence Code broadly prohibits evidence of statements or writings made during
mediation.  “No evidence of anything said
or any admission made for the purpose of, in the course of, or pursuant to, a
mediation or a mediation consultation is admissible or subject to discovery,
and disclosure of the evidence shall not be compelled, in any arbitration,
administrative adjudication, civil action, or other noncriminal proceeding in
which, pursuant to law, testimony can be compelled to be given.”  (Evid. Code, § 1119, subd. (a).)  “No writing … prepared for the purpose of, in
the course of, or pursuant to, a mediation or a mediation consultation, is
admissible or subject to discovery, and disclosure of the writing shall not be
compelled, in any arbitration, administrative adjudication, civil action, or
other noncriminal proceeding in which, pursuant to law, testimony can be
compelled to be given.”  (Id.,
subd. (b).)  
These rules persist “to the same extent after the
mediation ends.”  (Evid. Code, §
1126.)  “Any reference to a mediation
during any subsequent trial is an irregularity in the proceedings of the trial.”  (Evid. Code, § 1128.)  “In addition to the unambiguous language of
the mediation confidentiality statutes, the [California Law Revision] Commission’s
comments further demonstrate that the Legislature intended to apply
confidentiality broadly and to limit any exceptions to confidentiality to
narrowly prescribed statutory exemptions.” 
(Simmons v. Ghaderi (2008) 44 Cal.4th 570, 580.)
Any evidence regarding or reference to mediation is
therefore prohibited and inadmissible.  Plaintiffs’
opposition relies on Evidence Code section 1152, which concerns offers to
compromise or statements made in negotiating a settlement.  That section does not limit the broad protections
for mediation under Evidence Code section 1115 et seq.    
            Defendant’s
motion in limine No. 2 is granted.  The
court hereby excludes all evidence regarding or references to any
mediation.  
 
 
 
No. 5:             Testimony
by Plaintiff Christina Mwangi
            Defendant
moves to exclude plaintiff Christina Mwangi from testifying on the grounds that
she misused the discovery process by repeatedly failing to appear and testify
at deposition.  Defendant successfully
moved to compel Mwangi’s deposition. 
Afterward, she did not appear in person on March 15, 2023, pursuant to
Starr’s fourth amended notice of her deposition.  
            The
fourth amended notice of Mwangi’s deposition was defective.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.250,
subdivision (a) provides, “(a) Unless the court orders otherwise under Section
2025.260, the deposition of a natural person, whether or not a party to the
action, shall be taken at a place that is, at the option of the party giving
notice of the deposition, either within 75 miles of the deponent’s residence,
or within the county where the action is pending and within 150 miles of the
deponent’s residence.”  Defendant’s
fourth amended notice of Mwangi’s deposition specified that the deposition
would take place in Irvine, California, though it is undisputed Mwangi resides
hundreds of miles away in Alameda County. 
(Uchiyama Decl., ¶ 6.)  
Despite the deposition notice specifying that it would
take place in Irvine, plaintiffs did not “serve[] a written objection specifying
that error or irregularity at least three calendar days prior to the date” of
the deposition.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.410, subd. (a).)  Plaintiffs’
counsel erroneously “assumed the … deposition would be taken via remote video
conferencing.”  (Uchiyama Decl., ¶ 8.)  Defendant’s notice of deposition thus was
defective, but plaintiff failed to timely object to it.  After this final attempt to depose Mwangi, however,
defendant did not file another motion to compel her deposition or a motion for
discovery sanctions.  Star thus had a
remedy under the Civil Discovery Act but chose not to pursue it.
Even if Star had filed a motion to compel Mwagi’s
deposition or a motion for discovery sanctions, the court would not have issued
an order excluding Mwagi’s testimony at trial. 
This is because discovery sanctions should be imposed incrementally, “starting with monetary
sanctions and ending with
the ultimate sanction of termination.”  (Lopez
v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)  The court may
only impose “suitable and necessary” sanctions “to enable the party seeking
discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks,” but may not impose
sanctions merely to impose punishment.  (Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins.
Exchange (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 481, 488.)  Barring Mwangi from testifying at
trial now would be overly harsh.  Doing
so would cross the line between proper discovery sanctions and improper
punitive measures.
Defendant’s motion in limine No. 5 is denied.
 
No. 9:             Evidence
Not Disclosed in Verified Discovery Responses 
Defendant moves in
limine to exclude evidence “outside the scope of” plaintiffs’ “verified
discovery responses.”  This motion does
not adequately describe the evidence defendant seeks to exclude.  “The usual purpose of motions in
limine is to preclude the presentation of evidence deemed inadmissible
and prejudicial by the moving party.  A
typical order in limine excludes the challenged evidence and
directs counsel, parties, and witnesses not to refer to the excluded matters
during trial.”  (People v. Morris (1991)
53 Cal.3d 152, 188.)  A motion in limine
should be denied when it seeks “rulings which would merely be declaratory of
existing law or would not provide any meaningful guidance for the parties or
witnesses.”  (Kelly v. New West Federal
Savings (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 659, 670 (Kelly).)  In Kelly, a motion to “preclud[e]
plaintiffs from calling any witnesses ‘not previously identified in plaintiffs’
discovery responses’ ” failed because, “[a]bsent a meaningful and expressed
belief that this may occur, this was a meaningless motion unless and until
plaintiffs attempted to call such witnesses.’ ” 
(Id. at pp. 670-671, fn. omitted.)
Defendant does not identify what evidence plaintiffs
intend to introduce that exceeds the scope of their discovery responses.  An order granting this motion would not
provide meaningful guidance to the parties or witnesses.  
Defendant contends there are “substantial material
differences between” different verified discovery responses by plaintiffs.  (Reply, p. 2) While those purported
differences may be admissible to impeach plaintiffs’ credibility, the court
declines to grant this motion in limine on that basis.  
Defendant also argues
it should be permitted to read into evidence Mwangi’s verified responses to
interrogatories and requests for admission. 
Nothing in this ruling prevents Start from doing so if otherwise
permitted by law.  (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.410 [“so far as admissible under the rules of evidence, the propounding
party … may use any answer or part of an answer to an interrogatory only
against the responding party”]; § 2033.410 [“Any matter admitted in response to
a request for admission is conclusively established against the party making
the admission in the pending action”]; Gonsalves v. Li (2015) 232
Cal.App.4th 1406, 1417 [“denials of RFA’s are not admissible evidence in an
ordinary case”].)
Defendant’s motion
in limine No. 9 is denied.
 
No. 11:           Documents
Not Produced in Discovery
            Defendant
moves in limine to prohibit plaintiffs from introducing or referring to
documents they did not produce during discovery.  On May 24, 2022, the court granted defendant’s
motions to compel the depositions of each plaintiff and to compel production of
dozens of categories of documents requested in the notices of depositions.    
The court found
plaintiffs disobeyed that order multiple times. 
On January 27, 2023, the court issued an order stating, “Neither Kihagi
nor Zoriall produced any documents in response to the 42 categories of
documents requested in the deposition notices. …  The court will give plaintiffs one final
chance to fully and in good faith comply with the court’s discovery orders.”  (Jan. 27, 2023, Order, p. 2.)  On February 27, 2023, the court again found
plaintiffs disobeyed orders to produce documents.  (Feb. 24, 2023, Order, pp. 3-4.)  
Defendant now identifies numerous specific documents
plaintiffs produced long after the court ordered them to do so.  (Supp. Mandegary Decl., ¶¶ 14-15, Ex. 3.)  Plaintiffs produced new documents as recently
as May 8, 2023.  (Id., Ex. 3, p.
7.)  Plaintiffs’ misuse of the discovery
process prevented defendant from having an adequate opportunity to conduct
discovery about these documents, such as by deposing witnesses with knowledge
about them.  
Defendant’s motion in limine No. 11 is granted.  The court hereby excludes the
following exhibits: Nos. 4–5, 7, 9–10, 13–16, 18–19, 21-27, 29-30, 36–40, 51,
53, 56–64, 66, 71-72, 74-75, 80-82, 86, 92-93, 95, 97-102, 104–106, 109-111, 120-127,
129, 131-141, and 144-146.
 
No. 12:           Evidence
Regarding Cumis Counsel
            Defendant moves to exclude
evidence regarding the issue of independent Cumis counsel to represent
plaintiffs in the underlying actions.  (See
San Diego Federal Credit Union v. Cumis Ins. Society, Inc. (1984) 162
Cal.App.3d 358, 364; Civ. Code, § 2860.) 
Any such evidence is irrelevant because plaintiffs did not allege in
their operative complaint that defendant is liable for failing to provide them
with independent counsel.  A trial
concerns “questions of fact or of law put in issue
by pleadings, for the purpose of determining the rights of the
parties.”  (Adams v. Superior Court of
Orange County (1959) 52 Cal.2d 867, 870, italics added.)  Plaintiffs’ first
amended complaint alleges various grounds for its claim for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing (FAC, ¶ 45.A-D), breach of contract (¶
50), and declaratory relief (¶¶ 54-56)—not including failure to provide
independent counsel.  In their
opposition, plaintiffs assert they “allege that Defendant Starr breached its
Insuring Agreement and its duty to defend ‘fully and completely’ by denying its
insureds independent ‘Cumis’ counsel in the Duncan Lawsuits and the Smyth
Lawsuits.”  (Opp., p. 9.)  They do not identify any part of their
pleadings that makes such an allegation.
For the same reason, the likelihood that this evidence
will result in undue consumption of time or undue prejudice substantially
outweighs its probative value.  (Evid.
Code, § 352.)  
            Defendant’s
motion in limine No. 12 is granted.
 
No. 13:           Evidence
Regarding Competence of Insureds’ Counsel
            Defendant
moves in limine to exclude evidence or argument regarding the competence of the
attorneys who represented the insured in the underlying actions.  The arguments on both sides mirror those made
on defendant’s motion in limine No. 12. 
Like evidence regarding Cumis counsel, evidence that the
insureds’ counsel in the underlying action were incompetent is irrelevant
because it concerns an issue not raised in the pleadings.  Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint alleges
various grounds for its causes of action. 
(FAC, ¶¶ 45.A-D, 50, 54-56.)  It
does not, however, allege Starr retained incompetent counsel to defend
plaintiffs.  For the same reason, the
likelihood that evidence will result in undue consumption of time or undue
prejudice substantially outweighs its probative value.  (Evid. Code, § 352.)  
            Defendant’s
motion in limine No. 13 is granted.
 
No. 18:           Evidence
Regarding Harassment of Plaintiffs
            Defendant
moves to exclude evidence and argument regarding purported harassment of
plaintiffs related to the underlying wrongful eviction actions.  This evidence is irrelevant.  Plaintiffs’ opposition asserts evidence of the
“factual background of the tenant harassment experienced by Plaintiffs” and
“the political nature of the” case against them by the City and County of San
Francisco is relevant because it shows the strength of the underlying wrongful
eviction cases against the insured. 
(Opp., pp. 13-14.)  That context has
no bearing on the merits of the underlying wrongful eviction cases or on
whether Starr acted in good faith.
The court also excludes this evidence because the
likelihood that it will result in undue consumption of time and undue prejudice
substantially outweighs any probative value. 
(Evid. Code, § 352.)  This
evidence has no probative value.  Plaintiffs’
opposition refers to evidence that plaintiffs were “defamed by certain deputy
city attorneys.”  (Opp., p. 14.)  Whether government officials defamed
plaintiffs is far afield from the issues in this action.  Admitting evidence about that could open the
door to lengthy distractions from the proper focus of the trial.  The large number of exhibits on this subject
also demonstrates that the evidence will necessitate undue consumption of time.  Finally, there is a substantial probability this
evidence will inflame the jury in a way that causes them to improperly sympathize
with plaintiffs, resulting in undue prejudice against Starr.  For example, plaintiffs label Exhibit No. 24
“article about Kihagi re: being Black landlord can be a crime in S.F.”
    Defendant’s motion in limine No. 18 is granted.  The court hereby excludes Exhibit Nos.
4-5, 7, 9-10, 12-13, 15-16, 18-19, 21-27, 29-30, 37, 53, 56-67, 69, 72, 74-75,
80-82, 90, 93, 95, 100-102, 104-106, 109-111, 120-122, 124-127, and 131-135.
 
No. 20:           Evidence
Regarding Settlement of Smyth Lawsuits
Defendant moves to exclude evidence and arguments
regarding settlement of the Smyth 1 and Smyth 2 actions.  Defendant argues this evidence is
inadmissible under Evidence Code section 1152. 
Section 1152, subdivision (a) provides that evidence of settlement
offers and negotiations are “inadmissible to prove [the offeror’s] liability
for the loss or damage or any part of it.” 
Section 1152, subdivision (b) includes an exception for settlement offers
“in an action for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing or
violation of subdivision (h) of Section 790.03 of the Insurance Code.”  This is such an action.  “In insurance litigation, ‘[t]he language of
this section does not preclude the introduction of settlement negotiations if
offered not to prove liability for the original loss but to prove failure to
process the claim fairly and in good faith.’ ” 
(Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc.
(2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847, 915.)  This
evidence is admissible, relevant, and probative as to whether Starr processed
plaintiffs’ insurance claims in bad faith.
Defendant also argues this evidence is irrelevant and
should be excluded under Evidence Code section 352.  (Motion, pp. 3-4.)  But defendant’s arguments mirror its argument
on Evidence Code section 1152, relying on the premise that the evidence is not
relevant or probative because it cannot be used to prove Starr’s liability.
            Defendant’s
motion in limine No. 20 is denied.
 
No. 21:           Relitigating
Matters in Duncan Lawsuits
            Starr moves to preclude
plaintiffs from “relitigating or challenging the evidence, findings, determinations,
and judgment” in the underlying Duncan 1 and Duncan 2 lawsuits.  Starr contends plaintiffs are collaterally
estopped from doing so.  
Collateral estoppel will bar plaintiffs from
relitigating issues previously decided in the Duncan 1 and Duncan 2 lawsuits.
 “Collateral
estoppel precludes the relitigation of an issue only if (1) the issue is
identical to an issue decided in a prior proceeding; (2) the issue was actually
litigated; (3) the issue was necessarily decided; (4) the decision in the prior
proceeding is final and on the merits; and (5) the party against whom
collateral estoppel is asserted was a party to the prior proceeding or in
privity with a party to the prior proceeding.”  (Zevnik v. Superior Court (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 76, 82.)  
On May 9, 2023, the court issued an order finding Starr
established all but the fourth element of collateral estoppel: that the
decision in the prior action was final and on the merits.  The judgment in Duncan was not yet
final and binding due to a pending appeal. 
On October 19, 2023, the Court of Appeal issued an opinion affirming the
trial court’s order denying a motion to vacate the judgment.  (Duncan v. Kihagi (Oct. 19, 2023, No.
A164470) 2023 WL 6887149.)  Upon
remittitur, the judgment in the Duncan actions will be final and binding.  Plaintiffs will therefore be collaterally
estopped from relitigating issues including, for example, that they wrongfully
evicted Dale Duncan and Marta Munoz Mendoza. 
 
The court,
however, does not find adequate grounds to grant this motion.  In its reply brief, defendant identifies
numerous exhibits by number and asserts, “It is evident by these exhibits that
the Kihagi Parties intend on trying to challenge those final findings and
judgments.”  (Reply, p. 2.)  Though plaintiffs may not challenge final
findings and judgments in the prior actions against them, defendant does not
establish that is the purpose for which plaintiffs seek to introduce those
exhibits.  Moreover, defendant does not
show that this evidence would not be admissible for any other purpose.  Finally, though defendant identifies evidence
it seeks to exclude, this motion largely seeks an order about the merits of
this action that are “not properly the subject of motions in limine.”  (Kelly, supra, 49 Cal.App.4th at p.
670.)   
Defendant’s motion in limine No. 21 is denied.  
 
No. 22:           Testimony
by Insureds’ Attorneys Greer, Nong, and Zfaty
Defendant moves to
exclude testimony from or evidence regarding plaintiffs’ former attorneys
Douglas Arne Greer, Julie Nong, and Isaac Raymond Zfaty.  Courts may exclude a party from presenting
testimony at trial when that party asserted privilege on the same matters
during discovery.  (In re Marriage of
Hoffmeister (1984) 161 Cal.App.3d 1163, 1171; A & M Records, Inc. v.
Heilman (1977) 75 Cal.App.3d 554, 566.) 
Courts may prohibit a party from using “privilege as a ‘shield and as a
sword.’ ”  (Dwyer v. Crocker National
Bank (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 1418, 1432.) 

Plaintiffs
successfully moved to quash the depositions of Greer and Zfaty.  As a result, defendant was unable to depose
them.  Permitting Greer and Zfaty to
testify at trial would constitute unfair surprise.
As for Nong, the
court denied defendant’s motion to compel her deposition and production of
documents.  The court found the deposition
subpoena was unduly burdensome.  But the
court did not prevent defendant from deposing Nong at all.  Defendant could have narrowed its subpoena to
seek a deposition with reasonable limits. 
It did not do so.  The court finds
that permitting Nong’s testimony would not result in unfair surprise or
prejudice to defendant. 
            Defendant’s
motion in limine No. 22 is granted as to witnesses Greer and Zfaty.  The court hereby excludes Douglas Arne Greer
and Isaac Raymond Zfaty from testifying at trial.  The motion is denied as to Julie Nong.
 
PLAINTIFFS’
MOTIONS IN LIMINE
 
No. 1:             Evidence of Other Lawsuits Involving
Plaintiffs
            Plaintiffs/cross-defendants
Zoriall, LLC, Anne Kihagi, and Christina Mwangi move to exclude evidence
regarding other lawsuits by or against them. 
Evidence of the existence and nature of the other lawsuits is relevant
and admissible for the purpose of proving plaintiffs’ knowledge of laws regulating
landlords in San Francisco.  Evidence
Code section 1101, subdivision (b) provides that the statute prohibiting
character evidence does not “prohibit[] the admission of evidence” of a
person’s conduct “when relevant to prove some fact (such as … knowledge…) other
than his or her disposition to commit such an act.”  
Plaintiffs move to exclude evidence of lawsuits that concerned
the San Francisco Rent Ordinance. 
(Mandegary Decl., Ex. 1, responses to special interrogatories Nos. 36, 37,
40, 44.)  The San Francisco Rent
Ordinance provides enhanced penalties “if the trier of fact finds that the
landlord acted in knowing violation of” the law.  (S.F. Admin. Code, §§ 37.9(f),
37.10B(c)(5).)  
Plaintiffs’ knowledge of the San Francisco Rent
Ordinance is pertinent to an issue in this case.  Defendant asserts the underlying lawsuits
constitute “a loss caused by the wilful act of the insured.”  (Ins. Code, § 533.)  “A
wilful act within the meaning of section 533 … 
means something more than the intentional doing of an
act constituting ordinary negligence or the violation of a statute.”  (Downey Venture v. LMI Ins. Co. (1998)
66 Cal.App.4th 478, 500 (Downey).) 
Downey describes three categories of “wilful” acts: (1) those
“deliberately done for the express purpose of causing damage”;
(2) “intentionally performed with knowledge that damage is
highly probable or substantially certain to result; and (3) “an
intentional and wrongful act in which ‘the harm is inherent in the act itself.’
”  (Ibid.)   Evidence that plaintiffs knew about the San
Francisco Rent Ordinance can support defendant’s theory that they were found
liable for acting “in knowing violation” of that ordinance, which may
constitute a “wilful act of the insured” under Insurance Code section 533.
Not all evidence on this subject, however, is admissible.  The probative value of evidence regarding the
merits of past lawsuits involving plaintiffs is substantially outweighed by the
probability it will necessitate undue consumption of time and create
substantial danger of undue prejudice.  
Plaintiffs’ motion in
limine no. 1 is granted in part as to evidence and argument regarding
the merits of other lawsuits against them. 
The motion is denied in part as to evidence of the existence and
subject matter of other lawsuits against them. 

 
No. 2:             Evidence
Regarding AmGuard Insurance Policy
            Plaintiffs
move in limine to exclude evidence or arguments about AmGuard Insurance Company
and their policy from AmGuard Insurance Company.  Starr argues this evidence is relevant and
probative for its affirmative defense that plaintiffs failed to cooperate with
Starr by not disclosing the AmGuard policy to Starr.  Plaintiffs’ argument that the evidence is
irrelevant and unduly prejudicial relies on the premise that this evidence is
insufficient to prove Starr’s affirmative defense.  Plaintiffs did not move for summary
adjudication of that defense.  They have
not shown that, as a matter of law, Starr cannot prove that defense.  This evidence is relevant and admissible to support
Starr’s affirmative defense.   
Plaintiffs also argue the collateral source rule bars
this evidence.  It does not.  “[T]he collateral source rule applies to tort
damages, not to damages for breach of contract.”  (Bramalea California, Inc. v. Reliable
Interiors, Inc. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 468, 472.)  Plaintiffs do not provide authority supporting
their position that the collateral source rule applies in this action against
their insurer.  
Moreover,
plaintiffs do not establish the basis for applying the evidentiary aspect of
the collateral source.  “The collateral
source rule operates both as a substantive rule of damages and as a rule of evidence.
 As a rule of evidence, it precludes the
introduction of evidence of the plaintiff being compensated by a collateral
source unless there is a ‘persuasive showing’ that such evidence is of ‘substantial
probative value’ for purposes other than reducing damages.”  (Arambula v. Wells (1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 1006, 1015.)  Starr does not
seek to introduce evidence that AmGuard Insurance Company is compensating plaintiffs.
 AmGuard Insurance Company has not done
so.  This evidence also has substantial
probative value for Starr’s affirmative defenses as discussed above.  
Plaintiffs’ motion in
limine no. 2 is denied.  
 
No. 3:             Evidence
of Starr’s Coverage Evaluations
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude evidence from Starr’s coverage file or other evidence about its
coverage evaluations that it did not produce in discovery.  While Starr produced some evidence of its
coverage evaluations in discovery, it maintains that the attorney-client
privilege applies to communications between it and its coverage counsel, Jamie
Vels.  
In substance, this motion in limine seeks an evidence
sanction pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (c).  Plaintiffs do not show defendant engaged in
any misuse of the discovery process as required for such a sanction.  Nor do they establish that defendant
disobeyed any order compelling it to provide discovery.
Plaintiffs’ motion in limine No. 3 is denied. 
 
No. 4:             Evidence of Plaintiffs’ Comparative
Fault or Breach of Contract 
Plaintiffs move to
exclude evidence that Starr may use to show “the Insureds’ comparative fault is
a defense to the bad faith case against Starr, or that any minor breaches of
contract that could not actually void the Policy constitute a defense to the
bad faith case.”  This motion puts the
cart before the horse.  Breach of
contract by the insured can constitute a defense to an insurance bad faith
action.  (Kransco v. American Empire
Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390, 408-411.)  Plaintiffs have not established that the
evidence Starr seeks to introduce is insufficient to support that affirmative
defense.  Plaintiffs did not move for
summary adjudication of that defense. 
This evidence is relevant and admissible to support Starr’s affirmative
defense that plaintiffs breached the insurance contract.
Plaintiffs’ motion
in limine No. 4 is denied.         
 
                                                            IT
IS SO ORDERED
 
Date:   October 31, 2023