 Case Number:  21NWCV00062    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  C GLOBAL MED GROUP, LLC v. KAISER PERMANENTE
CASE
NO.:  21NWCV00062 
HEARING: 
09/25/24
 
#1
 
     
I.         
Defendant/Cross-Complainant KAISER FOUNDATION
HOSPITAL’s Motion for Sanctions for Failure to Pay Court-Ordered Sanctions and
Misuse of the Discovery Process is DENIED. 
   
II.         
Defendant/Cross-Complainant KAISER FOUNDATION
HOSPITAL’s Motion for Terminating or Alternatively Evidentiary Sanctions is DENIED.

  III.         
Defendant/Cross-Complainant KAISER FOUNDATION
HOSPITAL’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of
Documents (set three) is CONTINUED to Thursday, December 5, 2024 at
10:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C. 
  IV.         
Defendant/Cross-Complainant KAISER FOUNDATION
HOSPITAL’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (set
three) is CONTINUED to Thursday, December 5, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in
Dept. SE-C. 
  
V.         
Defendant/Cross-Complainant KAISER FOUNDATION
HOSPITAL’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Admissions (set
three) is CONTINUED to Thursday, December 5, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in
Dept. SE-C. 
 
 
Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
On
February 1, 2021, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant GLOBAL MED GROUP, LLC (“GMG”) filed
this action for breach of contract.  
 
GMG
alleges that “[i]n or about March of 2020, KP contacted GMG to order
supplies…specifically DM001 single use 3-ply disposable surgical face masks
(non-sterile), in large quantities…. At that time, this product was in
extremely short supply and the market price was relatively high. KP was aware
of the supply shortages and price spike yet requested GMG to obtain the goods
regardless. KP was seeking the goods on a rush basis, which in turn forced GMG
to pay higher prices in China for the goods.” (Complaint ¶6.) “In sum, KP
ordered 20,000,000 masks and agreed to pay a purchase price of $10,813,531.25.
KP paid a total of $5,609,449.31, leaving a balance due of $5,204,081.94.”
(Complaint ¶17.) 

On June 16, 2021, Defendant/Cross-Complainant KAISER FOUNDATION HOSPITALS (“Kaiser”
or “KP”) filed a Cross-Complaint. The Cross-Complaint asserts a claim for
breach of contract against GMG. Kaiser alleges that “[i]n or around March of
2020, Kaiser was forced to source Personal Protective Equipment (‘PPE’) from
outside of its usual supply chain in response to the COVID-19 pandemic…. [¶] In
March of 2020, Kaiser was introduced to GMG and the Parties began to negotiate
Kaiser’s purchase of surgical facemasks from GMG. Kaiser had no prior
relationship or course of dealing with GMG.” (XC ¶¶5-6.) Kaiser submitted two
purchase orders to GMG for facemasks. However, in April 2020, Kaiser began to
receive complaints about the quality and safety of GMG’s facemasks. (XC ¶19.)  “On May 5, 2020, Kaiser notified GMG via email
that it was canceling any remaining purchases and/or deliveries of facemasks
that had not yet been shipped by GMG’s supplier in China to the United States.”
(XC ¶21.) “Kaiser informed GMG that Kaiser’s cancellation was based on the
persistent complaints, quality issues, and safety concerns over the facemasks
that Kaiser had purchased from GMG.” (XC ¶22.) Further, Kaiser alleges that “[t]o
date, GMG only delivered a total of 5,416,200 facemasks to Kaiser out of the
20,000,000 total facemasks that Kaiser had ordered under the 3/22 and 4/2
Purchase Orders. GMG delivered only $2,787,508.63 worth of product to Kaiser,
even though Kaiser paid $5,609,449.31 to GMG.” (XC ¶29.) 
 
Here
now, are five separate Motions concerning discovery before this Court. 
 
Motion
for Sanctions 
 
Kaiser
moves for the issuance of monetary, evidence, and/or issue sanctions against
GMG for the following reasons: (1) GMG failed to produce documents within 30
days as mandated by this Court’s September 13, 2023 Order;  and (2) GMG failed to produce documents and pay
monetary sanctions in compliance with this Court’s January 3, 2024 Order.
Kaiser indicates that on December 18, 2023, and January 17, 2024, GMG produced
additional documents even though GMG had represented to this Court that it had
produced all responsive documents. Kaiser further states that GMG agreed to
produce additional documents during the depositions of GMG’s principals,
however, as of the date this Motion was filed, GMG failed to produce the
documents as agreed. Kaiser maintains that a sanctions Order is warranted
because GMG failed to fully produce code-compliant responses to discovery; has
not paid previously awarded sanctions; and has disobeyed multiple court orders.

 
In
Opposition, GMG argues that sanctions should not be awarded because on
September 12, 2024, Counsel for Plaintiff paid the $3,060 for sanctions in
compliance with this Court’s January 3, 2024 Order, and that GMG has responded
to discovery as best as is could, in good faith. 
 
No
Reply filed as of September 23, 2024. 
 
CCP
§2023.010 includes: “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery.” CCP §2023.030 provides, in part: “To the extent
authorized by this chapter governing any particular discovery method or any
other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected party,
may impose the [sanctions] against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse
of the discovery process, including monetary and issue and terminating
sanctions.” Failing to respond to an authorized method of discovery and
disobeying a court order to provide discovery are both misuses of the discovery
process.” (CCP §§2023.010 (d) and (g).) Sanctions which may be imposed for a
misuse of the discovery process include “terminating sanctions.” 
 
It
is a commonly stated axiom that discovery sanctions “should be appropriate to
the dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978)
84 Cal.App.3d 771, 793.) However, a court is empowered to apply the ultimate
sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with
discovery obligations. The refusal to reveal material evidence is deemed to be
an admission that the claim or defense is without merit. (Id. at
794-795.) 
 
The Motion for Issue, Evidentiary, and additional Monetary
Sanctions is DENIED. GMG has not completely abandoned their duties to respond
to or comply with discovery/Court Orders. It is undisputed that GMG has
ultimately produced additional responsive documents and paid court-ordered
sanctions. The imposition of issue, evidentiary, and/or additional monetary
sanctions would be unnecessarily punitive and would serve no purpose other than
to punish GMG for it's untimely compliance. There is no outright refusal to
participate in the discovery process or comply with Court Orders here. 
 
Motion
for Terminating Sanctions or Alternatively Evidentiary Sanctions
 
Kaiser
moves for terminating or alternatively evidentiary sanctions based on GMG’s
repeated failure to respond to discovery and Court orders. 
 
In
Opposition, GMG maintains that it has complied with discovery orders and
requests to the fullest extent possible and that terminating and/or evidentiary
sanctions are not warranted. 
 
In
Reply, Kaiser indicates that GMG made another untimely production and served
additional responsive documents on September 13, 2024. 
 
The Motion Terminating or Alternatively Evidentiary Sanctions is
DENIED. GMG has not completely abandoned their duties to respond to or comply
with discovery/Court Orders. It is undisputed that GMG has produced additional
responsive documents. The imposition of terminating or evidentiary sanctions
would be unnecessarily punitive and would serve no purpose other than to punish
GMG for its untimely compliance. There is no outright refusal to participate in
the discovery process or comply with Court Orders here. 
 
Motions to Compel Further 
 
GMG states that any outstanding monetary
sanctions were paid by GMG’s Counsel on September 12, 2024. Further, GMG served
supplemental responses/documents on or about September 13, 2024. Moreover, in
the Joint Statement FILED on September 19, 2024, Kaiser states that GMG sent its
portion of the Joint Statement “at 12:57 a.m., the day after it was due to the
Court.” (JS 2:7.) 
 
It is unclear to this Court whether the
parties have met and conferred over GMG’s latest untimely document production.
This matter is CONTINUED once more. Counsel are advised that their meet and confer efforts should go
beyond merely sending letters stating their respective positions. (See Townsend
v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439.) “A determination of
whether an attempt at informal resolution is adequate…involves the exercise of
discretion. The level of effort at an informal resolution which satisfies the
‘reasonable and good faith attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances. In
a larger, more complex discovery request, a greater effort at informal
resolution may be warranted. In a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a
more modest effort may suffice. The history of the litigation, the nature of
the interaction between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope
of the discovery requested, the prospects for success and other similar factors
can be relevant. Judges have broad powers and responsibilities to determine
what measures and procedures are appropriate in varying circumstances.” (Obregon
v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) 
 
Counsel are
instructed to further meet and confer on the issues outlined in the parties’
Joint Statement over any remaining discovery issues, which includes the
imposition of monetary sanctions. The Court notes that it is inclined to award
reasonable monetary sanctions in favor of Kaiser due to GMG’s untimely
production.  
 
Counsel are
ORDERED to make further efforts to
resolve the issues presented. If, after exhausting those efforts, court
intervention is needed, counsel may appear and argue the merits on the
continued hearing date. If counsel are unable to informally resolve their
discovery disputes, then counsel are instructed to submit a JOINT STATEMENT
outlining the remaining disputed issues for which a ruling is required. The
joint statement must be FILED on or before Monday, November 25, 2024.
 
 