 Case Number:  23NWCV0059723NWC    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  C QURESHI VS. ING LOGISTICS,
ET AL. 
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV00970
HEARING:  9/25/24 @ 9:30 A.M.
 
#3
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Sentry
Select Insurance Company’s motion for leave to file answer-in-intervention and
cross-complaint is GRANTED.  The answer-in-intervention
and cross-complaint shall be filed within 5 days.  
 
Moving
Party to give NOTICE.
 
This
motion is unopposed as of September 23, 2024. 
 
 
This is about an automobile collision which
occurred on or about November 17, 2021 at 11:00 p.m. on the Interstate 710
southbound freeway near Firestone Boulevard in the City of Bell, County of Los
Angeles. (Compl., ¶¶ 12-13.) Plaintiff Bilquees
Qureshi sues Defendants Fernando Garcia and ING Logistics.  ING Logistics owns the vehicle Garcia was
operating. (Compl., ¶¶ 4-6.) 
 
Sentry Select Insurance Company moves for an
order under section 387 of the Code of Civil Procedure and Revenue and Tax Code
section 19719, subdivision (b) to file an answer in intervention and ROE
cross-complaint on behalf of ING Logistics, Inc. 
 
Timeliness
 
The party seeking to
intervene must be timely, determined by the totality of circumstances, which
includes the following factors: (1) stage of the proceedings; (2) prejudice to
other parties from the delay in seeking to intervene; and (3) the reason for
the delay. (Crestwood Behavioral Health, Inc. v. Lacy (2021) 70
Cal.App.5th 560, 574-576.) Prejudice to existing parties is the most important
consideration. (Id., at 574.) 
 
Sentry
Select Insurance Company has not addressed timeliness. Because this motion is
unopposed, the Court considers this issue waived. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A
nonparty can petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).) The
petition shall include a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or
answer in intervention and set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).) 
 
Discussion 
 
Sentry Select Insurance
Company asserts that ING Logistics, Inc. cannot defend this action because of
its suspended corporate status with the Secretary of State of California. It
further asserts that if the Court issues a judgment against ING Logistics,
Inc., Plaintiff will likely seek proceeds from the policy issued to ING
Logistics, Inc. by Sentry Select Insurance Company. 
 
Based on this, Sentry
Select Insurance Company argues that it has a direct interest in the outcome of
this litigation. Sentry Select Insurance Company does not seek to enlarge the
litigation; rather, it seeks to protect ING Logistics, Inc.’s and Sentry Select
Insurance Company’s interests in connection with claims Plaintiff brought
against ING Logistics, Inc. In support, Select Insurance Company submits
evidence of its suspended corporate status. (Decl. Hsu, ¶ 4, Ex. 1.) 
 
Sentry Select Insurance
Company cites Kaufman & Broad Communities, Inc. vs. Performance
Plastering, Inc. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 212, which held that when an
insurance company seeks to provide a defense in pending litigation for a
corporation that has been suspended for nonpayment of its taxes, the insurance
company must intervene in the action to protect its interests and those of its
insured. The Court follows Kaufman & Broad Communities, Inc. vs.
Performance Plastering, Inc. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 212. 
 
The motion is granted. Intervenor
shall separately file and serve the answer
in intervention and cross complaint and shall serve notice of the court’s
decision to parties who have appeared pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 387, subd. (e).
 