  Case Number:  19NWCV00417    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  C THEE AGUILA, INC. v.
BLACKWOOD 
CASE
NO.:  19NWCV00417
HEARING:  09/25/24
 
#6
 
     
I.         
Defendants
WOLF BASCHUNG and DTLA REAL ESTATE, INC.’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or
alternatively, Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to Thursday, October
17, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C.  
 
   
II.         
Pursuant
to the Fully Executed Stipulation RECEIVED on September 13, 2024,
Cross-Complainants MERCURY BOWL, LLC and GREEN RIVERA, LLC’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to Thursday,
October 17, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C to be heard in
conjunction with Defendants WOLF BASCHUNG and DTLA REAL ESTATE, INC.’s
Motion for Summary Judgment, or alternatively, Summary Adjudication set for
that same date. 
 
 
Moving
Party(s) to give notice. 
 
 
Defendants
WOLF BASCHUNG and DTLA REAL ESTATE, INC.’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or
alternatively, Summary Adjudication
 
On
May 17, 2019, Plaintiff THEE AGUILA, INC. (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant
action against Defendants BLACKWOOD, LLC; FORWARD BEVERLY HILLS, INC. dba
Keller Williams Realty and Keller Williams Commercial; WOLF BASCHUNG (of DTLA
REAL ESTATE, INC.), GURU THAPAR, PICO RIVERA FIRST MORTGAGE INVESTOR, LP;
MORTGAGE CO. OF SANTA BARBARA, INC.’ and CARLO LINDROS. 
 
On
December 2, 2019, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”). 
 
The
FAC alleges the following relevant facts: “For many years, Plaintiff was the
owner of real property located at 8825 Washington Blvd., Pico Rivera, CA 90660
(hereinafter ‘the Property’). The Property had a Conditional Use Permit
(hereinafter ‘CUP’) issued by the City of Pico Rivera (hereinafter the ‘City’)
which allowed the Property to be used as a restaurant/nightclub.” (FAC ¶11.)
“On or about May 25, 2017, Defendants Baschung, Thapar, and Keller Williams
executed a Listing Agreement with Plaintiff to list the Property for sale for
$10,500.00; in doing so Defendants Baschung, Thapar, and Keller Williams
collectively (hereinafter collectively ‘Broker/Agents’) and individually became
the real estate agents/brokers for and on behalf of Plaintiff.” (Id. ¶14.) “By
way of combined efforts of Plaintiff and the Broker/Agents, the parties brought
Blackwood, a qualified buyer to see the Property; after comprehensive and
extensive negotiations, Blackwood submitted a Letter of Intent to purchase the
property on or about November 12, 2017.” (Id. ¶15.) “In or about February of
2015, the [DEA] seized the liquor license for the Property after it was
discovered that the tenants were using the Property to launder money for the
Mexican drug cartel. As a result, the tenant’s business was shut down, the City
rescinded the CUP, and ABC refused to process any liquor license application
for the Property. Without a CUP or liquor license, Plaintiff was unable to
secure a new tenant for the Property…. [¶] Due to the 2 ½ year delay… Plaintiff
failed to pay certain sums due under the Note, and PFMI initiated foreclosure
proceedings on the Property.” (FAC ¶¶16 and 18.) “Prior to any foreclosure sale
taking place, Plaintiff began negotiations with PRFMI to work out a mutually
beneficial agreement…. [¶] The parties reached an oral agreement… which gave
Plaintiff a post foreclosure right of redemption (hereinafter ‘Option
Contract’). (Id. ¶20.) “On or about January 15, 2018, Plaintiff learned, that
despite direct and undeniable knowledge of the Option Contract between
Plaintiff and Defendants PRFMI and Lindros, Defendants Baschung, Thapar, and
Keller Williams, individually and in connections with each other, perpetrated a
scheme with Defendants PRFMI and Lindros to interfere and circumvent Plaintiff’s
Option Contract….” (Id. ¶36.) “Plaintiff confronted Defendants PRFMI and
Lindros about the Letter of Intent. Defendants PRFMI and Lindros denied they
had signed a letter of Intent with Defendants… in order to induce Plaintiff to
continue to the keep the Property maintained and in legal compliance until the
sale was complete.” (Id. ¶38.) 
 
Plaintiff
asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1)
Breach of Oral Contract; 
(2)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 
(3)
Fraud and Deceit; 
(4)
Intentional Misrepresentation; 
(5)
Unfair Business Practices; 
(6)
Intentional Interference with Prospective
Relations; 
(7)
Intentional Interference with Contractual
Relations; and 
(8)
Constructive Trust 
 
On
December 6, 2019, Defendants filed a Notice of Related Case. The Notice
indicates that there is another pending action, case number 18CV04958, Pico
Rivera First Mortgage Investor, LP v. Henry Aguila, in Santa Barbara Superior
Court (“Santa Barbara case”). The notice further indicates that the Santa
Barbara case was filed on October 10, 2018. On January 27, 2020, the Court
deferred on ruling on the Notice of Related case, as the Santa Barbara Superior
Court case was the earlier filed case. 
 
In
the Santa Barbara case, Henry Aguila filed an operative Second Amended
Cross-Complaint against Baschung, Thapar, and Keller Williams Realty. 
 
On
October 1, 2020, this Court abated this action (Case No. 19NWCV00417) until the
conclusion of the Santa Barbara case. The Court made the following ruling:
“Here, the instant action and the Santa Barbara action is between the same
parties. The cross-complainant in the Santa Barbara action is Henry Aguila.
Henry Aguila is the sole shareholder of Thee Aguila, Inc. [Cite.] The plaintiff
in the instant action is Thee Aguila, Inc. Similarly, the cross-defendants in
the Santa Barbara action includes the Defendants here. [Cite.] Additionally,
the two actions are based on same causes of action. Both actions arise out of
an oral post-foreclosure option agreement between the parties to repurchase the
real property located at 8825 Washington Boulevard, Pico Rivera, California.
[Citations.] The causes of action are asserted against the same defendants,
i.e., breach of oral contract, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud and deceit,
intentional misrepresentation, etc. [Cite.] Moreover, Plaintiff here seeks
substantially the same redress as in the Santa Barbara action, i.e., specific
performance, damages, attorney fees, and costs of suit. [Citations.]” (10/01/20
Order). 
 
On
June 8, 2020, the Santa Barbara Superior Court sustained Cross-Defendants
Baschung, Thapar, and Keller Williams Realty’s demurrer without leave to amend
as to the Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Fraud and Deceit as to the Oral Option
Contract, Negligent Misrepresentation, and Unfair Business Practices causes of
action, and overruled Baschung’s demurrer to the Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage cause of action. (MSJ RJN Ex. 4.) 
 
On
May 16, 2022, the Santa Barbara Court granted Baschung’s Motion for Summary
Judgment on the remaining cause of action, Intentional Interference with
Economic Advantage. (MSJ RJN Ex. 7.) 
 
On
September 22, 2022, this Court ended the abatement of the instant action (Case
No. 19NWCV00417), since the Santa Barbara case had concluded with respect to
the parties before the Court. 
 
Defendants
WOLF BASCHUNG and DTLA REAL ESTATE, INC. (collectively “Defendants” or “DTLA
Real Estate”) move for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication.
DTLA Real Estate’s Motion was FILED on July 11, 2023.  
 
However,
Aguila filed an appeal of the Judgement in the Santa Barbara Action. Therefore,
this matter was CONTINUED so it could be heard after the Appellate Court decided
Aguila’s appeal in the Santa Barbara action. 
 
It
has come to the Court’s attention that a Remittitur in the Santa Barbara
Action, was recently issued on August 5, 2024. 
 
The
parties have not had the opportunity to brief/summarize the effect of the
Appellate Court’s Decision, and a great deal of time has passed since this
matter was initially filed/briefed. 
 
In
the interests of justice, and to ensure that this Court is properly apprised of
the current status of this case, this matters is CONTINUED as indicated above. 
 
Defendants
WOLF BASCHUNG and DTLA REAL ESTATE, INC. are ORDERED to file and serve a
Supplemental Moving Brief by no later than October 4, 2024. A Supplemental
Opposition may be filed and served by no later than October 9, 2024. A
Supplemental Reply may be filed and served no later than October 11, 2024.
 
 
 