  Case Number:  22STCP03920    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



sam
  burton,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
  
 
keelson
  strategic corporation; tercio elite, llc; tercio elite consulting, inc.;
  nathanial a. romero; and
  NICHOLAS J. MOLINA,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22STCP03920
 
  Hearing Date:  March 6, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
APPLICATION FOR AN ORDER PERMITTING TODD T.
  WILLIAMS AS COUNSEL PRO HAC VICE 
 



 
Todd T. Williams (“Williams”)
applies as counsel pro hac vice for Defendants
Tercio Elite, LLC, Tercio Elite Consulting, Inc., and
Nathaniel A. Romero.  The application is unopposed.

Under CRC Rule 9.40, attorneys licensed and in
good standing in other states may, upon the California court’s approval, appear
as counsel pro hac vice in a pending
case if an active member of the state bar is associated as attorney of
record.  (CRC 9.40(a).)  Williams is an active
member, in good standing, of the Washington State Bar, the Southern District of
New York, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, the Eastern District of New York,
the Western District of Washington, the Eastern District of Washington, the
State Bar of Idaho, and the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. (Williams Decl. ¶ 1(a)-(g).)  In addition, Williams states that he is not a
resident of California or regularly engaged in business in California.  (Williams Decl. ¶ 4.) Williams is a resident
of Seattle Washington with an office in Seattle, Washington.  (Williams Decl. ¶ 7.)  Williams states that states that he has not applied
to be admitted pro hac vice in a California proceeding in the last two
years.  (Williams Decl. ¶ 2.)  Thus, counsel satisfies the
eligibility requirements of CRC 9.40(a).
Williams’s application successfully addresses all six
content requirements outlined in CRC 9.40(d). 
Specifically, Williams provides
in his application: (1) his residence and office address (Williams
Decl. ¶ 7); (2) the courts to which Williams has been admitted to practice and the
dates of admission (Williams Decl. ¶ 1); (3) that Williams is a member in good
standing in those courts (Williams Decl. ¶ 1); (4) that he is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court (Williams Decl. ¶ 1); (5) the title of each
court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years,
and whether or not it was granted if any (Williams Decl. ¶ 2); and (6) the
name, address, and telephone number of an active member, Jason Riddick, Esq of
the State Bar of California who is the current counsel of record for Defendants
Tercio Elite, LLC, Tercio Elite Consulting, Inc., and Nathaniel A. Romero.  (Williams Decl. ¶ 5).
Furthermore, Williams demonstrates that he has met the requirement of CRC 9.40(c)(1). That rule
provides: “a person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file with the court a
verified application together with proof of service . . . of a copy of the
application and of the notice on all parties who have appeared in the cause and
on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office.”  (See Riddick Decl. ¶¶ 3-4, Exh. A.)
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The application of Todd T. Williams to appear as counsel pro hac vice for Defendants Tercio Elite, LLC, Tercio Elite
Consulting, Inc., and Nathaniel A. Romero is GRANTED.
Moving
Party is ordered to provide notice of this order and file proof of service of
such.
 
DATED: March ___, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court