 Case Number:  23SMCV02312    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  I Plaintiff
Cecibel Rodriguez (“plaintiff”) filed this employment discrimination action
against defendants the Regents of the University of California and Myo Nyunt
(collectively “defendants”).  According
to the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”), plaintiff was hired by
defendants on or around November 2010 and was offered a Central Service
Technician 2 position on or around February 26, 2016.  (TAC, ¶8.) 
Plaintiff is a woman with a disability. 
(Id. at ¶10.)  Plaintiff
asserts that throughout her employment, defendant Nyunt would frequently make
derogatory remarks about women and how their “place” was in the home.  (Id. at ¶12(a).)  Nyunt purportedly questioned plaintiff’s
accommodations as well.  (Id. at
¶12(b).)  Plaintiff contends that in or
around February 2019, she was told by an assistant Director Armando Gutierrez
that if she wanted to stay in shipping and receiving, she would need to accept
a demotion and pay cut due to her work restrictions.  (Id. at ¶12(c).)  Plaintiff states that she informed him that
defendants told her that the position would be permanent with her work
restrictions when she transferred, and Gutierrez responded that they had made a
mistake and he does not hire people with disabilities.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff states she later asked Gutierrez
that he would have to find her a job that matched her current pay, he became
upset and told her he would require her to work as a floor stocker that would
require her to push carts weighing over 50 pounds each.  (Id. at ¶12(d).) Plaintiff allegedly
asked for that requirement in writing, which he refused.  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff contends that her workload
dramatically increased thereafter and when she asked why because the work was
exacerbating her disabilities, she was told that management was adding more
work because she was being paid too high. 
(TAC, ¶12(e).)  Plaintiff contends
that later, on or around April 24, 2019, she was ordered by Nyunt to have
another employee deliver oxygen, argon, and helium tanks, which requires
specialized training to handle.  (Id.
at ¶12(f).)  Plaintiff states she refused
because the employee in question lacked the requisite training.  (Ibid.)  Nyunt supposedly began yelling at her and
said she would be written up for insubordination.  (Id. at ¶12(f).)  Plaintiff asserts she had to take a leave of
absence in or around May 2019 due to the harassment, discrimination, and
resulting depression and anxiety.  (Id.
at ¶12(h).)  Plaintiff contends that when
she returned from her leave of absence on or around November 18, 2019, she
found out that Nyunt had scheduled her for shifts on weekends and holidays,
despite defendants’ policy stating that staff with accommodations did not have
to work on weekends and holidays.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff was also allegedly informed by a
Disability Management Specialist named Marilyn Lomeli, in Nyunt’s office, that
Gutierrez had requested a job reassignment for her and that she would only have
up to 90 days to continue in her current position with accommodations.  (Id. at ¶12(i).)  Thereafter, plaintiff supposedly worked with
a disability management specialist to find positions that could accommodate
plaintiff’s restrictions, but the positions she found were all per diem.  (Id. at ¶12(j).)  Plaintiff had to confront defendants and ask
why she was being ignored by Lomeli and Lomeli was not helping her find a new
position.  (Id. at ¶12(k).)  Plaintiff asserts that in or around March
2021, she found a new position for herself but it was at a lower pay rate.  (Id. at ¶12(l).)  Plaintiff received a Right to Sue letter on
May 20, 2022.  (Id. at ¶16.)
Currently before the court is
defendants’ demurrer. Plaintiff opposes. 
This is not the first time the court has heard a demurrer to plaintiff’s
pleading. It previously sustained defendants’ demurrers to the FAC and SAC
because plaintiff’s action seemed time-barred. 
Defendants demur to each cause of action on the grounds of lack of
subject matter jurisdiction and failure to state sufficient facts.  Defendants assert that plaintiff failed to
exhaust the administrative remedies because she did not timely obtain a Right
to Sue letter.  Essentially, the argument
is that this action is time-barred.
“Before bringing a lawsuit for FEHA
violations, an aggrieved employee must exhaust administrative remedies by
timely filing an administrative complaint with the DFEH and receiving a right
to sue notice.  (Gov. Code, §§ 12960,
subd. (b), 12962, subd. (c).)  Exhaustion
of administrative remedies is ‘ “a jurisdictional prerequisite to resort to the
courts.” ’  (Johnson, supra, 24
Cal.4th at p. 70.)  Until relatively
recently, the administrative complaint had to be filed with the DFEH within one
year of the date on which the alleged unlawful practice occurred.  (Gov. Code, § 12960, subd. (d).)  ‘[O]rdinarily, a plaintiff cannot recover for
acts occurring more than one year before the filing of the DFEH
complaint.’  (Jumaane v. City of Los
Angeles (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1402.)”  (Wassmann v. South Orange County Community
College District (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 825, 850, parallel citations
omitted.)  Here, plaintiff alleges that
the last wrongful conduct occurred in March 2021 and then she obtained her
right to sue letter in May 2022. The March 2021 date is important because it
allows plaintiff to take advantage of the amended three-year statute of
limitations for FEHA violations.  (Gov.
Code, § 12960, subd. (e)(5) [“A complaint alleging a violation of Section 51.9
of the Civil Code or any other violation of Article 1 (commencing with Section
12940) of Chapter 6 shall not be filed after the expiration of three years from
the date upon which the unlawful practice or refusal to cooperate occurred”].)
The court previously detailed the
need for plaintiff to specify a continuing course of discriminatory conduct
from November 2019 to March 2021.  “Under
the continuing violation doctrine, a plaintiff may recover for unlawful acts
occurring outside the limitations period if they continued into that
period.  (Jumaane v. City of Los
Angeles, supra, 241 Cal.App.4th at p. 1402.)  The continuing violation doctrine requires
proof that (1) the defendant's actions inside and outside the limitations
period are sufficiently similar in kind; (2) those actions occurred with
sufficient frequency; and (3) those actions have not acquired a degree of
permanence.  (Richards v. CH2M Hill,
Inc. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 798, 802.)”  (Wassmann,
supra, 24 Cal.App.5th at pp. 850–851, parallel citations omitted.)  In response, plaintiff amended her TAC to
include allegations of additional disability discrimination from events in
February 2020.  (TAC, ¶12(k).)  That establishes a continuing violation of
disability discrimination from 2019 to 2021. 
Because the disability discrimination allegedly was all part and parcel
of the earlier discrimination, and resulted therefrom, it is sufficient, at
least at the pleading stage, to withstand demurrer.  That is not to say that it will survive
summary judgment, when the court can consider evidence, or will prevail at
trial.  It is only to say that reading
the complaint liberally and drawing all reasonable inferences in plaintiff’s
favor, there is enough here to link the post 2020 allegations to the pre-2020
allegations.  Nyunt contends that the
post 2020 allegations involved Gutierrez or others, but not Nyunt.  However, it is not unreasonable to infer from
the allegations that Gutierrez’s conduct was directed by or in support of
Nyunt’s conduct.  That inference might
well not survive summary judgment, but this is not the time that the court can
consider evidence.  Thus, the demurrer as
to disability discrimination is OVERRULED.
However, that does not fix the issue
as to the sex discrimination claims. 
There, it appears that the last wrongful act related to her pre-2019
leave of absence.  (TAC, ¶12(a).)  The court sees no allegations of any
continuing acts of sex discrimination after plaintiff returned from her May
2019 leave of absence.  In applying the
factors above, there are no allegations to indicate that similar actions
occurred between November 2019 to March 2021 or that they occurred with
sufficient frequency throughout that period. 
The court is not seeking every evidentiary fact, but there is an
unexplained gap that does not support application of the continuing violation
doctrine to plaintiff’s claims for sex discrimination or harassment.  This is the third time this argument has been
raised, and after two attempts to amend her claims, plaintiff has been unable
to do so. Thus, the demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
second cause of action for harassment on the basis of gender in violation of
FEHA and fourth cause of action for discrimination on the basis of sex in
violation of FEHA.
That leaves the demurrer to the
interactive process and reasonable accommodation claims. Defendants argue that
plaintiff has not alleged that a reasonable accommodation was available or that
she could perform the essential functions of her job.  Under the FEHA, it is an unlawful employment
practice to fail to make reasonable accommodation for the known physical or
mental disability of an employee or applicant unless the accommodation is
demonstrated by the employer to produce undue hardship in its operation.  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (m).)  “The FEHA makes it unlawful for an employer
‘to fail to engage in a timely, good faith, interactive process with the
employee or applicant to determine effective reasonable accommodations, if any,
in response to a request for reasonable accommodation by an employee or
applicant with a known physical or mental disability or known medical
condition.’  (§ 12940, subd. (n).)  Section 12940, subdivision (n) imposes
separate duties on the employer to engage in the ‘“interactive process”’ and to
make ‘“reasonable accommodations.” ’  (Wilson
v. County of Orange (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1185, 1193; Wysinger, supra,
157 Cal.App.4th at pp. 424–425.)”  (Scotch
v. Art Institute of California (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1003, parallel
citations omitted.)  Both arguments are
not well suited to a demurrer. Plaintiff alleges defendants failed to take part
in the interactive process because they told her they do not hire people with
disabilities and then forced her out of her job.  (TAC, ¶52.) 
That is sufficient to establish defendants’ failure to engage in a good
faith process with plaintiff to determine any reasonable accommodation.
As for the reasonable accommodation
claim, defendants assert they had no obligation to find plaintiff a new
position where plaintiff could not perform the essential functions of her job,
with or without an accommodation. 
Whether plaintiff could perform the essential functions of her job with
or without an accommodation is a question of fact.  “Under FEHA, ‘reasonable accommodation’ means
‘“a modification or adjustment to the workplace that enables the employee to
perform the essential functions of the job held or desired.” ’  (Furtado, supra, 212 Cal.App.4th at p.
745, italics omitted; see Nadaf–Rahrov v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc.
(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 952, 974.)  While
the reasonableness of an accommodation is ordinarily a question of fact (Nealy,
supra, 234 Cal.App.4th at p. 374; Raine, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1227, fn. 11), FEHA does not require employers to eliminate essential
functions of a job to accommodate a disabled employee.  (See Nealy, at p. 375 [‘elimination of
an essential function is not a reasonable accommodation’]; Furtado, at
p. 753 [waiving an essential requirement would mean that the plaintiff ‘would
not have to demonstrate that he is a “qualified individual”’ under FEHA]; Lui,
supra, 211 Cal.App.4th at p. 985 [‘FEHA did not obligate defendant to
accommodate plaintiff by excusing him from the performance of essential
functions’]; Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11068, subd. (b) [‘[w]here a quality or
quantity standard is an essential job function, an employer . . . is not
required to lower such a standard as an accommodation’].)  As the court in Nealy explained, requiring
employers to eliminate an essential function of a job to accommodate a disabled
employee ‘would be at odds with the definition of the employee's prima facie
case’ under FEHA.  (Nealy, at p.
375.)  The employee's burden includes
‘showing he or she can perform the essential functions of the job with
accommodation, not that an essential function can be eliminated altogether to
suit his or her restrictions.’  (Ibid.)”  (Atkins v. City of Los Angeles (2017)
8 Cal.App.5th 696, 719–720, parallel citations omitted.)
The court adds that plaintiff alleges
she had a permanent accommodation where she could perform her job
responsibilities, but defendants removed her from it without explanation.  (TAC, ¶12(j).)  Government Code section 12926, subdivision
(p) also does not limit reasonable accommodations to finding a comparable
position. The remaining demurrers are therefore OVERRULED.