  Case Number:  22SMCV00114    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to tax costs is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff filed a breach of contract action against various
parties.  The parties moved for summary
judgment, which was granted as to all but one party.  Judgment was thereafter entered as to the
successful parties, and defendant Integon submitted a cost bill.  Plaintiff seeks to tax those costs.  Recovery of costs is statutory.  A prevailing party—and Integon plainly is a
prevailing party—is entitled to recover certain costs by right, certain costs
as a matter of discretion, and other costs not at all.  Which costs are recoverable are set forth in
CCP section 1033.5.  Even recoverable
costs must be reasonable and necessary, and a verified memorandum of costs is prima
facie evidence of the propriety of the costs sought.  The total costs sought here is
$5,905.70.  
 
Plaintiff seeks to strike or tax costs of $1335.70 relating
to motion and filing fees, electronic filing fees, service fees, and electronic
document hosting fees.  But the arguments
lack merit.  The court believes that the
electronic filing fees are reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation, especially given the court’s policy on electronic filing.  Similarly, the charges from third party
vendors to serve or file documents is reasonably appropriate.  (While subdivision (a)(15) is no longer operative,
those costs are recoverable under subdivision (a)(14).)
 
Plaintiff also argues that certain costs, most importantly
deposition costs, ought to be prorated in that not every defendant prevailed
but the costs benefitted each defendant. 
The court disagrees.  The fact
that there were multiple defendants did not increase the cost in any cognizable
way.  Rather, the prevailing defendant,
and each of them, needed to incur the cost in order to prevail.  The court is not aware of any rule that
requires proration, at least where there is no way to compartmentalize the costs
such that some costs did not benefit the prevailing party or where there was
some increase due to the fact that there were multiple parties.
 
As to the costs incurred by the law firm, the court sees no
motion as to those costs.  The court
notes that the law firm’s cost bill does not seem to include costs that were
set forth in Indigo’s bill and therefore there is no double counting.