 Case Number:  22STCV28329    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  29 Arroyo v. Gonzalez
22STCV28329
Motion to Compel Defendant to Provide Further Responses to Requests for
Production (Set One)
Tentative
The Court GRANTS the motions to compel Defendant
to provide further responses to requests for production. 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for
sanctions.
Background
On August 31, 2022, Plaintiff Angelica Arroyo (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against Defendant Leonardo Moreno Gonzalez (“Defendant”) and Does 1
through 50, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle and general
negligence arising out of a car accident on December 10, 2021, at or near the
intersection of Lankershim Boulevard and Tuxford Street in Los Angeles. 
 
On October 28, 2022, Defendant filed an answer. 
 
Previously before the Court and set for hearing on October 4,
2024, were four motions to compel further responses filed on August 14,
2024.  The Court ruled on three of those motions on October 4 and
continued this one motion, regarding requests for production, to give the parties
additional time to attempt to resolve the matter.
 
No opposition has been filed. 
 
No party has made any further filing since the October 4, 2024,
hearing.
 
The parties participated in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC)
on September 17, 2024, but the disputes were not resolved.
 
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand
is incomplete.  (2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response
is without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses
must be given “within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set
forth specific facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be
accompanied by a meet-and-confer declaration and a separate statement or, in
the discretion of the Court, a “concise outline of the discovery request and
each response in dispute.” (Id., subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (h).)
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part,
that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that any person
“engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of the discovery
process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial justification, an
unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive response to a discovery
request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery; and making or opposing,
unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial justification. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant to provide
further responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production (Set One).
There is a long procedural history with regard
to these discovery requests and the pending motions, as set forth in the Minute
Order dated October 4, 2024. 
Timeliness
For the reasons stated in the Minute Order dated
October 4, 2024, the Court finds that the motion is timely.
Merits
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to
Requests for Production Nos. 1 through 41.  The Court has reviewed
the requests and the responses and rules that the responses are not code
compliant.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.210-.230.)  The
motion to compel further responses to the requests for production is granted.
Sanctions
The requests for sanctions are
denied.  In connection with this motion to compel further responses,
the Legislature has authorized sanctions against “any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)  Here,
Defendant has not opposed the motion.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS the motion to compel Defendant
to provide further responses to requests for production. 
The Court ORDERS Defendant to provide further
verified responses, without objection, that are code complaint to Requests for
Production Nos. 1-41 within 10 days of notice.
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions.
Moving party to give notice.