 Case Number:  22STCV13176    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  29 Torosyan v. Pour
22STCV13176
Defendants’ motion for leave to conduct medical examination of Plaintiff
Tentative
The motion is denied without prejudice.
Background
On April 20, 2022, Katerin Torosyan and
Vigen Tsaturyan (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants Shervin Dirin Pour, Hertz Corporation, and Does 1 through 25, asserting
causes of action for general negligence and motor vehicle negligence in
connection with an accident in which, Plaintiffs allege, they suffered property
damages and personal injuries. 
On December 6, 2022, Defendant Shervin Dirinpour
(erroneously sued as Shervin Dirin Pour) (“Defendant”) filed an Answer to the
complaint. 
On September 10, 2024, Defendant filed the
instant motion for leave to conduct a physical (otolaryngological) examination of
Plaintiff Vigen Tsaturyan (“Plaintiff”). Plaintiffs filed an opposition on September
30, and Defendant filed a reply on October 2. 
Legal Standard
“Any
party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a physical or mental examination
of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of any party, or (3) a natural
person in the custody or under the legal control of a party, in any action in
which the mental or physical condition (including the blood group) of that
party or other person is in controversy in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.020, subd. (a).)
In a personal injury action, the defendant may demand one physical
examination of plaintiff as of right, without advance leave of the court. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.)  
If a defendant seeks a further physical examination of plaintiff, or a
mental examination, the defendant must first file a motion and “obtain leave of
court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a motion must
“specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) 
The court may grant such a motion “only for good cause shown.” (Id.,
§ 2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that the
party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) The moving party¿must support the motion with a meet and
confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A meet
and confer declaration must state facts “showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ 
“An order granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the
person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place,
manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (d).) “The
court is to describe¿in detail¿who will conduct the examination, where
and when it will be conducted, the conditions, scope and nature of the
examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be employed. The
way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in
detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)¿¿The examination will be limited to whatever
condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020,
subd. (a).)  
Discussion
Defendant noticed two physical examinations
of Plaintiff: one by Dr. Taylor Kuhn on August 29 and a second one by Dr.
Nguyen on September 4. (Nelson Decl., ¶¶ 5-6 & Exhs. B-C; Pogosyan Decl., ¶
2.) As a threshold matter, this was improper: Defendant had no right to notice a
second physical examination of Plaintiff, without first obtaining leave of the Court,
and Plaintiff had no obligation to appear for that second physical examination.
Any no-show fee incurred by Defendant based on Plaintiff’s failure to appear
for the second, improperly noticed, examination is the responsibility of
Defendant, not Plaintiff. (See Nelson Decl., ¶ 7.)
Regardless of that error, however,
Defendant now moves for a court order granting leave for a second physical
examination under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310. This motion (as
opposed to a unilateral notice sent by Defendant) is the proper procedural
vehicle for Defendant to seek a second physical examination of Plaintiff.
To obtain an order granting leave for a
second physical examination, a moving party must comply with all of the
procedural requirements of section 2032.310, including that the motion must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) The meet and confer
declaration must show “a reasonable and good faith attempt at informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  
Defendant has not
satisfied this requirement. (See Nelson Decl., ¶ 8; Pogosyan Decl., ¶¶ 3-7.) Accordingly,
the motion is denied without prejudice.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES
Defendant’s motion without prejudice.
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.