  Case Number:  21STCV35476    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  29 Davis v.
Fink
21STCV35476
Defendants’ Motion to Continue Trial and to Compel Medical Examination
Tentative
The request
to continue trial is denied as moot.
The
request to compel a medical examination of Plaintiff is denied without
prejudice on procedural grounds.
Background
On September
27, 2021, Dru Davis (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Alex Stuart Fink, 5 Star Hollywood Tours, LLC (collectively
“Defendants”), and Does 1 through 50 for negligence arising out of an automobile
accident occurring on September 30, 2019.
Defendants
filed their answer on May 8, 2023.
On September 11,
2024, Defendants filed this motion to continue trial
and for an order compelling a medical examination of Plaintiff. Defendants also
seek sanctions.
No opposition has been filed. 
A supplemental declaration in support of the
motion was filed by Defendants on September 25, 2024.
The parties submitted a stipulation to
continue the trial date on October 4, 2024, which the Court approved on October
7.  Accordingly, the request in the
motion to continue the trial date is now moot. 

The Court will proceed to consider the merits
of the request in the motion to compel a medical examination of Plaintiff.
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a
physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of
any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of
a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition (including the
blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.220 provides that in a personal injury action,
the defendant may demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of right,
without advance leave of the court:
“(a) In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking
recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical
examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are
satisfied:
(1)  The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive.
(2)  The
examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the
examinee.
(b)  A
defendant may make a demand under this article without leave of court ….
(c)  
A demand under subdivision (a) shall specify the
time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well
as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the physician who will perform
the examination.
(d)  A
physical examination demanded under subdivision (a) shall be scheduled for a
date that is at least 30 days after service of the demand ….”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.)  
Within 20 days of service of a demand for a physical
examination, the plaintiff to whom the demand is directed must respond in
writing and state that the plaintiff “will comply with the demand as stated,
will comply with the demand as specifically modified by the plaintiff, or will
refuse, for reasons specified in the response, to submit to the demanded
physical examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2032.230, subd. (a).)  Failure to serve
a timely response waives any objection to the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.240, subd. (a).)
If a plaintiff fails to respond to the demand for a
physical examination, Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.240 provides that
the defendant “may move for an order compelling response and compliance with
[the] demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.240,
subd. (b).)  No meet and confer is
required.
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel response and compliance with
a demand for a physical examination, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.240, subd. (c).)
In
Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d),
defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond
to or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Where a party or attorney has engaged in
misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in
the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Discussion
As a
preliminary matter, the Court notes that Defendants seek two discrete items of
relief in what is presented as a single motion. At best, this is poor practice;
at worst, it is impermissible. As a leading treatise states, “Each motion or
demurrer should normally be set forth in a separate document.” (2 Weil &
Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial [2024] ¶ 9:24.3.)
The
Court exercises its discretion, on this one occasion, to disregard this
procedural defect. In the future, however, the Court expects the parties to
file separate motions when multiple disparate items of relief are requested.
As noted
above, Defendants’ request in the motion to continue trial has become moot
based on subsequent events.  Accordingly,
the Court now turns to the portion of the motion seeking an order compelling
the medical examination of Plaintiff.
In particular,
Defendants seek an order compelling Plaintiff to submit to a medical examination
by Dr. Steven Nagelberg.  (Kwong Decl., ¶
6 & Exh. B.)  Plaintiff alleges a
variety of injuries from the accident, including back, neck, and shoulder pain,
and Dr. Nagelberg is an orthopedic surgeon. 
(Id., ¶ 5 & Exh. B.)
Defendants
initially served a demand for the examination on July 29, 2024, with the
examination scheduled for September 3. 
(Id., ¶ 6 & Exh. B.) 
Subsequently, however, Defendants changed the date of the examination
(as a result of the doctor’s schedule): on August 21, 2024, served an amended
demand with the examination scheduled for September 5.  (Id., ¶ 7 & Exh. C.)
Plaintiff
did not serve a response or objection to the initial demand or the amended
demand.  (Id., ¶ 8.)  Plaintiff did not appear for the examination
by Dr. Nagelberg on September 5.  (Id., ¶
9.)
Defendants
now seeks a court order requiring Plaintiff to appear for and be examined by
Dr. Nagelberg.  Defendants are entitled
to the examination as of right (assuming that this is the first physical
examination of Plaintiff requested by Defendants).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd.
(a).)  But to obtain a court order for the
examination, Defendants must comply with all applicable statutory requirements,
and they have not done so.
Specifically,
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220, subdivision (d), requires that that an
examination must be “scheduled for a date that is at least 30 days after service
of the demand.”  Defendants initially
complied with this requirement; on July 29 they served a demand for an
examination on September 3.  But then
Defendants changed the date of the examination to September 5, and they did not
give 30 days advance notice of the new date: to the contrary, they served the
amended demand on August 21.  (Kwong
Decl., ¶ 7 & Exh. C.)  This was not
timely.
Accordingly,
the Court must deny the motion to compel, without prejudice, on procedural
grounds.
Because the
motion to compel is denied, the request for sanctions is also denied.  Sanctions are authorized only against a “party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
response and compliance with a demand for a physical examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.240, subd. (c).)
Conclusion
The
Court DENIES as moot Defendants’ request in the motion to continue trial.
The
Court DENIES without prejudice Defendants’ requests in the motion for an order
compelling the physical examination of Plaintiff and for sanctions.
Moving party is to give notice. 