  Case Number:  21GDCV01154    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
2, 2023                                          TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         BREANN HOWARD, on
behalf of the State of California, as a private attorney general, v. KOULAX
ENTERPRISES, a California corporation; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 21GDCV01154
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR ORDER LIFTING STAY

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Breann Howard
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
Koulax Enterprises 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed October 9, 2023 
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed October 20, 2023
 
REPLY:                                   Filed October 26, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff moves for an order
vacating this court’s previous motion to compel arbitration and lifting the
stay of this case. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Breann Howard’s (“Plaintiff”) Private Attorneys
General Act (“PAGA”) claim against Defendant Koulax Enterprises (“Defendant”).
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant engaged in employment law violations against
Plaintiff and other aggrieved employees. Plaintiff filed this complaint on
September 8, 2021, alleging one cause of action for violation of PAGA.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff’s motion for an order vacating this court’s
previous order compelling arbitration and for an order lifting the stay of this
case is GRANTED.
            
            Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is granted for $1. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            On
June 1, 2023, this court granted Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration.
Plaintiff filed her demand to arbitration with AAA on June 23, 2023, and timely
paid her fees. (Zakay Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) AAA sent an
invoice to Defendant’s counsel Jean-Paul Le Clercq (“Le Clercq”) on August 1,
2023, with the balance due upon receipt. (Id. ¶ 5, Exhibit 2.) Plaintiff
provides that Defendant failed to pay the invoice until September 13, 2023,
over 30 days after the payment was due. (Id. ¶ 8.)
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.98, subdivision
(a)(1), provides, in part: “In an employment or consumer arbitration that
requires . . .that the drafting party pay certain fees and costs during the pendency
of an arbitration proceeding, if the fees or costs required to continue the
arbitration proceeding are not paid within 30 days after the due date, the
drafting party is in material breach of the arbitration agreement, is in
default of the arbitration, and waives its right to compel the employee or
consumer to proceed with that arbitration as a result of the material breach.” 
 
            “The
Legislature enacted section 1281.98 in 2019 to curb a particular arbitration
abuse. The abuse was that a defendant could force a case into arbitration but,
once there, could refuse to pay the arbitration fees, thus effectively stalling
the matter and stymying the plaintiff's effort to obtain relief. The
Legislature called this ‘procedural limbo.’ ” (Cvejic v. Skyview Capital,
LLC (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 1073, 1076.) 
 
            At first
glance, this appears to be a straightforward application of the statute based
on Defendant’s failure to timely pay the arbitration fees. However, Defendant
argues that it was improperly notified of the due dates. Specially, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff improperly listed Le Clercq as the attorney to be sent
the invoice to. (Martorell Decl. ¶ 3, Exhibit A.) Defendant argues that Le Clercq stepped back from
his work at Martorell Law APC, Defendant’s counsel. (Id. ¶ 4.) Defendant
also provides that additional individuals were to be notified on all
correspondence with Martorell Law. (Id. ¶ 5.) Defendant also provides it
informed Plaintiff’s counsel that any e-service in this case needed to include
several people, and the list provided listed Eduardo Martorell first. (Id. ¶
7.) 
 
            Plaintiff argues that the statute should strictly apply
while Defendant argues that Plaintiff engaged in gamesmanship to prevent
providing proper notice. The court notes that in various proofs of service,
Plaintiff complied with Defendant’s request to submit and listed Eduardo
Martorell first. However, it does not appear that Plaintiff intended to engage
in gamesmanship. First, in the court’s record, Defendant’s counsel of record is
still Jean-Paul LeClercq. Additionally, the AAA’s demand for arbitration form
only provides space to input one representative for Respondent. (Martorell Decl. ¶ 3, Exhibit A.) Thus, although it would have
likely been more prudent for Plaintiff to list Eduardo Martorell as the
representative, it was not unreasonable for Defendant to elect to input Le
Clecrq’s information. 
 
            Lastly, Plaintiff is correct in arguing that section
1281.98 is strictly enforced. “As the legislative history and
caselaw direct, we strictly enforce this statute.” (Cvejic, supra, 92
Cal.App.5th 1073, 1078.) Further, in Espinoza v. Superior Court (2022 83
Cal.App.5th 761, 775, the Court of Appeals held that Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.97, a section very similar to section 1281.98, did not contain an
exemption for substantial compliance, unintentional nonpayment, or absence of
prejudice. “The plain language therefore indicates the Legislature intended the
statute to be strictly applied whenever a drafting party failed to pay by the
statutory deadline.”
 
            The Court in
Espinosa, supra, so strongly believed in strict enforcement that it
stated “We do not agree that applying the statute strictly, even when
nonpayment is inadvertent, leads to absurd consequences. Although strict
application may in some cases impose costs on drafting parties for innocent
mistakes, the Legislature could have concluded a brightline rule is preferable
to requiring the nondrafting party to incur further delay and expense
establishing the nonpayment was intentional and prejudicial.”(83 Cal.App.5th at
p. 777.) This court recognizes that some ill-willed parties could seek to use
this strict requirement to their advantage by purposefully ensuring that the
responding party does not receive notice. However, that does not appear to be
the case here. 
 
            Plaintiff
also requests sanctions totaling $8,250.75. The court recognizes that sections
1281.98 and 1281.99 provide a mandatory imposition of monetary sanctions.
However, both case law and the statutes suggest that sanctions are necessary to
prevent abuse of the arbitration system by a drafting party who is dilatory in
moving forward with arbitration. That does not seem to be the case here. Here,
it appears that the failure to pay was completely by mistake resulting from the
errors by both sides and imposition of sanctions would unjust. Thus, Defendant
is ordered to pay sanctions totaling $1. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s motion for an order vacating this court’s
previous order compelling arbitration and for an order lifting the stay of this
case is GRANTED.
            
            Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is granted for $1. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice
 
            
Dated:   November 2,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court