 Case Number:  23STCV18472    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  47 At the previous hearing on Defendants’ Motions to Compel
Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and
Requests for Production, the Court ordered the parties to meet and confer
regarding an informal resolution of the issues in the pending motions. (See
August 26, 2024 Minute Order.) The Court ordered the parties to file and serve
a joint statement by September 5 regarding what issues have been resolved, what
issues remain to be ruled upon, and the parties’ position on the issue of
sanctions. (Id.) The statement indicates that the parties have reached
an agreement on all discovery at issue, with the exception of Form
Interrogatory 17.1 as pertaining to Requests for Admissions Nos. 2, 23, and 27
and the requests for sanctions. (Declaration of Miles Carlsen para. 9.) 
 
Plaintiff’s position is that a further response to Form
Interrogatory 17.1 as pertaining to Requests for Admissions Nos. 2, 23, and 27
with is not required because Plaintiff did not offer a denial of those
requests. According to Attorney Carlsen’s declaration, Defendant’s position is
that a further response is required.  The Court agrees with Plaintiff that
no further response is required.  As Defendant’s moving papers acknowledge
Plaintiff did not deny RFA No. 27, instead responding that it lacked sufficient
information to admit the matter.  Further, neither RFA 2 or 23 are even
mentioned in Defendant’s moving papers so supplemental answers could not be
ordered as to these two RFAs.  If this is the only remaining discovery
issue, the Court rules in Plaintiff’s favor as to this dispute, and finds that
the other discovery disputes raised by the three motions have been mooted by
the parties’ informal resolution.  
 
The only matters remaining for resolution are Defendant’s
requests for sanctions.  As noted above, the Court has ruled against
Defendant on at least one aspect of its motion to compel further responses to
Form Interrogatories, so full sanctions are plainly not warranted.  That
said, according to the Carlsen Declaration, Defendant conceded some of
Plaintiff’s arguments during the meet and confer process, following the Court’s
comments at the informal discovery conference so there is some force to the
argument that at least some aspects of the three motions to compel further
should not have had to be litigated.  On the other hand, many of the
parties’ disputes were about Defendant’s insistence on Plaintiff’s answers
being technically complete, even though much of the information sought had
already been provided in other discovery responses.  On balance, then, the
Court concludes that some of Plaintiff’s opposition positions were
substantially justified while others were not.  Accordingly, the Court
finds that Plaintiff and his attorney should pay reduced sanctions but not the
exorbitant amount of fees sought by Defendant – at total of $6,971.50 for three
very short, boilerplate motions that should have taken very little time to
prepare.  Accordingly, the Court awards a total of $1,000 for the three
motions plus three filing fees of $61 each, for a total of $1,183 against
Plaintiff and his attorney, jointly and severally.   
 