  Case Number:  22VECV00728    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  W ALBERT BOYAJIAN V.
SURGE GLOBAL BAKERIES PARTNERS GP, ET AL.
 
DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
Date of Hearing:        July 18, 2024                                      Trial
Date:       None set   
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        22VECV00728
 
Moving Party:            Defendants McLarty Capital Partners
SBIC II, LLC, Lauren Steel, and Parris Boyd
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Albert Boyajian and Global
Chips, Inc. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 31, 2022,
Plaintiff Albert Boyajian filed a complaint against Defendants Surge Global
Bakeries Holdings LLC, Surge Global Bakeries Partners LP, Surge Global Bakeries
Partners GP, LLC, Surge Private Equity LLC, Surge Private Equity, McLarty
Capital Partners SBIC II, LP, The Firmament Group, Thomas Beauchamp, Lewis
Sharp, Lauren Steel, Parris Boyd, Tobias Keller, Andy Burchfield, and Ashur
Aghasi for (1) Limited Partner Derivative Suit; (2) Limited Partner Derivative
Suit; (3) Fraudulent Concealment; (4) Breach of Contract; and (5) Breach of
Contract.
 
This action involves
shareholder derivative and direct claims by Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges he
sold his profitable bakery for an equity position in a parent entity, a place
on the board of directors of his former bakery (now a wholly-owned subsidiary),
and a Consulting Agreement. However, Plaintiff alleges he did not know, when he
sold his company, that the purchase was merely the first step of a lender’s
scheme to exploit the company for the lender’s benefit, entirely contrary to
the best interests of the equity holders. Plaintiff contends after the
purchase, the company unwarrantedly acquired an additional two companies and
took on additional dramatic debt, during periods of mismanagement by inept
managers and the lender who controlled the board. Moreover, since the takeover,
Plaintiff alleges the lender has not given plaintiff any information on the
companies; and has not called a meeting of the board. 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING:
 
Defendants McLarty
Capital Partners SBIC II, LLC, Lauren Steel, and Parris Boyd’s Demurrer is OVERRULED.   
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants McLarty
Capital Partners SBIC II, LLC, Lauren Steel, Parris Boyd, and Tobias Keller
request this court take judicial notice of General Assignment for the Benefit
of Creditors, dated March 8, 2024 (“ABC Contract”), entered between the
Assignor, Surge Global Bakeries Holdings LLC, and the Assignee, SG Service Co.,
LLC (Exh. A). 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiffs object to the request on the grounds the document is an alleged private
agreement purportedly signed by two entities, neither of whom is SBIC or
Plaintiffs. Firmament does not indicate how this document came into its possession,
much less in a way that would establish authenticity. Additionally, Firmament
proffers no evidence that either purported signatory actually signed the
document or that the signatures are authentic. 
 
The court GRANTS the
request for judicial notice. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants McLarty
Capital Partners SBIC II, LLC (“SBIC”), Lauren Steel, Parris Boyd, and Tobias
Keller (collectively “Firmament Defendants”) demur to the First Amended
Complaint as to the first cause of action for Limited Partner Derivative Suit
for Breach of Fiduciary Duty and to the second cause of action for Limited
Partner Derivative Suit for Interference with Corporate Governance.
Specifically, Firmament Defendants demur to the first and second causes of
action on the grounds (1) California does not authorize double derivative
suits; (2) neither Delaware nor California law recognize a cause of action for  Interference with Corporate Governance; (3) Plaintiffs
fail to adequately plead that they have made demand upon the assignee of
Holdings LLC, the Stapleton Group, or that such demand would be futile; and (4)
Plaintiffs have failed to include the assignee, the Stapleton Group, which is a
necessary and indispensable party, as a defendant in this matter.
 
The court briefly
notes the opposition and objections were filed one court day late. However, the
court finds no prejudice to the Firmament Defendants or its counsel. (See Kapitanski
v. Von's Grocery Co., Inc. (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 29, 32-33; Juarez v.
Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.) 
 
Double Derivative
Suit
 
Firmament Defendants
demur to the first and second causes of action of the First Amended Complaint
on the grounds Plaintiffs lack standing because California does not allow
double derivative lawsuits. 
 
“’[B]y its nature, a
double derivative suit is one brought by a shareholder of a parent corporation
to enforce a claim belonging to a subsidiary that is either wholly owned or
majority controlled. Normally, such a claim is one that only the parent corporation,
acting through its board of directors, is empowered to enforce. Cases may
arise, however, where the parent corporation's board is shown to be incapable
of making an impartial business judgment regarding whether to assert the
subsidiary's claim. In those cases a shareholder of the parent will be
permitted to enforce that claim on the parent corporation's behalf, that is,
double derivatively.’ [Citation.]” (Villari v. Mozilo (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1470, 1478.) 
 
Firmament Defendants
argue California Corporation Code section 800(b) (and by extension Section
17709.02) stand for the proposition only a person who actually owns shares of
the entity on which behalf he or she seeks to bring a derivative suit has
standing to do so. Firmament Defendants contend by definition a “double
derivative” Plaintiff does not own shares of the ultimate entity on which
behalf he or she seeks to bring suit. Accordingly, California courts do not
recognize double derivative suits. In support of this contention, Firmament
Defendants cite Grosset v. Wenaas (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1100 [court noted
there are some ‘noteworthy’ differences between section 800(b)(1) and
Delaware’s section 327], Gaillard v. Natomas (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 410 [holding
plaintiff's filing of a “double derivative” shareholder suit could not meet the
contemporaneous ownership requirement of Corporation Code § 800(b)(1) on either
of the two exceptions enunciated in subsection (b)], and Mueller v. Macban
(1976) 62 Cal.App.3d 258 [holding one who is not a stockholder of the
association is not qualified to bring a derivative action on behalf of the
association.]. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiffs initially argue Firmament Defendants have failed to establish which
law applies – California or Delaware. Plaintiffs contend Firmament Defendants previously
argued, in its original demurrer, that questions of fact required resolution
before deciding whether California or Delaware law should apply. Moreover, the
Firmament Defendants have not met its burden to show that only California law
applies in this case.
 
The court agrees at
this time it is unclear whether California or Delaware law applies. However,
the court may sustain the demurrer on alternative grounds including different
governing laws. (See City of Morgan Hill v. Bay Area Air Quality Management
Dist. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 861, 870.)
 
Plaintiffs next argue
no California court has disavowed double derivative actions. Plaintiffs argue
the court in Grosset did not address double derivative claims such as
the instant one here. In Grosset, the court concluded that under both Delaware’s
and California’s contemporaneous ownership rules a post-merger plaintiff does not
have standing. When analyzing Gaillard, Plaintiffs contend the court in Grosset
never addressed the viability of double derivatives generally in California,
and certainly not with respect to the non-merger action; it just noted that it
would not work with the facts of that case. This court notes that Gaillard
explicitly held that double derivative standing could not aid its plaintiff “in
its present form.” (Gaillard, supra, 173 Cal.App.3d at p. 419.) Plaintiffs
also argue the court in Mueller, while finding the plaintiffs lacked
standing, did so because the real parties had arguably waived the issue of
standing as a shareholder of the holding company. This court also notes that the
court in Gaillard found the holding in Mueller was inapposite to Gaillard’s
moving parties’ argument that California case law requires a restrictive
interpretation of section 800. 
 
Upon review of these three cases, the court agrees with
Plaintiffs that the current law in California does not explicitly disavow
double derivative actions based on the facts of this case. As noted above, Gaillard
explicitly held that double derivative standing could not aid its plaintiff “in
its present form.” (Gaillard, supra, 173 Cal.App.3d at p. 419.)
In fact, Gaillard stated “we cannot ignore that an interpretation of
section 800 so as to require continuing stock ownership will leave Gaillard and
all those similarly situated without a remedy.” (Ibid.) As such, the
court in Gaillard explicitly cautioned against what the Firmament
Defendants would have us do. Again, the court in Gaillard limited its
holding to the post-merger context where it found in that instant a ‘double
derivative’ suit by Gaillard “would present the anomalous situation of a
corporation suing itself for its own benefit, because of acts it performed.” (Ibid.)
Moreover, the court in Grosset actually found that California corporate
law is entirely consistent with Delaware corporate law. (Grosset,
supra, 42 Cal.4th at p. 1115.) As a result, this court finds that Grosset
did not entirely foreclose the idea of double derivative suits in California.
(See also, Kruss
v. Booth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 699 and Heshejin v. Rostami (2020) 54
Cal.App.5th 984. 
 Moreover, as already agreed upon by the parties,
Delaware law does permit parties to maintain a double derivative action in
certain situations. Again, it is therefore entirely possible for California to
be in line with Delaware courts recognizing double derivative standing. 
 
Given the liberal
construction of derivative suits, the court OVERRULES the demurrer on these
grounds. 
 
Interference with
Corporate Governance and Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
Firmament Defendants
demur to the second cause of action on the grounds California does not
recognize an Interference with Corporate Governance cause of action. 
 
Firmament Defendants
argue control over corporate governance is not its own separate tort and no California
case or statute addresses such a cause of action or indicates what its elements
would be. Accordingly, this court should not be the first in California to
recognize a separate tort for interference with corporate governance especially
when the Supreme Court has advised against “judicial activism” for an extension
of tort remedies. (Harris v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
70, 81.)
 
In opposition,
Plaintiffs argue Firmament Defendants have admitted that a lender may be liable
for a claim of undue control of a business under California law when alleged as
a breach of fiduciary duty. (See Dem. 2 at p. 9:13-21, quoting Credit
Managers Association of Southern California v. Superior Court (1975) 51
Cal.App.3d 352, 360.) Here, Plaintiffs aver their second cause of action seeks
to impose liability on SBIC for interference with corporate governance and
breach of fiduciary duty. Specifically, it is based on the undue control SBIC
as lender took of Surge Bakeries, in directing and dictating Surge Bakeries’ implausible
acquisitions, forcing unsustainable debt on the company then completing a
take-over of the company, firing directors and forcing fire sales of assets,
while withholding information from a Surge Bakeries director. (FAC¶2-4, 32, 38,
42-47, 55, 59, 65-67.) Plaintiffs contend in taking this excessive and atypical
control, SBIC interfered with Surge Bakeries’ authority to run its own business
and conduct its own corporate affairs, thereby placing it in a position where
it owed fiduciary duties to Surge Bakeries, akin to the duties owed by Surge
Bakeries’ officers and directors. 
 
In reply, Firmament
Defendants contend Plaintiffs have effectively admitted that Interference with
Corporate Governance is not a separate tort and Plaintiffs have already stated
a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty. Accordingly, because this cause
of action is redundant of their breach of fiduciary cause of action, the court
should strike the Interference with Corporate Governance claim. 
 
The court agrees that
this cause of action is truly a breach of fiduciary duty claim and does not
stand alone as a claim for interference with corporate governance. The court
will overrule the demurrer but plaintiff must understand that this is a cause
of breach of fiduciary duty and those are the elements which must be
proven.   
 
Futility of Demand
 
Firmament Defendants
next demur to the First Amended Complaint on the grounds Plaintifffs failed to
make demand on the Stapelton Group, the assignee of Holdings LLC’s assets or show
demand futility. 
 
A derivative suit
plaintiff must allege that he or she made a demand on the corporation itself or
that making a demand would be futile. (See Corp. Code §§ 800(b)(2),
17709.02(a)(2); Del. Chancery R. 23.1.) He or she “must make an earnest, not a
simulated effort, with the managing body of the corporation,” and “must
demonstrate to the court with particularity the efforts he or she made[.]” (Bader
v. Anderson (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 775, 789.) 
 
Firmament Defendants
argue Plaintiffs cannot satisfy this requirement because they do not allege
that they made a demand or that it would have been futile to make demand on the
Stapleton Group, which controlled Holdings LLC at the time Plaintiffs filed the
FAC. Firmament Defendants first contend because this court sustained the
demurrer to the original complain because Boyajian lacked standing, the demand
requirement must be reevaluated at the time Plaintiffs filed the FAC. (See Apple
Inc. v. Superior Court (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 222, 243 holding derivative
action claims are not “validly in litigation” if a court “sustain[s a] demurrer
… with leave to amend[.]”.) Firmament Defendants further argue because the
Stapleton Group had assumed control over all assets of Holdings LLC, Plaintiffs
were required to renew their demand on the Stapleton Group. (See Falvey v. Foreman-State
Nat. Bank (7th Cir. 1939) 101 F.2d 409, 416 holding that when a bank has
made an “assignment … for the benefit of the creditors,” a derivative action
complaint is “fatally defective in not alleging a demand upon the [assignee
entity] to institute and prosecute the suit.”) Lastly, Firmament Defendants
contend demand on the Stapleton Group would not have been futile nor do
Plaintiffs even allege demand futility as to the Stapleton Group. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiffs assert the Firmament Defendants’ argument fails for two reasons: Firmament
has not authenticated the assignment for which it seeks judicial notice, as is required;
and Global Chips had no equity interest in Surge Bakeries such that it could
assert any demand on its board in the first place. Specifically, Plaintiffs
contend ownership in and demand on Surge Bakeries is not implicated in this
double derivative action, since Plaintiff Global Chips’ equity interest is only
in the parent, which wholly owns the subsidiary, Surge Bakeries. In such cases,
the parent and its principals and agents have committed wrongdoings related to
the subsidiary, and the parent entity’s board is incapable of making an
impartial business judgment whether to assert its subsidiary’s claims. 
 
First, the court
notes Firmament Defendants have now properly authenticated the assignment.
Moreover, judicial notice of a ‘private’ agreement may be subject to judicial
notice. In Scott v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th
743, 754, the court not only analyzed whether the agreement there was
judicially noticeable as an act of the FDIC pursuant to Evidence Code section
452(c) but also under Section 452(h) – judicial notice of facts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
ready determination. Other than questioning Firmament Defendants’ failure to
authenticate the document, Plaintiffs do not take any issue with the legal
effect of the document. 
 
Next, the court finds
Apple Inc. persuasive.  There, the
court held “when a trial court declares derivative claims to be legally
insufficient and grants leave to amend, the demand requirement must be
reassessed against the disinterest and independence of the board of directors
in place when the amended derivative claims are filed.” (Apple Inc., supra,
18 Cal.App.5th at p. 243.) The court, relying on Braddock v. Zimmerman
(Del. 2006) 906 A.2d 776, noted “[t]o begin, a derivative plaintiff under
California law already must make a demand on the company's board to take legal
action or show that it would have been futile to do so at the time the case is
initiated. (§ 800(b)(2).) If the suit is properly initiated and the derivative
claims are validly in issue, the presuit demand requirement has been met; hence,
the filing of an amended complaint arising from those same claims will not
trigger reassessment of the demand requirement.” (Apple Inc. v. Superior
Court (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 222, 246.) The Braddock court had established
that certain conditions must be met for a claim to be “validly in litigation”
which included that the original complaint was properly pled as a derivative
suit. (Braddock, supra, 906 A.2d at p. 786.)  (Here, Plaintiff’s counsel conceded that
Boyajian might not be the proper plaintiff for all the causes of action pled.
(Minute Order, March 11, 2024.)  
 
Plaintiffs argue
regardless, demand would have still been futile because it need not make a
demand on Stapleton Group and the allegations are sufficient under both
California and Delaware law to establish futility of any demand made to Surge
LP. (See, e.g., FAC, ¶¶ 15, 17, 33-34, 38, 43-47, 62, 73 [there is no general
partner of Surge LP, which was completely dominated by Firmament, and
Defendants were unlikely to pursue an action because it could result in
individual exposure].) Plaintiffs contend because Plaintiffs’ ownership is
vested in Surge LP, Plaintiffs could only demand that Surge LP act, not Surge
Bakeries. Thus, the premise of Firmament’s argument—that demand had to be made
on Surge Bakeries—is simply wrong. (See Lambrecht v. O’Neal (Del. 2010)
3 A.3d 277, 282 [“only the parent corporation owns the subsidiary’s stock at
the time of the alleged wrongdoing, and the plaintiff owns stock only in the
parent. Therefore, a Rule 23.1 demand could only be made — and a derivative action
could only be brought — at the parent, not the subsidiary, level.”] 
 
Ultimately, the court
concludes that there was no legal requirement that plaintiff made a demand on
Stapleton because such claim would have been futile, as set forth in the FAC at
the paragraphs cited.  .  
 
Stapleton Group
 
Firmament Defendants
demur to the complaint on the grounds Plaintiffs failed to join the Stapleton
Group, an indispensable party, as a defendant. 
 
A necessary party is
regarded as indispensable if the court determines, in equity and good
conscience, that the action must be dismissed in the party’s absence in light
of, whether a judgment rendered in the party’s absence will be adequate. (TG
Oceanside, L.P. v. City of Oceanside (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 1355,
1365-66.)  “Indispensable parties have been identified as those who are
essential for ‘a complete determination of the controversy’” or “the ability of
a court to enter ‘any effective judgment.’” (Kaczorowski v. Mendocino County
Board of Supervisors (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 564, 568.) 
 
Firmament Defendants
argue in this case, the ABC contract confirms that the Stapleton Group assumed
Holdings LLC’s causes of action and the rights and obligation to step into
Holdings LLC’s shoes to initiate or defend litigation. (RJN, Exh. A §§ 1, 7.)
But Plaintiffs did not add the Stapleton Group as a party to this action. See
generally FAC. Therefore, Plaintiffs did not add an indispensable party and
this Court should sustain the demurrer to the First and Second Causes of
Action.
 
Plaintiffs argue it
did not need to name Stapleton because the ABC agreement came about after
Plaintiffs filed their original complaint. Plaintiffs initially filed this
lawsuit in May 2022. The complaint named Surge Bakeries as a nominal defendant.
According to the ABC agreement, Stapleton became the ABC of Surge Bakeries in
March 2024. Because a plaintiff is not required to amend an existing action to
join and name an assignee, when a party in the case transfers its interests, Plaintiffs
did not need to name Stapleton. Specifically, Code of Civil Procedure section
368.5 provides “An action or proceeding does not abate by the transfer of an
interest in the action or proceeding or by any other transfer of an interest.
The action or proceeding may be continued in the name of the original party, or
the court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be substituted
in the action or proceeding.” Accordingly, if the ABC agreement in fact
provides what Firmament contends it does, then Surge Bakeries’ interests are
transferred as a matter of law; the assignee obtains the same rights previously
held by Surge Bakeries (see Francisco v. Aguirre (1892) 94 Cal.180,
182-183 [receiver acquires same rights of assignor at the time]); and Stapleton
automatically becomes a nominal defendant. 
 
In reply, Firmament
Defendants argue there was no action to abate because when the court sustained
the demurrer to the original complaint, Plaintiffs no longer had a valid
derivative claim. The assignment occurred before Plaintiffs filed the FAC. 
 
The court concludes
that although the court had sustained the demurrer with leave to amend, the
action was still pending when the ABC agreement went into effect, triggering
Section 368.5.  The claim remains against
the Firmament defendants.  If plaintiff
wants to secure a judgment against Stapleton, they can be brought in by later
amendment.  