 Case Number:  23STCV08886    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  76  
            Plaintiff
seeks to compel Defendant to remove a 12 to 15 sq. ft. tall and 107 sq. feet wide
wall and structure which allegedly encroaches from Defendant’s property onto Plaintiff’s property
and interferes with Plaintiff’s use and enjoyment thereof.
Defendant
filed a Cross-Complaint alleging that the retaining wall was built to replace a
failing retaining wall and the encroachment is de minimis. During construction of
the wall, Defendant/Cross-Complainant negotiated certain points to appease Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant,
which permitted the retaining wall to be completed until demanding that the wall
be removed and rebuilt an inch in its entirety further back.
Cross-Defendants
Michael J. Ulman, as Trustee for the Fred Gorda Trust dated April 13, 2018, Paul
D. Mitchell, and Cross-Defendant Natalie Martinez demur to the Cross-Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING
Cross-Defendants
Michael J. Ulman, as Trustee for the Fred Gorda Trust dated April 13, 2018, Paul
D. Mitchell, and Cross-Defendant Natalie Martinez’s demurrer to the Cross-Complaint
is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the entire Cross-Complaint as against Cross-Defendants
Martinez and Mitchell, and OVERRULED as to the first and third causes of action
as against the Trustee Cross-Defendant.
            Cross-Complainant is given 30 days’ leave to amend as specified
below.
ANALYSIS
Discussion
Request For Judicial Notice
            Cross-Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of the follows:
(1) Exhibit
“A”: The California Secretary of State’s “Business Entity Search” portal, last visited
March 4, 2024 and which is located at https://bizfileonline.sos.ca.gov/search/business; (2)  Exhibit “B”: e-Certificate
of Registration from Bolagsverket, The Swedish Companies Registration Office, located at https://www.government.se/government-agencies/swedish-companies-registration-office/ 
            Requests
Nos 1 and 2 are GRANTED. The Court
may take judicial notice of a business entity’s corporate status as reflected in
the Secretary of State’s records. (Gamet
v. Blanchard (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286; Pedus Bldg. Servs. v. Allen (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 152, 156 n.2.) As for the foreign registration office
records, the Court may take judicial notice of “[f]acts and propositions
that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid,
Code § 452(h).)  
Meet and Confer
            The
Declaration of Giandominic Vitiello reflects that Cross-Defendants’ counsel satisfied
the meet and confer requirement set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41.
Discussion
Cross-Defendants
Michael J. Ulman, as Trustee for the Fred Gorda Trust dated April 13, 2018, Paul
D. Mitchell, and Cross-Defendant Natalie Martinez demur to the Cross-Complaint as
follows:
1.         Entire
Cross-Complaint.
            Cross-Defendants
argue that Cross-Complainant has no legal capacity to sue, and seeks relief against
Cross-Defendants Mitchell and Martinez without stating a claim against them because
they are not owners of the property with adverse claims to title of the subject
property, only witnesses.
            As
to Pool and Palm AB, nothing precludes it from filing this Cross-Complaint to quiet
title as owner of real property, which is the only capacity in which Pool and Palm
is sued and in which it sues.
(c) A foreign
corporation subject to the provisions of Chapter 21 (commencing with Section 2100)
which transacts intrastate business without complying with Section 2105 shall not
maintain any action or proceeding upon any intrastate business so transacted
in any court of this state, commenced prior to compliance with Section 2105, until
it has complied with the provisions thereof and has paid to the Secretary of State
a penalty of two hundred fifty dollars ($250) in addition to the fees due for filing
the statement and designation required by Section 2105 and has filed with the clerk
of the court in which the action is pending receipts showing the payment of the
fees and penalty and all franchise taxes and any other taxes on business or property
in this state that should have been paid for the period during which it transacted
intrastate business.

     (Corp Code § 2203(c)[bold emphasis added].)
Under the doctrine of comity, the plaintiff,
a foreign corporation, had the right to acquire and hold real property in the State
of California. (23 Am. Jur., 161, sec. 164.) Neither the Constitution nor
the statutes of Washington or California prohibit the holding of real property under
the circumstances of this case. The plaintiff acquired title to the mining claims
in California April 28, 1931. May 11th of that same year it duly qualified to transact
intrastate mining business in California, as provided by section 405 of the Civil
Code. Sections 405 et seq. (div. 1, part 4, title 1, ch. XVI) do not prohibit foreign
corporations from owning or holding real property in this state. Chapter XVI purports
only to regulate the circumstances under which a foreign corporation may be permitted
to transact intrastate business. . . .
We are of the opinion the plaintiff may not
be deemed to have transacted intrastate business in California by either collecting
from its lessee rental for the property or by commencing or maintaining this suit
to quiet title to the land. (Citations omitted.) …
(O’Connell Gold Mines, Ltd. v. Baker
(1944) 63 Cal. App. 2d 384, 386-87 [bold emphasis added].)
 
            This
argument is not persuasive. 
 
            As
for Defendants Martinez and Mitchell, the Cross-Complaint merely alleges:
 
Further, Pool
& Palm is informed and believes and thereon alleges that Martinez and Mitchell
were occupants of the Cross-Defendant Property since at least 2018, and despite
gifting the Cross-Defendant Property to Ullman in April 2020, Martinez (and Mitchell)
continue(s) to remain an occupant/occupants of the Cross-Defendant Property.  
 
      (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 6.)
            In
the Opposition, Cross-Complainant alleges that Martinez[1]
and Mitchell are properly named as parties as trust beneficiaries. Cross-Complainant
must allege the equitable interests held by each and why each cause of action is
properly asserted against them on this basis.
            The
demurrer to the entire Cross-Complaint as against Cross-Defendants Martinez and
Mitchell is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
2.         First
Cause of Action (Equitable Easement).
            Cross-Defendants
argue that this cause of action fails because it actually seeks adverse possession
without establishing the elements.
            In
the Opposition, Cross-Complainant cites Romero v. Shih (2022) 78 Cal. App.
5th 326, but the Supreme Court has granted review. Instead, the Court cites the
following case, which is still binding authority:
The law on equitable easements is well explained
in Shoen v. Zacarias (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 16 [187 Cal. Rptr. 3d 560] (Shoen).
There are three requirements, described in terms of the landowner and the trespasser.
Judicial creation of an easement over a landowner’s property is permissible “provided
that the trespasser shows that (1) her trespass was ‘“innocent”‘ rather than ‘“willful
or negligent,”‘ (2) the public or the property owner will not be ‘“‘irreparabl[y]
injur[ed]’”‘ by the easement, and (3) the hardship to the trespasser from having
to cease the trespass is ‘“‘greatly disproportionate to the hardship caused [the
owner] by the continuance of the encroachment.’”‘ [Citations.] Unless all three
prerequisites are established, a court lacks the discretion to grant an equitable
easement.” (Id. at p. 19; see id. at p. 21 [courts “resolve all doubts
against their issuance”].)
Further, “the equitable nature of this doctrine
does not give a court license to grant easements on the basis of ‘whatever [a court]
deems important,’ even when [the] prerequisites are absent.” (Shoen, supra,
237 Cal.App.4th at p. 19.) Shoen also explains that  “[a]lthough the equitable easement doctrine is
sometimes called the doctrine of ‘balancing of conveniences’ or the doctrine of
‘relative hardships’ [citation], these labels are somewhat misleading. These labels
suggest that an equitable easement may issue if the conveniences or hardships merely
favor the trespasser, when the doctrine actually requires that they tip disproportionately
in favor of the trespasser. These labels also suggest that the conveniences or hardships
between the trespasser and property owner start out in equipoise, when the doctrine
actually requires that they begin tipped in favor of the property owner due to the
owner’s substantial interest in exclusive use of her property arising solely from
her ownership of her land.” (Ibid.)
Shoen discusses at length the reasons
for requiring the seeker of an equitable easement “to prove that she will suffer
a greatly disproportionate hardship from denial of the easement than the
presumptively heavy hardship the owner will suffer from its grant.” (Shoen, supra,
237 Cal.App.4th at p. 20; see id. at p. 21 [“additional weight is given to
the owner’s loss of the exclusive use of the property arising from her ownership,
independent of any hardship caused by the owner’s loss of specific uses in a given
case”; “[t]o allow a court to reassign property rights on a lesser showing is to
dilute the sanctity of property rights enshrined in our Constitutions”].)
And finally, the authorities state that the first
factor—showing the trespass is innocent rather than willful or negligent—”is  the most important.” (Hansen, supra, 22
Cal.App.5th at p. 1028; id. at p. 1029 [“‘If the [encroaching] party is willful,
deliberate, or even negligent in his or her trespass, the court will enjoin the
encroachment.’”].)
(Ranch at the Falls LLC v. O’Neal
(2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 155, 183-184.)
 
            The
Cross-Complaint sufficiently pleads the elements for an equitable easement at ¶¶
26 – 31. 
 
            The
demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED as against the Trustee Cross-Defendant.

 
3.         Third
Cause of Action (Declaratory Relief).
            Cross-Defendants
argue that this cause of action is duplicative of the other claims.
This argument is not persuasive, as
declaratory relief is a cumulative remedy and may be based upon the same facts as
other theories justifying additional relief. 
The remedies provided by this chapter [pertaining
to declaratory relief] are cumulative, and shall not be construed as restricting
any remedy, provisional or otherwise, provided by law for the benefit of any party
to such action, and no judgment under this chapter shall preclude any party from
obtaining additional relief based upon the same facts.


    (Civ. Proc. Code, § 1062.)
            The demurrer to the third cause of action
is OVERRULED as against the Trustee Cross-Defendant.
            Cross-Complainant
is given 30 days’ leave to amend as specified above. 


