 Case Number:  23STCV23991    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce G. Iwasaki 
Department 58 
 
Hearing Date:             July 9, 2024 
Case Name:                Gavin R.
Davis v. General Motors LLC 
Case No.:                    23STCV23991
Matter:                        Demurrer with
Motion to Strike
Moving Parties:          Defendant
General Motors LLC
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Gavin R. Davis
 
Tentative
Ruling:      Defendant’s
demurrer is overruled in part and sustained in part. The motion to strike is granted.
 
Background
This is a Song-Beverly action. On November 28,
2019, Plaintiff Gavin Davis (Plaintiff) purchased a 2019 Chevrolet Bolt EV
(Vehicle). On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff sued Defendant General Motors, LLC
(GM) alleging three breach of warranty claims under Song-Beverly, and causes of
action for fraudulent concealment/misrepresentation, negligent
misrepresentation and violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200.
The complaint alleges that GM was aware of and concealed a known defect with
the Vehicle’s battery (Defective Battery). 
On March 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed the first amended
complaint (FAC), alleging the same causes of action except for negligent
misrepresentation. 
Defendant GM demurs to the first and second causes
of action, which allege fraudulent concealment, and violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200. Defendant also moves to strike the request for
punitive damages in the FAC. Plaintiff filed an opposition to both the demurrer
and the motion to strike. 
The demurrer is sustained in part and overruled in
part. The motion to strike is granted. 
Legal Standard for Demurrers 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the
grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a
matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30,
subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The
purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising
questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)
“In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect,
its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726,
733.) 
Statute of Limitations 
Defendant GM demurs to the first cause of action
for fraudulent concealment on the ground that it is barred by the applicable
statute of limitations, Code of Civil Procedure section 338, subdivision (d). 
On the face of the FAC, the fraud cause of action
was complete as of the date of delivery – November 28, 2019. Based on the
three-year statute of limitations, Plaintiff had to file the complaint by
November 28, 2022. Plaintiff did not file his complaint until October 2, 2023.
Plaintiff argues the delayed discovery rule
applies. California’s
discovery rule delays the start of the statute of limitations until the
plaintiff discovers, or is on inquiry notice (i.e., has reason to discover)
facts supporting a cause of action.¿(Fox v.
Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 797, 807.)¿“A plaintiff whose
complaint shows on its face that his claim would be barred without the benefit
of the discovery rule must specifically plead facts to show (1) the time and
manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made earlier discovery
despite reasonable diligence.”¿(McKelvey v. Boeing N. Am. (1999)¿74
Cal.App.4th 151, 160.)        
Plaintiff alleges he had no knowledge of the
defective nature of the battery in his Vehicle until GM announced the recall on
November 13, 2020. (FAC, ¶ 20.) Plaintiff further alleges he is an ordinary
consumer who has no affiliation with Defendant GM or its authorized
dealerships, and that Plaintiff was not privy to any of GM’s internal
communications with its authorized dealerships including the various customer
satisfaction notices, software updates, and Customer Satisfaction Program as
those communications were hidden from the public. (Id.) Moreover,
Plaintiff alleges, the Vehicle’s battery did not exhibit any signs of being
susceptible to catching fire prior to GM’s announcement of the November 13,
2020 recall. (Id.) Finally, Plaintiff alleges, he is neither an engineer
nor vehicle service technician and even with reasonable diligence, he had no
way of discovering that the battery in his Vehicle was defective and could
cause fire prior to GM’s announcement of the November 13, 2020 recall. (Id.)
Plaintiff has not adequately alleged delayed discovery to
overcome the statute of limitations. While Plaintiff pled that he discovered the
alleged Defective Battery on November 13, 2020 when Defendant announced the
recall, and other facts in an attempt to show that even with reasonable
diligence he could not have discovered the Defective Battery, in other parts of
the FAC, he alleges that he presented the vehicle for repairs, and the
manufacturer has been unable to conform the vehicle to its express warranties,
and it remains in a defective condition. (FAC, ¶ 26.) Plaintiff has not alleged
the dates that he presented the vehicle for repairs. But if Plaintiff presented
the vehicle for repairs relating to the Defective Battery before the
announcement of the recall, this could have put Plaintiff on inquiry notice of
the Defective Battery. Plaintiff had a duty to investigate further once they were aware of facts that would make a reasonably prudent person
suspicious. (McCoy v. Gustafson (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 56, 108.) While
the court does not conclude that Plaintiff cannot allege facts to demonstrate
delayed discovery, Plaintiff has not done so here. Plaintiff has the burden to
allege these facts. (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th
797, 808 [“Where a claim alleged in a complaint appears on its face to be
barred by the applicable statute of limitations, a plaintiff relying on the
theory of delayed accrual must plead facts supporting that theory.”]; see also Cansino
v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1472 [“The
discovery-related facts should be pleaded in detail to allow the court to
determine whether the fraud should have been discovered sooner”].) 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff cannot invoke the
delayed-discovery rule because he affirmatively states that the “Vehicle was
delivered to Plaintiff with serious defects,” (FAC, ¶ 10). However, this
allegation does not mean Plaintiff knew of the serious defects at the time. It
simply means that Plaintiff is alleging the Vehicle was delivered to him with
serious defects, which Plaintiff later discovered.
The demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained
based on the statute of limitations, with leave to amend.
First Cause of Action for Fraud 
The fraud claim is insufficient for a further
reason. Preliminarily, Defendant GM argues that the fraudulent concealment
claim fails to state a claim because Plaintiff has not alleged fraud with the
requisite specificity and fails to identify a material fact that GM concealed
or suppressed. On these points, the Court disagrees.
Defendant avers that the FAC fails to allege (i)
the identity of the individuals at GM who purportedly concealed material facts
or made untrue representations about his Vehicle, (ii) their authority to speak
and act on behalf of GM, (iii) GM’s knowledge about alleged defects in
Plaintiff’s Vehicle at the time of sale, (iv) any interactions with GM before
or during the lease of his Vehicle, or (v) GM’s intent to induce reliance by
Plaintiff to lease the specific Vehicle at issue. (Dem., 9:19-25.) 
To state a claim for fraudulent
inducement-concealment, Plaintiffs must allege: (1) the defendant “concealed or
suppressed a material fact,” (2) the defendant was “under a duty to disclose
the fact to the plaintiff,” (3) the defendant “intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff,” (4) the
plaintiff was “unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact,” and (5) “as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (BiglerEngler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311.)

Plaintiff adequately alleges the concealment of
material fact: the defective battery. (FAC, ¶ 29 [“Had Plaintiff known at the
time of lease of the true range of the Vehicle and the propensity of the
batteries installed in the vehicle to burst into flame, she [sic] would
not have leased the Vehicle.”].) Based on this material fact, the allegation
claiming Defendant intended to induce reliance and to defraud are adequate. (Id.,
¶ 35.) 
Defendant GM’s argument that the concealment is not
alleged with adequate specificity is also not well-taken. 
The ordinary rule about pleading fraud with
specificity is less demanding when the alleged fraud is concealing the truth.
Ordinarily, “fraud must be pleaded specifically; general and conclusory
allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th
631, 645.). “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which
show how, where, to whom, and by what means” the alleged fraud occurred. (Id.)
The purpose of the particularity requirement is to “separate meritorious and
nonmeritorious cases, if possible in advance of trial.” (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) 
Some cases, however, conclude that this standard is
less stringent when the defendant already has “ ‘full information concerning
the facts of the controversy.’ ” (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc.
v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 217, superseded by statute on
other grounds as stated in Californians for Disability Rights v. Mervyn's,
LLC (2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 227.) Relaxation of the specificity requirement
is particularly appropriate in
a concealment case. Unlike intentional misrepresentation, which requires some
affirmative representation or promise, a fraudulent concealment is the absence
of something, the suppression of a fact. (Civ. Code § 1710.) 
This distinction was recognized in Turner v.
Milstein (1951) 103 Cal.App.2d 651. In rejecting a demurrer based on
uncertainty, the Turner court pointed out: 
“The only specification of uncertainty was that it
could not be determined how, or in what manner, Milstein concealed from
plaintiff the time and place of the sale of the real property. The ultimate
fact is pleaded. It is an old and elemental rule of pleading that a demurrer
for uncertainty does not lie if what is sought is a statement of matter already
within the knowledge of the demurring party.... If, in truth, Milstein
concealed from plaintiff the fact that the property was to be sold, he knows it
and he knows the time and place of concealment, if there was a time and place.
It would seem that concealment is negative and that it would occur without any
time or place. Milstein knows the facts. (103 Cal.App.2d at p. 658.) 
Thus, based on the nature of this type of claim, a
plaintiff in a fraud by omission suit will not be able to specify the time,
place, and specific content of an omission as precisely as would a plaintiff in
a false representation claim. Here, the Court cannot conclude that the contents
of the alleged concealment was not pleaded with the requisite specificity. 
But Defendant also argues that the FAC does not
adequately allege exclusive knowledge of the material facts such that there was
no duty to disclose. 
Absent a fiduciary relationship between the parties
(which Plaintiff does not allege here), a duty to disclose can arise in only
three circumstances: (1) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of the material
fact; (2) the defendant actively concealed the material fact; or (3) the
defendant made partial representations while also suppressing the material
fact. (BiglerEngler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311; LiMandri v.
Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) The California Supreme Court “has
described the necessary relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose as a
‘transaction’ between the plaintiff and defendant ....” (Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311; Warner Construction Corp. v. City of Los
Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294 [“In transactions which do not involve
fiduciary or confidential relations”]; Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1187–89 [rejecting concealment claim where plaintiffs
“were not involved in a transaction with the parties they claim defrauded
them”]; LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 337 [“such a relationship
can only come into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the
parties”].) 
Defendant GM argues there are no facts alleged that
would support a duty to disclose. 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that GM had
exclusive knowledge of the Defective Battery, citing Falk v. General Motors
Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2007) 496 F.Supp.2d 1088. 
In Falk, the plaintiffs alleged that General
Motors had exclusive knowledge of the defect because “only GM had access to the
aggregate data from its dealers, only GM had access to prerelease testing data,
and only GM had access to the numerous complaints from its customers.” (Id. at
1096.) 
Plaintiff also cites Daniel v. Ford Motor Co. (E.D.
Cal. May 18, 2016) 2016 WL 2899026 which discussed the duty to disclose in the
context of the Consumers Legal Remedies Act claim and Unfair Competition Claim.
In Daniel v. Ford Motor Co., the court explained: “Generally, courts
have not defined ‘exclusive’ literally, but have found such claims cognizable
if the defendant had ‘superior’ knowledge of a defect that was not readily
apparent and there is no or only ... limited publicly available information about
the defect.” (Daniel v. Ford Motor Co., supra, 2016 WL 2899026, *4.)  The Court is not bound by these federal trial
court rulings.
Here, the FAC does not adequately allege GM’s
exclusive knowledge of an alleged Battery Defect with respect to the subject
vehicle itself. This is not a class action or a product liability case. This
case involves only Plaintiff’s vehicle.  Although Plaintiff cites Paragraphs 13 to 23,
these citations do not contain allegations to support the exclusive knowledge
over a Battery Defect in Plaintiff’s 2019 Bolt EV. (FAC, ¶¶ 13-23.)  Plaintiff alleges no facts that Defendant had
any knowledge – let alone exclusive knowledge – of a defect in the subject
vehicle at the time of sale.  
Second Cause of Action for Violation of Business and Profession Code
section 17200 
The UCL proscribes “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business act[s] or practice [s].” (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.) 
In demurring to this claim, Defendant argues that
the UCL claim is derivative of the fraud claims and, thus, the UCL claim fails
for the same reasons as the fraud claims. Moreover, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
also fails to establish the requisite standing to recover under the UCL as the FAC
as a whole fails to allege any facts in support of the contention that
Plaintiff has suffered an injury in fact and has lost money or property as a
result of unfair competition as required pursuant to Section 17204. 
In opposition, Plaintiff first contends that a UCL
violation claim has been sufficiently alleged under the UCL's “unlawful” prong.
Here, by prohibiting any unlawful business practice, section 17200 necessarily
“borrows” violations of other laws, in this case, the Song-Beverly Act.
“Virtually any statute or regulation (federal or state) can serve as a
predicate for a UCL unlawful practice cause of action.” (See Gutierrez v.
Carmax Auto Superstores California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234, 1265.)
Therefore, this claim sufficiently alleges an “unlawful” business practice
based on the Song-Beverly Act. (FAC, ¶¶ 40-41.) 
Moreover, Plaintiff alleges that he expended money
on an automobile with a defective battery. (Id., ¶¶ 28, 36.) Plaintiff
has pled sufficient injury to support his UCL cause of action. (Quelimane
Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 46-47; Schnall
v. Hertz Corp. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1167.) 
The demurrer to the second cause of action is
overruled. 
Legal Standard for Motions to Strike 
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant” matters include
allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither pertinent to nor supported
by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc. § 431.10,
subds. (b)(1)-(3).) 
Punitive Damages Allegations 
Defendant GM moves to strike the request for
punitive damages in the FAC. Defendant argues, based on its demurrer arguments,
Plaintiffs lack a viable fraud claim to support the punitive damage request.
Further, even with the fraud claim, GM argues the allegations in the FAC do not
satisfy the statutory standards required to seek punitive damages. 
Punitive damages are recoverable where the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied.
(Civ. Code § 3294.) “Something more than the mere commission of a tort is
always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of
aggravation our outrage, such as spite or malice, or a fraudulent or evil
motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate
disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or
wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific
intent to injure is not necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that
the defendant’s conduct was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or
conscious disregard of others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925) 71
Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
A request for punitive damages that is not
supported with specific allegations of oppression, fraud, or malice is subject
to a motion to strike. Conclusory allegations that defendants acted
“willfully,” “maliciously,” or with “oppression, fraud, or malice” are not,
without more, sufficient to give rise to a claim for punitive damages, but such
language is permissible where the complaint contains sufficient factual support
for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1,
6-7.) 
Based on the Court’s ruling on the demurrer to the
fraud-based cause of action, the motion to strike is granted; the FAC is devoid
of adequate allegations of fraud to support a request for punitive damages. 
Further, punitive damages are not available under
the remaining claims for violations under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act. (See Civ. Code, § 1794.) 
The demurrer to the first cause of action is
sustained with leave to amend, and overruled as to second cause of action. The
motion to strike the punitive damages allegations is granted.  Plaintiff shall serve and file a Second Amended
Complaint on or before July 31, 2024.