

Hearing Date:             July 9, 2024    
Case Name:                Naomi Tomita v. City of
Hawthorne, et al.
Case
No.:                    22STCV33677
Motion:                       Motion
for Summary Judgment and/or Summary Adjudication
Moving
Party:             Defendant City of
Hawthorne

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Naomi Tomita


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The motion for summary
judgment is denied. The motion for summary adjudication is denied.
 

 
This is an employment law action based
on alleged disability discrimination and retaliation. Plaintiff Naomi Tomita
(Plaintiff) sues her former employer, Defendant City of Hawthorne (the City), alleging
the following. During the course of her employment in the Office of the
Hawthorne City Attorney, Plaintiff developed work-related injuries. Between January 2019 and August 2020,
she underwent procedures on her
wrists, right elbow, and right shoulder for those injuries. Her treating
physician eventually allowed her to return to work with restrictions. However,
by November 5, 2021, those restrictions had been removed. Despite the fact that
since March 2, 2021, she had been performing her duties without the need for
accommodations, and her treating surgeon provided notes stating that she could
return to work without any restrictions, the City (among other things) refused
to allow her to continue to work as an Administrative Aide II or accommodate
her for different positions. In addition, the City filed disability retirement paperwork
for Plaintiff even though Plaintiff did not wish to retire. 
 
The operative complaint asserts only
one “cause of action” for various violations of the Fair Employment and Housing
Act (“FEHA”). 
 
To the extent each of those violations
constitutes a separate cause of action, Plaintiff is bringing the following
claims against the City: (1) discrimination based on actual or perceived
disability, (2) retaliation for filing workers’ compensation claims and
requiring reasonable accommodations, (3) failure to give reasonable
accommodations, (4) failure to engage in a good faith interactive process, and
(5) failure to prevent the discrimination and retaliation from occurring.
 
The City now moves for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of each of those claims.
Plaintiff opposes the motion. 
 
The motions for summary judgment and
adjudication is denied.
 
Evidentiary Issues:
 
Plaintiff’s objections to the City’s evidence are
ruled as follows: Nos. 1, 2, 4-26 are sustained. No. 3 is overruled. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            “The party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of
material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) A triable issue
of material fact exists if the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact
to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof. (Ibid.) 
 
            “When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463,
467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
DISCUSSION
            
            Defendant
moves for summary judgment or adjudication, arguing that Plaintiff’s claims for
disability discrimination (Issue Nos. 1-2), retaliation (Issue No. 3), failure
to provide reasonable accommodation (Issue No. 4), failure to engage in
interactive process (Issue No. 5), and failure to prevent discrimination and
retaliation (Issue No. 6) have no merit. 
 
Separate Statement Requirements
 
            As
an initial matter, Plaintiff argues that the Court should deny the motion
because the City’s separate statement failed to comply with the California
Rules of Court. 
 
California Rules
of Court require that “[i]f summary adjudication is sought, whether separately
or as an alternative to the motion for summary judgment, the specific
cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty
must be stated specifically in the notice of motion and be repeated, verbatim,
in the separate statement of undisputed material facts.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1350(b) [emphasis added].) 
 
As Plaintiff
points out, the City’s separate statement does not state “Issue No. 1” and also
fails to state, verbatim, the rest of the issues (Nos. 2-6). 
 
Nevertheless, the
Court declines to reject the motion based on those defects because Plaintiff
has not argued or explained how those defects impaired her ability to oppose
the motion, and the defects are not substantive (i.e., Plaintiff is not
arguing, for example, that the separate statement does not contain material
facts). (See Truong v. Glasser (2009) 181 Cal.App.4th 102, 118 [holding
that the trial court did not abuse its discretion by declining to reject the
summary judgment motion based on the absence of headings within a separate
statement of material facts because “[t]he facts critical to the ruling were
adequately identified, and [the plaintiffs had] not explained how any alleged
deficiency in [the separate statement] impaired [their] ability to marshal
evidence to show that material facts were in dispute …”].)
 
Disability Discrimination
(Issue Nos. 1 and 2)
 
Under the first
two issues, the City argues that Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case
for discrimination, and it had legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for its
actions.
 
Government Code
section 12940, subdivision (a) makes it “unlawful” “[f]or an employer, because
of the … physical disability … of any person, ... to discriminate against the
person in compensation or in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.”
 
“In general, there
are two types of illegal employment discrimination under FEHA: disparate
treatment and disparate impact.” (Jones v. Department of Corrections &
Rehabilitation (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1379.) “‘Disparate treatment’
is intentional discrimination against one or more persons on prohibited
grounds. [Citations.] … [On the other hand] ‘disparate impact,’ … [takes place,
for example, when] regardless of motive, a facially neutral employer practice
or policy, bearing no manifest relationship to job requirements, … [has] a
disproportionate adverse effect on members of the protected class.’” (Guz v.
Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354, fn. 20 (“Guz”)
[italics removed].)
 
Here, the complaint
alleges that Plaintiff suffered disparate treatment (intentional discrimination
based on disability).
 
“California uses the three-stage burden-shifting test established by
the United States Supreme Court for trying claims of discrimination based on a
theory of disparate treatment,” known as the McDonnell Douglas test. (Scotch
v. Art Institute of California (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1004 (“Scotch”);
McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792, 802–804.) “This
so-called McDonnell Douglas test reflects the principle that direct
evidence of intentional discrimination is rare, and that such claims must
usually be proved circumstantially.” (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc.
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354.) The McDonnell Douglas test is inapplicable
where the plaintiff presents direct evidence of discrimination, that is,
evidence which, if believed, proves the fact of discriminatory animus without
inference or presumption. (Trop v. Sony Pictures Entertainment, Inc.
(2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1144–1145.)
 
“Under the first
step of the McDonnell Douglas test, the plaintiff may raise a
presumption of discrimination by presenting a ‘“prima facie case,”’ the
components of which vary depending upon the type of discrimination alleged.
[Citation.]” (Zamora v. Security Industry Specialists, Inc. (2021) 71
Cal.App.5th 1, 31 (“Zamora”).) “Under the second step of the McDonnell
Douglas test, ‘the employer may dispel the presumption merely by
articulating a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the challenged action.’”
(Id. at p. 32 [internal citations removed].) “Under the third step of
the test, the ‘plaintiff must ... have the opportunity to attack the employer’s
proffered reasons as pretexts for discrimination, or to offer any other
evidence of discriminatory motive.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
 
However, “[w]hen seeking summary judgment or summary adjudication in
an employment discrimination case, the burdens established by the McDonnell
Douglas framework are altered.” (Zamora, supra, 71
Cal.App.5th at p. 32.)
 
“If the employer presents admissible evidence either that one or more
of plaintiff’s prima facie elements is lacking, or that the adverse employment
action was based on legitimate, nondiscriminatory factors, the employer will be
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff produces admissible evidence
which raises a triable issue of fact material to the defendant’s showing.” (Caldwell
v. Paramount Unified School Dist. (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 189, 203.) 
 
“‘On a disability discrimination claim, the prima facie case requires
the plaintiff to show ‘he or she (1) suffered from a disability, or was
regarded as suffering from a disability; (2) could perform the essential
duties of the job with or without reasonable accommodations, and (3) was
subjected to an adverse employment action because of the disability or
perceived disability.’ [Citation.]” (Wills v. Superior Court (2011) 195
Cal.App.4th 143, 159–160 [emphasis added].)
 
The parties do not dispute the following:
 
Plaintiff “began to experience pain in 2004 or 2005 that consisted of
a burning sensation in her wrists followed by discomfort at night sleeping.
There was more pain in her right hand, and she is right-handed.” (Plaintiff’s
response to moving party’s separate statement of undisputed material facts,
filed June 25, 2024 (the “Parties’ UMF”), ¶ 2.) Then, in 2007, Plaintiff “began
to experience discomfort in her right upper …. This was pain in her right
shoulder and had trouble lifting her right arm past her shoulder level and
began receiving treatment from an orthopedic doctor and physical therapy.”
(Parties’ UMF, ¶ 3.) 
 
“Plaintiff … filed workers’ compensation claims related to her
alleged repetitive motion injuries to her wrist and shoulder from 2007 to 2018.”
(Parties’ UMF, ¶ 4.) In January 2019, she underwent a right wrist carpal tunnel
release and open decompression of the ulnar nerve at the right elbow. (Parties’
UMF, ¶ 5.) After that procedure, Plaintiff was placed on leave from work until
March 2021. (Parties’ UMF, ¶ 5.) While on leave from work, Plaintiff underwent
a left-wrist carpal tunnel release in July 2019. (Parties’ UMF, ¶ 5.) In August
2020, while still on leave, Plaintiff underwent a right shoulder arthroscopic
surgery. (Parties’ UMF, ¶ 10.)
 
On July 19, 2021, approximately five (5) months after returning from
leave in March 2021, Plaintiff attended a medical examination performed by
Qualified Medical Examinator (“QME”) Dr. Thomas Montell (“Dr. Montell”) as part
of her workers’ compensation claim. (Parties’ UMF, ¶ 13.) “Plaintiff told Dr.
Montell that she performs approximately 1.5 hours of typing a day at work and
Dr. Montell prepared a report that restricted [her] to typing no more than 1.5
hours a day and lifting more than six pounds.” (Parties’ UMF, ¶ 13.)
 
The only substantive declaration the City offered in support of this
motion is from Samuel English, the City’s Risk Specialist in the City
Attorney’s office. He testified that the City was not able to accommodate
Plaintiff in her Administrative Aide II position based on the typing
restriction that Dr. Montell had imposed on her and that the amount of typing
required for the Administrative Aide II position “was endangering [Plaintiff’s]
health.” (Motion, English Decl., ¶ 11.)
 
However, a declarant must provide the requisite preliminary facts to
show he has personal knowledge about what he has said. (Evid. Code, § 702,
subd. (a) [“Subject to Section 801, the testimony of a witness concerning a
particular matter is inadmissible unless he has personal knowledge of the
matter. Against the objection of a party, such personal knowledge must be shown
before the witness may testify concerning the matter”].) “[B]oilerplate
sentence, ‘if called as a witness I could and would competently testify under
oath to the above facts which are personally known to me,’ is not sufficient to
establish personal knowledge.” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic
(2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 169.) “Where the facts stated do not themselves show
it, such bare statement of the affiant has no redeeming value and should be
ignored.” (Snider v. Snider (1962) 200 Cal.App.2d 741, 754.) 
 
Further, “[t]he proponent of the proffered evidence has the burden of
producing evidence as to the existence of the preliminary fact, and the
proffered evidence is inadmissible unless the court finds that there is
evidence sufficient to sustain a finding of the existence of the preliminary
fact, when: ¶ (1) The relevance of the proffered evidence depends on the
existence of the preliminary fact ….” (Evid. Code, § 403, subd. (a)(1).)
 
Here, English has not laid a foundation or shown that he has personal
knowledge for his testimony that the City could not accommodate Plaintiff in
her Administrative Aide II position and that the amount of typing required for
that position was endangering Plaintiff’s health.  He did not promulgate or enforce personnel
policies, did not supervise Plaintiff or play a decisive role in Plaintiff’s
employment, did not know who decided whether Plaintiff would be accommodated,
did not research voice-to-text software, and does not know if anyone did, and
fails to explain why the City did not accommodate Plaintiff’s typing
restrictions.  The English declaration is
almost entirely inadmissible.
 
Therefore, the Court finds that the City has failed to meet its
initial burden of proving that Plaintiff was not able to perform her essential
job duties without reasonable accommodations. 
 
However, even if the City met that burden, Plaintiff has met her
burden of showing that a triable issue exists by testifying that (1) she did
not believe she needed any accommodations to do her job in the first place and
(2) could not in good faith sign documents certifying that she could not
perform her job because she knew she could. (Plaintiff’s Compendium of
Evidence, filed on June 25, 2024 (“COE”), Exhibit A – Declaration of Naomi
Tomita (“Plaintiff Decl.”), ¶¶ 15, 17.) 
 
The City also moves for summary adjudication of the disability
discrimination claim, arguing that it had a legitimate, non-discriminatory
reason for “medically separating” Plaintiff from her employment, and that
reason is that Plaintiff “could not be reasonably accommodated as an
Administrative Aide II.” (Motion, pp. 24:22-25:2.)
 
As stated above, the City has failed to establish that Plaintiff could
not be reasonably accommodated as an Administrative Aide II. 
 
Therefore, the City has also failed to establish that the City had
legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for medically separating Plaintiff from
her employment. Accordingly, the burden does not shift to Plaintiff to show
that a triable issue exists as to that issue.
 
For those reasons, the request for summary adjudication of the
disability claim is denied. 
 
Retaliation (Issue No. 3)
 
“California cases
hold that in order to establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the
FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’
(2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and
(3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s
action.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.)
 
Here, the City
moves for summary adjudication of the retaliation claim, arguing that “Plaintiff
has not produced specific, substantial evidence to show that Defendant’s
legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for its actions were pretext for
retaliation and/or there is a lack of causal link.” (Notice of Motion, p.
2:9-14.)
 
The City argues
that its legitimate, non-retaliatory reason for separating Plaintiff from her
position was the fact that “Plaintiff could not be reasonably accommodated in
her Administrative Aide II position or any alternative position she was
qualified for.” (Motion, p. 27:5-7.)
 
However, as stated
above, the City has failed to meet its initial burden of showing that Plaintiff
could not be reasonably accommodated. 
 
In any event, when
it comes to retaliation cases under FEHA, “‘[t]he central issue is and should
remain whether the evidence as a whole supports a reasoned inference
that the challenged action was the product of discriminatory or retaliatory
animus.’” (Light v. Department of Parks & Recreation (2017) 14
Cal.App.5th 75, 94 [emphasis added].) “‘The employer’s mere articulation of a
legitimate reason for the action cannot answer this question; it can only
dispel the presumption of improper motive that would otherwise entitle the
employee to a judgment in his favor.’” (Ibid.)
 
 “[C]iting a legitimate reason for the
challenged action will entitle the employer to summary judgment only when the
employee’s showing, while sufficient to invoke the presumption, is too weak to
sustain a reasoned inference in the employee’s favor. That, and not ‘pretext,’
must be the focus of the judicial inquiry.” [Citations.]’” (Ibid. [emphasis
removed].) “‘[S]ummary judgment should not be granted unless the evidence
cannot support any reasonable inference for plaintiff.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)

 
Here, Plaintiff
has provided evidence allowing a reasonable inference that the City’s reason
for separating her from her employment was retaliatory. Robert Kim (“Kim”), the
Hawthorne City Attorney, was Plaintiff’s “ultimate superior …” when she worked
as an Administrative Aide II. (Opposition, 4:11-12.) During his deposition, Kim
testified that any decision concerning Plaintiff’s reasonable accommodations
and whether Plaintiff would be able to return to work would fall on him.
(Plaintiff’s Compendium of Evidence, filed on June 25, 2024 (“COE”), Exhibit F
(“Kim Depo.”), pp. 37:24-38:6; 40:21-22.) Kim also testified that when
Plaintiff returned from her leave of absence, he preferred that she did not
type at all to prevent her from claiming that she re-aggravated her injury
because of typing. (Kim Depo., pp. 40:21-22; 54:16-22.) Kim was “very cautious
about [Plaintiff] bringing a lawsuit in addition to workers’ comp cases for
other reasons. So [he] didn’t really – … want to have too much interaction with
her, nor do [he] feel that that was necessary because [he] was so preoccupied
with so many other things at that point, at that time.” (Kim Depo., p. 55:5-8.)
The fact that Kim wanted to prevent her from typing because of her perceived
disability supports an inference that the City’s separation of Plaintiff from
her position was for retaliatory reasons. In addition, the complaint alleges
that at one point during her employment, City Manager Vontray Norris (“Norris”)
summarily relieved Ms. Tomita from her duties indefinitely and without pay on
November 29, 2021. Plaintiff testified during her deposition that on that day,
Norris, English, and a union representative walked into her office and told her
that even though she was a great worker and did an excellent job, she would
have to leave work because she filed her workers’ compensation claim. (COE,
Exhibit G (“Plaintiff Depo.”), pp. 106:6-107:10.) This presents a triable issue
of fact that the City’s reason for separating Plaintiff from her employment was
motivated by retaliatory animus.
 
            The
City argues that Plaintiff cannot show a causal link between her alleged
protected activity of filing a workers’ compensation claim and the alleged
adverse employment action because she filed that workers’ compensation claim in
2019, and the medical separation from her job occurred about three years later
in December 2022. (Motion, p. 26:12-17.)
 
“‘“The causal link
may be established by an inference derived from circumstantial evidence, ‘such
as the employer’s knowledge that the [employee] engaged in protected activities
and the proximity in time between the protected action and allegedly retaliatory
employment decision.’” [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Morgan v. Regents of
University of Cal. (2000) 88 Cal.App.4th 52, 69.)
 
“A long period
between an employer’s adverse employment action and the employee’s earlier
protected activity may lead to the inference that the two events are not
causally connected. [Citation.]” (Wysinger v. Automobile Club of Southern
California (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 413, 421 (“Wysinger”).) “But if
between these events the employer engages in a pattern of conduct consistent
with a retaliatory intent, there may be a causal connection.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, even if it
is true that there was a long period between the date Plaintiff filed her
workers’ compensation claim and the date she was separated from her employment,
Plaintiff has met her burden of showing that a triable issue exists regarding
whether the City engaged in a pattern of conduct consistent with a retaliatory
intent sufficient to establish a causal connection. As stated above, Plaintiff
testified during her deposition that Norris, English, and a union
representative walked into Plaintiff’s office in November 2021 (years after Plaintiff
filed her workers’ compensation claim) and informed her that she was being
released from work that day because she had filed the claim. Plaintiff
testifies that after that interaction, she received a letter dated November 29,
2021, from Norris, stating that the City was “currently unable to return [her]
to [her] fully regular work duties in [her] usual and customary position of
Administrative Aide II.” (COE, Exhibit N – a copy of the letter, p. 1.)
Plaintiff testifies that even though in that letter, Norris claimed that the
City had hired Show HR Consulting to assist with the “continuation of Plaintiff’s
disability interactive process,” the City had not engaged in any form of
interactive process before that time and, therefore, there was nothing to
continue. (COE, Exhibit A (Plaintiff’s Decl.), ¶ 11.) The Court finds through
that evidence Plaintiff has shown triable issues exist regarding whether a
causal link exists between her filing her workers’ compensation claim and the
City’s decision to separate her from her employment. 
 
For those reasons, the request for summary adjudication of the
retaliation claim is denied. 
 
Failure to Accommodate (Issue
No. 4)
 
Under FEHA, it is
unlawful “[f]or an employer or other entity covered by this part to fail to
make reasonable accommodation for the known physical or mental disability of an
applicant or employee.” (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (m)(1).)
 
“The essential
elements of a claim of failure to accommodate are: (1) the plaintiff has a
disability covered by FEHA; (2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual; and
(3) the employer failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff’s disability.”
(Furtado v. State Personnel Bd. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 729, 744 (“Furtado”).)

 
“‘The elements of
a failure to accommodate claim are similar to the elements of a ... [FEHA]
discrimination claim, but there are important differences.’” (Furtado, supra,
212 Cal.App.4th at p. 744.)
 
“‘For purposes of
[a failure to accommodate] claim, the plaintiff [has to] prove[] he or she is a
qualified individual by establishing that he or she can perform the essential
functions of the position to which reassignment is sought, rather than the essential
functions of the existing position. [Citations.] More significantly, the third
element ... establishing that an “adverse employment action” was caused by the
employee’s disability—is irrelevant to … [a failure to accommodate] claim. Under
the express provisions of the FEHA, the employer’s failure to reasonably
accommodate a disabled individual is a violation of the statute in and of
itself. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Furtado, supra, 212
Cal.App.4th at p. 744-745 [emphasis added].)
 
            Here,
the City moves for summary adjudication of the failure to accommodate claim,
arguing that it lacks merit because “Plaintiff was accommodated in her
Administrative Aide II position until she could no longer be accommodated with
or without reasonable accommodation based on her permanent work restrictions
and/or could not perform her duties in a manner that would not endanger her
health or safety.” (Notice of Motion, p. 2:15-20.)
 
            However,
the Court has sustained Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections to English’s
testimony that Plaintiff could not be accommodated and could not perform her
duties in a manner that would not endanger her health or safety. Therefore, the
City has no evidence to support its factual contention.
 
The City also
argues that it accommodated Plaintiff because it gave Plaintiff a leave of
absence that extended over two years. (Motion, p. 28:1-4.)
 
However, Plaintiff’s
failure to accommodate claim (and her entire action) is based on events that
occurred after she returned from that leave, not before. Therefore, it is
irrelevant for purposes of the failure to accommodate claim that the City gave her
that leave of absence. 
 
 For those reasons, the Court
finds that the City has failed to meet its initial burden of showing that
Plaintiff’s failure to accommodate claim has no merit. Therefore, the burden
does not shift to Plaintiff to show that a triable issue exists as to that
claim. 
 
Accordingly, the request for summary adjudication of the failure to
accommodate claim is denied. 
 
Failure to Engage in a Good
Faith Interactive Process (Issue No. 5)
 
“Under FEHA, it is
an unlawful practice for an employer to fail to engage in a good faith
interactive process with the employee to determine an effective reasonable
accommodation if an employee with a known physical disability requests one.” (Brown
v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1109.) 
 
Here, the City
moves for summary adjudication of the failure to engage claim, arguing the
following. “[1] The undisputed material facts show that Defendant was engaged
with Plaintiff in the interactive process for several years until Plaintiff
could not be accommodated in her position of Administrative Aide II because of
her permanent restrictions related to her physical disability. [2] Other
positions were considered for Plaintiff and Plaintiff rejected the three
positions she was minimally qualified for. [3] Finally, the City considered
Plaintiff’s request for voice activation software but determined that this
request was not practical for Plaintiff’s position and would not be sufficient
to enable Plaintiff to perform her essential job duties.” (Motion, p. 32:8-15.)
 
The Court has
already discussed and found the first argument unpersuasive. 
 
As to the second
argument, the Court has sustained Plaintiff’s objections to the portion of
English’s declaration that the City relies on to argue that the City considered
and denied Plaintiff’s request for voice activation software. (Motion, English
Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
To support its
second argument, that other positions were considered for Plaintiff and
Plaintiff rejected the three positions she was minimally qualified for, the
City submits Plaintiff’s deposition transcripts. During her deposition,
Plaintiff conceded that she was offered three positions but did not want them
because they would affect her retirement and offered lower pay than the
Administrative Aide II position. (Motion, Declaration of Steven H. Taylor, ¶ 3;
Exhibit 2 – a copy of Plaintiff’s deposition transcript, pp. 150:13-151:22
[“Oh. I felt a lot of pressure because I wanted to show that I was cooperative
with the interactive process even though it didn’t make sense for me to apply
for - - for the positions in the long run because of the pay cut and - - and
the hour cut. It’s a part-time position and it would affect my retirement. My
retirement is based on the end of my salary. It doesn’t make sense to go
backwards. It’s not a comparable position to even consider, but since they were
throwing me the - - the rotten crumbs as my options I wanted to be - - to show
that at least I was willing to work in this interactive process”].) 
 
However, an “‘employer’s
obligation to engage in the interactive process extends beyond the first
attempt at accommodation and continues when the employee asks for a
different accommodation or where the employer is aware that the initial
accommodation is failing and further accommodation is needed. This rule fosters
the framework of cooperative problem-solving contemplated by the ADA, by
encouraging employers to seek to find accommodations that really work ....’
[Citation.]” (Scotch, supra, 173 Cal.App.4th at p. 1013 [italics
added].)
 
Here, the City has
not presented evidence that once Plaintiff rejected being demoted to positions
at lower pay, it attempted to further accommodate Plaintiff. Merely arguing
that it offered Plaintiff positions and that Plaintiff rejected those positions
is, without more, insufficient to establish an “interactive process.” Attempting
to transfer an employee to a lower paid position is an adverse employment
action, not evidence of a meaningful and good faith dialogue.
 
Therefore, the
Court finds that the City has failed to meet its initial burden of showing that
Plaintiff’s failure to engage claim has no merit. Accordingly, the burden does
not shift to Plaintiff to show that one or more issues of material fact exist
as to that claim. 
 
For those reasons,
the request for summary adjudication of the failure to engage claim is denied. 
 
Failure to Prevent
Discrimination and Retaliation (Issue No. 6)
 
Summary
adjudication of the failure to prevent discrimination and retaliation claim is
denied because the Court has found that (1) the City has failed to meet its
initial burden of showing that the disability discrimination claim lacks merit
and (2) triable issues exist as to the retaliation claim. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The motion for summary judgment is
denied. The motion for summary adjudication is denied.
 