  Case Number:  23TRCV003726    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  P SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIACOUNTY OF LOS ANGELESLINDSEY MENCO, an individual;Plaintiff,v.PHILLIP’S DRAPERIES AND CURTAINS,INC., a California Corporation; SSVPROPERTIES, a California Corporation; andDOES 1 through 30, inclusive,Defendants.Case Number 23TRCV003726[Tentative] RulingDate of Hearing: March 19, 2024Dept. PJudge David K. ReinertSUMMARY OF RULINGDefendant Mechoshade System LLC (“Mechoshade”) has demurred to Plaintiff’sfive causes of action for strict products liability (manufacturing, design defect and failureto warn), products liability negligence, and general negligence pursuant to CCP 430.10(e)on the ground that they fail to meet the fact-pleading standard of CCP § 425.10(a)(1).The Court finds that Plaintiff adequately pled her causes of action. Therefore, thedemurrer is OVERRULED.BACKGROUNDPlaintiff filed her original complaint November 9, 2023, naming, inter alia, 15“John Doe” defendants who allegedly “manufactured, designed, assembled, compounded,tested or failed to test, inspected or failed to inspect, packaged, labeled, fabricated,constructed, analyzed, distributed, merchandised, recommended, advertised, promoted,marketed, and/or sold” the product at issue, a set of window blinds. (Compl. ¶¶ 20, 26, 32,54; see also ¶ 41.)Plaintiff’s claim arises from an injury she allegedly suffered on November 17,2021, when a valence from a set of window blinds detached from the wall of an office inEl Segundo and struck her head.On December 1, 2024, Plaintiff amended her complaint to substitute Mechoshadefor Doe No. 1. Mechoshade was served December 14, 2023.Mechoshade brought this motion on February 6, 2024 . Plaintiff filed an oppositionon March 5, 2024. Mechoshade replied on March 7, 2024DISCUSSIONPage 2I. Legal StandardA complaint for damages must contain a “statement of the facts constituting thecause of action, in ordinary and concise language.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.10.)Under the demurrer statute, the party against whom a complaint or cross-complainthas been filed may object by demurrer to the pleading on several grounds, including thatthe pleading “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ.Proc., § 430.010, subd. (e).)“In determining whether or not the complaint is sufficient, as against the demurrerupon the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, the ruleis that if, upon a consideration of all the facts stated, it appears that the plaintiff is entitledto any relief at the hands of the court against the defendants, the complaint will be heldgood.” (Matteson v. Wagoner (1905) 147 Cal. 739, 742.) No matter the likelihood of theplaintiff’s ability to prove them, “a general demurrer admits the truth of all material factualallegations in the complaint.” (Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 493,496.)“To the extent there are factual issues in dispute . . . this court must assume thetruth not only of all facts properly pled, but also of those facts that may be implied orinferred from those expressly alleged in the complaint.” (City of Atascadero v. MerrillLynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “[Q]uestions of factmay be resolved [at the pleadings stage] only when there is only one legitimate inferenceto be drawn from the allegations of the complaint.” (Tracfone Wireless, Inc. v. County ofLos Angeles (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1368.)Here, Defendant argues that Plaintiff have not pled facts sufficient to constitutetheir fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement-concealment because it (1) is barredby the applicable statute of limitations under Code of Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e), (2) fails tostate facts relevant to the elements of the claim under Code of Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e), and(3) fails to allege a transactional relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose.A. Strict Liability Causes of ActionMechoshade asserts that Plaintiff’s first cause of action for strict liability based onmanufacturing defect, second cause of action for strict liability based on design defect, andthird cause of action based on failure to warn are insufficiently pleaded because Plaintiffdid not specifically describe the manufacturing defect, design defect, or failure to warn.(Demurrer, 1:11-13.) Mechoshade claims that the Complaint “offers no facts, only legalconclusions.” (Demurrer, 3:20-21.) In the complaint, Plaintiff described the product as the“window blinds”, specifically “the large and heavy metal vallance that was part of” it.(Compl., ¶12.) The only allegation of a product failure is that the valence “unexpectedlydetached and fell” when plaintiff’s coworker tried to operate the blinds. (Id.) The otherallegations of facts relate to Plaintiff’s injuries.Mechoshade provides a table comparing Plaintiff’s allegations to relevantCalifornia Civil Jury Instructions (CACI) for each cause of action. (Demurrer, 3:20-5:23.)Page 3There is substantial overlap between the two. Plaintiff argues that her claims are properlypled precisely because they match the jury instructions, which lay out the “essential factualelements” of the claims. (Opp’n, 5:3-8.) In reply, Mechoshade responds that Plaintiff citesno authority for this proposition, because there is none. If all that was needed was arecitation of the elements without any actual acts, there would be no reason to go througheven that formality, because stating the name of the cause of action would provide the exactsame information. (Reply, 4:12-24.)“What is important is that the complaint as a whole contain sufficient facts toapprise the defendant of the basis upon which the plaintiff is seeking relief” (Doheny ParkTerrace Homeowners Association, Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th1076, 1098-99.) A complaint will be upheld if it provides the defendant with “notice of theissues sufficient to enable preparation of a defense.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42Cal. 4th 531, 549-500.) To plead sufficient facts to establish strict liability in tort, a plaintiffneed allege that he was: 1) injured by the product; 2) because of a defect in its design andmanufacture; 3) of which the plaintiff was not aware; 4) while it was being used in themanner in which it was intended. (See Alvarez v. Felker Mfg. Co. (1964) 230 Cal.App.2d987, 1005.)Here, the “legal conclusions” pointed to by defendant, while rooted in the relevantjury instruction, are not impermissible. (See 4 Witkin Cal. Procedure (6th Ed. 2021) §398(“Generally, allegations that an act, instrument, claim or demand is ‘illegal,’ ‘unlawful,’‘unauthorized,’ ‘void,’ ‘wrongful,’ ‘without right,’ or ‘fraudulent,’ etc. are legalconclusions.”).)The court finds that Plaintiff has provided sufficient facts to state causes of action.Accordingly, Mechoshade’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first three causes of action is overruled.B. Negligence Causes of ActionMechoshade asserts that Plaintiff’s negligence claims are insufficiently pleadedbecause she did “not identify a single act or omission of Mechoshade alleged to benegligent, only listing the elements of a negligence claim familiar to any first-year lawstudent.” (Demurrer, 5:24-28.) Plaintiff alleges that the valence fell when her coworkeroperated the blinds. Mechoshade argues that this allegation alone cannot meet the causationelement of a negligence claim. “Just like a car accident is typically the result of negligentdriving but only rarely because of a defect in the car itself, when artwork, a shelf , or a hookfalls off the wall, the inference is it was not hung properly. One does not assume the objectitself was wrongly manufactured.” (Reply, 3:15-18.) “In the ordinary personal injurylawsuit, in which the complaint’s factual recitations show plainly the connection betweencause and effect, it suffices to pleat causation succinctly and generally.” (Bockrath v.Aldrich Chem. Co., Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, 78.) Only when “the pleaded facts ofnegligence and injury do not naturally give rise to an inference of causation [must] theplaintiff…plead specific facts affording an inference [that] one caused the others. (Id.)Taking all of Plaintiff’s allegations as true, as is proper in considering a demurrer, andconstruing the complaint in the light most favorable to the pleading party, the Complaintis sufficient to allege negligence as to Defendant Mechoshade.Page 4Accordingly, Mechoshade’s demurrer to Plaintiff two negligence causes of actionis overruled.CONCLUSIONDefendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’ Amended Complaint is OVERRULED