 “This case arises from an ownership dispute over a medical marijuana dispensary in Los Angeles. In essence, plaintiff Jamie Kersey claims defendant Christopher Stark transferred his ownership in Holistic Supplements, L.L.C. (hereafter the LLC) to her in April 2015. Unbeknownst to Kersey and despite that alleged transfer, he later converted the LLC from a limited liability company to a corporation and then a mutual benefit corporation in his name called Holistic Supplements Inc. (the corporation) and changed the business address. In that process, he claimed rights to a Business Tax Registration Certificate, a city-issued tax document that enabled the dispensary to operate. [¶]  Kersey and the LLC sued Stark and the corporation for conversion, unfair competition, and declaratory relief, among other claims. The case went to a jury trial, presenting the core factual dispute of whether Stark validly signed the April 2015 transfer documents or whether his signatures were forged. The jury ultimately decided only a single claim of conversion asserted by the LLC against the corporation, returning a defense verdict. The trial court removed the rest of the claims from the jury by granting nonsuit to defendants.”  (Holistic Supplements, L.L.C. v. Stark (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 530, 536.)  In the above cited ruling, the Court of Appeal reversed the decision of the trial court (Judge Byrdsong), finding that the nonsuit motion lacked merit and that the trial court erroneously instructed the jury that a Business Tax Registration Certificate (“BTRC”) is not property for the purposes of a conversion claim by Plaintiff Holistic Supplements, LLC.   Plaintiffs now seek leave to file a second supplemental complaint that “adds claims for Declaratory Relief and Quiet Title against new Defendants People’s Los Angeles, LLC, Unrivaled Brands, Inc. and Bernard Steimann so that all claims to the BTRC and all applicable cannabis licenses, as well as ownership of Holistic Supplements, a California corporation, can be tried and resolved all in a single proceeding.”The Court may, in the furtherance of justice, and upon any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 473, 576.)  In general, California courts liberally exercise discretion to permit amendment of pleadings in light of a strong policy favoring resolution of all disputes between parties in the same action.  (Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939; Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  “[T]here is a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.”  (Mesler v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296.)  Pursuant to this policy, requests for leave to amend generally will be granted unless the party seeking to amend has been dilatory in bringing the proposed amendment before the Court, and the delay in seeking leave to amend will cause prejudice to the opposing party if leave to amend is granted.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490; Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565.)  The decision on a motion for leave is directed to the sound discretion of the trial court.  (See generally Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2014) ¶¶ 6:637 et seq.)The trial date in this action is set for October 9, 2023.The Court will not allow amendment.  Plaintiffs claim they recently learned of potential competing claims to the BTRC, but most of Plaintiffs' discussion relates to discovery done in 2022.  Plaintiffs also discuss information arising in March 2023.  No reason is given for the fact that Plaintiffs waited until September 2023 to request an amendment; this was one week before the prior trial date of September 11, 2023.    The Court finds that there has been a long, unexplained delay that would prejudice Defendants by delaying trial and increasing the costs of litigation through additional discovery.  Ultimately, if Plaintiffs care about the potential claims, they can assert them in a subsequent litigation.  The Court is not inclined to relate any such case to this one. The Motion is denied.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.