  Case Number:  23PSCV01634    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Alan  Aguilar, et al. v. Thong H Pham Defendant Thong  Pham’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint;  and Defendant Thong Pham’s Motion to Strike Portions of  Plaintiff’s ComplaintTENTATIVE  RULING The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Third, Fifth, and Seventh  Causes of Action. The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Ninth Cause of Action without  leave to amend.  The Court DENIES the motion to strike. Defendant is ordered to file an Answer to the Complaint within ten  calendar days of this order. Defendant is further ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling  and file proof of service of same within five calendar days of this order.BACKGROUND This is a habitability case. On June  1, 2023, Plaintiffs Alan Aguilar and Karina Cervantes Ruiz (collectively,  Plaintiffs) filed this action against Defendant Thong H Pham (Defendant) and  Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for violation of Civil Code  section 1942.4, tortious breach of the warranty of habitability, private  nuisance, Business and Professions Code section 17200 et seq., negligence, breach  of covenant of quiet enjoyment, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligence  per se, violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act California Civil Code section  1750 et seq., intentional influence to vacate, retaliatory eviction Civil Code  section 1942.5. On September 26, 2023, Defendant  filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike. On October 10, 2023, Plaintiffs  opposed. No reply has been filed.MEET AND CONFER Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,  subdivision (a), the parties were required to meet and confer in person or by  telephone before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.  (a).) The Court finds the parties’ meet and confer efforts to be insufficient,  as there is no indication that the parties spoke in person or telephonically. (Prado  Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.) Nevertheless, the Court may not overrule a demurrer for  failure to adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.  (a)(4).) The Court will still consider the demurrer but admonishes the parties  to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward.Defendant Thong  Pham’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s ComplaintLEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true. (Id.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents of release not part of court record].) A demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are incorporated by reference into the complaint; or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”]). A demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)DISCUSSION Third  Cause of Action – Private Nuisance To  plead a cause of action for private nuisance, “[f]irst, the plaintiff must  prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of its property. Second, the  invasion of the plaintiff's interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must  be substantial, i.e.,  it caused the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage. Third, the  interference with the protected interest must not only be substantial, it must  also be unreasonable,  i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or amount as to constitute  unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.” (Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cnty. Metro. Transportation Auth.  (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1176, italics in original citing San Diego Gas  & Electric Co. v. Superior Court (1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 938-939.) Defendant  demurs to the Third Cause of Action on the grounds that private nuisance is not  a separate cause of action. Defendant further contends there can be no separate  cause of action for private nuisance when it is based on the same set of facts  as a negligence claim. The Court finds these arguments unpersuasive. First,  the Court of Appeal in Today’s IV, Inc. clearly articulated that private  nuisance is a separate cause of action. “In SD G&E, [citation], our  Supreme Court set out the elements of an action for private nuisance…” (Today’s  IV, Inc., supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p. 1176; see also Adams v. MHC Colony  Park, L.P. (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 601, 610 [“A private nuisance  cause of action requires the plaintiff to prove an injury specifically  referable to the use and enjoyment of his or her land. [Citation.]”]) Thus,  Defendant’s first argument fails here. Second,  Melton v. Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, which Defendant cited in  support of the contention that there can be no separate cause of action for  private nuisance when it is based on the same set of facts as a negligence  claim, does not stand for that contention. In Melton, the Court of  Appeal merely stated that the plaintiff’s nuisance claim and negligence claims  were identical, so if the negligence claim failed then the nuisance claim also  necessarily failed. (Id., at p. 542.) Conversely, if the negligence  claim survives, the nuisance claim survives. (See Id. [“The nuisance  claim ‘stands or falls with the determination of the negligence cause of action’  in such cases. [Citation.]”]) Defendant has not shown that Plaintiff’s  negligence claim has failed, therefore the nuisance claim does not fail either. Defendant argues the  Complaint fails to allege facts demonstrating a willful, malicious, or oppressive  breach of duties. However, such allegations are not necessary for a private nuisance  cause of action. (See Today's IV, Inc., supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p. 1176.) Defendant  further argues that the Complaint fails to allege facts that Plaintiffs  notified Defendant of the conditions of the unit on a specific occasion. Again,  such allegations are not necessary to state a private nuisance cause of action.  (Id.) Also, even if they were, the Complaint alleges that Defendant  received multiple government notices of violations and complaints from tenants,  including Plaintiffs, but refused to take reasonable corrective action and has  instead retaliated against Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶¶ 25-40, 42-47, 59, 75). Plaintiffs  also allege an inspection was conducted on December 24, 2022 and that the City  of El Monte cited Defendant in December 2022 for habitability issues, but  Defendant took no corrective action. (Compl., ¶¶ 56, 63, 65.) Plaintiffs  allege that they were tenants of the subject property, (Compl., ¶¶ 1, 102), that  there was a substantial invasion of their interest in their use and enjoyment  of the subject property due to issues with, among other things, plumbing, gas  pipes, vermin, cockroach eggs, mold, possible termite damage, missing patio  door, etc., (Compl., ¶¶ 25, 56), and that these conditions have persisted for  several years, (Compl., ¶ 57). The Court finds these allegations sufficient to  state a cause of action for private nuisance. Based on the foregoing, the  Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action. Fifth  Cause of Action - Negligence “To  succeed in a negligence action, the plaintiff must show that (1) the defendant  owed the plaintiff a legal duty, (2) the defendant breached the duty, and (3)  the breach proximately or legally caused (4) the plaintiff's damages or  injuries.” (Thomas v. Stenberg (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662.) Defendant  demurs to the Fifth Cause of Action on the grounds that it fails to state a  cause of action. The Court disagrees. The  Court finds Defendant’s arguments here to be largely conclusory and unsupported  by any citations to the Complaint. Defendant otherwise reiterates the argument  made above with respect to Plaintiffs’ private nuisance cause of action. Moreover,  Plaintiffs have alleged that they were tenants of the subject property,  (Compl., ¶¶ 1, 102), that Defendant breached his duty to Plaintiffs by,  among other things, failing to properly maintain and take care of the subject  property, such that it is uninhabitable, (Compl., ¶¶ 25, 56), and that  Defendant’s failure to maintain the subject property has caused Plaintiffs to  suffer damages, (Compl., ¶¶  41-42, 130-132).  The Court finds these allegations sufficient to state a cause of action for  negligence. Based  on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the Fifth Cause of  Action. Seventh Cause of Action –  Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress To  plead a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress  (IIED), the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating:  (1) extreme and  outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless  disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the  plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and  proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous  conduct....” (Catsouras v. Dep’t of California Highway Patrol (2010) 181  Cal.App.4th 586, 874-875.) “Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to  exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Ibid.) “Generally, conduct will be found to be actionable where the  ‘recitation of the facts to an average member of the community would arouse his  resentment against the actor, and lead him to exclaim, ‘Outrageous!’” (KOVR-TV,  Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1023, 1028, citing Rest.2d  Torts, § 46, com. d.) Said differently, the test for judging outrageous conduct  is less an analytical, bright-line test but rather one that appears “more  intuitive.” (KOVR-TV, Inc., supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 1028.) Furthermore,  “[i]t is not enough that the  conduct be intentional and outrageous. It must be conduct directed at the  plaintiff or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is  aware.” (Catsouras, supra, 181 Cal.App.4th 856 at p.  875) Defendant contends that the  Complaint does not allege sufficient facts that rise to the level of severe  emotional distress required for an IIED cause of action. The Court disagrees. The Complaint alleges that  Plaintiffs have suffered severe emotional distress in terms of, “prolonged,  overpowering fearfulness, sadness, anxiety, depression, hopelessness, despair,  and other related emotions. The Plaintiffs lived in constant fear that their  and their young children's health would take a turn for the worse because the  Subject Property was not suited their health and safety. The Plaintiffs'  emotional distress was severe in that it was long-lasting, burdened their  day-to-day life, and was based in serious concern for their health and safety.”  (Compl., ¶ 149.) The Complaint otherwise alleges that Plaintiffs suffered under  extreme conditions of an uninhabitable property. (Compl., ¶¶ 25, 56.) The  Court finds these allegations sufficient to state a cause of action for IIED.  (See Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 922 [holding that  tenant can state cause of action for IIED based on landlord’s failure to  provide habitable premises, among other things].) Based on the foregoing, the  Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the Seventh Cause of Action. Ninth Cause of Action – Violation  of Consumer Legal Remedies Act A cause of action under the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA)  “must be stated with reasonable particularity, which is a more lenient pleading  standard than is applied to common law fraud claims.” (Gutierrez v. Carmax  Auto Superstore California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234, 1261.) The CLRA  protects individuals engaging in consumer transactions. It prohibits  “unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices  undertaken by any person in a transaction intended to result or which results  in the sale or lease of goods or services to any consumer.” (Civ. Code, §  1770, subd. (a).) It  sets forth twenty-seven (27) different “unfair or deceptive acts or practices”  that may constitute a violation of the Act. (Ibid.) In assessing whether  the representations made in the course  of the consumer transaction violate the CLRA, courts use the  reasonable consumer standard—i.e., whether a reasonable consumer would be  misled by the representation. (Consumer Advocates v. Echostar Satellite  Corp. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1351, 1360.) To the extent an alleged  violation is based on the defendant’s omission of a material fact, “to be  actionable the omission must be contrary to a representation actually made by  the defendant, or an omission of a fact the defendant was obliged to  disclose.” (Daugherty v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (2006) 144  Cal.App.4th 824, 835.) Defendant demurs to the Ninth  Cause of Action on the grounds that the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) does  not apply. More specifically, Defendant contends the CLRA applies to defined  “goods” and “services,” as defined under Civil Code section 1761, which does  not apply here because this matter involves real property. The Court agrees. The CLRA defines “goods” as,  “tangible chattels bought or leased for use  primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, including certificates  or coupons exchangeable for these goods, and including goods that, at the time  of the sale or subsequently, are to be so affixed to real property as to become  a part of real property, whether or not they are severable from the real  property.” (Civ. Code § 1761, subd. (a).) It further defines “services” as, “work,  labor, and services for other than a commercial or business use, including  services furnished in connection with the sale or repair of goods.” (Id.,  § 1761, subd. (b).) Plaintiffs  leased residential property. (Compl., ¶ 1.) Residential property is real  property, not a tangible chattel. A chattel is, “[m]ovable or transferable property; personal property;  esp., a physical object capable of manual delivery and not the subject matter  of real property.” (Black's Law Dictionary (11th ed. 2019).) The language of  subdivision (a) of Civil Code section 1761 also makes clear that it  distinguishes chattels from real property. (Civ. Code § 1761, subd. (a).) Because  real property is not a tangible chattel, it is not a “good” under the CLRA. (Id.)  Plaintiffs’ attempt to bring “services” into this matter is unavailing as well,  since it applies in connection with the sale of goods, which the subject  property is not for the reasons set forth above. (See Id., § 1761, subds.  (a), (b).) In this case, the Rental Agreement was for the lease  of real property, which is not a “good” or “service.” (See McKell v.  Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1465–1467, 1488 [the  CLRA does not apply to a transaction resulting in the sale of real property].) Based on the foregoing, the  Court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the Ninth Cause of Action without leave to  amend.Defendant Thong Pham’s Motion to Strike Portions of  Plaintiff’s ComplaintLEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Strike “The Court may, upon a motion made  pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted  in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or  filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of  the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (b)(2).)DISCUSSION –  Motion to Strike Meet and Confer Per Code of Civil  Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a), the parties were required to meet and  confer telephonically or in person before bringing this motion to strike. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds the parties’ meet and  confer efforts to be insufficient, as there is no indication that the parties  spoke in person or telephonically. (Prado Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.) Nevertheless,  the Court may not deny a motion to strike for failure to adequately meet and  confer. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) The  Court will still consider the motion to strike but admonishes the parties to  comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward.  Analysis “A  notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading must quote in full the  portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike an entire  paragraph, cause of action, count, or defense. Specifications in a notice must  be numbered consecutively.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (a).) Defendant  seeks to strike the “claim and prayer for punitive damages” from the Complaint.  (Notice, 1:28.) For the reasons set forth below, the Court denies Defendant’s  motion to strike. First, although not raised in  Plaintiffs’ opposition, the Court notes that Defendant’s motion to strike  failed to quote the specific language from the Complaint it seeks to strike, or  otherwise identify the portions of the Complaint Defendant seeks to strike.  Defendant’s motion to strike therefore fails to comply with the requirements of  Rule 3.1322, subdivision (a) of the California Rules of Court. While the Court  can locate the request for punitive damages in the prayer for relief, the Court  cannot determine what portion of the Complaint Defendant means when referring  to the “claim… for punitive damages.” (Notice, 1:28.) The Court is left to  guess what other portions of the Complaint Defendant seeks to strike. This by  itself is sufficient grounds for the Court to deny the motion to strike. Moreover, the Court finds  Defendant’s motion unpersuasive since the Court overruled the demurrer as to  Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of Action for Nuisance and Seventh Cause of Action for  IIED, which provide bases for Plaintiffs to seek punitive damages. (See Stoiber,  supra, 101 Cal.App.3d at pp.  919-922; Code Civ. Proc., § 3294, subd. (a).) The Court finds the Complaint alleges sufficient facts for  Plaintiffs to request punitive damages at the pleading stage. (See Compl., ¶¶  36-48, 51-54, 59, 75, 82.) Based  on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion to strike.CONCLUSION The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Third, Fifth, and Seventh  Causes of Action. The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Ninth Cause of Action without  leave to amend. The Court DENIES the motion to strike. Defendant is ordered to file an Answer to the Complaint within ten  calendar days of this order. Defendant is further ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling  and file proof of service of same within five calendar days of this order.