  Case Number:  20STCV48114    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  O Guardado v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Case
no. 20STCV48114
 
Petition to Trust Issues in Compromise
Petition 
 
Hearing Date:  9/26/24 

 

 
PLAINTIFF: 
Vanessa Guardado, age 32, Disabled
PETITIONER:   Hisela Rauda, parent and GAL (Appointed 12/24/20)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court orders the hearing continued to
_____________________________ for Petitioner to give proper 15 days’ notice by
mail of the Amended Proposed Order  to
the state agencies. 
 
            When
seeking approval of a special needs trust (SNT), notice of the hearing and
service of the petition must be made upon three state agencies including the
Dept. of Mental Health, Dept. of Developmental Services, and Dept. of Health
Care Services.  (Probate Code sections
3602(f), 3611(c).). A proof of service indicates service of this the petition
upon the state agencies.  There is also a
proof of service for an “amended” proposed order submitted on 9/18/24 and
attaching a proof of service showing service on the state agencies on
9/17/24.  Petitioner is changing the
relief requested in the petition by filing the “amended” proposed order that
contains updated figures for the medical expenses and net settlement proceeds
(see the Gross and Net Settlement below). 
The service of the “amended” proposed order on 9/17/24 was only nine
days prior to the hearing on this petition. 
To the extent that the “amended” proposed order presents a new
request for relief, new notice to the state agencies was required and service
only nine days prior to the hearing was not sufficient.  (See subsection (a) of CRC rule 7.35: An
amended pleading or an amendment to a pleading requires the same notice of
hearing (including publication) as the pleading it amends.)  The court may wish to continue the hearing
for proper notice to the state agencies, which is 15 days by mail.  
 
The Court intends to approve the
settlement, subject to the corrections notice below.
 
GROSS AND NET SETTLEMENT (Petition, p. 6,
sections 15 and 16f):  APPROVED  
 
Gross $7 million, Net $4,543,408.83 (as
stated in the 7/25/24 petition and proposed order)
 
Gross $7 million, Net $4,740,150.21, as
stated in a 9/18/24 “amended” proposed order submitted without a new petition –
reimbursement of medical expenses are reduced, compare orders at p. 2, section
8.  See also the declaration of counsel
filed on 9/17/24 regarding lien issues, including a request to grant the
petition and resolve the lien issues later (a common practice).
 
Petitioner also states at petition, p. 3,
section 8b(3): “The negotiations with regards to the Medi-Cal lien are ongoing.
The current amount of the Medi-Cal lien, i.e., $70,395.22 will be held in the
Law Offices of Michael Oran client trust account pending these negotiations.
Once resolved, Medi-Cal will be paid. The net of any further reduction will be
transferred to the Vanessa Guardado Supplemental Needs Trust.”
 
PROPOSED RECIPIENT OF SETTLEMENT PROCEEDS
(Petition, pp. 8-9, sec. 18): APPROVED
 
Petitioner proposes to fund $1,543,408.83
cash into a SNT for plaintiff’s benefit and use the remaining $3 million to
purchase annuities that would pay into the SNT at:
 
Commencing
01/01/2025, $13,500.00 per month for 10 years,
guaranteed;
(final guaranteed payment on 12/01/2034).
 
Commencing
01/01/2035, $14,000.00 per month for 10 years,
guaranteed;
(final guaranteed payment on 12/01/2044).
 
Commencing
01/01/2045, $17,177.67 per month for the lifetime of
Vanessa
Guardado with the first 15 years guaranteed;
(final
guaranteed payment on 12/01/2059).
 
Additional details regarding the annuity
and annuity company are set forth at Attachment 18b(3), court’s pdf at p. 87.
 
Question re Medi-Cal Eligibility, SSI
benefits :
An SNT is often used to receive the
settlement funds in these situations so that plaintiff does not lose benefits
eligibility for Medi-Cal, SSI, and other benefits.  Historically funds held in a valid SNT are
exempt assets that do not count toward the $2,000 asset limit for purposes of
calculating benefits eligibility.  On
January 1, 2024, the Medi-Cal asset qualification limit was eliminated and
there is no longer a means test for Medi-Cal. 
The asset qualification for other benefits, like SSI, did not change.  Is there a need to create and fund a SNT to
maintain these benefits? 
 
PROPOSED TRUST INSTRUMENT:  APPROVED 
 
Petitioner provides the proposed trust
instrument at Exhibit A to Attachment 18b(4), court’s pdf at p. 107.
 
The main requirements for court created
or funded trusts are set forth at California Rules of Court (CRC) rule 7.903(c)
and LASC rule 4.116(b).  The proposed
trust instrument meets those requirements and is ready for approval for
creation and/or funding.
 
ADDITIONAL REQUESTS FOR RELIEF:
 
Petitioner makes the following additional
requests for relief that are beyond those fundamental to the approval and
funding of a settlement trust:
 
1.     Petitioner
requests authority for trustee to invest in mutual funds and bonds with
maturity dates greater than five years to provide for diversification and a
higher rate of investment return.  (Attachment 18b(4), court’s pdf at p.
103.) 
This request would provide for a broader investment authority than the
statutory baseline but is common when the trust assets will be large and/or the
investment horizon is long (where plaintiff is fairly young): GRANTED. 
 
2.    
Petitioner
requests authority to pay $4,000 fees to trust specialist counsel, the Dale Law
Firm, for tasks relating to the minor’s settlement trust including drafting of
the trust instrument and related portions of this petition.  (Attachment 18b(4), court’s pdf at p. 105.)   GRANTED.

 
3.    
Petitioner
requests authority for trustee to spend up to $110,000 of trust assets to
purchase a vehicle that will be used to transport the trust beneficiary and to
accommodate her special needs.  (Attachment
18b(4), court’s pdf at p. 104.  Vehicle
proposal provided at Exhibit C, court’s pdf at p. 126.)  The vehicle would be titled in the name of
petitioner/plaintiff’s mother, and the trust would have a lien on the vehicle
to secure the trust’s interest in the purchase price.  The trust would pay for ongoing registration,
insurance, and major maintenance or repairs. 
These terms are typical for purchases of vehicles from a SNT.  GRANTED. 

 
4.    
Petitioner
requests authority for trustee to pay petitioner up to 40 hours per week at
$25/hr as trust beneficiary/plaintiff’s primary caregiver.  (Attachment 18b(4), court’s pdf at p.
105.)  Though not mentioned, trustee
would need to engage a third party to employ petitioner which would add
expenses for payroll taxes, insurance, and administrative fees.  These requests are common when a parent is a
primary caregiver of a trust beneficiary and the trust funding is significant. GRANTED.
  
 
FINDINGS WHEN THE PROPOSED TRUST IS AN
SNT: GRANTED
 
The Court makes the following findings
pursuant to Probate Code section 3604(b) (there are factual allegations in the
Petition to Approve Compromise and its attachments supporting the settlement
that generally cover the requisite findings):
 

The
     SNT beneficiary has a disability which substantially impairs the
     individual’s ability to provide for her own care or custody and
     constitutes a substantial handicap;
The
     SNT beneficiary is likely to have special needs that will not be met
     without the trust; 
The
     money to be paid to the trust does not exceed the amount that appears
     reasonably necessary to meet the SNT beneficiary’s special needs.

 
TRUSTE AND BOND: IS REQUIRED (order, p.
4, section 11).
 
The proposed initial trustee(s) is Mia
Ehsani, a private professional fiduciary (PPF) in El Dorado Hills, California. Normally, bond must be required of a
trustee unless the trustee is a corporate fiduciary. (California Rules of
Court, Rule 7.903(c)(5), Probate Code section 2320.)  A PPF does not meet the definition of a
corporate fiduciary and bond is required. 

 
A proper bond calculation based upon the
assets to be funded into the trust, plus anticipated annual income from
investments and annuity, plus an additional amount required for the costs of
any recovery on the bond, would be $1,890,000.  The Court requires a  $1,890,000 bond be  submitted by trustee to this department (which
will later be resubmitted to the Probate court in any trust supervision action).     
 
ORDERS/PROPOSED ORDER:  APPROVED WITH CORRECTIONS
 
Proposed
Order received stamp date:  “Amended”
proposed order 9/18/24
General
trust orders at Attachment 13, order pdf, p. 7.
When the
petition is approved, this court should require the filing of a Notice of
Commencement of Proceedings for a Court Supervised Trust on LASC Form PRO 044 in
the Probate division of this court within 60 days (a general statement in the
order on the compromise petition that the PRO 044 must be filed in 60 days, or
an actual stated calendar date in 60 days, is okay either way).  It is this filing that will pass jurisdiction
over the trust to the Probate department of this court to provide for court
supervision of the trust over the years. 
It is in that Probate case that accountings will be filed periodically
by trustee, as well as any other petitions involving the trust.  The proposed order fails to state this
requirement and correction is needed.  
The Court
notes the proposed trustee is a PPF in El Dorado Hills, California which is in El
Dorado County.  Sometime between the
filing of the PRO 044 in the Probate division of this court and the first
accounting after a year, the trustee will likely need to transfer the action to
El Dorado County as the proper venue for ongoing trust supervision.  (Probate Code section 17005.)  
When the
petition is approved, this Court must make an order that the trustee’s first
accounting is due filed in the Probate case within a year, and an actual 14
month calendar due date should be stated. 
It is that actual date that will be picked up by the Probate filing
window when the trust supervision action is filed and an OSC/compliance date re
the first accounting will be set.  The
proposed order fails to state this requirement and correction is needed.  
When the
petition is approved, the Court will set an OSC in this Department O in
approximately 60 days to ensure the funding of the settlement, submission of
bond if required, purchase of annuity if relevant, and the filing of LASC Form
PRO 044 to open a trust supervision action in probate.  The proposed order fails to state this OSC
and correction is needed.  
The order states that no bond is required
(order p. 3, section 11), when the recommendation is that $1,890,000 bond
should be required.  Correction is
needed.  