  Case Number:  21AHCV00123    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



YANHONG XING, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SHUNJUN
   ZHANG, et al.,
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21AHCV00123
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: Plaintiff Yanhong Xing’s MOTIONS TO DEEM ADMITTED;
  REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 7,
   2024



On November
 30, 2021, plaintiff Yanhong Xing (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against defendants Shunjun Zhang (“Zhang”) and Meiju Group, LLC (“Meiju
Group”). On November 15, 2023, Plaintiff
served Zhang with Request for Admissions, Set Two. On the same day, Plaintiff
also served Meiju Group with Request for Admissions, Set Two. No responses were
received. These motions were filed on February 23, 2024. Plaintiff seeks an
order deeming the truth of the matters within each of her two sets of requests
for admissions admitted and requests monetary sanctions against each defendant.

Where a party fails to timely respond
to a request for admission, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The
court shall grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it
finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
          Neither
defendant opposed these motions and there is no evidence that substantially
compliant responses have been served before the hearing. Accordingly, the
motions are GRANTED. 
Where a party fails to provide a timely
response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the
party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED. The Court imposes monetary sanctions
against Zhang in the reduced amount of $460
for 1
hour at Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate of $400
and a $60.00 filing fee, to be paid within 20 days of the
date of this Order. The Court also imposes sanctions in the reduced amount of
$460 against Meiju Group, to be paid within 20 days of the date of this Order. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 7th
day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 