  Case Number:  23SMCV01715    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiffs Mir Ali Akbar Helmi and Mahnaz Yazdanmanesh’s Motion to Quash and/or Modify Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena Duces Tecum Served on Non-Party Premier America Credit Union is DENIED.Plaintiffs Mir Ali Akbar Helmi and Mahnaz Yazdanmanesh to give notice. REASONINGPlaintiffs Mir Ali Akbar Helmi and Mahnaz Yazdanmanesh (“Plaintiffs”) move the Court for an order quashing or modifying the subpoena served on nonparty Premier American Credit Union by Defendants Shawn S. Rabbani and Hertz Investment Company, LLC seeking financial documents pertaining to Plaintiffs’ acquisition of the disputed property at 2995 North Beverly Glen Circle. Plaintiffs argue that the requests are unclear, ambiguous, and confusing, with an open-ended nature that intrudes on Plaintiffs’ right to privacy and will not yield relevant, admissible evidence.If a subpoena requires the production of documents, the Court “may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) “The court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020, subd. (a).)In this action, Plaintiffs allege that they purchased the property at 2995 North Beverly Glen Circle and later learned the property had been “entirely redone” without permits or proper approval, and the property had suffered severe water intrusion damage. The Court finds that the requested documents are properly sought. Notably, Plaintiffs state in their opposition the documents from Premier American Credit Union “are relevant only insofar as they pertain to the loan provided by P.A.C.U. to the plaintiff for the purchase of the property” (Mot., p. 4, ll. 21-22), and the requests at issue are clearly limited to the loan provided for the purchase of this property. Defendant states that he anticipates that the file will include information about material representations about the property because a lender will generally rely on this information in providing a loan, and Plaintiffs do not dispute this. Moreover, Defendant has offered to enter into a protective order assuring that the documents will not be disseminated to anyone outside the scope of this litigation. The Court finds that Defendant has sufficiently set forth a basis for obtaining the requested information, which is fundamental to Defendant’s ability to mount a defense in this action. “[W]here the financial information goes to the heart of the cause of action itself, a litigant should not be denied access” to the information requested in a subpoena such as the one at issue here. (GT, Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 748, 754.) While Plaintiffs have a privacy interest in financial information, Defendant has an interest in defending against Plaintiffs’ claims. Accordingly, Plaintiffs Mir Ali Akbar Helmi and Mahnaz Yazdanmanesh’s Motion to Quash and/or Modify Defendants’ Deposition Subpoena Duces Tecum Served on Non-Party Premier America Credit Union is DENIED.Insofar as Plaintiffs object to certain statements within the declaration of John D. Wilson, the objections are not properly formatted, i.e., Plaintiffs apparently ask the Court to decide which statements in the declaration are objectionable by taking issue with “many” statements or the inclusion of statements without identifying the statements. For that reason, the objections are OVERRULED.