  Case Number:  20STCP00529    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  68 Bahram
Nowparvar vs. Jeremy Daniels-Stock, et al., 20STCP00529
Motion for
Attorneys’ Fees, Costs, and Expenses
Moving
Parties – Plaintiff Bahram Nowparvar
Responding
Parties – Defendants JDS Minions and Jeremy Daniels-Stock
Moving Party’s Position
            In this case, the parties settled in
Plaintiff’s favor. As the prevailing party on a contract containing a provision
for attorney fees, Plaintiff is entitled to attorney fees. Plaintiffs filed
this motion pursuant to Civ. Code § 1717, which allows for the recovery of
attorney fees when a contract contains a fees provision. Defendants JDS Minions
and Jeremy Daniels-Stock (Defendants) also agreed to pay attorney fees in the
settlement agreement.
            Plaintiff is requesting $22,685 in
attorney fees from Defendants ($21,060 for the invoices, and an expected $1,625
for reviewing the opposition, drafting a reply, and attending the hearing).
Plaintiff argues that the attorney fees that he has requested are reasonable. Plaintiff’s
attorney’s hourly rate is $650 an hour. (Gentino Decl., ¶ 1.)
Opposing Parties’ Position
            Defendants do not dispute
Plaintiff’s entitlement to attorney fees. Defendants do, however, dispute the
amount requested as being unreasonable. Defendants argue that the hourly rate
of Plaintiff’s attorney is unreasonable, as most attorneys in the area charge $400-$450/hour.
Defendants also argue that Plaintiff’s attorney engaged in bill padding, though
Defendant does not point to any specific examples.
            Defendants also oppose Plaintiff’s
memorandum of costs in their opposition.
Reply
            Plaintiff argues that its billing is
reasonable. Plaintiff also argues that Defendants failed to support their
assertion that Plaintiff’s attorney’s hourly rate is excessive.
Analysis
            A prevailing party is entitled to
recover its attorneys’ fees when authorized by contract, statute, or law. (See
CCP § 1033.5(a)(10); Cal. Civ. Code § 1717(a).)
            Plaintiffs’ request for $22,685 in
attorney’s fees is based on just under 35 hours of work at $650 an hour.
            Given that the litigation in the
matter has been going on for over three and a half years, 35 hours of work in
the litigation is reasonable. Additionally, the Court does not find that
Plaintiff’s hourly rate of $650 an hour is unreasonable. The Court will not
adjust the amount of attorney fees requested by Plaintiff.
            Plaintiff’s motion for attorneys’
fees is granted in the amount of $22,685.
            Costs are awarded pursuant to Rule
3.1700, and nothing in this order addresses that matter. If Defendants wish to
oppose the memorandum of costs, they should file a motion to tax costs.
Order
1.      Plaintiffs’
motion for attorney fees is granted against Defendants JDS Minions and Jeremy
Daniels-Stock in the amount of $22,685.
2.      Defendants
JDS Minions and Jeremy Daniels-Stock are ordered to pay attorney fees to
Plaintiff’s attorney in the amount of $22,685.