  Case Number:  23SMCV02556    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May
  29, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02556




MOTION


Motion
  to Deem Admitted




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Sonya Daniels




OPPOSING PARTIES


None



 
MOTION
 
            Plaintiff Sonya Daniels
(“Plaintiff”) moves to deem admitted the matters specified in Requests for
Admission, Set one (“RFA”) propounded to Defendants Body By Batal Cosmetic
Surgery Center and Obaida Batal MD (“Defendants”) and for sanctions.   The
Motion is unopposed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
           
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (a), “[i]f a party to whom requests
or admission are directed fails to serve a timely response . . .  [t]he party to whom the requests for
admission are directed waives any objection to the requests, including one
based on privilege or on the protection for work product[.]”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).)  Where a party fails to respond to
requests for admissions, the propounding party may move for an order that the
genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)
 
Plaintiff contends she served Defendants with the RFA on April 2,
2024, and that Defendants had not responded as of May 5, 2024, when Plaintiff
signed her declaration.[1]  Therefore, Plaintiff seeks to deem admitted
the matters specified in the RFA.
 
As a threshold matter, Plaintiff has not provided any proof of service
indicating that she properly served Defendants with the RFA and Motion.  In particular, Code of Civil Procedure
section 1005 requires that all moving and supporting papers shall be filed and
served at least 16 court days prior to the hearing.  Finding no evidence of proper service of the
motion on Defendants, the Court cannot grant Plaintiff’s request.
 
The Court also finds the motion substantively deficient.  In support of the motion, Plaintiff’s
declaration indicates the following:
 
2. On April 2, 2024 served Plaintiff s Request
for Admissions, Set No. One on the Defendants via eServe and a copy USPS April
18, 2024. A true and correct copy. [sic]
 
[…]
 
4. As of the date of filing the present motion,
our office has not received any responses to Piaintiff’ s [sic] Request for
Admissions, Set No. One.
 
(Daniels
Decl. ¶¶ 2, 4.)  
 
Attached to the Declaration as Exhibit A is an unauthenticated screenshot
of two text messages from “me” to “Obaida” that indicates “Meet and confer
discovery requests” and then consists of a series of thirteen interrogatories,
the last line of which is cut off. 
Attached as Exhibit B is a proof of service, dated April 2, 2024, indicates
service by mail to “19228 Ventura blvd suite A Tarzana Ca 91367” but does not
indicate what documents were served or what date the documents were served by
mail.  
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s evidence insufficient to demonstrate that
Defendants were properly served via electronic service or by mail.  The content of Plaintiff’s declaration is
incomplete, the supporting documents are unauthenticated, and there is no clear
proof of (1) what RFAs were served; (2) when they were served; or (3) how they
were served.  Furthermore, the Court
notes that the service address listed in the unauthenticated proof of service
(Ex. B) is different from Defendants’ address as listed on the Answer and in
the Court’s record.  Therefore, Plaintiff
has not demonstrated that she ever properly served the RFA on Defendants.
 
Furthermore, even if Defendants were served on April 2, 2024, Code of
Civil Procedure section 1013 extends the 30-day deadline to respond to
discovery by five calendar days when service is effectuated by mail, and Code
of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 extends the 30-day deadline by two court days
when the discovery is served electronically. 
Thus, service by mail on April 2, 2024 would make the responses due May
7, and electronic service on April 2 would make the responses due May 6.  Either way, Plaintiff’s May 5 declaration
indicating that she had not yet received responses is insufficient to establish
that Defendants failed to timely respond to discovery.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted the matters specified in the RFA for the
reasons stated.
Further, having
found Plaintiff failed to provide an evidentiary basis that (1) Defendants were
ever properly served with the RFA; or (2) Defendants failed to timely respond
to the RFA, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.  
            Plaintiff
is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof
of service.
 
 
 
DATED:  May 29, 2024                                             ___________________________
                                                                              Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge of the Superior Court
 
 


