 Case Number:  23STCV29493    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2024    Dept:  14 #6Case Background
This is an action for fraudulent inducement,
intentional and negligent misrepresentation, promissory estoppel, violations of
the FEHA, violations of the Labor Code , wrongful termination, breach of
contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and violations
of Bus. & Prof. Code, section 17200, et seq. Plaintiff alleges that while she
was employed as an executive officer by Defendants, Plaintiff suffered
discrimination due to her gender and race. Additionally, Plaintiff was not
given the pay and other benefits she was promised in her employment contract.
After she requested the missing benefits, Plaintiff was terminated.
On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff Noel Mika Bahamon filed
her Complaint against Defendants Jet Edge International, LLC (Jet Edge),
Western Air Charter, Inc. (Western), Vista Global Holding Limited (Vista), and
Bill Papariella. 
On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed this omnibus
motion to compel Defendants’ responses to requests for production and special
interrogatories, and to compel the depositions of Defendant Papariella and
Defendant Jet Edge’s Vice President of Human Resources, Karin Saidiner. 
On October 3, 2024, Defendants filed their opposition.
On October 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
Instant Pleading
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendants’ responses to
requests for production and special interrogatories, and to compel the
depositions of Defendant Papariella and Defendant Jet Edge’s Vice President of
Human Resources, Karin Saidiner. 
Decision
Plaintiffs’ motions to compel Defendants’ responses to
discovery are DENIED. The Court awards Defendants sanctions in the reduced
amount of $1,260 for four hours of attorney time at a
rate of $300 per hour and a $60 filing fee. 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of
Papariella is GRANTED. The motion to compel the deposition of Karin Saidiner is
DENIED. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions against Papariella is GRANTED in the
reduced amount of $1,260 for four hours of attorney
time at a rate of $300 per hour and a $60 filing fee. 
Plaintiff is ordered to pay nine additional filing fees
of $60 for a total of $540 to the Court. 
Sanctions and the missing filing fees are to be paid
within 10 days of this order.
Discussion
Plaintiff filed an improper omnibus motion compelling two
different types of discovery from four different Defendants, and compelling two
different depositions. Plaintiff was required to file each motion separately
against each party and pay a separate filing fee for each motion. (Gov. Code,
section 70617(f).) Plaintiff must pay nine separate filing fees to the Court.
Motions to Compel Discovery
Plaintiff moves to compel two sets of discovery from
all four Defendants. Plaintiff represents that she propounded the first set of
discovery requests on January 26, 2024. (Zonne Decl., ¶2.) Defendants served
responses consisting solely of objections on March 19, 2024. (Id., ¶4.) Plaintiff
argues that the objections are not responses to discovery and that the objections
were not verified. (Reply, pp. 2-3.)
A party to whom interrogatories and requests for
production have been propounded may respond with objections. (Code Civ. Proc.,
sections 2030.210 (a)(3), 2031.210(a)(3). Objections to interrogatories and
demands for production are not required to be verified because “objections are
legal conclusions interposed by counsel, not factual assertions by a party.” (Blue
Ridge Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d 339, 345.)
Here, Defendants’ responses consisting solely of objections
are valid under the Discovery Act. Plaintiff’s assertion that they are not
responses is incorrect. If Plaintiff was not satisfied with the sufficiency of
the responses, she was required to participate in IDC and file a motion to
compel further. The Court notes that it has now been more than 45 days since
Defendants served their responses. 
Failure
to timely move to compel further responses within the specified period
constitutes a waiver of any right to compel a further response. The 45–day rule
to bring a motion to compel is mandatory and jurisdictional “in the sense that
it renders court without authority to rule on motions to compel other than to
deny them.” (Sexton v. Superior Ct. (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403,
1410.)  
Here, even if Plaintiff filed a motion to compel
Defendants’ further responses to special interrogatories and requests for
production, the Court lacks the authority to rule on the motion. Therefore,
Plaintiff’s motion to compel discovery is DENIED. Plaintiff may not file a
motion to compel further.
The
court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories or request for production, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc.,
sections 2030.290(c), 2031.290(c).) 
Here, because both motions were denied and Defendants
responded to both motions in one opposition, the Court awards Defendants $1,260
for 3 hours of attorney time at a rate of $300 per hour plus a $60 filing fee.
Motions to Compel Deposition
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action … without having
served a valid objection … fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with
it, or to produce for inspection any document, … described in the deposition
notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the
deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any
document … described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., section
2025.450, subd. (a).)  
Here, Plaintiff moves to compel the depositions of Defendant
Papariella and Defendant Jet Edge’s Vice President of Human Resources, Karin
Saidiner. Plaintiff served deposition notices on Papariella and Saidiner setting
deposition dates for March 2024. (Zonne Decl., ¶3.) Papariella and Saidiner objected
to the deposition date due to unavailability. (Id., ¶¶3,6.) Thereafter,
Defendants’ counsel failed to send deposition dates despite Plaintiff’s
attempts to meet and confer. (Id., ¶¶8-11.)
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s deposition notices
were improper because they were unilaterally noticed and Plaintiff failed to
meet and confer before serving the notices. (Opp., p. 3.) However, the
Discovery Act does not require Plaintiff to meet and confer over deposition
dates prior to serving a deposition notice. Although Defendants may object to
the notices due to unavailability, Defendants failed to proceed with a properly
noticed deposition notice by failing to provide dates of availability. 
The motion to compel the deposition of Defendant
Papariella is GRANTED because Papariella failed to proceed with Plaintiff’s
properly noticed deposition.
The motion to compel the deposition of Saidiner is
DENIED because she is not longer employed by Defendants. (Lallite Decl., ¶4.)
If Plaintiff wishes to depose Saidiner, Plaintiff must proceed with the
nonparty discovery procedures set forth in Code Civ. Proc., sections
2020.240-2022.)
If a motion to compel
deposition is granted, sanctions are mandatory in favor of the party who
noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2025.450,
subd. (g)(1).)
Here, sanctions are granted
as to the motion to compel Defendant Papariella only because the motion was
granted. Plaintiff’s counsel’s rate of $1,040 per hour is excessive and the
number of hours expended is excessive. The Court awards Plaintiff sanctions totaling
$1,260 for four hours of attorney time at a rate of $300 per hour and a $60
filing fee. 
Conclusion
Plaintiffs’ motions to compel Defendants’ responses to
discovery are DENIED. The Court awards Defendants sanctions in the reduced
amount of $1,260 for four hours of attorney time at a
rate of $300 per hour and a $60 filing fee. 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of
Papariella is GRANTED. The motion to compel the deposition of Karin Saidiner is
DENIED. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions against Papariella is GRANTED in the
reduced amount of $1,260 for four hours of attorney
time at a rate of $300 per hour and a $60 filing fee. 
Plaintiff is ordered to pay nine additional filing fees
of $60 for a total of $540 to the Court. 
Sanctions and the missing filing fees are to be paid
within 10 days of this order.