 Case Number:  24STCP02823    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2024    Dept:  14 #5Case Background
This is a petition for approval for transfer of payment
rights between Gail Belbeck and Petitioner CBC Settlement Funding, LLC. 
On August 30, 2024, Petitioner CBC Settlement Funding,
LLC filed its petition for transfer of structured settlement payment rights.
On September 10, 2024, Petitioner filed a motion for
order approving the transfer of structured settlement payment rights.
Instant Pleading
Petitioner moves for an order approving the transfer of
structured settlement payment rights under Ins. Code, section 10139.5.
Decision
Petitioner CBC Settlement Funding, LLC’s motion for an
order approving the transfer of structured settlement payment rights is DENIED
without prejudice.
Legal Standard
Insurance Code § 10139.5 states, in
pertinent part, as follows:
 
            “(a) A direct or indirect transfer of structured settlement
payment rights is 
not
effective and a structured settlement obligor or annuity issuer is not 
required
to make any payment directly or indirectly to any transferee of 
structured
settlement payment rights unless the transfer has been approved 
in
advance in a final court order based on express written findings by the 
court
that:
(1)  
The transfer is in the
best interest of the payee, taking into account the 
welfare
and support of the payee's dependents…
(b) When determining whether the proposed transfer should be approved, 
including
whether the transfer is fair, reasonable, and in the payee's best 
interest,
taking into account the welfare and support of the payee's 
dependents,
the court shall consider the totality of the circumstances, 
including,
but not limited to, all of the following:
(1)  
The reasonable
preference and desire of the payee to complete the 
proposed
transaction, taking into account the payee's age, mental capacity, 
legal knowledge, and apparent maturity level.
(2) The
stated purpose of the transfer.
(3) The
payee's financial and economic situation.
(4) The
terms of the transaction, including whether the payee is 
transferring
monthly or lump sum payments or all or a portion of his or 
her
future payments.
(5) Whether, when the settlement
was completed, the future periodic 
payments that are the subject of
the proposed transfer were intended to 
pay for the future medical care and
treatment of the payee relating to 
injuries sustained by the payee in
the incident that was the subject of the 
settlement and whether the payee
still needs those future payments to pay 
for that future care and treatment.
(6)
Whether, when the settlement was completed, the future periodic 
payments
that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to 
provide
for the necessary living expenses of the payee and whether the 
payee
still needs the future structured settlement payments to pay for future 
necessary
living expenses.
(7) Whether the payee is, at the
time of the proposed transfer, likely to 
require future medical care and
treatment for the injuries that the payee 
sustained in connection with the
incident that was the subject of the 
settlement and whether the payee
lacks other resources, including 
insurance, sufficient to cover
those future medical expenses.
(8) Whether the payee has other means of income or support, aside from 
the structured settlement payments
that are the subject of the proposed 
transfer, sufficient to meet the
payee's future financial obligations for 
maintenance and support of the
payee's dependents, specifically including, 
but not limited to, the payee's
child support obligations, if any.
(9) Whether the financial terms of
the transaction, including the discount 
rate applied to determine the
amount to be paid to the payee, the 
expenses and costs of the
transaction for both the payee and the 
transferee, the size of the
transaction, the available financial alternatives 
to the payee to achieve the payee's
stated objectives, are fair and 
reasonable.
(10) Whether the payee completed previous transactions involving the 
payee's structured settlement
payments and the timing and size of the 
previous transactions and whether
the payee was satisfied with any 
previous transaction.
(11) Whether the transferee
attempted previous transactions involving 
the payee's structured settlement
payments that were denied, or that 
were dismissed or withdrawn prior
to a decision on the merits, within the 
past five years.
(12) Whether, to the best of the
transferee's knowledge after making 
inquiry with the payee, the payee
has attempted structured settlement 
payment transfer transactions with
another person or entity, other than 
the transferee, that were denied,
or which were dismissed or withdrawn 
prior to a decision on the merits,
within the past five years.
(13) Whether the payee, or his or
her family or dependents, are in or 
are facing a hardship situation.
(14) Whether the payee received
independent legal or financial advice 
regarding the transaction. The
court may deny or defer ruling on the 
petition for approval of a transfer
of structured settlement payment 
rights if the court believes that
the payee does not fully understand the 
proposed transaction and that
independent legal or financial advice 
regarding the transaction should be
obtained by the payee.
(15) Any other factors or facts that
the payee, the transferee, or any 
other interested party calls to the
attention of the reviewing court or that 
the court determines should be
considered in reviewing the transfer…
(f)(1) A petition under this
article for approval of a transfer of structured 
settlement payment rights shall be
made by the transferee and brought in 
the county in which the payee
resides at the time the transfer agreement 
is signed by the payee, or, if the
payee is not domiciled in California,
in 
the county in which the payee
resides or in the county where the 
structured settlement obligor or
annuity issuer is domiciled.
(2) Not less than 20 days prior to
the scheduled hearing on any petition 
for approval of a transfer of
structured settlement payment rights under 
this article, the transferee shall
file with the court and serve on all 
interested parties a notice of the
proposed transfer and the petition for its 
authorization, and shall include
the following with that notice:
(A) A copy of the transferee's
current petition and any other prior 
petition, whether approved or
withdrawn, that was filed with the court 
in accordance with paragraph (6) of
subdivision (c).
(B) A copy of the proposed transfer
agreement and disclosure form 
required by paragraph (3) of
subdivision (a).
(C) A listing of each of the payee's
dependents, together with each 
dependent's age.
(D) A copy of the disclosure
required in subdivision (b) of Section 
10136.
(E) A copy of the annuity contract,
if available.
(F) A copy of any qualified
assignment agreement, if available.
(G) A copy of the underlying
structured settlement agreement, if available.
(H) If a copy of
a document described in subparagraph (E), (F), or (G) is 
unavailable or
cannot be located, then the transferee is not required to 
attach a copy of
that document to the petition or notice of the proposed 
transfer if the
transferee satisfies the court that reasonable efforts to locate 
and secure a copy
of the document have been made, including making 
inquiry with the
payee…”
Discussion
The
petition does not comply with Ins. Code, section 10139.5 because it lacks
information which would allow the Court to determine whether the transfer is in
the best interests of the payee. Petitioner must include evidence, such as a
declaration from the payee, supporting the factors enumerated in Ins. Code,
section 10139.5. Without this information, the Court cannot rule on this
petition.
The
Court notes that portions of the exhibits submitted with this petition were
improperly redacted. If Petitioner has privacy concerns, it is required to file
a motion to seal and lodge unredacted copies of the documents with the Court.
Therefore,
the petition is DENIED without prejudice.
Conclusion
Petitioner CBC Settlement Funding, LLC’s motion for an
order approving the transfer of structured settlement payment rights is DENIED
without prejudice.