  Case Number:  23STCV20155    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2024    Dept:  14 #4Case Background
This is an action for violations of the Song-Beverly
Act and the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA).
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff Nancy Beltran filed her
Complaint against Defendant General Motors, LLC.
On March 27, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant’s
demurrer with leave to amend.
On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC).
On June 12, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer and motion
to strike.
On October 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions.
On October 8, 2024, Defendant filed replies.
Instant Pleading
Defendant demurs to the FAC and moves to strike
Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages.
Decision
Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED. 
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.
Discussion
Demurrer
Defendant demurs to the FAC on the grounds that the FAC
fails to set forth facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
Defendant. 
1.    
First and Second Causes of Action – Breach of Implied
and Express Warranties
Defendant first demurs to the first and second causes
of action for breach of the implied warranty of merchantability and breach of
express warranties on the grounds that the subject vehicle was purchased used. 
As Plaintiff points out in the opposition, the FAC does
not state that the vehicle was used. Rather, the FAC alleges the vehicle was a
new motor vehicle under the Song-Beverly Act. (FAC ¶6.) Thus, Defendant’s
assertion that the vehicle was purchased used is an extrinsic fact to the FAC
which cannot be considered on demurrer. 
Even if the FAC stated the vehicle was used, Defendant’s
argument that a purchaser of a used vehicle may not pursue claims under the
Song-Beverly Act is the subject of a split in authority. 
Defendant relies on Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC
(2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209, 221 (Rodriguez) to support its argument that
a used vehicle cannot qualify as a new motor vehicle within the meaning of the
Song-Beverly Act. The Supreme Court of California granted review of Rodriguez
on July 13, 2022. The Second Appellate District, which encompasses this
Court, reached a conclusion contrary to the Rodriguez holding in Stiles
v. Kia Motors America, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 913 (Stiles). In Stiles,
the Second District Court of Appeal held “that a previously owned motor vehicle
purchased with the manufacturer's new car warranty still in effect is a ‘new
motor vehicle’ as defined under the Act.”  Stiles, supra,
101 Cal.App.5th at p. 915. On July 24, 2024, the Supreme Court granted
review in Stiles. (See Stiles v. Kia Motors America, Inc. (2024)
551 P.3d 1123.) Rodriguez and Stiles may only be cited for
persuasive value under Cal. Rules of Court, Rules 8.1105 and 8.1115 because the
California Supreme Court granted review.
Here, Rodriguez and Stiles are
in direct conflict and represent a split in circuit authority. However, the
Court need not choose between the two cases at this time because the FAC
does not state Plaintiff purchased the subject vehicle used. The demurrer is
OVERRULED as to the first and second causes of action for breach of implied and
express warranties.
2.    
Fifth Cause of Action – Violation of the CLRA
Defendant next argues that the fifth cause of action
for violation of the CLRA fails because Plaintiff failed to plead fraud with
the required specificity. Defendant argues that the FAC does not state what
misrepresentations Defendant made, identify where Defendant made the
misrepresentations, or identify how Defendant made the misrepresentations. 
Fraud causes of actions must be pled with
specificity in order to give notice to the defendant and to furnish him or her
with definite charges. (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General
Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal. 3d 197, 216, superseded by amendments to the
Unfair Competition Law contained in Proposition 64 on unrelated grounds.) 
“(a) General pleading of the legal conclusion of ‘fraud’ is insufficient; the
facts constituting the fraud must be alleged.  (b) Every element of the
cause of action for fraud must be alleged in the proper manner (i.e., factually
and specifically), and the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings …
will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material
respect.” (Ibid.)  
The
specificity standard is less stringent “when ‘it appears from the nature of
the allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of
the controversy.’” (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General
Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 217, superseded by statute on other
grounds as stated in Californians for Disability Rights v. Mervyn's, LLC
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 227, quoting Bradley
v. Hartford Acc. & Indem. Co. (1973) 30 Cal.App.3d
818, 825.) 
Here, the FAC states that when Plaintiff presented the
subject vehicle for repair, “Defendants falsely represented that the Vehicle
was of a particular standard, quality, or grade that could not conform to the
quality of the vehicles it was advertising which is in direct violation of the
CLRA.” (FAC ¶62.) Defendants also represented that the vehicle would operate
and perform properly after the repairs. (Id., ¶63.) However, Defendants
knew that the vehicle could not be repaired to conform to the specifications
outlined in the warranties. (Id.)
The specificity standard is relaxed here because the
alleged misrepresentations were made by Defendants when Plaintiff brought the
vehicle to Defendants for repair. Defendants would necessarily have full
information about the misrepresentations because Defendants would have access
to records of the repair. Contrary to Defendants’ assertions, the FAC does
state what misrepresentations were made. Therefore, the FAC adequately pleads a
cause of action for violation of the CLRA based on fraud. The demurrer is OVERRULED
as to the second cause of action for violation of the CLRA.
Motion to Strike 
Defendant moves to strike punitive damages on the
grounds that the FAC fails to state facts sufficient to support a demand for
punitive damages.
Civil Code section 1780(a) provides for an award for
punitive damages for CLRA claims. (See Civ. Code, section 1780(a)(4).) For the
plaintiff to obtain punitive damages under the CLRA, there must be a finding
that the defendant acted with malice, oppression, or fraud. (See Graciano v.
Robinson Ford Sales, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 140, 147; Civil Code,
section 1780(a)(4).)
Here, the Court overruled the demurrer as to the cause
of action for violation of the CLRA based on fraud. Therefore, the FAC
sufficiently supports a demand for punitive damages based on fraud. 
Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED. 
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.
 