  Case Number:  19GDCV00388    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  E 19CDCV00388
RICARDO CANALES vs. IDEAL
KITCHEN SUPPLY, INC.
Dept. E, Glendale Courthouse

6/24/24

 
Final
Status Conference: Rulings on motions in limine
                As a general note, the Court notes that it
appears that many of these motions in limine were prepared by the
parties with the understanding that this matter would proceed to trial before a
jury. Both parties have now waived their right to a jury trial and have
requested a bench trial.
                On
today’s date, the court heard argument from counsel on the various motions in
limine and took the matter under submission.  The parties did not arrange for a court
reporter to record the proceedings.
                The
Court now issues its rulings on the motions in limine:
 
1.      Plaintiff’s
motion in limine no. 1: The motion is DENIED without prejudice.  This is a tentative pretrial evidentiary
ruling. (Cf. People v. Holloway (2004) 33 Cal.4th 96, 134.)    
 
The Court is unpersuaded
at this time by the plaintiff’s motion. The Court will hear testimony as to the
parties’ intent in entering into this contract. 

 
The plaintiff is
free to renew this motion at a later time. 
The Court may sua sponte revisit this motion.  (See id.) 
 
 
2.      Defendant’s
motion in limine no.1: The motion is DENIED without prejudice.  This is a tentative pretrial evidentiary
ruling. (Cf. Holloway, supra, 33 Cal.4th at 134.) The Court is
unpersuaded by the defendant’s motion.  (See
discussion infra.) The Court will hear testimony as to the parties’
intent in entering into this contract. The defendant is free to renew this
motion at a later time. The Court may sua sponte revisit this motion.
 
The Court does
not consider itself bound by any specific ruling made by Judge Hofer in
Department D prior to the Remittitur in this matter from the Court of
Appeal  on 1/23/24 and the Defendant’s
subsequent filing of a CCP § 170.6 challenge to Judge Hofer on 2/13/24, which
was granted on that same date.  
 
During briefing
and argument on these motions, the defense initially pointed to Judge Hofer’s
ruling on the Writ of Attachment on 11/12/21 and argued that those findings
were binding, but then reversed course and withdrew that argument after the
plaintiff pointed to CCP § 484.100, which precludes later reliance on such a
ruling: “The court's determinations under this chapter shall have no effect on
the determination of any issues in the action other than issues relevant to
proceedings under this chapter nor shall they affect the rights of the
plaintiff or defendant in any other action arising out of the same claim of the
plaintiff or defendant. The court's determinations under this chapter shall not
be given in evidence nor referred to at the trial of any such action.” (CCP §
484.100.) 
 
The defense then
argued that the tentative decision announced by Judge Hofer on 4/18/22, the
“direction of the case” and various other rulings required that this Court be
bound by Judge Hofer’s prior rulings, and that to rule otherwise would
encourage “forum shopping.” (Def.’s Mot. In Lim. No. 1 at p. 6.)  
 
Putting aside
the tangled procedural history in this case, this Court does not agree that it
is bound by what Judge Hofer described as an “announce[ment of] a tentative
ruling to grant [the] motion.”   (4/21/22
Minute Order.)   Judge Hofer made clear
that  “[t]he Court [did] not adopt its
tentative ruling as a final ruling and [did] not enter any ruling on
Defendant’s Motion in Limine #1.” (Id.; cf. People v. Ennis (2010)
190 Cal.App.4th 721, 736.) 
 
The defense’s
argument that this Court is in some way bound by the “law of the case” based on
a tentative that was not in fact issued appears to have no foundation in the
case law. 
 
 
3.      Plaintiff’s
motions in limine no. 2-9 are DENIED without prejudice.  The Court understands that motions 7-9 are
moot, given Defendant’s representations.
 
The Court makes clear that it is
ruling on the evidentiary motions in limine before it. The Court does
not have a motion for judgment on the pleadings before it and the Court does
not sua sponte construe any of the motions in limine as a motion
for judgment on the pleadings.
As a general
matter, as to both parties’ motions in limine no. 1, the Court finds
that the arguments of both sides appear to rely on extrinsic or parol
evidence.  
For example, the
defense has maintained that the Guaranty provision was “surreptitiously”
inserted into the contract, and that the individual defendants initialed the
documents only in the “official” positions, and not as individuals. How those
contentions can be supported without reference to extrinsic evidence is unclear
to the Court.  (See, e.g., Def.’s
Opp. to Pl’s MIL No. 1 at p. 4 [“The purpose of placing initials at the bottom
of each page is the custom and practice to reflect that each page was part of
the executed document at the time it was properly executed in the place and
manner indicated on the document. Defendants Barseghian and Gharibians
initialed each page of the lease and addenda (and guaranty because it was
surreptitiously inserted between addenda where it clearly did not belong) in
their representative capacity [sic] as officers of Ideal, not personally
[sic] as reflected by the lease agreement and addenda specifically made
part of the lease, unlike the Guaranty. Had they intended to be bound by the
guaranty, [Barseghian and Gharibians], as they always do, would have signed
their full name where intended”]. [emphasis in original].) (See also id.
at p. 2 [“It is objectively clear from the documents and language of the lease
agreement, as well as their signatures [sic] on the lease that they were
initialing and signing the lease as officers of the corporation, Ideal, not in
their individual capacities. Although the pages of the lease are initialed at
the bottom of each page, it is not contended that Plaintiff or ideal manifested
their intent to be bound by the lease agreement by initialing each page.”].)
How can the
Court make a determination as to what the “custom and practice” of the
initialing here was from the face of the document at issue? Or whether the
guaranty was placed “surreptitiously”? Or how Barseghian and Gharibians
regularly sign their names—or what “they always do”? (There has been no request
from either party to take judicial notice of anything with regard to these
motions, as far as the Court can determine.) 
And, in the
Court’s view, it is not “objectively clear” from the document in question that
Barseghian and Gharibians were “initialing and signing the lease as officers of
the corporation . . . and not in their individual capacities.” How is that made
clear in the document? Does anything in the document explain what the initials
are meant to convey? The defense’s answer appears to be  that the initials simply show that the pages
were present, but did not manifest any agreement—but if the initials did
manifest agreement, it was only on behalf of defendants as officers, not as
individuals.  How these humble initials
can bear such freighted complexity is currently unclear to the Court from the
face of the document.  And the defense’s
argument that the plaintiff is not contending “that Plaintiff or Ideal
manifested their intent to be bound by the lease agreement by initialing each
page” is, as far as the Court can tell, flatly incorrect: Plaintiff is so
contending.
The answers to
the questions posed above do not appear to be within the four corners of the
contract. The arguments made by defense itself regularly point to evidence
outside the four corners of the contract.
At the heart of
this matter is the meaning of initials on the document and the meaning of the
absence of full signatures on the signature lines on the guaranty portion. It
may be that parol and/or extrinsic evidence is necessary to clarify what these
ambiguous marks and blanks may or may not mean. (See George v. Auto. Club of
S. Cal. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1121.)
And it may be
that this Court will ultimately agree with the tentative ruling issued by Judge
Hofer on 4/18/22.  The Court may revisit
the question of whether it should consider testimony or extrinsic or parol
evidence in interpreting the contract, depending on further argument and the
presentation of the evidence. (See Holloway, supra, 33 Cal.4th at
134.) Again, this is not a jury trial.
The bench trial
in this matter will proceed at 10:30 a.m. on June 25, 2024 in Department E of
the Glendale Courthouse.
Notice has been
given to the parties via electronic posting of this ruling and the posting of
this ruling in a minute order of today’s date.