 Case Number:  23STCV29875    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ADELA JUAREZ, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LARCHMONT TACO SHOP 26, INC.;
TACOS TV MADRE; and DOES 1
through 100, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV29875
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
Date: June 4, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Larchmont Taco Shop 26, Inc. and Tacos Tu Madre
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff,
Adela Juarez
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 7, 2023, Plaintiff Adela Juarez (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants Larchmont Taco Shop 26, Inc. and Tacos Tu Madre
(collectively “Defendants”) alleging ten causes of action for (1) Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy; (2) Retaliation in Violation of
Gov’t code § 12940(h); (3) Employment Discrimination Based on Disability in
Violation of Gov’t Code § 12940(a); (4) Employment Discrimination Based Upon
Race and Nationality Gov’t Code § 12940(a); (5) Hostile Work Environment and
Harassment in the Work Place; (6) Intentional Infliction of  Emotional Distress; (7) Failure to
Accommodate Disability in Violation of Gov’t Code §§ 12940(m) and 12926(p); (8)
Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of Gov’t Code §
12940(n); (9) Violation of labor Code § 1102.5(b); and (10) Violation of Labor
Code § 1102.5(c). 
 
On
February 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint
alleging the same 10 causes of action in addition to thirteen new causes of
actions for (11) Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5(d); (12) Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (13) Negligent Supervision and
Retention (14) Failure to Pay Minimum Wages in Violation of Violation of Labor
Code §§ 1182.12, 1194, 1194.2 and 1197; (15) Failure to Pay Overtime in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 510 and 1194; (16) Failure to Pay Meal Period in
Violation of Labor Code §§  226.7 and
512; (17) Failure to Pay Rest Period Compensation in Violation of Labor Code §
226.7 and IWC Wage Order  No. 4-200; (18)
Failure to Pay Wages in a Timely Manner in Violation of Labor Code § 204; (19)
Failure to Pay Earned Wages in violation of Labor Code §§ 204, 206, and 210;
(20) Failure to Pay Earned Wages Due in Violation of Labor Code §§ 226 and 558;
(21) Waiting Times and Penalties in violation of California Labor Code §§ 201,
202, and 203; Failure to Furnish Timely and Accurate Wage Statements in
Violation of labor Code § 226; and (23) Unfair Business Practices in Violation
of Business and Professions Code §§ 17200, et seq. 
 
On
February 20, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion to compel arbitration
(the “Motion”). Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Motion on February 21,
2024 and Defendants filed a reply. 
 


 
DISCUSSION
Defendants
specially appear and pray for an order compelling Plaintiff to submit to
binding arbitration pursuant to the parties' written contract, which expressly
provides that all complaints or disputes between the parties are to be
arbitrated.
 
California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability.  (See Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) Under Code of Civil Procedure section
1281, a “written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or
a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save
upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” 
 
“On
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:
 
(a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b)
Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.
(c)
A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action
or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction
or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact. . . .”  (CCP §1281.2.)
 
The
right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is
simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that contract.  (Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Inv.
Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 83, 88.)  When presented with a petition to compel
arbitration, the trial court's first task is to determine whether the parties
have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute. 
(Id.)  
 
In
Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394,
the California Supreme Court explained: ‘[W]hen a petition to compel
arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie evidence of a written
agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether
the agreement exists and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether
it is enforceable.  Because the existence
of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the
petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the
evidence.  If the party opposing the
petition raises a defense to enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding
the agreement, or a statutory defense of waiver or revocation (see §1281.2(a),
(b))—that party bears the burden of producing evidence of, and proving by a
preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.’ (Id. at
413.)  According to Rosenthal, facts
relevant to enforcement of the arbitration agreement must be determined ‘in the
manner . . . provided by law for the . . . hearing of motions.’ (Id., at
413, quoting §1290.2.)  This ‘ordinarily
mean[s] the facts are to be proven by affidavit or declaration and documentary
evidence, with oral testimony taken only in the court’s discretion.’ (Id.
at 413–414; . . .).”  (See also, Hotels
Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 761-62.)
 
Existence of an
Agreement to Arbitrate
Under
both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are
valid, irrevocable and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or
equity for voiding a contract.  (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration,
the court must first determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate
the dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the
court in making this determination.  (Mendez
v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)  “With respect to the moving party’s burden to
provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally
sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the court.”  (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
 
Defendants provide a copy of the
Arbitration Agreement which provides that Plaintiff and Larchmont Taco agreed
to arbitrate: 
all disputes, past, present or future," that
may arise between Plaintiff and Defendants, including without limitation any
dispute arising out of o related to Plaintiffs application, employment and/or
separation of employment with Defendant Plaintiff specifically agreed to
arbitrate "claims based upon or related to the application for employment,
background checks, privacy, the employment relationship, discrimination
harassment, retaliation, defamation (including claims of post-employment
defamation o retaliation), breach of a contract or covenant, fraud, negligence,
emotional distress, breach o fiduciary duty, trade secrets, unfair competition,
wages, minimum wage and overtime or other compensation claimed to be owed,
breaks and rest periods, expense reimbursement, seating termination, tort
claims, equitable claims, and all statutory and common law claims.... claim
arising under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, Defend Trade Secrets Act, Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. f 1981, the America With
Disabilities Act, the Ag Discrimination in Employment Act, the Family Medical
Leave Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, Rehabilitation Act, the Civil Rights
Act of 1866 and 1871, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, 8 U.S.C. $ 1324 (unfair
immigration related policies), the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, the Equal Pay
Act, the Genetic Information Non-Discrimination Act,... Affordable Care Act,
Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, Worker Adjustment
and Retraining Notification Act,... Occupational Safety and Health Act,... and
state statues or regulations, if any, addressing the same or similar subject
matters, and all other federal or state legal claims arising out of
[Plaintiff's] employment or the termination of employment. 
(Pourgol Decl; Exh. A). The Arbitration Agreement further provides that: 
"YOUR RIGHT TO OPT OUT OF ARBITRATION.
Arbitration is not a mandatory condition of your employment at the COMPANY, and
therefore, you may submit a statement notifying the COMPANY that you wish to
opt-out and not be subject to this Agreement In order to opt-out, you must
notify the COMPANY of your intention to opt-out by submitting a signed and
dated statement on a Mutual Arbitration Agreement Opt- Out Form that can be
obtained and returned to Joshua Pourgol at 2146 San Ysidro Drive, Beverly
Hills, CA 90210. In order to be effective, your written opt-out notice must be
provided to the COMPANY within 30 days of your receipt of this Agreement. If
you opt-out as provided in this paragraph, you will not be subject to any
adverse employment action as a consequence of that decision and may pursue
available legal remedies without regard to this Agreement. If you do not
opt-out within 30 days of your receipt of this Agreement, continuing your
employment with the COMPANY constitutes mutual acceptance of the terms of this
Agreement by you and the company. You have the right to consult with counsel of
your choice concerning this Agreement."
(Id.; See also Pourgol Suppl. Decl. ¶ 3.) The
declarations of both Mr. Pourgol and Ms. Denova indicate that Plaintiff signed
the Arbitration Agreement. (Pourgol Decl. ¶ 4., See also Denova Decl. ¶4.) The agreement
bears the Plaintiff’s signature. (Pourgol Decl; Exh. A.) Plaintiff does not
dispute that she signed the Arbitration Agreement. 
In opposition, Plaintiff claims that
there is no valid agreement because the agreement lacks mutual consent because
she could not speak, read, and write in English, has little education and
virtually no computer skills, and moreover, does not read Spanish particularly
well. (Opp’n p.5-6.) However, this contradicts the testimony presented by Defendants,
which indicates that Plaintiff signed the agreement without asking any
questions. (Denova Decl. ¶ 4.) Moreover, based on Defendants’ supporting
evidence, Plaintiff was given 30 days  to
opt out of the Arbitration Agreement. Mr. Pourgol’s supplemental declaration
further states that Plaintiff never requested the opt-out form, nor did
Larchmont Taco receive an opt-out notice form. (Pourgol Suppl. Decl. ¶ 4.) Thus,
this argument fails. 
 
Plaintiff additionally argues that
the Arbitration Agreement is superseded by the express terms of the parties’
severance agreement. This severance agreement would not, however, apply in this
case as the Defendants correctly point out there was then no pending litigation
before the Court. Plaintiff’s claims arise from her employment with Defendant
Larchmont Taco. The Court finds that the Arbitration Agreement covers
Plaintiff’s claims. Therefore, the Court finds that there exists an agreement
to arbitrate. 
 
Unconscionability
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that the Arbitration Agreement is unenforceable on unconscionability
grounds.
 
“Unconscionability” is one
of the principal defenses to a request for arbitration. It is a generally
applicable contract defense under California law (Civ. Code, § 1670.5). Two
elements must be shown: (1) “procedural” unconscionability and (2)
“substantive” unconscionability. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 C4th 83, 113-115.) The issue is reviewed in the context of when the
contract was signed. (Bakersfield College v. California Comm. College
Athletic Ass'n (2019) 41 CA5th 753, 762.) “The procedural element of
unconscionability focuses on whether the contract is one of adhesion.
Procedural unconscionability focuses on whether there is “oppression” arising
from an inequality of bargaining power or “surprise” arising from buried terms in
a complex printed form. The substantive element addresses the existence of
overly harsh or one-sided terms. An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable
only if both the procedural and substantive elements are satisfied. However…the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (McManus v. CIBC World Markets Corp.
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 76, 87.) (internal quotations and citations omitted).
 
a.    
Procedural Unconscionability 
Plaintiff
argues that the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because
Plaintiff had no opportunity to review the documents and was physically unable
to do so due to the language barrier and lack of any explanation. However, that
argument is not persuasive as the Arbitration Agreement allotted Plaintiff 30
days to review and opt out of the agreement if she so chose. Therefore, the
Court finds the agreement not to be procedurally unconscionable. 
 
b.    
Substantive
Unconscionability 
Plaintiff
contends that the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because
the agreement provides for a single deposition of an individual, otherwise
limits discovery, and provides for an arduous and circuitous process for
selecting an arbitrator.  However, the
Court notes that these are not adequate bases for finding the Arbitration
Agreement to be substantively unconscionable as public policy favors arbitration
because it is founded in the notion that arbitration is a “speedy and
relatively inexpensive means of dispute resolution.” (Adolph v. Coastal Auto
Sales, Inc. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1452.) Thus, the Court finds that
the Agreement is not substantively unconscionable.  
 
Per the Agreement, the American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) will be
the arbitration forum. Thus, the Court finds that the parties' dispute can be
sufficiently arbitrated under CCP § 1281.6 through the AAA.
The Court further finds that a stay of the action is appropriate in this
case once the motion is granted, as Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.4 stipulates
that the Court shall stay the action until arbitration is completed. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.4.) Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Arbitration and STAYS the proceeding pending a final resolution of Plaintiff’s
claims through arbitration.  The Court
sets a status conference for February 31, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.  The parties are ordered to file a Status
Report as to the arbitration at least seven Court days before the status conference.
 
Moving
Parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.       
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 4th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



