 Case Number:  22STCV29753    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 8/16/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV29753 WALTER MOORE, et
al. vs ENTERPRISE HOLDINGS, INC. et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant Enterprise 
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES ARE
DENIED AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED 
 
On April 25, 2024,
Defendant Enterprise Rent-A-Car Company served its Interrogatories, Set One,
Special Interrogatories Set One, Request for Admissions (RFA), Set One, and
Request for Production (RFP), Set One, on Plaintiff. The responses were due on
May 27, 2024. Defendant granted Plaintiff several extensions, with the last one
being on July 8, 2024. No responses were provided by that deadline, and as of
July 24, 2024, when the present motions were filed, Defendant now moves the
Court to compel initial responses and deem the contents of RFA, Set One,
admitted.
On August 7, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition along with his responses to the discovery
requests at issue.  The responses are
complete and verified responses without objections. Thus, the present motions
are moot. Defendant argues that the responses are not code-compliant; however,
that is the subject matter of a motion to compel further responses and is not
within the purview of the present motions.
Defendant provided
Plaintiff with multiple extensions and explicitly stated that no further
extensions would be granted beyond July 8, 2024, warning that a motion to
compel would be filed if no responses were served by that deadline. Despite
this, Plaintiff did not serve any responses by the aforementioned deadline, and
Defendant deferred filing the present motion until July 24, 2024, by which time
no responses still had been provided. Under these circumstances, the Court finds
that sanctions are appropriate, as sanctions are partially intended to
compensate for the attorney fees incurred in obtaining discovery responses. Here,
the filing of the motion appeared necessary since the discovery responses were
only provided after the motion was filed. Nevertheless, given the
straightforward nature of the issues, the Court reduces the amount of sanctions
to $2,000 for all four motions. The Court hereby ORDERS sanction in the amount
of $2,000 against Plaintiff and his counsel jointly and severally, payable to
Defendant Enterprise within 20 days from today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.