 Case Number:  24STCV00134    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
DEMURRER
Hearing Date: 8/16/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 24STCV00134 Elaine Saunders vs. James
Hissong et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant City of Los Angeles 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: DEMURRER IS GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND
 
Background
This case concerns an
accident that occurred at the intersection of Western Avenue and Franklin
Avenue between vehicles driven by Plaintiff Elaine Saunders and Defendant James
Hissong. At the time of the incident, the traffic control signals were broken
or not functioning. Plaintiff's vehicle was allegedly completely inside the
Subject Intersection and had full control of the intersection at the time of
the incident. Hissong allegedly failed to yield to Plaintiff's vehicle and
collided with Plaintiff's car. In addition to Defendant Hissong, Plaintiff also
sued various government entities within the City of Los Angeles for failing to properly
maintain the traffic signal. The City of Los Angeles demurs to Plaintiff's
third cause of action for dangerous condition of public property.
Legal Standard 
        A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30,
430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts
sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against
him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts
impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d
725, 732 [internal citations omitted].) 
 Dangerous
condition of public property
“The Government Claims
Act (§ 810 et seq.; the Act) ‘is a comprehensive statutory scheme that sets
forth the liabilities and immunities of public entities and public employees
for torts.’ Section 835 . . . prescribes the conditions under Section 835
provides that a public entity may be held liable for such injuries ‘if the
plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the
time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous
condition, [and] that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable
risk of the kind of injury which was incurred.’ In addition, the plaintiff must
establish that either: (a) ‘[a] negligent or wrongful act or omission of an
employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the
dangerous condition,’ or (b) ‘[t]he public entity had . . . notice of the
dangerous condition . . . a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.’ ” (Cordova v. City of
Los Angeles (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1099, 1104.)
Gov. Code § 835
Except as provided by
statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition
of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a
dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately
caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a
reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that
either:
(a) A
negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or
(b) The
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have
taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition.
(c) Cal.
Gov. Code § 835
Discussion
Gov. Code § 830.4.
Defendant argues that
the failure to provide traffic lights or non-operational traffic lights cannot
form the basis of a dangerous condition of public property claim pursuant to
Gov. Code § 830.4. This statute specifies that a condition is not considered
dangerous within the meaning of this chapter merely because of the failure to
provide regulatory traffic control signals, stop signs, yield right-of-way
signs, or speed restriction signs, as described by the Vehicle Code, or
distinctive roadway markings as outlined in Section 21460 of the Vehicle Code.
In opposition,
Plaintiff makes several arguments. First, Plaintiff argues that Cal. Gov. Code
§ 830.8 provides an exception to Gov. Code § 830.4 where the traffic light was
necessary to warn of a dangerous condition that endangered the safe movement of
traffic and which would not be reasonably apparent to, and would not have been
anticipated by, a person exercising due care. However, this exception under
Gov. Code § 830.8 applies only to signage, sign markings, or devices other than
those described in Section 830.4. The complaint states that a traffic light at
the intersection was inoperative, and traffic lights fall under the category of
regulatory traffic control signals within Gov. Code 830.4. Therefore, the
exception under Gov. Code 830.8 is inapplicable.
Plaintiff argues that
Gov. Code § 830.4 applies only to situations where a traffic light was not
provided, not to situations where a traffic light was inoperative. The Court
disagrees. It is true that when a public entity installs traffic signs and
invites the public to rely on them, it may be liable for creating a dangerous
condition. The type of dangerous condition contemplated by the Court, for
example, includes a malfunctioning traffic light that directs motorists to “go”
in all four directions of an intersection simultaneously, with predictable
results. (See Chowdhury v. City of Los Angeles (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th
1187, 1195; Mathews v. State of California ex rel. Dept. of Transportation
(1978) 82 Cal.App.3d 116, 145, [where traffic lights malfunctioned, being stuck
on green and red].)
If the government turns
off traffic signals entirely to avoid confusion, liability does not attach.
“When the [traffic] lights were turned off, their defective condition could no
longer mislead or misdirect the injured party.” (Goodman v. Raposa, supra,
at p. 835, 312 P.2d 65; Hoel v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 136
Cal.App.2d at p. 306, 288 P.2d 989.) The same result obtains whether the
traffic signals are extinguished by design or by accident. (Chowdhury v.
City of Los Angeles (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1195.) When the signals are
extinguished, the City did not invite the public to rely on the signals as a
means of controlling the right-of-way at the intersection. The signals did not
give a false indication to “go.” Rather, they gave no indication at all, and
did not mislead or misdirect motorists. (Id.) Under the circumstances,
motorists approaching the intersection were bound not by the City's inoperative
light, but by the provisions of the Vehicle Code, which effectively transform
an inoperative signal light into a stop sign. (Veh.Code, § 21800.) Once
the signals failed, the City could reasonably foresee that motorists using due
care would obey the provisions of the Vehicle Code and make a full stop before
proceeding when it was safe to do so. The City cannot be charged with
foreseeing that a motorist will recklessly disobey traffic laws and speed
through an intersection without  heed to
its inoperative traffic lights any more than it can be charged with foreseeing
that irresponsible drivers will race at 100 miles per hour down a highway or
drive the wrong way down a one-way street, in violation of the traffic laws. (Id.)
Plaintiff argues that Chowdhury
is distinguishable because the inoperative traffic signal was caused by an
area-wide electronic power outage. However, this misses the point. The essence
of Chowdhury is that when traffic lights are turned off, they cannot
mislead or misdirect motorists. Whether the traffic signal stopped working due
to an area-wide electronic power outage or the alleged neglect of a city
employee is irrelevant.
Plaintiff argues that
Gov. Code § 830.4 applies when a failure to provide a stop sign or other
traffic control signal is the only basis for fixing liability. While this is
true, the inoperation of the street light does not constitute an additional
element. In Hilts v. County of Solano (1968) 265 Cal.App.2d 161, the
intersection was considered dangerous not only due to the failure to provide
warning or regulatory signs or signals but also due to other factors such as
the presence of trees, differences in elevation between the roadway grades and
adjoining fields, and the method of striping the intersection. Similarly, in Washington
v. City and County of San Francisco (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1531, 1535,
additional hazards included metal pillars in the middle of 13th Street and
shadows caused by the freeway above, which may obstruct the view of drivers
approaching one another. Although Plaintiff alleges in the complaint that the
street light was inoperative, the failure to specify the time of day or the lighting
level at which the incident occurred renders the fact that the street lights
were not working irrelevant. However, this additional fact suggests the
possibility of a successful amendment. Thus, the Court will GRANT the
demurrer with leave to amend, ordering Plaintiff to state with
particularity the exact features or conditions of the intersection that render
it dangerous. (Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40
Cal.3d 780, 795 [cause of action against a public entity must be pled with
particularity].)
Defendant contends that
even assuming visibility issues due to non-functional street lights and traffic
signals, these conditions do not constitute a dangerous condition of public
property under Milligan v. Golden Gate Bridge Highway & Transportation
Dist. (2004) 120 Cal. App. 4th. In Milligan, the court did not find
the public entity liable for not installing a suicide barrier on a bridge,
reasoning that individuals using the bridge to commit suicide are not utilizing
it as the general public exercising ordinary care would. Extending this
reasoning, Defendant argues that the absence of a traffic light and street
light does not inherently create a substantial risk of injury if the
intersection is otherwise used with due care. However, the comparison is not
directly analogous. If the incident occurred during the middle of the night,
with minimal visibility due to non-functioning street lights, there could be a
visibility problem, and therefore a substantial risk of harm, even when the
road or intersection is used with due care.
Gov. Code 840.2 and 840.4
Sections 840.2 and
840.4 outline the conditions Plaintiff must meet to hold an employee liable for
injury caused by a dangerous condition of public property. The third cause of
action is directed solely against government entities and not against any specific
employee. Therefore, these statutory sections do not form the basis for holding
the city liable for dangerous condition of public property.
Gov. Code 815.2
Government Code section
815.2 states, “A public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an
act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his
employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise
to a cause of action against that employee or his personal representative.”
This statute establishes vicarious liability for public entities for the torts
committed by their employees. Claims regarding a dangerous condition of public
property are addressed under Government Code 835, not 815.2. Therefore, these
statutory sections do not form the basis for holding the city liable for
dangerous condition of public property.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 