 Case Number:  24STCV06154    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  55 Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for
Production of Documents (Set One) 
 
The Court is disappointed that Defendant makes no mention in
its opposition of the IDC the Court held with the parties in August regarding
these document requests. The purpose of the IDC process is to prevent costly litigation
over issues that can be resolved informally. Defendant’s counsel told the Court
at the IDC that Defendant would produce documents responsive to the requests at
issue. Plaintiff’s motion contends that Defendant’s counsel never got back to
Plaintiff’s counsel after the IDC and Plaintiff’s counsel’s follow up email. Plaintiff
therefore had no choice but to file the motion to compel further responses. Defendant
does not dispute this recitation of events in the opposition; Defendant does
not even mention them. This record reflects that Defendant did not take the IDC
process seriously. Defendant’s disregard of the IDC process has now resulted in
costly and avoidable litigation, the exact outcome the IDC process is designed
to prevent.  
Contrary to Defendant’s contention, the boilerplate
objections are not well-taken other than the fact that some of the requests are
overbroad.  The Court also notes that some
of the responses are not code compliant with CCP Section 2031.230 and 2031.220.
The motion to compel further responses is granted in part and denied in part,
as follows:
Nos. 1, 3-29 -The boilerplate objections are not well-taken.
Defendant must provide verified supplemental response that are code compliant
under CCP Section 2031.230 and/or 2031.220. Defendant must also produce all
responsive documents and, if withholding any documents based on privilege,
produce a privilege log. 
RFP Nos. 30 and 31- The overbreadth objection is well-taken
and the requests must be limited to vehicles purchased in California that are
the same year, make and model as the subject vehicle. The other boilerplate
objections are not well-taken. Defendant must provide verified supplemental
responses, based on that limitation, that are code compliant with CCP Section 2031.230
and/or 2031.220 and produce all responsive documents. To the extent Defendant
is withholding documents based on privilege, Defendant must produce a privilege
log. 
RFP No. 2 seeks all documents related to the affirmative
defenses. The response is adequate and thus no further response is required. 
The supplemental responses and document production are due
14 days from the hearing date of this motion. 