 Case Number:  23STCV01989    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Motion of Keller Williams Realty, Inc. for Summary Adjudication.
BACKGROUND
Shelon Douglas (Plaintiff) brings this case for
alleged habitability issues in her rental unit. Plaintiff alleges that her
landlords, Molly Waggoner and Jason Waggoner (Waggoners), and the broker Keller
Williams Realty, Inc. (Keller) caused a rental listing to be posted to the
Multiple Listing Service (MLS) that advertised rental residential property for
rent and claimed that it was equipped with central air and heating, and the
Waggoners made similar verbal representations. Plaintiff alleges several
habitability issues, including inadequate heat. The causes of action against
Keller are (1) Negligence and (5) Fraudulent Misrepresentation. 
The motion before the Court is Keller’s Motion for
Summary Adjudiation. Plaintiff opposes the motion. The Court, in its discretion,
considers Keller’s untimely reply. See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.130(d).
 
LEGAL STANDARD
In moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, a “defendant… has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2). Once the defendant has satisfied that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to “show, by responsive separate statement and admissible evidence,
that triable issues of fact exist.” Ostyan v. Serrano Reconveyance Co.
(2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1411, 1418, disapproved on other grounds by Black Sky
Cap., LLC v. Cobb (2019) 7 Cal.5th 156, 165; see also Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2). Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.
 
ANALYSIS
Keller moves for summary adjudication on the grounds
that there exists no triable issue of material fact that: (1) Keller is not
liable for the alleged negligence and fraudulent misrepresentation of its
franchisee, Marina Brokerage Partners, Inc. dba Keller Williams Silicon Beach
(MBP) that independently acted as the listing broker for the lease, (2)
Plaintiff’s negligence claim in the Complaint was untimely filed beyond two
years after Plaintiff became aware of the alleged defects, and (3) Keller made no
misrepresentation to Plaintiff that she would have reasonably relied upon as
required for a fraud claim. 
 
I. Vicarious Liability
Keller argues that it has no liability for the acts of
its franchisee, MBP, because Keller did not have the level of control required to
establish an agency relationship. 
“The general rule is where a franchise agreement gives
the franchisor the right of complete or substantial control over the
franchisee, an agency relationship exists.” Cislaw v. Southland Corp.
(1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1284, 1288 (Cislaw). “It is the right to control
the means and manner in which the result is achieved that is significant
in determining whether a principal-agency relationship exists. In the field of
franchise agreements, the question of whether the franchisee is an independent
contractor or an agent is ordinarily one of fact, depending on whether the
franchisor exercises complete or substantial control over the franchisee.” Ibid
(cleaned up). “A franchisor must be permitted to retain such control as is
necessary to protect and maintain its trademark, trade name and goodwill,
without the risk of creating an agency relationship with its franchisees.” Id.
at 1295. 
In Cislaw, the Court of Appeals affirmed the
trial court’s grant of summary judgment where the uncontroverted evidence
consisted of the franchise agreement and a franchisee’s testimony that, as
provided in the franchise agreement, she, not the franchisor, had “‘full and
complete control’ over the store’s employees and ‘any and all labor relations,’
including ‘hiring, firing, disciplining, compensation … and work schedules.’” Id.
at 1293. 
In support of its motion, Keller cites the terms of
the Market Center License Agreement (MCLA) between it and MBP and a declaration
of Panagiotis Papadopoulos, MBP’s former officer. The MCLA provides that MBP is
an independent contractor, and the agreement does not create a principal-agent
relationship between the companies. MCLA section 19.01 (a) at p. 58. The
agreement further provides that “[MBP] bears sole liability for the hiring,
firing and personnel decisions, and the terms and conditions of employment, for
the Operating Principal, Team Leader, Market Center Administrator, and other
Market Center personnel and staff. Company and Licensee acknowledge and agree
that Company shall not, and shall have no right or authority to, control the
employees of the licensed Market Center or Licensee's employees.” MCLA section
6 (z) at p. 26. Papadopoulos declares that MBP “held itself out to the public
as an independent contractor … [and] autonomously made decisions regarding its
business activities, including the hiring and firing of its employees, without
any supervision, intervention, or approval from Keller….” Papadopoulos Decl.,
at ¶ 3.
Keller has met its initial burden of providing
evidence of a complete defense to liability. Next, the burden shifts to the Plaintiff
to prove a triable issue of fact. 
Plaintiff has shown triable issues of material facts
as to how much control Keller had over MBP and whether Keller’s control
extended beyond that which is necessary to protect and maintain its trademark,
trade name, and good will. See Cislaw, supra, at p. 1295. While
the MCLA states that MBP has autonomy with regards to its business decisions,
including hiring of employees, it also requires Keller to approve the
appointment of the “Operating Principal,” “Team Leader,” and “Market Center
Administrator.” MCLA sections 6.01(e),(f), (g). Keller reserves the right to
revoke its approval of the Operating Principal and Team Leader. MCLA sections 6.01(e)(5),(f).
The Operating Principal must own at least 20% of the ownership of MBP and must possess
authority to vote and control at least 51% of MBP’s ownership interest. MCLA
sections 6.01(e)(1). Additional duties of the Team Leader and Market Center
Operations Manager are defined in confidential Manuals, which are integrated
into the MCLA and which Keller may unilaterally amend. MCLA 6.01(f), (g); 801(d).

Keller disputes the significance of these MCLA
provisions and argues that the Team Leader position is essentially a liaison
between MBP and Keller. Reply at p. 5:14-20. However, because the applicable
Manuals are not in the record, the Court cannot review the scope of the Team
Leader or Market Center Administrator’s responsibilities. More importantly,
Keller fails to explain how its ability to approve and unilaterally remove the Operating
Principal, who must control 51% of MBP, does not amount to significant control
over MBP. These issues are sufficient to create a triable issue of fact as to
the level of control Keller exercised over MBP. 
Additionally, Plaintiff raises a triable issue of fact
based on ostensible agency. 
“An agency is ostensible when the principal
intentionally, or by want of ordinary care, causes a third person to believe
another to be his agent who is not really employed by him.” Civ. Code, § 2300.
To recover under a theory of ostensible agency, the plaintiff must show (1)
their reasonable belief in the agent's authority, (2) such belief was a result
of the principal’s act or neglect, and (3) in relying on the agent's apparent
authority, the plaintiff was not guilty of negligence. Kaplan v. Coldwell
Banker Residential Affiliates, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 741, 747 (Kaplan).
“Whether ostensible agency exists is a question of fact and may be implied from
circumstances. For summary judgment purposes, it is sufficient to observe that
a triable issue of material fact is present.” Id. at p. 748 (cleaned
up). 
In Kaplan, the Court of Appeal reversed the
trial court’s grant of summary judgment, holding that it erroneously rejected plaintiffs'
ostensible agency theory. There, a real estate franchisee displayed a sign that
featured the franchisor’s name in large print and, in much smaller font, a
disclaimer stating that the franchisee was independently owned and operated. Id.
at. 744. The court noted that, even though the plaintiff was an experienced
investor, they did not notice the small print disclaimer and held that a reasonable
person could likewise conclude that the franchisee was the ostensible agent of
the franchisor. Id. at 747-48. 
Here, Plaintiff testifies that MBP represented itself
as Keller Williams Silicon Beach on the listing and never mentioned Marina
Brokerage Partners. Declaration of Shelon Douglas at ¶ 3. Plaintiff further
states in her declaration that she understood herself to be dealing with a
Keller Williams agent. Douglas Decl., at ¶¶ 3, 4. In reply, Keller argues that
the listing only referenced Keller Williams Silicon Beach once and provided the
Cal DRE number for the listing agent, which Plaintiff, herself a real estate
agent, could have looked up and identified as an MPB agent. Reply at p. 6:6-10.
The Court finds this unpersuasive. A reasonable person who looked at the agent
on the listing would see “Keller Williams Silicon Beach” next to their
name and could reasonably conclude that they were Keller’s agent. Here,
unlike Kaplan, the text bearing the name of the franchisee is relatively small,
but also, unlike Kaplan, there is no disclaimer of the franchise
relationship whatsoever. Moreover, that Plaintiff is a real estate agent and
could have looked up the agent numbers is no more relevant than that the
plaintiff in Kaplan was an experienced investor and could have read the
fine print disclaimer. As in Kaplan, Plaintiff did not know about the franchise
relationship, and a reasonable person reviewing the material could conclude
that an agency relationship exists. 
II. Statute of Limitations 
Next, Keller argues that the negligence claim is
barred by the statute of limitations for personal injury claims.
An action for personal injury must be brought within
two years. See Code Civ. Proc., § 335.1. “[S]tatutes of limitation do not begin to run until a cause
of action accrues.” Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th
797, 806 (Fox). “[A] cause of action accrues at ‘the time when the cause
of action is complete with all of its elements.’” Ibid (quoting Norgart
v. Upjohn Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 397 (Norgart)). “An exception
is the discovery rule, which postpones accrual of a cause of action until the
plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of action.” Norgart,
supra 21
Cal.4th at p.389. “Under the discovery rule, the statute of limitations begins
to run when the plaintiff suspects or should suspect that her injury was caused
by wrongdoing, that someone has done something wrong to her.” Jolly v. Eli
Lilly & Co. (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1103, 1110. 
Here, it is undisputed that Plaintiff knew about the
furnace defects and that they resulted in “breathing difficulty” as early as
June 20, 2020. See Plaintiff’s Separate Statement (SS) No. 8; Complaint
at ¶¶ 11, 12. 
However, Plaintiff’s claim for negligence alleges not
only personal injury, but also “a leasehold worth less than rent paid, property
loss, property damage … loss of use and enjoyment of her rental unit, and out of
pocket moving costs.”
“A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted
only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a
claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).
“A recognized exception to the statutory language above holds that where two or
more separate and distinct wrongful acts are combined in the same cause of
action in a complaint, a party may present a summary adjudication motion that
pertains to some, but not all, of the separate and distinct wrongful acts.” Blue
Mountain Enterprises, LLC v. Owen (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 537, 549
(citing Lilienthal & Fowler v. Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th
1848, 1854–1855). “That is because each separate and distinct wrongful act is
an invasion of a separate and distinct primary right, and each violation of a
primary right is a separate and distinct “cause of action”—regardless of how
the claim is presented in the complaint.” Ibid. “Where a tortfeasor's
single act causes the plaintiff to suffer both personal injury and property damage,
there are two causes of action.” Allstate Ins. Co. v. Mel Rapton, Inc.
(2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 901, 909)
Here, the Court concludes Plaintiff’s cause of action
for negligence constitutes multiple causes of action for the purpose of summary
adjudication. The alleged damages that relate to personal injury, “mental
injury, emotional distress, bodily injury” constitute a separate and distinct
cause of action from the remaining damages. See Huntly v. Zurich
General Acci. & Liability Ins. Co. (1929) 100 Cal.App. 201, 212 (holding
personal injury statute of limitations included mental injury because the
statutory language “‘injury to or the death of one caused by the wrongful act
or neglect of another,’ … was intended to embrace therein all infringements of
personal rights as distinguished from property rights.”). 
Accordingly, the Court grants summary adjudication as
to only the negligence - personal injury cause of action. 
III. Intentional Misrepresentation
Finally, Keller argues that the agent allegedly
pointing to a vent and thermostat was not a misrepresentation, and the MLS
Sheet that Plaintiff reviewed contained disclaimers that the brokers/agents do
not represent the conditions or features of the property; instead, Plaintiff
was to investigate. Defendant’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
(UMF) no. 9. 
Plaintiff argues that the disclaimer is unenforceable
because it attempts to exempt Keller from liability for fraud. Opposition at p.
7. However, the case she cites, McClain v. Octagon Plaza, LLC, (2008)
159 Cal. App. 4th, concerned a landlord’s misrepresentations and a disclaimer
that appeared in the lease. McClain relied on Civil Code section 1668,
which prohibits limitations of fraud liability in contracts. Here, the
disclaimer did not appear in a contract, but on the property listing. Therefore,
the disclaimer is a valid limitation on Keller’s liability for inaccurate
information provided in the listing. 
However, Plaintiff states that, in addition to gesturing
at the thermostat, the agent who showed her the house verbally told her that
there was central heating. Douglas Dec., at ¶ 4. While Plaintiff did not specify
that the agent made a verbal misrepresentation in the pleadings, Keller did not
demure to the Complaint, and “in the absence of an appropriate objection, some
defects in the pleading of an ultimate fact may be remedied by resort to a
factual showing in the summary judgment proceeding.” FPI Development, Inc.
v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382. Plaintiff’s declaration is
consistent with the ultimate fact alleged in the complaint, that the agent
represented that there was central heating. See Complaint at ¶ 51. Accordingly,
the Court finds there is a triable question of fact as to what representations
the agent made to Plaintiff. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
Therefore, the Court grants the motion in part as to
the negligence claim - personal injury and denies it as to the remaining
negligence claim and the fraudulent misrepresentation claim. 