  Case Number:  21STCV24228    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TED WAITT,
  Trustee of The Nightingale Trust dated November 1, 2017, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
TYLER DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION; LANDRY
  DESIGN GROUP INCORPORATED; PLANNED PARTNERS LIMITED; MARK L. SMITH; JAMES
  WEST ROOFING & WATERPROOFING; CALIFORNIA ENERGY DESIGNS, INC.; and DOES 1
  through 100, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV24228
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEFENDANT LANDRY DESIGN GROUP INC.’S MOTION
  FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Date: May 15, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Landry Design Group Inc. (“Moving Defendant” or “LDG”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Ted Waitt, Trustee of The Nightingale Trust dated November 1, 2017 (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 


 
BACKGROUND
             On June 29, 2021, Plaintiff filed a Complaint
against Defendants Tyler Development Corporation; LDG; Planned Partners
Limited; Mark L. Smith; James West Roofing & Waterproofing; California
Energy Designs, Inc.; and Does 1 through 100, inclusive, for: (1) Breach of
Contract; (2) Negligence; (3) Professional Negligence; (4) Strict Products
Liability; (5) Breach of Express Warranty; (6) Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability;
(7) Breach of Implied Warranty Of Fitness For Particular Purpose; and (8)
Declaratory Relief. 
 
            On February 18, 2022, Defendant LDG
filed an Answer to the Complaint and a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff,
Defendant Tyler Development Corporation, and Moes 1 through 20, inclusive, for:
(1) Express Indemnity; (2) Equitable Indemnity; (3) Breach of Contract; (4)
Declaratory Relief on Duty to Indemnify; and (5) Declaratory Relief on
Limitation of Liability. 
 
            On November 27, 2023, Defendant LDG filed
the instant Motion for Summary Adjudication (the “Motion”). On May 1, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Motion. On May 8, 2024, Defendant LDG
filed a reply. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
In support of the moving papers, Defendant LDG
submits a Compendium of Evidence (the “Compendium”) (erroneously identified in
the file as a second Separate Statement). Plaintiff objects to Exhibits 1, 2,
6, 7 and 8 of the Compendium. The Court SUSTAINS all said objections, on the
ground that the documents lack evidentiary foundation.
 
 


 
DISCUSSION
            The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) The Code of Civil Procedure §
437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)¿¿ 
 
As
to each cause of action as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to show “that one or more elements of the cause of
action ... cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2); see also Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿¿ 
 
Once
the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the
party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿¿ 
 
Motion for Summary Adjudication 
Defendant
LDG moves for an order granting summary adjudication in its favor on the
following:
1.     The Fifth Cause of
Action for Declaratory Relief in LDG’s Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff;
2.     The Second
Affirmative Defense in Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint;
3.     The Fifth
Affirmative Defense in Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint;
4.     The First Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract in Plaintiff’s Complaint; and
5.     The Third Cause of
Action for Professional Negligence in Plaintiff’s Complaint
 
The grounds for
the Motion are that: 1) Plaintiff failed to comply with the condition precedent
to the filing of an action against LDG on a claim for professional negligence
of the presentation thirty days before filing of the Complaint of an architect’s
certificate of merit (the “Certificate”); and 2) the contract between Plaintiff
and Moving Defendant (the “Contract”) limits liability thereunder to $1 million.
 
The
Condition Precedent
            To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, plaintiff must plead: “(1) the existence of the contract,
(2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's
breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D’Arrigo Bros. of
California v. United Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790,
800.) However, “[i]n contract law, a ‘condition precedent’ is ‘either an
act of a party that must be performed or an uncertain event that must happen
before the contractual right accrues or the contractual duty arises.’
[Citation.]” (Barroso v. Ocwen Loan Servicing, LLC (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1001, 1009; see also Civ. Code, § 1436.) “‘The rule is that
provisions of a contract will not be construed as conditions precedent in the
absence of language plainly requiring such construction. [Citations.]’” (Id.
at 1010.) Furthermore, “[a] condition is waived when a promisor by his words or
conduct justifies the promisee in believing that a conditional promise will be
performed despite the failure to perform the condition, and the promisee relies
upon the promisor's manifestations to his substantial detriment.” (Sosin v.
Richardson (1962) 210 Cal.App.2d 258, 264.)
 
To
state a cause of action for professional negligence, a plaintiff must establish
“(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as
other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of
that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and
the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the
professional's negligence.” (Paul v. Patton (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1088,
1095.) 
 
Defendant
LDG contends it is entitled to summary adjudication on its second affirmative
defense to the Complaint, the first cause of action for breach of contract of Plaintiff’s
Complaint and the third cause of action for professional negligence alleged in Plaintiff’s
Complaint because Plaintiff failed to satisfy a contractual condition precedent
to initiating litigation. Specifically, Defendant LDG asserts that Plaintiff
was required to present a Certificate by an architect licensed to practice in
the State of California at least thirty (30) days before filing the Complaint
and did not do so. 
 
Specifically,
the Contract provides:
 
The Client shall make no claim for
professional negligence, either directly or by way of a cross complaint against
the Architect unless the Client has first provided the Architect with a written
certification by an independent Architect currently practicing in the same
discipline as the Architect and licensed in the State of California. The
certificate of merit shall: i) Contain the name and license number of the
certifier, ii) Specify the acts or omissions that the certifier contends are
not in conformance with the standard of care for an Architect performing
professional services under similar circumstances, and iii) S in detail the
basis for the certifier’s opinion that such acts or omissions do not conform to
the standard of care.  This Certificate shall
be provided to the Architect not less than thirty (30) calendar days prior to
the presentation of any claim or the institution of any arbitration or judicial
proceeding. This Certificate of Merit will take precedence over any existing State
 law in force at the time of the Claim. 
 
There
is no dispute that Plaintiff did not present such a Certificate to LDG prior to
the filing of the Complaint.  
 
Defendant
LDG argues that because of this lack of presentation, it has been deprived of
valuable benefits under the Contract and has incurred significant costs in
defense of a lawsuit that Plaintiff never had a legal right to file. LDG argues
that the condition precedent is enforceable because it is consistent with
California law and the public policies designed to discourage unnecessary
lawsuits. Defendant LDG also contends that failure to satisfy the condition
precedent is an absolute defense to Plaintiff’s causes of action because they
are founded upon professional negligence, i.e., that Defendant LDG did not
perform its architectural services within the applicable standard of care.
Lastly, Defendant LDG argues that Plaintiff cannot cure non-performance by an
untimely presentation of a Certificate after the lawsuit was filed. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant LDG waived the condition precedent
through its words and conduct during a teleconference and correspondence with
LDG’s counsel on or about November 19, 2021. Furthermore, Plaintiff contends that
at the time his counsel and Defendant LDG’s counsel met and conferred on the
contractual Certificate, Plaintiff did not dismiss and refile the Complaint in
reliance on Defendant LDG’s waiver of the condition precedent, i.e., providing an
attorney’s certificate (the “Attorney’s Certificate of Merit”) and giving
Plaintiff  an additional thirty-day
extension for LDG to respond to the Complaint prior to Defendant LDG’s
appearance in the action. Moreover, Plaintiff contends that even if there had
never been a conversation or correspondence between the parties’ counsel
wherein Defendant LDG waived the condition precedent, Plaintiff substantially
performed the condition precedent. 
 
Plaintiff
admits that no Certificate as required by the Contract was provided to
LDG.  Plaintiff asserts, however, that Defendant
LDG was provided with all the information required by the condition precedent
more than three months before LDG’s appearance in the action because Plaintiff
sent LDG a Notice of Claims to LDG on August 6, 2019, apprising it of the acts
or omission in the work that were not in conformance with the standard of care
and LDG did not request additional information or seek to perform corrective
actions. Plaintiff also contends that Defendant LDG was provided with the
Attorney’s Certificate of Merit on August 9, 2021, which stated that an
attorney “consulted with and received an opinion from at least one professional
architect who is licensed to practice and practices in California in the same
discipline as the design professional defendants” and that the claim was
meritorious. Additionally, Plaintiff argues that the contractual requirement of
the presentation of a Certificate is legally unenforceable because Code of
Civil Procedure (“CCP”) Section 411.35 liberally allows curing of a late Certificate
of Merit by an attorney. Finally, Plaintiff contends that his breach of
contract claim is not barred by the terms of the condition precedent because
the provision refers only to claims for professional negligence. 
 
In
reply, Defendant LDG argues that it did not waive the contractual condition
precedent as a matter of law because attorneys of record do not have authority
to waive a party’s contractual rights. Defendant LDG further contends that even
if its attorney had such intent to waive the contractual condition, such
evidence would still not support an inference that LDG had any knowledge of its
attorney’s communications with Plaintiff’s counsel, had any knowledge of the
legal consequences of a waiver, intended to waive the contractual condition, or
authorized its attorneys of record in this proceeding to waive its contractual
right and affirmative defense. Defendant LDG also contends a waiver cannot be
predicated on its act of filing an answer because it had no other choice but to
answer to avoid entry of default, regardless of Plaintiff’s belated service of
the certificate of merit. Defendant LDG also asserts that it could not raise
the failure to provide a Certificate as a legal defense on demurrer because the
Complaint alleged Plaintiff had performed all condition precedent that
Plaintiff agreed to perform pursuant to the contracts at issue and on demurrer
allegations in the complaint are assumed to be true. 
 
Defendant
LDG also asserts that its Answer and Cross-Complaint preserved the right to
enforce the contractual condition and Plaintiff could not have detrimentally
relied on the belief that LDG had agreed to waive the condition precedent
because the Answer and Cross-Complaint put him on notice of LDG’s intent to
rely upon it. Moreover, Defendant LDG contends that upon receipt of its Answer
and Cross-Complaint on February 18, 2022, Plaintiff was not procedurally barred
from dismissing LDG from this action and refiling. Defendant LDG also contends that
the doctrine of substantial performance does not apply to the nonperformance of
a condition precedent because the condition precedent does not implicate the
equitable concerns which led courts to invoke the doctrine for contractors. In
addition, Defendant LDG argues that the condition precedent is not void as
against public policy because CCP Section 411.35 was enacted to protect
architects and engineers from frivolous malpractice lawsuits. Lastly, Defendant
LDG contends that Plaintiff’s nonperformance of the contractual condition bars
all his causes of action because a party cannot recover for breach of contract
subject to condition precedent without alleging or proving performance or
waiver of the conditions. 
 
Initially,
the Court finds that there is neither substantial compliance with the condition
of presentation of the Certificate nor compliance through the Attorney’s
Certificate of Merit on August 9, 2021.  The
Court further finds that the contractual requirement of a Certificate is not
legally unenforceable because CCP Section 411.35 liberally allows curing of a
later attorney’s certificate.  
 
The
Court further finds that the evidence of the Contract, Plaintiff’s Summons and Complaint,
Plaintiff’s Responses to LDG’s Requests for Admissions (“RFAs”) (Set One),
LDG’s Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint, and LDG’s Cross-Complaint are sufficient
to satisfy Defendant LDG’s initial burden to show that a triable issue of
material fact does not exist as to whether Plaintiff failed to satisfy the
contractual condition precedent to initiating litigation. The proffered
evidence establishes that the Contract attached to the Complaint is the August
2013 contractual agreement between LDG and Plaintiff. Plaintiff does not
contend that the Contract between the parties is unenforceable. LDG was named
as defendant in this lawsuit ,which was filed on June 29, 2021 and it was served
with the Summons on July 1, 2021. Moreover, the evidence proffered by Plaintiff
evidences that LDG intended to raise the condition precedent as a defense and
that Plaintiff failed to satisfy the condition precedent. 
 
The
burden now shifts to Plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to whether Plaintiff failed to satisfy the contractual condition precedent
to initiating litigation. The Court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden of
establishing that a triable issue of material fact does exist as to whether or
not LDG waived the condition precedent of the timely presentation of a
Certificate. 
 
Based
on the foregoing, LDG’s motion for summary adjudication on its second
affirmative defense to the Complaint, the first cause of action of Plaintiff’s
Complaint and the third cause of action of Plaintiff’s Complaint is DENIED. 
 
            Liability
            “[A] limitation of liability clause
is intended to protect the wrongdoer defendant from unlimited liability.” (Food
Safety Net Services v. Eco Safe Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1118, 1126.) “With respect to claims for breach of contract, limitation of
liability clauses are enforceable unless they are unconscionable, that is, the
improper result of unequal bargaining power or contrary to public policy.” (Id.)

 
Defendant
LDG contends that it is entitled to summary adjudication on its fifth cause of
action for declaratory relief in LDG’s Cross-Complaint and its fifth
affirmative defense to Plaintiff’s Complaint because its liability is limited
by an enforceable contract. Specifically, Defendant LDG asserts that its
liability, if any, is limited to $1,000,000.00 by the terms of the Contract. Furthermore,
Defendant LDG argues that Plaintiff does not contend that the Contract is
unenforceable and that the limitation of liability provision is conspicuous and
unambiguous.  Defendant LDG contends that
the Contract affirms that Plaintiff and LDG discussed the risks, rewards and
benefits of the project and agreed that the risks had been allocated
appropriately. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant LDG fails to meet its initial
burden of establishing, through admissible evidence, that the parties had an
opportunity to accept, reject or modify the limitation of liability clause in
the Contract. Plaintiff also argues that even if objected-to evidence is
considered, his employment history and the entities involved in the
construction of the home is insufficient to establish that Plaintiff was given
the opportunity to accept, reject or modify the limitation of liability clause.

 
In
reply, Defendant LDG argues that the Contract between the parties was attached
to the Complaint and the Complaint alleges that the terms of the attached
contract are incorporated by reference, so Plaintiff’s allegations constitute
judicial admissions that the Contract included both the limitation of liability
clause and condition precedent to filing suit. Furthermore, Defendant LDG
contends the first paragraph of the Contract expressly states that it is a work
proposal for Plaintiff’s review and that if the content is acceptable to
Plaintiff it will constitute the parties’ contractual agreement. As such,
Defendant LDG asserts the language of the Contract proves the provision of the Contract
were merely proposed to Plaintiff and he was given an opportunity to request a
change in any provision before agreeing to make the proposal a binding contract
by signing it. Finally, Defendant LDG argues that Plaintiff has presented no
evidence to suggest that the limitation of liability clause in the Contract is
unconscionable or contrary to public policy. 
 
Here,
the evidence submitted by LDG is sufficient to satisfy its initial burden to
show that a triable issue of material fact does not exist as to whether LDG’s
liability, if any, is limited to $1,000,000.00 by an enforceable contract. The Contract
was shown to have been initially a proposal only intended to be binding on the
parties if Plaintiff found the proposed terms acceptable and Plaintiff accepted
those terms. The Contract included a limited liability provision of
$1,000,000.00. The evidence proffered further demonstrates that Plaintiff is
himself using the Contract between the parties and seeking to enforce it. 
 
The
burden now shifts to Plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to whether LDG’s liability, if any, is limited to $1,000,000.00 by an
enforceable contract. Plaintiff has not met his burden of establishing that
a  triable issue of material fact does
exist as to whether LDG’s liability, if any, is limited to $1,000,000.00 by an
enforceable contract. Plaintiff proffers no evidence that he was not provided
an opportunity to accept, reject or modify the limitation of liability clause. 
 
Therefore,
the motion for summary adjudication as to Defendant LDG’s Cross-Complaint’s
fifth cause of action for declaratory relief as the limitation of liability and
its fifth affirmative defense to the Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 15th
day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



