 Case Number:  22STCV10943    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



E. J., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DOE 1,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendant.                               


 


      CASE NO.:  22STCV10943
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND ANSWER TO ADD
  AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE
 
Date: May 15, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Los Angeles
Unified School District
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The
Court has considered the moving papers. No opposition has been filed.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This is a
childhood sexual abuse case pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
340.1.  On March 30, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint. On May 4, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants alleging causes of action for: (1) negligence; and (2) negligent
hiring, retention, and supervision. On June 16, 2022, Defendant filed its
answer.
 
DISCUSSION
California Code of Civil
Procedure section¿473, subdivision¿(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party¿to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ 
 
“This discretion should be
exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”¿¿(Kittredge Sports
Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)¿ Ordinarily, the
court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling
on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are
premature.¿ The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend
where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter
of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.¿¿(California
Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274,
281¿(overruled on other grounds by¿Kransco¿v. American Empire Surplus Lines
Ins. Co.¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).)¿ 
“‘[I]t is an abuse of discretion
to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by
the amendment.’ (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739,
759-761.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the
trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation
such as an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc.
(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) 
Under¿California Rules of
Court¿Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any,¿and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.¿ 
 
Under¿California Rule of
Court¿Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must
specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and
proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4)¿the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.¿ 
Here, Defendant seeks a court
order permitting it to file an Amended Answer to add an affirmative defense
under Education Code section 44808, which precludes liability under certain
situations for conduct that occurred off the school site. After Defendant filed
its Answer, the deposition of Plaintiff was conducted on August 8, 2023, and
Defendant learned that Plaintiff alleges the subject abuse occurred both on
campus and off campus. (Hicks Decl., ¶ 3.) In evaluating this case for a May 7,
2024 mediation and trial preparation, Defendant understood, based on the testimony
of Plaintiff, that it had this additional defense. (Id., ¶ 4.)
Defendant has complied with CRC
Rule 3.1324 by including a copy of the proposed Amended Answer and indicating
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading. 
(Hicks Decl., Exh. 2.)  Defendant also states that it discovered the
applicability of this additional defense after the deposition of Plaintiff and
while evaluating the case for mediation. This is sufficient to explain why the
amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered, and why it was not made earlier. 
Accordingly, the Court
exercising its discretion liberally in favor of amendments, GRANTS the
unopposed motion for leave to file an amended answer. Defendant
is ordered to file its answer, which is attached as Exhibit 2, as a separate
filing within 10 days of this order.
 
Moving Party is
ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 15th
day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 