 Case Number:  23STCV04747    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 



MONIQUE MUDARRIS, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
JAGUAR LAND ROVER NORTH AMERICA, LLC, a
  Delaware limited liability company; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, 
 
                        Defendants.
 


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV04747          
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTIONS TO COMPEL
  FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
 
Date:  May 15, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: August 26, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Monique
Mudarris
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Jaguar Land
Rover North America, LLC (“Defendant”)
 
The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
This
is a lemon law action under the Song-Beverly Act (“Song-Beverly” or the “Act”) arising
from an allegedly defective 2018 Land Rover Range Rover (the “Vehicle”) purchased
by Plaintiff on September 21, 2018. Over the next four years, Plaintiff made
frequent visits to Defendant’s authorized dealership for issues with the Vehicle’s
tires, leaks, overheating, an abnormally loud engine, an abnormal clinking
noise, the infotainment system and the coolant system.
 
Plaintiff
filed the operative Complaint against Defendant, alleging causes of action for:
(1) breach of express warranty, (2) breach of implied warranty and (3) violation
of Civil Code § 1793.2(b) of the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
Procedural
Background
According
to the declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel, Priscilla Le (“Le”): (1) on May 1,
2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with her first set of Requests for Production
(“RFPs”) and Special Interrogatories (“SIs”)(Morse Decl. at ¶ 17; Exhs. M and N);
(2) on June 2, 2023, Defendant mailed its responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs and SIs,
which were deficient and contained numerous objections (Id. at ¶ 18 and Exhs. O and P); (3) on July 26, 2023, Plaintiff
initiated the meet and confer process by sending a letter to Defendant that
specified the deficiencies in Defendant’s responses (Id. at ¶ 19 and Exh. Q); (4) the parties continued to correspond
via email and telephonically and agreed that Defendant’s further responses were
due September 8, 2023 (Id. at ¶¶ 20-26); and (5) Defendant did not
provide any supplemental responses or produce any additional documents. (Id.
at ¶27.)   
 
MEET
AND CONFER
            The meet and
confer requirement has been met.
 


 
DISCUSSION
Under
California Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 2017.010, “any person may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” “Discovery may relate to the
claim or defense of the party seeking discovery.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “The Court
shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense,
or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the
information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Lipton
v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1611.)  “For discovery purposes, information is
relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.”  (Id.)
Discovery statutes are “construed liberally in favor of disclosure.” (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
424, 434.)  Where a party objects to a
motion to compel, the burden is on the responding party to justify any
objection.  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
255.)  To support an objection to a
request for production of documents, the objecting party has to establish the
validity of its objections with supporting facts in order to meet its burden.  (Southern
Pac. Co. v. Superior Court (1969) 3 Cal.App.3d 195, 198.)  
 
Plaintiff’s
RFPs
Plaintiff
filed a motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs, Set
One, nos. 10, 15, 20, 23-26, 28, 29, 35-36, 7-49, and 51-64 (the “RFP Motion”).  Plaintiff groups these requests into three
categories: 
(1)  Those
relating specifically to Plaintiff and the Vehicle (nos. 35, 36)
(2)  Those
relating to Defendant’s knowledge, internal investigations, analysis and
publications of defects plaguing the Vehicle (nos. 15, 28-29, 37-39, 40-49,
51-64); and 
(3)  Those
relating to Defendant’s warranty and vehicle repurchase policies, procedures,
and practices (nos. 10, 20, 23-26).
Plaintiff does not
request monetary sanctions. 
 
            Plaintiff asserts that: (1) the scope of allowed discovery
is broad; (2) Defendant’s boilerplate objections demonstrate a lack of good
faith; and (3) the requests, including those for materials relating to similar
defects in other vehicles, are relevant and necessary to establish Plaintiff’s
Song-Beverly Claims.
            
Defendant
opposes Plaintiff’s RFP Motion on the grounds that: (1) Plaintiff has not met
her burden of showing good cause because the requests are overbroad, burdensome
and seek irrelevant information; (2) Plaintiff has not established the
requested information’s relevance; (3) Plaintiff’s cited authorities do not
pertain to relevancy or the scope of discovery; (4) the requests seek
production involving third party privacy rights and proprietary information;
and (5) Requests nos. 36 and 36 demand the production of parts and components
not within Defendant’s possession, custody or control. 
 


 
Requests
Nos. 35 and 36
These
requests seek the production of “Any parts or components of the
SUBJECT VEHICLE that were returned to YOU by any of YOUR authorized
repair facilities” or “retained by YOUR authorized
repair facilities.” (Le Decl., Exh. M.) Plaintiff contends that this request “is
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of materials regarding the
Plaintiff’s subject vehicle such as its brochures and advertisements etc.,
Sales Documents, Repair Orders, and any document related to any service adjustments
to the Vehicle prior to delivery.” (Motion, 10:7-10.) This is, as Defendant
noted, a misrepresentation of the requests, which in fact seek the physical
parts and components that were removed from the Vehicle. A
motion to compel further responses to the production of documents must “set
forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(b)(1); see Calcor Space
Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-224 [“Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031 . . . requires a party seeking to compel such production to
set forth the specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought
by the inspection demand”].) Plaintiff has not shown good cause for discovery
of replaced car parts. Even in her reply brief, Plaintiff failed to offer any
justification for requesting the production of parts and components, and
instead confusingly refers to the materials sought in Requests nos. 35 and 36
as “documents”. (See Reply, 6:1.) Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request for further
responses to RFP nos. 35 and 36 is DENIED.
 
Requests
Nos. 15, 37-39, 40-49, and 51-64 
Initially,
the Court notes that this grouping of requests is different from Plaintiff’s
categories. The difference is that Requests nos. 28 and 29 are not in this
category because they pertain to Defendant’s internal policies regarding
refunds and replacements, which are more fitting for the third category of
requests analyzed below.
 
These
requests seek documents related to the Vehicle, including diagnostic trouble
codes in the Vehicle (no. 15) and communications between Defendant and its authorized
repair facilities regarding diagnosis and/or repairs involving the Vehicle (no.
40). 
 
These
requests also seek information about other vehicles of the same year, make and
model as the Vehicle, including: complaints by other customers about defects
similar to the ones complained about by Plaintiff (nos. 37 and 38); all
documents related to vehicles of the same year, make and model that Defendant
has repurchased or replaced (no. 39); communications between Defendant and its authorized
repair facilities regarding diagnosis and/or repairs involving the coolant
manifold pipe, a Powertrain Control Module (PCM) reprogram, codes
P0457-76, P008B-07, and P0496-00, an EVAP system or coolant leak, the EVAP
purge valve causing abnormal noise, and pressure testing the cooling system
(nos. 41-49); failure rates of the radiator coolant hose, the coolant outlet
pipe, the outlet pipe base, and the EVAP purge valve (nos. 51-54); complaints
about illuminated warning lights for low coolant or check engine, vehicle
alignment feeling off, steering wheel feeling heavy, overheating, and loud
engine (nos. 55-60); and the number of warranty claims for the front coolant
manifold pipe, the radiator coolant hose, the evaporative emission canister
purge valve and the EVAP purge valve. (Nos. 61-64.)
 
Plaintiff
contends that this second category of documents “is reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of materials regarding [the] nature and duration of the
defects, Defendant’s awareness of the defects and Defendant’s inability to
repair the defects.” (Motion, 10:11-13.) Plaintiff contends that these
documents evince a necessary element of Plaintiff’s case (that defects exist),
and that Plaintiff’s expert requires the technical information requested to
give reliable opinion testimony as to the nature of the defects. (Motion,
10:13-20.)
 
In opposition,
Defendant likens Plaintiff’s requests to the ones made in Calcor, which were
stricken down for overbreadth. There, the plaintiff requested “all purchase
orders” for the allegedly defective part, as well as documents relating to the
“design, modification, engineering manufacture, testing, rejection, revision,
modification, or acceptance” of the part. (Calcor, supra, at
219-220.) The Calcor court characterized the subcontractor’s requests as
“very simple” in that “[i]t orders Calcor to produce everything in its
possession which has anything to do with” that part. (Id.) This is not
the case here. Plaintiff’s requests are limited to customer repurchases
and replacements, complaints and warranty claims about a limited number of
issues, and communications between Defendant and its dealerships about those
issues in question. Plaintiff’s requests, to the extent they concern vehicles
other than the Subject Vehicle, are further limited by year, make and model.
Therefore, Defendant cannot rely on Calcor to avoid production of
documents. 
 
Defendant
also attacks the authorities cited by Plaintiff. In her RFP Motion, Plaintiff
relies heavily on Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138
and Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967 for the
position that the scope of discovery is not limited to Plaintiff’s vehicle;
rather, similar defects experienced by other customers are also discoverable.
Defendant contends that “there is no indication in these cases that the
manufacturer ever raised an objection based on relevance during discovery” and
“courts do not adjudicate matters that are not timely raised” because they are
considered waived. (Opp’n, 8:18-9:10.) It is true that neither the Donlen
court nor the Doppes court address the permissible scope of discovery. The
procedural history of the cases, however, establishes that trial courts
routinely permit discovery of evidence pertaining to defects in vehicles other
than the plaintiff’s vehicle.
 
The
Court finds that Plaintiff has shown good cause for the RFPs in this category.
The requests are limited to the specific kinds of defects Plaintiff experienced
with the Vehicle. The requests are further limited to cars of the same year,
make and model as the Vehicle (i.e., 2018 Land Rover Range Rovers) that
presented those defects. This information is relevant to prove whether
Defendant had knowledge of those defects, and whether Defendant had the ability
to repair those defects, as any willfulness in violating Song-Beverly would
entitle Plaintiff to a civil penalty. Defendant has not shown how compliance
with these requests would be overly burdensome or expensive. In fact, Defendant
does not address this issue beyond a passing characterization of the requests
as “burdensome” (Opp’n, 4:22.)
 
To
the extent these requests seek production of documents that involve third party
privacy rights and Defendant’s proprietary information, Plaintiff has stated
that she is willing to stipulate to a protective order. Defendant may redact
personal information, such as personal addresses and cell phone number of
others. (Reply, 3:7-17.)  The parties are
ordered to submit to the Court within ten (20) days of the date of this Order a
stipulated [Proposed] Protective Order in the form for “Confidential Documents”
and not for “Highly Confidential Documents” as set forth on the Court’s
website.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s request for further responses to RFP nos. 15, 37-39, 40-49, and
51-64 is GRANTED.
 
Requests
Nos. 10, 20, 23-26, and 28-29
These
requests seek all
versions of the Warranty Policies and Procedures Manual published by Defendant
and provided to its
authorized repair facilities in California, effective from Plaintiff’s date of
purchase of the Vehicle to the present date (no. 10); documents concerning the
handling of repeat complaints by customers regarding their vehicles (no. 20);
documents that Defendant uses and had used to evaluate consumer requests for
repurchase pursuant to the Act (no. 23); and Defendant’s policies,
procedures and/or instructions for the handling of customer complaints (no.
24), the issuance of refunds or replacement vehicles (nos. 25 and 26); and the
issuance of recalls and technical service bulletins (nos. 28 and 29).
 
            Plaintiff
contends that this category of requests is reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of documents regarding Defendant’s good faith compliance with those
duties, which is relevant to the Act’s civil penalty provision. The Court
agrees with Plaintiff.  The requests are,
however, overbroad and redundant. The timeframe for the documents should be
limited to the period beginning on the date of purchase of the Vehicle on
September 21, 2018 and ending on the date of Plaintiff’s last visit to
Defendant’s dealership on December 23, 2022. The requests should be
geographically limited to policies and procedures that were in effect in
California during that period. Further, Request no. 20 is denied in its
entirety. As phrased, it would have Defendant produce details of all repeat
complaints that any purchaser or lessee of any vehicle has made, which is an overbroad
request.  
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s request for further responses to RFP no. 20 is DENIED. Plaintiff’s
request for further responses to RFPs nos. 10, 23-26, and 28-29 is GRANTED with
the above time and place restrictions.
 
Plaintiff’s
SROGs
Plaintiff
filed a motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to Plaintiff’s SROGs,
Set One, nos. 14, 20, 25, 39, 41, and 43 (the “SI Motion”).  These interrogatories seek the identification
of witnesses: those who inspected and tested the Vehicle (no. 20) and those who
performed warranty repairs on the Vehicle (no. 14); those who participated in
the investigation relating to Plaintiff’s complaints of the Vehicle (no. 41);
the person in charge of the customer relations department in the district or
region having jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s complaint (no. 25); those who made
the decision not to repurchase and/or replace the Vehicle (no. 43); and the
supervisor in charge of ensuring Defendant properly determines whether a
vehicle should be repurchased or replaced under Song Beverly (no. 39).
Plaintiff does not request monetary sanctions. 
 
            Plaintiff asserts that: (1) the scope of allowed discovery
is broad; (2) Defendant’s boilerplate objections demonstrate a lack of good
faith; and (3) the identification of witnesses is a proper subject of
discovery.
            
Defendant
opposes Plaintiff’s Motion on the grounds that: (1) Plaintiff violated Dept. 56
rules by failing to schedule an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)  prior to filing her motions, (2) Plaintiff has
not and cannot meet her burden of showing good cause because the interrogatories
are overbroad, burdensome and seek irrelevant information; (3) Plaintiff has
not established the requested information’s relevance; and (4) Defendant’s
objections are reasonably particularized. 
 
            Defendant is hereby informed that with the sunsetting of
the requirements for an IDC in CCP § 2016.080, there is no longer a statutory
basis for Courts to impose the requirement of an IDC before a motion to compel,
and the Court no longer orders an IDC in the absence of a stipulation of the
parties.
 
Defendant
contends that it has already identified all known persons who have worked on
the Vehicle by providing their name and technician number in its response to
Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatory no. 12.1. (Opp’n, 7:5-10; Le Decl., Exhibit P,
Defendant’s Responses to SIs nos. 14 & 20.) In response to Form
Interrogatory no. 12.1’s request for the contact information of witnesses,
Defendant answered:
the current
and/or former service managers at the JLRNA-authorized service facility(s) that
serviced/repaired the vehicle (including, but not limited to, Service Manager
Scott Paul Schluttenhofer at Jaguar Land Rover Anaheim Hills and Service
Manager Nathan Krafczyk at Jaguar Land Rover South Bay), and the service
advisors and technicians identified in the repair orders (including, but not
limited to, Service Advisor Susana Nava and Technician 1020-Richard Lloyd at
Jaguar Land Rover Anaheim Hills and Service Advisors Sergio Jimenez, Evan
Sheehan, Rodrigo Chavez, Juan Reyes III, Magdoline Soliman, Jolie Speckmeyer,
Kelly Lokken and Lizeth Loza and Technicians 6503-Kevin Ruiz, 1613-Gabriel
Gutierrez, 6380-Rafael Romos, 5706-Luis J. Ramos, 6998-Leonardo Avalos,
6597-Christian Cancino, 5645, 8928 and 9020 at Jaguar Land Rover South Bay
(further identifying information presently unknown). JLRNA continues to collect
repair orders from the third party service facility(s) and will identify the
service advisors and technicians indicated therein once such documents are
obtained. Discovery is continuing, and JLRNA reserves the right to supplement
this response based upon further investigation.
 
(Abouesh Decl. ¶ 2 Ex. A
at Form Interrogatory No. 12.1.) 
 
This
information is responsive to SIs nos. 14 and 20. Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion
to compel further responses to these SIs is MOOT as to SI nos. 14 and 20. 
 
Defendant
contends that SROG no. 25 (seeking identification of the person in charge of
the customer relations department in the district or region having jurisdiction
over Plaintiff’s complaint) is irrelevant and overbroad because Defendant has
no record of Plaintiff contacting its customer relations department prior to
the instant lawsuit. The Court agrees with Defendant. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion must be DENIED as to SROG no. 25 for irrelevance.
 
Similarly,
as to the remaining interrogatories, Defendant contends that Plaintiff never
complained to Defendant or asked Defendant to repurchase her car, or otherwise
put Defendant on notice of her lemon law claims prior to this lawsuit. Thus,
any repurchase evaluation or decision would have been made after Plaintiff
filed suit and with the advice of counsel. The requested information is
therefore covered by the attorney-client privilege and protected from
disclosure by the attorney work product doctrine. (See Opp’n, 2:7-14;
Defendant’s Response to SROG no. 39.) However, Plaintiff only requests the
identity and contact information of the individuals who participated in the
investigation of Plaintiff’s complaints of the Vehicle (no. 41); those who made
the decision not to repurchase and/or replace the Vehicle (no. 43); and the
supervisor in charge of ensuring Defendant properly determines whether a
vehicle should be repurchased or replaced under the Song Beverly Act (no. 39).
Defendant does not provide any authority for the position that attorney-client
privilege or the attorney work product doctrine protect the identity of
individuals employed by a corporate client. Moreover, as discussed in the RFP
section, the scope of discovery is broad and includes, for example, how
Defendant has handled complaints by other owners of 2018 Range Rover.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is also GRANTED as to SROGs nos. 39, 41, and 43.
 
CONCLUSION
Pursuant
to the discussion above, Plaintiff’s RFP Motion is DENIED in part, as to RFP no.
20, and GRANTED in part, as to RFPs nos. 15, 37-39, 40-49 and 51-64, and as to
RFPs nos. 10, 23-26, and 28-29 with time and place restrictions. Plaintiff’s SI
Motion is DENIED in part, as to SI nos. 14, 20 and 25, and GRANTED in part, as
to SI nos. 39, 41, and 43.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
        
 Dated this 15th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



