  Case Number:  21SMCV01662    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Clayton v. Malibu
West Swimming Club, et al.
CASE NO.:                21SMCV01662
MOTION:                  Defendant
Jason Riddick’s Special Motion to Strike
HEARING DATE:   8/6/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16 permits the Court to strike causes of action arising from an act in furtherance
of the defendant's right of free speech or petition, unless the plaintiff
establishes that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim. “The anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a defendant’s
constitutionally protected conduct from the undue burden of frivolous
litigation.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.) “The
anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate defendants from any liability for
claims arising from the protected rights of petition or speech. It only
provides a procedure for weeding out, at an early stage, meritless
claims arising from protected activity.” (Id. at 384.) 
            
“Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion
involves two steps. First, the defendant must establish that the challenged
claim arises from activity protected by section 425.16. If the defendant makes
the required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the
merit of the claim by establishing a probability of success.” (Baral, supra,
1 Cal.5th at 384, citation omitted.) The California Supreme Court has
“described this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ The court
does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is
limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made
a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It
accepts the plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant’s showing
only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law.
‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’” (Id. at
384-385 [citations omitted].) 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiffs’ objections to the
Riddick declaration are OVERRULED.
 
Defendants’ objections are
OVERRULED. 
 
Defendant’s request for judicial
notice is GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(d).)
 
Plaintiffs’ request for judicial
notice is GRANTED except as to nos. 3-4. (Evid. Code §452 (c), (d), (h).) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant Jason Riddick moves to
strike the Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) of Plaintiffs Samantha and Royce
Clayton pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16(e)(3)-(4). Riddick
asserts that the TAC must be stricken as a SLAPP because Plaintiffs’ causes of
action alleged against him arise from alleged statements and/or conduct which
are protected by section 425.16, and Plaintiffs cannot establish a probability success
because Riddick is not the legal cause of any of Plaintiffs’ injuries.
 
Defendant has the initial burden to
demonstrate that the claims alleged against him each arise from protected
activity. Defendant specifically cites section 425.16(e)(3)-(4), which defines
protected acts as: “(3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a
place open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of
public interest; or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in
connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.” 
 
A claim arises from protected
activity when that activity underlies or forms the basis for the claim. (Park
v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057,
1062.)  “‘[T]he defendant’s act
underlying the plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have been an act
in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.’” (Id. at 1063.)
“‘[T]he mere fact that an action was filed after protected activity took place
does not mean the action arose from that activity for the purposes of the
anti-SLAPP statute.’” (Id.) “Instead, the focus is on determining what
‘the defendant’s activity [is] that gives rise to his or her asserted
liability—and whether that activity constitutes protected speech or
petitioning.’” (Id.) “‘The only means specified in section 425.16 by
which a moving defendant can satisfy that [‘arising from’] requirement is to
demonstrate that the defendant’s conduct by which plaintiff claims to have been
injured falls within one of the four categories described in subdivision (e). .
. .’” (Id.) “In short, in ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion, courts should
consider the elements of the challenged claim and what actions by defendant
supply those elements and consequently form the basis for liability.” (Id.)
 
The instant action arises from a
dispute over Plaintiffs’ efforts to rebuild their home at 5924 Pasea Canyon
Dr., Malibu, CA 90265, following the 2018 Woolsey Fire. Their address is
subject to certain CC&Rs enforced by Defendant Malibu West Swimming Club. Generally,
Plaintiffs obtained plans and permits for their replacement home, which they
describe as a modest single-story residence, and received approval from the
City of Malibu. The TAC alleges that the Board, including Riddick, breached the
Association’s CC&Rs by denying Plaintiffs’ plans, which was motivated by
racial animus and discrimination. The TAC names Riddick as Doe 1. The TAC
includes Doe 1 in every cause of action, including: (1) breach of the HOA’s
CC&Rs; (2) breach of the Davis-Stirling Common Interest Development Act;
(3) declaratory relief; (4) equitable relief; (5) intentional infliction of
emotional distress; (6) trespass; (7) violation of Fair Employment and Housing
Act; (8) Unruh Civil Rights Act; and (9) negligence. Aside from the Board’s
denial of the Plaintiff’s variances, the TAC incidentally alleges that Riddick
self-dealt with the Board for approval of his own variances, which are far
greater than the Clayton’s requested variances. (TAC ¶ 5.) The TAC alleges that
this disparate treatment between black and white residents evidences the
Board’s racial animus. (Id.) The TAC also seeks liability against Riddick for trespass
on their property (although Plaintiffs admit they didn’t intend to bring this
claim against Riddick, and the TAC brings no facts in support of such a claim
against Riddick). Therefore, except for the trespass claim (which would not
arise from protected conduct in any event), Riddick’s liability arises from his
role as a Board member and the Board’s multiple denials of variances, which allegedly
violated the CC&Rs, statutes and common law. (TAC ¶¶ 5, 90, 206-207.) 
 
            The Court
does not find that the Riddick’s conduct falls within the scope of subsection
(3) or (4) as pled even though the conduct does involve “statements.”  As set forth below, the Court concludes that
the at-issue conduc was not done in connection with a “public” issue. Both section
425.16(e)(3) and (4) require Defendant to show a relationship between the subject
conduct, “and the public conversation about some matter of public interest.” (Serova
v. Sony Music Entertainment (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 103, 116, citing FilmOn.com
Inc. v. DoubleVerify Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 133, 149-50.) In deciding
whether a statement was “in connection with an issue of public interest . . . a
court must consider whether a statement . . . contributes to or furthers the
public conversation on an issue of public interest. It is by carefully
observing this wedding of content and context that we can discern if conduct is
‘in furtherance of’ free speech ‘in connection with’ a public issue or issue of
public interest.” (Id. at 154.) In “analyzing the relationship
between the challenged speech and the issue of public interest, it is ‘not
enough that the statement refer to a subject of widespread public interest; the
statement must in some manner itself contribute to the public debate.’” (Serona,
supra, 44 Cal.App.5th at 116.) “A defendant has contributed to the public
debate if he or she ‘participated in, or furthered, the discourse that makes an
issue one of public interest.’” (Id.) 
 
Public interest includes “not only
governmental matters, but also private conduct that impacts a broad segment of
society and/or that affects a community in a manner similar to that of a
governmental entity.” (Damon v. Ocean Hills Journalism Club (2000) 85
Cal.App.4th 468, 479.) “Section 425.16 does not define ‘public interest,’ but
its preamble states that its provisions ‘shall be construed broadly’ to
safeguard ‘the valid exercise of the constitutional rights of freedom of speech
and petition for the redress of grievances.’” (Nygard, supra, 159
Cal.App.4th at 1039.) “‘[A]n issue of public interest’ . . . is any issue in
which the public is interested. In other words, the issue need not be
‘significant’ to be protected by the anti-SLAPP statute—it is enough that it is
one in which the public takes an interest.” (Id. at 1042.) “[I]n cases
where the issue is not of interest to the public at large, but rather to a
limited, but definable portion of the public (a private group, organization, or
community), the constitutionally protected activity must, at a minimum, occur
in the context of an ongoing controversy, dispute or discussion, such that it
warrants protection by a statute that embodies the public policy of encouraging
participation in matters of public significance.” (Du Charme v.
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 107,
115, 119; see Ruiz v. Harbor View Community Assn. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th
1456.)
 
An issue involving the HOA, its board
members, or its decisions does not always involve a public issue or an
issue of public interest. In general terms, courts have concluded that the
petitioning conduct involves a public issue when it centers on HOA-wide policies,
decisions, and management, but not when it centers on an individual member or
property. The following cases are instructive on this distinction.
 
 In Ruiz, a homeowner sued his
homeowners association alleging libelous letters written by the association’s
counsel. (Ruiz, supra, 134 Cal.App.4th at
1463-1465.) The letters concerned a dispute over the association's rejection of
Ruiz's building plans, and Ruiz's complaints that the association was not
applying its architectural guidelines evenhandedly. (Ibid.) The court
concluded the letters fell within section 425.16(e)(4), noting that the letters
were written in the context an ongoing dispute between Ruiz and the association
over denial of Ruiz's plans and the application of the association's
architectural guidelines. The dispute was of interest to a definable portion of
the public, i.e., residents of the HOA, because they “would be affected by the
outcome of those disputes and would have a stake in [association] governance.”
(Id. at 1467-1469.) Moreover, the attorney's letters “were part of the
ongoing discussion over those disputes and ‘contribute[d] to the public debate’
on the issues presented by those disputes. [Citation.]” (Id. at 1469.)
Ultimately, the challenged conduct in Ruiz involved an act of expression
in two writings that gave rise to a libel cause of action and an issue of free
speech, and were related to the broad issue of how the HOA would apply
its guidelines.  (Id. at 1468-69.) 
 
In Turner v. Vista Pointe Ridge
Homeowners Assn., (2009) 180 Cal. App. 4th 676,
homeowners brought claims against their homeowners' association, challenging the
association's denial of variances for construction on their property. (Id.
at 687-688.) The Court of Appeal found that the homeowners’ complaint arose out
of the association's unwillingness to grant a variance to homeowners for
construction of improvements, its demand that money be paid in exchange for a
variance, its demand that various disputed improvements be removed, its levy of
a reimbursement assessment, its failure to comply with the covenants, and its
demand that homeowners pay to remove a tree located in development's common
area. (Id.) In reversing the trial court’s granting of an anti-SLAPP
motion, the appellate court explained that the written demands to the
homeowners “gave rise to breach of contract and other causes of action that do
not raise free speech concerns.” (Id. at 688.) The court explained: “[n]ot
every mundane communication between a homeowner’s association and a homeowner
gives rise to a freedom of speech issue. Section 425.16, subdivision (e)(4), at
issue here, does not come into play unless the right of free speech or the
right to petition is involved. The cause of action itself must be based on
the speech or petitioning activity. If neither of those rights is at
stake, section 425.16, subdivision (e)(4) is inapplicable, irrespective of
whether the subject of the dispute may otherwise be a matter of public
interest.” (Id. at 679.) As the alleged breaches did not implicate free
speech concerns, the anti-SLAPP statute did not protect the HOA Board from
liability for their denial of variances. 
 
In Country Side Villas
Homeowners Assn. v. Ivie (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1110, a homeowner raised
objections with her homeowners association over a change in practices regarding
whether individual homeowners or the association had responsibility to pay for
maintaining balconies and siding on individual units. (Id. at 1113.) The
association filed suit against her (Ivie) seeking declaratory relief in
interpreting the association's governing documents regarding maintenance
obligations. (Ibid.) The court found that Ivie's complaints to the board
were a matter of public interest because her statements concerned issues “that
affected all members of the association,” such as whether all members would
have to pay for maintenance costs assumed by the association. (Id. at
1118.) In addition, Ivie’s public complaints about the competency of Country
Side's board's management of the association regarded a matter of public
interest, because Country Side's decisions affected all members of the
association. (Id., at 1118.) 
 
Damon is another case where
a public interest was found and involved a defamation action brought by a
former manager of a homeowners’ association. (Damon, supra, 85
Cal.App.4th at 471-473.) A number of homeowners had been unhappy with
plaintiff's management style and had wanted a different manager for their
homeowner’s association. They prepared editorials, articles and letters to the
editor that were published in a newsletter circulated to homeowner’s
association members and others. Certain members of the board of directors spoke
critically of plaintiff at board meetings and one of them wrote memoranda
criticizing the plaintiff's performance. (Id. at 472.) When plaintiff's
contract term ended and he was replaced, plaintiff filed suit against two board
members who had been critical of him, certain association members whose
articles or letters had been published in the newsletter, and the publisher of
the newsletter. (Id. at 473.) Defendants moved to strike under the anti-SLAPP
statute, which was granted. (Id.) In affirming the decision, the court
noted that each of the alleged defamatory statements concerned: (1) the
decision whether to continue to be self-governed or to switch to a professional
management company; and/or (2) Damon's competency to manage the Association. (Id.
at 479-480.) The Damon court considered the defamatory statements to be
“public” issues because the substantive issue affected all HOA members.
 
In Colyear, a homeowner
(Liu) submitted an application to a homeowner’s association seeking to invoke
dispute resolution process against neighbor (Colyear) who refused to trim trees
blocking homeowner's view. (Colyear v. Rolling Hills Cmty. Assn. of Rancho
Palos Verdes, (2017) 9 Cal. App. 5th 119, 123.) Colyear brought an action
against Liu and the association, alleging that they were wrongfully clouding
his title by seeking to apply a tree-trimming covenant in the CC&Rs to his
property. (Ibid.) As to Liu, Colyear alleged that some of the offending
trees designated by Liu on the photos attached to his application were on
Colyear's lot, thus Liu “sought to apply the Liu Application to cut back trees
and plantings on Colyear's lot.” (Id. at 127.) The Second District
agreed that this was protected activity under section 425.16(e)(4). (Id. at
130-131.) The court explained that Liu submitted his application in the context
of an ongoing controversy, dispute, or discussion regarding the applicability of
tree-trimming covenants to lots not expressly burdened by them, and the
HOA's authority to enforce such covenants.  (Id. at 132-133.) These issues were of
“public” interest because the issues would affect all HOA members. 
 
            In Lee
v. Silveira (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 527, minority board members sued six other
board members regarding the board's renewal of the association's management
contract and the decision-making process at board meetings. (Id. at
530-531, 542.) The defendants argued that the declaratory relief claim was
based on their decisions and statements at board meetings and the claims thus
arose from protected conduct in connection with a public issue. (Id. at
531.) In reversing the trial court's denial of the anti-SLAPP motion, the court
held the plaintiffs' claim arose from the defendants' free speech activity in
discussions and voting at board meetings. (Id. at 545.) The court noted
that “it [was] significant” the defendants were individual board members and
not the homeowner’s association, leading the court to conclude that the claims
arose from protected free speech conduct. (Id. at 542.) Notable for this
case, the complaints by homeowners’ association board members against other
board members was in the context of a dispute concerning a large roofing
project and a management company contract regarding day-to-day operations of
the HOA, as affecting “a broad segment, if not all,” association members. (Id.
at 540.) Thus, the “public” issue requirement was met in Lee.
 
Considering the above case law and
the allegations at issue, the claims here do not arise out of free speech or
petitioning conduct in connection with a public issue. Simply put, the
Board’s discussions and vote regarded a controversy concerning a single lot. At
best, the decision would only impact Plaintiffs and their immediate
neighbor(s). This is unlike the above issues found to be “public” which each
involved issues that impacted a “broad” segment of the HOA community. Therefore,
any implicit votes or discussions by individual board members, such as Riddick,
would concern this limited issue. Such a limited issue was not part of any “ongoing
discussion” or “public debate” that would affect the entire HOA or some broad
portion of the HOA community. Therefore, to the extent that Riddick’s votes or
discussion could be considered free speech conduct, the conduct still lacks a
connection with a public issue.
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.