 Case Number:  23SMCV05638    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Chin v. Firstenberg
CASE NO.:                   23SMCV05638
MOTION:                     Motion to strike  
HEARING DATE:   8/6/2024
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322(b).)
The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) 
 
“Liberality in permitting amendment is
the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to show¿in
what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint, and¿how¿that
amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.) 
  
ANALYSIS 
  
Defendant
Jean Firstenberg moves to strike the punitive damages allegations in Plaintiff
Morgan Chin’s Complaint.  The complaint
explains that this action arises out of an automobile accident on December 9,
2021, at the intersection of Wilshire Blvd., and Franklin St., in the City of
Santa Monica, California. Plaintiff alleges she was lawfully driving eastbound
on Wilshire Blvd. Defendant was driving on Franklin Street. (Compl., ¶ 6.)
While turning onto Wilshire, Defendant made an unsafe left turn into the side
of Plaintiff’s vehicle. Defendant allegedly failed to yield the right of way,
failed to make a left turn with reasonable safety, negligently and dangerously
operated her vehicle in violation of multiple rules of the road in violation of
Vehicle Code Sections. (E.g., Veh. Code §§ 21801, 23103, 22350.) The complaint
emphasizes that the collision was caused by the “recklessness, carelessness and
negligence” of Defendant. (¶ 8.) The complaint further avers that Defendant’s
“acts and/or omissions were either committed by or authorized, ratified, or
otherwise approved in a deliberate, cold, malicious, intentional and/or unreasonable
manner… causing injury and damage to PLAINTIFF, and done with a conscious
disregard of PLAINTIFF’S rights and safety[.]” (¶10.)
 
Civil
Code section 3294 defines malice as conduct “intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff,” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Id.) Despicable is a powerful term used to describe circumstances
that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (See Coll. Hosp. v. Superior Ct.
(1994) 9 Cal.4th 704, 726.) The statute “plainly indicates that absent an
intent to injure the plaintiff, “malice” requires more than a “willful and
conscious” disregard of the plaintiffs' interests. The additional component of
“despicable conduct” must be found.” (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
allegations concerning Defendants’ negligent operation of a motor vehicle do
not rise to the level of despicable conduct required to support malice or
oppression. The above allegations only proffer bare conclusions of “malicious,”
“intentional,” and “deliberate” conduct. There are no facts showing “base,”
“vile,” or “contemptible” conduct required to support an allegation of
despicable conduct. The Complaint also does not allege that Defendant collided
with Plaintiff’s vehicle with an intent to injure Plaintiff. Thus, Plaintiff’s
punitive damages request is unsupported.
 
The
motion is also unopposed. Plaintiff therefore fails to demonstrate a reasonable
probability of successful amendment. Accordingly,
Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED without leave to amend. 
 