  Case Number:  23STCV11244    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Yauheni Klimkou’s Motion for Attorneys’ Fees, Costs, and Expenses
            Plaintiff Yauheni Klimkou moves for $80,383.60
in attorney fees and other costs
from defendant Porsche Cars North America, Inc.
Evidentiary Objections
            Defendant
makes 10 objections to plaintiff’s evidence. 
All 10 objections are overruled.
            Plaintiff
makes eight objections to defendant’s evidence. 
Objection No. 1 is sustained. 
Objection Nos. 2-8 are overruled.
Hourly Rates
For
hourly rates, “the trial court is in the best position to value the services
rendered by the attorneys.”  (569 East
County Boulevard LLC v. Backcountry Against the Dump, Inc. (2016) 6
Cal.App.5th 426, 436.)  Courts may rely
on their “own knowledge and familiarity with the legal market, as well as the
experience, skill, and reputation of the attorney requesting fees, the
difficulty or complexity of the litigation to which that skill was applied, and
affidavits from other attorneys regarding prevailing fees in the community and
rate determinations in other cases.” (Id. at p. 437, citations omitted.)
Plaintiff’s
counsel Sam Azimtash seeks a rate of $500 per hour.  That rate is slightly excessive.  Azimtash attended law school at the
University of Minnesota.  (Azimtash
Decl., ¶ 25.)  Before starting his own
firm, he “was a senior associate at Theta Law Firm, LLP,” where he “litigated
hundreds of” Song-Beverly Act cases on behalf of manufacturers.  (Id., ¶ 26.)  Other courts have awarded Azimtash a rate of $500
per hour.  (Id., ¶¶ 28-29.)  Azimtash, however, does not specify how many
years of experience he has.  He was
admitted to the State Bar of California in 2019.  The court finds Azimtash’s experience and
skill justify an hourly rate of $470.
Hours
In calculating the lodestar, the court must
determine whether the tasks performed by an attorney were necessary and whether
the amount of time billed for each task was reasonable.  (Baxter
v. Bock (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 775, 793.) 
The moving party has the burden of proof on these issues.  (Ibid.)  A reduced award is justified when a case is
“overlitigated” and the bills are “padded.” 
(Morris v. Hyundai Motor America (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 24,
38.)
Plaintiff claims a total of 122.1 hours of
attorney fees.  With few exceptions,
plaintiff demonstrates the fees incurred were reasonable.  Plaintiff’s billing records include hundreds
of entries, most of which are under one hour. 
Though the case was not heavily litigated, plaintiff adequately
justifies nearly all the time billed.  Overall,
the billing entries show plaintiff’s counsel worked efficiently.  
Defendant argues plaintiff’s counsel billed
an excessive amount for communicating with his client. Though the total number
of hours may seem large, as plaintiff notes, it amounts to about 1.7 hours per
month.  Plaintiff reasonably incurred
those fees.    
Defendant also argues plaintiff used improper
block billing.  Courts have rejected the proposition “that
block billing is never appropriate.” (Heritage Pacific Financial, LLC v.
Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 1010.) 
“Trial courts retain discretion to penalize block billing when the
practice prevents them from discerning which tasks are compensable and which
are not.”  (Ibid.)  Here, defendant does not argue any of
plaintiff’s attorney fees are not compensable.
Defendant’s specific objections on this basis
do not have merit.  For example, defendant
argues billing 3.2 hours for “Meeting with Plaintiff
and inspection of the Subject Vehicle to confirm concerns noted in the repair
history” was improper.  That is a single
task.  Defendant also contends plaintiff
block billed an entry of 1.6 hours described as “Review file, research causes
of action for ASFA, CLRA, UCL, and Fraud; draft and revise Complaint; decision
is to sue dealership for negligence and in discovery see if fraud is viable.”  That entry may combine different tasks, but
it reflects highly efficient work.
Plaintiff’s counsel billed excessive amounts
for some administrative or clerical tasks. 
Azimtash billed 0.1 hours for “Receipt and review Plaintiff’s
registration”, 0.1 for “Receipt and review Plaintiff’s ID”, 0.1 to “File both
proof of services with Court”, 0.2 for “Receipt and review Court’s Notice of
CMC/Calendar all deadlines”, 0.3 to “Draft notice of CMC per Court’s Order”,
0.2 to “Draft notice of posting jury fees”, and 0.5 to “Create table of
content[s]/table of authorities for” this fee motion.  (Azimtash Decl., Ex. E.)  Plaintiff also billed an excessive amount of
time for another routine task: 1.2 hours drafting four declarations for excess
discovery requests (0.3 hours each for two defendants and two types of
discovery requests).  (Ibid.)  The court will therefore reduce plaintiff’s
lodestar by 2.7 hours.
Plaintiff shall recover 119.4 hours of
attorney fees at $470 per hour for a lodestar of $56,118. 
Multiplier
Plaintiff moves for a 30% lodestar
enhancement.  Multipliers
may be awarded based on factors including “(1) the novelty and difficulty of
the questions involved, (2) the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the
extent to which the nature of the litigation precluded other employment by the
attorneys, (4) the contingent nature of the fee award.”  (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24
Cal.4th 1122, 1132.)  After considering
all relevant factors, the court finds a lodestar enhancement is not
warranted.  This case did not involve
novel or difficult questions.  Plaintiff’s
counsel did not demonstrate exceptional skill in litigating the case.  Counsel’s hourly rates adequately account for
representation on contingency.  (See Horsford
v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2005) 132
Cal.App.4th 359, 395.)
Other
Costs
            Plaintiff claims $1,018.60 in other
costs and expenses.  Defendant does not
oppose the motion as to those costs.
Disposition
            Plaintiff Yauheni Klimkou’s motion
for attorney fees and costs is granted in part.  Plaintiff Yauheni Klimkou shall recover $57,136.60
in attorney fees and other expenses from defendant Porsche Cars North America, Inc.