  Case Number:  23STCV31296    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  14 Black v. PremiumCase Background
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that she was sexually harassed while she worked for Defendants, and was
ultimately sexually assaulted by one of their employees while on work trips to
Las Vegas, Nevada and Chesterfield, Missouri. Plaintiff further alleges that
she was fired when she reported the incidents.
 
On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed
her First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) FEHA Discrimination, (2) FEHA
Harassment, (3) FEHA Retaliation, (4) Failure to Prevent, (5) Violation of
Labor Code § 1102.5, (6) Violation of Labor Code § 98.6, (7) Violation of Labor
Code § 6310, (8) Wrongful Termination, (9) Sexual Battery, (10) Gender
Violence, (11) Negligent Supervision and Retention, and (12) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”) against Defendants Pretium Packaging,
LLC, Pretium Holding, LLC, and Pretium PKG Holdings, Inc. (collectively “Pretium”),
Richard Davis (“Davis”) and DOES 1-20. 
 
On January 11, 2024, Defendants
Pretium removed the case to federal court.
 
On February 16, 2024, a notice of
remand was filed.
 
On April 8, 2024, Defendant Davis
filed his General Denial.
 
No trial date has yet been set.
 
Instant Motion
 
Defendants Pretium now move this
court for an order transferring this action to Orange County on the grounds
that Plaintiff did not work in Los Angeles County and her alleged harm did not
occur here. Both parties request an award of costs and fees for this motion.
 
Decision
 
The motion is DENIED. The requests
for costs and fees are DENIED. Defendants Pretium are to file a responsive
pleading within 10 days.
 
Governing Standards
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 395
states, in relevant part:
 
“(a) Except as otherwise provided
by law and subject to the power of the court to transfer actions or proceedings
as provided in this title, the superior court in the county where the
defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the
proper court for the trial of the action. If the action is for injury to person
or personal property or for death from wrongful act or negligence, the superior
court in either the county where the injury occurs or the injury causing death
occurs or the county where the defendants, or some of them reside at the
commencement of the action, is a proper court for the trial of the action…”
 
Code of Civil Procedure
§ 395.5 provides:
 
“A corporation or association may
be sued in the county where the contract is made or is to be performed, or
where the obligation or liability arises, or the breach occurs; or in the
county where the principal place of business of such corporation is situated,
subject to the power of the court to change the place of trial as in other
cases.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 396b
states, in relevant part:
 
(a) …if an action or proceeding is
commenced in a court having jurisdiction of the subject matter thereof, other
than the court designated as the proper court for the trial thereof, under this
title, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried in the court where commenced,
unless the defendant, at the time he or she answers, demurs, or moves to
strike, or, at his or her option, without answering, demurring, or moving to
strike and within the time otherwise allowed to respond to the complaint, files
with the clerk, a notice of motion for an order transferring the action or
proceeding to the proper court, together with proof of service, upon the
adverse party, of a copy of those papers. Upon the hearing of the motion the
court shall, if it appears that the action or proceeding was not commenced in
the proper court, order the action or proceeding transferred to the proper
court.
(b) In its discretion, the court
may order the payment to the prevailing party of reasonable expenses and
attorney's fees incurred in making or resisting the motion to transfer whether
or not that party is otherwise entitled to recover his or her costs of action.
In determining whether that order for expenses and fees shall be made, the
court shall take into consideration (1) whether an offer to stipulate to change
of venue was reasonably made and rejected, and (2) whether the motion or
selection of venue was made in good faith given the facts and law the party
making the motion or selecting the venue knew or should have known. As between
the party and his or her attorney, those expenses and fees shall be the
personal liability of the attorney not chargeable to the party. Sanctions shall
not be imposed pursuant to this subdivision except on notice contained in a
party's papers, or on the court's own noticed motion, and after opportunity to
be heard.
…
(e) If the motion to transfer is
denied, the court shall allow the defendant time to move to strike, demur, or
otherwise plead if the defendant has not previously filed a response.
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 397
also states in relevant part:
 
“The court may, on motion, change
the place of trial in the following cases:
(a)  
When the court designated in the complaint is not the
proper court…”
 
Government Code § 12965(c)(3)
provides:
 
“The superior courts of the State
of California shall have jurisdiction of actions brought pursuant to this
section, and the aggrieved person may file in these courts. An action may be
brought in any county in the state in which the unlawful practice is alleged to
have been committed, in the county in which the records relevant to the
practice are maintained and administered, or in the county in which the
aggrieved person would have worked or would have had access to the public
accommodation but for the alleged unlawful practice, but if the defendant is
not found within any of these counties, an action may be brought within the
county of the defendant's residence or principal office.”
 
Venue is determined based on the causes of action included
in the operative complaint as of the time the motion to transfer is made. Brown
v. Superior Court (1984) 37 Cal.3d 477, 482. “[T]he special provisions of
the FEHA venue statute control in cases involving FEHA claims joined with
non-FEHA claims arising from the same facts.” Id. at 487. 
 
The plaintiff’s choice of venue is
presumptively proper. Fontaine v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th
830, 836. The moving party has the burden of proving plaintiff’s choice
improper under any possible ground. Id. “[S]o long as the plaintiff
chooses a venue that is proper as to one defendant, the entire case may be
tried there, regardless of whether venue would be improper with respect to
other defendants if the causes of action against them were analyzed separately.”
K.R.L. Partnership v. Superior Court (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th
490, 504.
 
Discussion
 
            Subdivision
12965(c)(3) offers three alternative choices of venue: (1) any county in which
an alleged FEHA violation occurred, (2) the county where the relevant business
records are maintained, or (3) the county in which the plaintiff would have
worked. There is some dispute as to the meaning of the reference to the
defendant not being “found” in one of those counties (see Malloy v. Superior
Court (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 543, 559, but the issue is not
material to the present motion.
 
            Defendants
Pretium argue that (1) the alleged violations did not occur in Los Angeles
County, (2) none of their records are kept in Los Angeles County, and (3) Plaintiff
did not work in Los Angeles County. They then argue that their place of
business, and only California office, is in Anaheim, in Orange County.
Therefore, they conclude, venue is only proper in Orange County. Defendants are
incorrect.
 
            The only
dispute here is over the third point. Defendants produce evidence that their
only California office is in Orange County, that Plaintiff is a remote employee
who lives in Orange County and had a desk in their Orange County office, and
that no one to whom she reported worked in Los Angeles County. Plaintiff
responds by submitting her own declaration, in which she testifies that her job
was not only remote, but mobile: she was assigned to travel and meet clients,
the plurality of whom were in Los Angeles or San Diego. In fact, Plaintiff’s
“largest account” was located in Los Angeles.
 
            Responding
to this on reply, Defendants Pretium make two arguments. First, they suggest
that, because Section 12965(c)(3) uses a definite article in referring to “the”
county where the Plaintiff would have worked, there can only be one county in
which the Plaintiff was employed. That county, Defense says, would be Orange
County, because that’s where Plaintiff had her desk(s) and where the other
employees were.
 
            There is
nothing fundamentally unreasonable about Defense’s literal reading. However, there
is no on-point authority which directly supports it either, and case law
suggests that it is not correct. As the California Supreme Court has explained,
the Subdivision 12965(c)(3) affords plaintiffs a “wide choice of venue,” partly
for the purpose of attracting counsel by allowing them to file in convenient
locations. Brown, supra, 37 Cal.3d at 486. Therefore, the court’s
obligation is to construe the statute “broadly” to remove barriers to
enforcement of FEHA. Malloy, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at
555-557. From Plaintiff’s declaration, it appears that the place where much of
her work actually took place was Los Angeles County. Therefore, Los Angeles
County is “the county in which the aggrieved person would have worked.”
 
            The second
argument made by Defendants Pretium is that this court should not believe
Plaintiff’s declaration. But the court does not see any reason to discredit
Plaintiff’s testimony. Her feelings about the Orange County judges in her
divorce proceedings are of minimal relevance. The fact that she disagrees with
Defense’s legal position, and the fact that none of the alleged bad acts
occurred in Los Angeles have no relevance at all to Plaintiff’s credibility.
Her testimony is neither unusually vague nor contradicted by the statement that
she and her colleagues worked remotely, out of their homes.
 
            For the
foregoing reasons, venue is proper here in Los Angeles County. However, there
are two remaining issues: (1) both parties request that the court award fees
and costs for this motion under Section 396b(b), and (2) the deadline for
Defendants Pretium file their responsive pleading.
 
            Under these
circumstances,[1] an award
of costs and fees to either side would be inappropriate. As already noted,
Defendants’ reading of the statute is perfectly reasonable. For policy reasons
set forth in the case law, as discussed above, this court disagrees. But there
is no authority directly on point, and Defense should not be penalized for taking
a direct, plain meaning approach to the text.
 
            Section
396b(e) requires the court to set a time in which Defense must file a
responsive pleading. As Plaintiff notes, this case has been dragging a bit.
Defense filed a notice of removal, then stipulated to remand; a process that
occupied roughly a month. Defense then waited another month before filing this
motion, opting not to simultaneously file a responsive pleading. Defendants
Pretium have been aware of this case, and represented by counsel, for at least
3 months. They should be ready to file a responsive pleading by now. 10 days
should be sufficient time for them to do so.
 
Conclusion
 
            Because the
FEHA venue provisions must be read broadly to eliminate barriers to
enforcement, and because Plaintiff has supplied evidence that she did a
substantial portion of her work in Los Angeles County, this is the county where
Plaintiff would have worked and venue is proper here. Therefore, the motion is
DENIED. However, Defendants’ reading of the statute is reasonable and
straightforward, so no award of attorney’s fees or costs is appropriate at this
time. Therefore, the requests for fees and costs are DENIED. Finally, since
Defendants Pretium have been litigating this case for three months without
responding, they should be prepared to do so. Therefore, their responsive
pleading is due within 10 days.


