  Case Number:  21STCV40405    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  57 Pending
before the Court is the Motion of Plaintiff DWG International, Inc. (“DWG”) to
Compel the Concurrent Depositions of Defendant John Sofio (“Sofio”) and the
Personal Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”) for Defendant Built, Inc (“Motion to
Compel”).  Sofio is the PMK for Built.   The Motion to Compel is denied.  
The Motion to
Compel was brought under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2025.450(a).  It provides that, “[i]f, after service of a
deposition notice, a party [,] without having served a valid objection [to the
notice], fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it [,] the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony . . . . “   In the Motion to Compel, DWG has failed to
demonstrate that the statutory requirements of Section 2025.450(a) have been
met.   
The record
before the Court shows that there appears to have been an agreement by all
parties, including Built and Sofio, that Sofio would appear for a deposition in
both his individual capacity and as the PMK for Built, concurrently, on April
12, 2024, and that if the deposition did not conclude that day, Sofio would
appear in both capacities to complete the deposition on April 15, 2024.  The scheduling of the Sofio and Built PMK
depositions was part of a larger agreement between the parties for the scheduling
various depositions of parties and the order in which the depositions would occur.
The problem with
the Motion to Compel is that DWG served two deposition notices on Sofio and
Built for two different days.  The first
one was for the attendance of Sofio in his individual capacity on April 12,
2024.  The second one was for the
attendance of Built’s PMK on April 15, 2024. 
The two notices are at odds with the parties’ agreement in that the
notices do not reflect concurrent depositions on the same day of Sofio
individually and Sofio as Built’s PMK.   To compound the problem for the Motion to
Compel, Sofio appeared for a deposition in his individual capacity on April 12,
2024.  When counsel for Built stated that
the PMK deposition would have to wait until April 15, 2024, which is for when
that deposition was noticed, DWG’s counsel halted the deposition and stated
that he would be filing a motion to compel to enforce the parties’ agreement.
On this
record, the Section 2025.450(a) requirements have not been met here.  For one, Sofio did not fail to attend the
deposition that was noticed for April 12, 2024 – the  deposition of him in his individual capacity.  Sofio dutifully appeared for that deposition.   Second, Sofio did not fail to proceed with
that deposition.  He was prepared to go
forward with it.  It was DWG that halted
the deposition.   For these reasons, the Motion to Compel is
denied.
DWG also has
filed a second and related motion that is pending before the Court.  It is a Motion for a Protective Order, the
purpose of which is to enforce the aforementioned agreement between the parties
regarding the order and scheduling of multiple depositions, including the
concurrent depositions of Sofio individually and as PMK of Built.   Sofio and Built filed one consolidated
opposition to the Motion to Compel and the Motion for a Protective Order.  But in the body of their opposition, Sofio and
Built do not address at all the basis for the Motion for a Protective
Order.  
In the
Court’s view, a protective order is warranted here to enforce the parties’
agreement.  The position that Sofio and
Built took at the April 12, 2024 deposition did not violate Section
2025.450(a).  But it did violate the
letter and spirit of the parties’ agreement regarding the order and scheduling
of depositions in this case. 
Accordingly, the Court is granting the Motion for a Protective Order to
the extent it asks the Court to enforce the parties’ agreement.   The parties shall meet and confer forthwith
to arrange new dates for the depositions in question, in the agreed upon
order.   The Motion for a Protective Order is denied to
the extent that it asks the Court to impose sanctions against Sofio, Built, and
their attorneys.  Under the circumstances
here, the Court does not believe that a sanctions award is warranted.   In particular, the Court has determined that even
though Sofio and Built acted in contravention of the agreement, it would have
been more prudent for DWG to proceed with the deposition of Sofio on April 12, 2024
and then depose him as the PMK of Built on April 15, 2024 instead of halting
the deposition on April 12, 2024 and resorting to motion practice that ran up
attorney’s fees for DWG, Built, and Sofio.