 Case Number:  23SMCV00653    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  205  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



 
JANE DOE,  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
SECOND STREET CORPORATION dba THE
  HUNTLEY HOTEL & THE PENTHOUSE, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23SMCV00653
 
  Hearing Date:  December 11, 2024
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
  defendants’ motion to dismiss 
  for improper use of pseudonym 
  or in the alternative motion to 
  unseal the first amended 
  complaint
 



 
BACKGROUND
 
               This case
arises from an employment dispute.  Plaintiff
Jane Doe was employed as a server for Defendant The Huntley Hotel (the
“Huntley”) from 2016 until her constructive termination on May 13, 2022.  (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶¶18, 45.)  Defendant Second Street Corporation operates
the Huntley in Santa Monica.  (FAC ¶2.)  
Plaintiff alleges she was attacked and
sexually assaulted by Defendant Ryan Jackson (“Jackson”), a co-worker, outside
of work.  (FAC ¶ 18.)  Despite being told about the assault,
Defendant Eman Rivani, the food & beverage director, conducted no
investigation and scheduled Plaintiff and Jackson for the same shifts.  (FAC ¶¶ 31-32.)  Rivani told another co-worker that his plan
was to make Plaintiff so uncomfortable that she would quit.  (FAC ¶42.) 
Defendant Manju Raman is the general manager
of the Huntley.  (FAC ¶ 4.)  When another manager complained to Raman that
Rivani was scheduling Plaintiff and Jackson on the same shifts, Raman responded
that Plaintiff was sleeping with Jackson. 
(FAC ¶¶ 36-37.)  When Plaintiff
learned of the statement, she confronted Raman and also reported Rivani’s
sexist and harassing conduct towards her and other female employees.  Again, no investigation was initiated.  (FAC ¶39.) 
Instead, Raman told Plaintiff to “toughen up and grow a thick
skin.”  (FAC ¶40.)  Raman also threatened Plaintiff that if she
continued to make waves, “you need to ask yourself if the risk is going to be
worth the reward.”  (Id.)   
On May 13, 2022, Plaintiff wrote the owners
of the Huntley to file a formal complaint of sexual harassment and retaliation
and informed them of her constructive discharge.  Plaintiff detailed Jackson’s sexually
unwelcome conduct and Raman’s defamatory statement about an alleged consensual
affair.   (FAC ¶ 45.) 
Plaintiff also informed the owners that Raman and Rivani knowingly
created intolerable working conditions such that she could not return to work.  (Id.) 
Three nights later, Huntley responded via its owner that it was
conducting an investigation, but Plaintiff was never interviewed.  (FAC ¶47.)  
A day later, Plaintiff called a suicide
hotline reporting that she was suicidal due to the stress of what was happening
to her at work.  The police arrived at
Plaintiff’s home and took her under a 5150 hold.  (FAC ¶49.)
The operative (first amended) complaint
alleges 18 causes of action for (1) sexual harassment, (2) sex/gender discrimination,
(3) failure to prevent discrimination and harassment in violation of FEHA, (4)
retaliation in violation of FEHA, (5) constructive wrongful termination, (6)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, (7) negligent supervision and
retention, (8) violation of Labor Code § 1102.5, (9) violation
of Labor Code § 6310, (10)
failure to pay minimum wages, (11) failure to pay overtime wages, (12) failure
to provide meal periods, (13) failure to authorize or permit rest periods, (14)
failure to provide and maintain compliant wage statements, (15) illegal split
shifts premium, (16) slander per se, (17) libel per se and (18) unfair business
practices.  
This
hearing is on Defendants Second Street Corporation and Manju Raman’s (“Moving
Defendants’”) motion to dismiss for improper use of pseudonym or, in the
alternative, motion to unseal the first amended complaint.  Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff filed
the lawsuit under a pseudonym without prior court permission to do so, and had
she sought the Court’s permission, she would not have satisfied the “overriding
interest” test that justifies disregarding First Amendment’s requirement of
openness in judicial actions.  
LEGAL
STANDARD
Under Code
Civ. Proc. §
422.40, the names of all parties to a civil action must be
included in the complaint.   Because of the inherently sensitive nature of
some proceedings, statutes specifically allow for keeping certain parties’
identities confidential. (Department
of Fair Employment and Housing v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County
(2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 105, 110 (“DFEH”) (citing statutes).)  Even in the absence of a statute, anonymity
for parties may be granted when necessary to preserve an important privacy
interest. (Id.)
Much
like closing the courtroom or sealing a court record, allowing a party to
litigate anonymously impacts the First Amendment’s right to public access.  (Id.
at 111.)  In the
absence of a statute expressly authorizing such confidentiality, before a party
to a civil action can be permitted to use a pseudonym, the trial court must
conduct a hearing and apply the overriding interest test.  (Id.)  
Under
the overriding interest test, a party’s request for
anonymity should be granted only if the court finds that an overriding interest
will likely be prejudiced without use of a pseudonym, and that it is not
feasible to protect the interest with less impact on the constitutional right
of access. (Id.) In deciding the issue, the court must bear in mind the
critical importance of the public’s right to access judicial proceedings.  (Id.) 
Outside of cases where anonymity is expressly permitted by statute,
litigating by pseudonym should occur “only in the rarest of circumstances.” (Id.)
In Does I thru XXIII v. Advanced Textile
Corp.
(9th Cir. 2000) 214 F.3d 1058, 1068 (“Advanced
Textile”), the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals noted that federal courts have
permitted plaintiffs to use pseudonyms in three situations: (1) when
identification creates a risk of retaliatory physical or mental harm; (2) when
anonymity is necessary to preserve privacy in a matter of sensitive and highly
personal nature; and (3) when the anonymous party is compelled to admit their
intention to engage in illegal conduct, thereby risking criminal prosecution.
California appellate courts have cited the framework and factors set forth in
Advanced Textile with approval.  (See,
e.g., DFEH, 82 Cal.App.5th at 112; Doe v. Lincoln Unified School
Dist.
(2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 758, 767.)
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff argues she should be permitted
to proceed in this action under a pseudonym because of the sensitive
and private nature of her allegations against Defendants. Plaintiff contends
that the disclosure of her identity may negatively impact her professional and
social life and subject her to stigma.  She
may suffer stigma from being a sexual assault victim and additionally because
she contemplated suicide and had to be placed on an involuntary hold.  
Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to
establish special circumstances that warrant allowing Plaintiff to proceed
under a fictitious name.  Defendants
argue there is no risk of retaliation or of physical harm because the alleged
harasser, Ryan Jackson, has had no contact with Plaintiff for two years and is
probably 2,000 miles away, in Hawaii. 
Additionally, Plaintiff cannot fear retaliation by Huntley because she
is no longer employed by the hotel.  Defendants
point out that Plaintiff is an actress and may be concerned about the publicity
of the lawsuit but that is not a sufficient basis to file the lawsuit under a
pseudonym.  Further, Defendants sarcasticly
argue Plaintiff will not be prejudiced if her identity is unmasked because she is
“not on the verge of public election to office” nor “on the verge of a premiere
in an Oscar worthy movie in which she has a starring role.”  According to Defendants, there is less
restrictive means to protect Plaintiff’s interest including a restraining order
against Jackson and/or using a stage name when she is performing.  
Upon review of the moving and opposing
arguments in addition to the allegations of the FAC, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has demonstrated that the use of a pseudonym is warranted under the
standards articulated in DFEH and Advanced Textile.  Plaintiff’s claims involve allegations of
harassment and sexual assault by her employer and co-worker, and the disclosure
of her identity poses a significant risk of potential personal and professional
stigma due to the personal nature of the allegations.
Withholding Plaintiff's identity does not impact in any major way the public’s
right of access to court records related to this matter—only Plaintiff’s name
is concealed.  All other facts are
public.  Furthermore, there is no
prejudice to Defendants.  Defendants are
aware of Plaintiff's identity, and there is no indication that her anonymity
has prevented them from pursuing evidence to defend against her claims.  (See, e.g., Doe v. Young (July
5, 2023) 2023 Cal. Super. Lexis 38754 at *4-*5 (granting plaintiff's motion to
proceed under a pseudonym where plaintiff claimed she was harassed and sexually
assaulted during her employment by defendants); Doe v. Rojas (Feb. 8,
2023) 2023 Cal. Super. LEXIS 14945 at *2 (granting plaintiff’s motion for
protective order to proceed under a pseudonym where plaintiff alleges she was a
victim of sexual assault by defendant).)
CONCLUSION
            For the foregoing reasons, the Court DENIES
Defendants’ motion to dismiss or in the alternative to unseal the first amended
complaint.  
DATED: December 11, 2024                                              ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court