  Case Number:  22SMCV00915    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  205     Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   AARON CELIOUS,    Plaintiff, v.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  22SMCV00915     Hearing Date:  December 11, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE:    PLAINTIFF’s renewed motion for     leave to file third amended     complaint      BACKGROUND This action arises from a failed bid for two government projects.  Plaintiff Aaron Celious is the owner of Maroon Society Inc. (“Maroon”).  Maroon has assigned its claims to Celious.  (Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) ¶14.)  Maroon is in the business of providing data compilation, analysis and strategic services for both private and public sector entities.  (Id. ¶21.)  Maroon engaged in a competitive bid process for two different projects for Defendant City of Los Angeles (the “City”).  It was not chosen for either project.  (Id. ¶¶23-24.)   Defendant Ernesto Morales’ company, North Star Alliances LLC, was awarded the bid for one of the projects.  (Id. ¶¶8, 28, 82.)  Defendant Robin Engel’s company, Star Insights, LLC, was awarded the bid for the other project.  (Id. ¶¶9, 28, 170.)  Plaintiff alleges that Engel and Morales grossly and fraudulently misrepresented the qualifications and experiences of their companies, to obtain an unfair competitive advantage over Maroon.  (Id. ¶28.)   The operative second amended complaint alleges claims for (1) fraud, (2) negligence, (3) violation of Civil Rights 42 U.S.C. § 1983, (4) intentional interference with prospective economic relations, (5) negligent interference with prospective economic relations, and (6) violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 et seq. Plaintiff moved to file a third amended complaint (“TAC”), which the Court denied on grounds that Plaintiff’s declaration did not meet the requirements of Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).  Plaintiff then filed a motion for reconsideration of his motion for leave to file a TAC, with a new declaration.  The Court denied the motion on the ground that Plaintiff failed to comply with the requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §1008, as Plaintiff did not show diligence in submitting the new declaration.  Plaintiff then filed a motion for relief under Code Civ. Proc. §473(b) for excusable neglect to file a motion for leave to amend complaint.  The Court denied the motion on the ground that Plaintiff’s neglect in failing to understand the law was not excusable. This hearing is on Plaintiff’s renewed motion for leave to amend complaint.  Plaintiff previously filed a renewed motion for leave to amend complaint set for hearing on November 19, 2024, which he withdrew after Defendants filed Engel and Morales filed their oppositions.  He then re-filed a renewed motion set for hearing on December 11, 2024.  This is now Plaintiff’s fourth attempt to try and amend his complaint.  Plaintiff argues that his renewed motion adds new facts in the form of a fully compliant declaration in support of the motion for leave to amend.    LEGAL STANDARD A “motion for reconsideration” is provided for in section 1008, subdivision (a).  A “renewed motion” is provided for in section 1008, subdivision (b). (California Correctional Peace Officers Ass'n v. Virga (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 30, 43, fn. 11; see also Tate v. Wilburn (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 150, 156-157.)   A motion for reconsideration seeks to modify or set aside the court’s previous order. A renewed motion seeks the same relief that was previously denied. When a motion has been denied in whole or in part, the moving party may apply again for the same relief at a later time only on the following conditions: (1) the motion must be based on “new or different facts, circumstances or law”; and (2) the motion must be supported by declaration showing the previous order, by which judge it was made, and what new or different facts, circumstances or law are claimed to exist.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(b); see Graham v. Hansen (1982) 128 CA3d 965, 969-970.) Unlike a motion for reconsideration, there is no time limit under § 1008 for the renewal of a previous motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(b),(e); Stephen v. Enterprise Rent-A-Car of San Francisco (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 806, 816.) DISCUSSION Plaintiff renews his motion to amend his complaint, relying on a now “code-compliant” declaration.  Plaintiff, however, still fails to explain why he could not have filed a code-compliant declaration earlier.  As with a motion for reconsideration, in renewing a motion, Plaintiff is required to show reasonable diligence in failing to introduce the new or different facts.  A party filing a¿renewed¿motion¿under¿section 1008, subdivision (b)¿must show “a satisfactory explanation for the previous failure to present the allegedly new or different evidence or legal authority offered in the second application.” (Kerns v. CSE Ins. Group¿(2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 368, 383;¿Thompson v. Superior Court¿(1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 300, 310.)  As it was his own declaration, Plaintiff clearly could have filed the declaration earlier.   Plaintiff states that some of the new facts and documents were discovered between March 2024 and August 2024 during the discovery process. (Celious Decl., 10:16-22.)  Plaintiff also states that new facts were uncovered between June 17, 2024 and August 16, 2024. (Celious Decl., 4:7-8.)  But Plaintiff omits that Plaintiff was in possession of these facts and documents prior to his filing of this lawsuit. The “new” emails and documents that Plaintiff is alluding to are documents that he produced in response to Defendants’ document requests that have all been in his possession, custody, and/or control since before the filing of this lawsuit.  Any professed lack of opportunity to review the evidence was the result of his own failure of not searching his own emails. Plaintiff relies on Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, to argue that “new facts” under § 1008(b) do not need to be entirely unknown but may include additional detail or clarification addressing deficiencies identified in earlier rulings.  Plaintiff does not provide a pin cite for this holding.  Gilberd involved a personal injury action against a public transit agency under the Tort Claims Act.  (Id. at 1497.)  The trial court granted plaintiff's petition for relief from the claim filing requirements of Gov. Code, § 946.6.  However, in response to defendant’s subsequent motion for reconsideration, the trial court issued an order granting reconsideration; vacating its order granting relief pursuant to Gov. Code, § 946.6; denying plaintiff’s Gov. Code, § 946.6, petition; and sustaining defendant's demurrer to plaintiff's complaint without leave to amend, and also entered a judgment of dismissal.  (Id. at 1498.)   The Court of Appeal vacated the trial court’s order and the judgment of dismissal filed as a result thereof, and remanded the case to the trial court.  The court held that the trial court acted in excess of its jurisdiction by granting the motion for reconsideration, since the motion did not meet the prerequisites for relief under Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, which governs reconsideration of court orders.  The statute provides the exclusive means for modifying, amending, or revoking an order, and that limitation is expressly jurisdictional.  According to the plain language of the statute, a court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a motion to reconsider that is not based on “new or different facts, circumstances, or law.”  Defendant’s argument that this jurisdictional prerequisite was satisfied because the trial court misinterpreted California law in its initial decision and, therefore, defendant relied on “different” law when it reiterated its prior reasoning and authorities for rejecting plaintiff’s Gov. Code, § 946.6 petition was without merit, since this interpretation of the statute would be contrary to the clear legislative intent. Nor did the fact that defendant had not intended to waive oral argument on the initial motions constitute a “new” fact or circumstance sufficient to satisfy the statute, since that fact was clearly collateral to the merits of the motion.  (Id. at 1498-1502.)  These holdings have no application to this case.  Plaintiff also cites Hennigan v. White (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 395 for the proposition that correcting procedural defects or supplementing prior pleadings with new detail constitutes “new facts” if the changes materially alter the sufficiency of the motion.  Again, Plaintiff provides no jump cite for this holding.  In Hennigan, plaintiff patron sued defendants, a beauty salon, its owner, and a manufacturer, claiming they manufactured and injected defective permanent makeup into her eyelids and eyebrows, causing injuries to her face. She alleged causes of action for negligence and products liability.  (Id. at 397-398.)  The trial court granted the owner’s motion for summary judgment and denied the patron’s motion for reconsideration. The patron appealed.  (Id. 400-401.)  The Court of Appeals concluded the trial court correctly denied the patron’s motion for reconsideration to admit her doctor’s supplemental declarations and her own declaration, as the testimony did not constitute new or different facts for purposes of granting reconsideration.  The plaintiff admitted the facts contained in the additional declarations were known to the declaring parties at the time of the summary judgment motion, but she claims they nonetheless are new for purposes of a motion for reconsideration because they were not relevant to the arguments she made in her moving papers.  The Court of Appeals rejected the arguments.  (Id. at 405-406.)  Hennigan actually supports the denial of the motion for reconsideration here, as Plaintiff’s declaration was a requirement for filing a motion to amend and was therefore relevant to that motion and should have been included with the motion to amend.  The same goes for the “new” emails and documents that Plaintiff had in his possession, custody, and/or control since before the filing of this lawsuit.   Lastly, Plaintiff relies on New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, for the proposition that motions for reconsideration may include explanations or clarifications of previously known facts if they meaningfully alter the issues presented.  Again, no jump cite is provided.  New York Times Co. was a breach action arising from a marketing contract between New York Times Co. (“NYT”) and a marketing company whereby the marketer was to advertise market, and promote home delivery subscriptions for NYT on websites of the marketer’s “marketing alliance” partners.. (Id. at 209.)  The trial court originally granted summary judgment for NYT, but later granted a motion to reconsider by real party in interest, an assignee of the marketer, and denied summary judgment.  The assignee’s motion for reconsideration was based solely on the deposition testimony of representatives of two of the marketer’s partners, which allegedly showed performance by the marketer.  NYT sought a writ of mandate ordering the trial court to reinstate the order granting summary judgment in its favor.  (Id. at 210.)   The Court of Appeals held that the trial court violated the requirements of Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, in granting the assignee's motion for reconsideration because the assignee easily could have obtained the offered evidence by deposition or declarations of the marketer's business partners during discovery. This evidence was not the type of new or different facts, circumstances, or law that would justify reconsideration.  (Id. at 213.)  New York Times supports the Court’s conclusion here as the “new” evidence Plaintiff points to could have been easily obtained and raised in the prior motion to amend. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s renewed motion for leave to amend complaint.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: December 11, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 

    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  AARON CELIOUS,   Plaintiff, v.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  22SMCV00915     Hearing Date:  December 11, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE:   DEFENDANTS ROBIN ENGEL AND    ERNESTO MORALES’ MOTIONs FOR    judgment on the PLEADINGS       BACKGROUND This action arises from a failed bid for two government projects.  Plaintiff Aaron Celious is the owner of Maroon Society Inc. (“Maroon”).  Maroon has assigned its claims to Celious.  (Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) ¶14.)  Maroon is in the business of providing data compilation, analysis and strategic services for both private and public sector entities.  (Id. ¶21.)  Maroon engaged in a competitive bid process for two different projects for Defendant City of Los Angeles (the “City”).  It was not chosen for either project.  (Id. ¶¶23-24.)   Defendant Ernesto Morales’ company, North Star Alliances LLC, was awarded the bid for one of the projects.  (Id. ¶¶8, 28, 82.)  Defendant Robin Engel’s company, Star Insights, LLC, was awarded the bid for the other project.  (Id. ¶¶9, 28, 170.)  Plaintiff alleges that Engel and Morales grossly and fraudulently misrepresented the qualifications and experiences of their companies, to obtain an unfair competitive advantage over Maroon.  (Id. ¶28.)   The operative second amended complaint alleges claims for (1) fraud, (2) negligence, (3) violation of Civil Rights 42 U.S.C. § 1983, (4) intentional interference with prospective economic relations (“IIPER”), (5) negligent interference with prospective economic relations, and (6) violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 et seq.  The only claim asserted against Morales and Engel (“Moving Defendants”) is the claim for IIPER.   This hearing is on Moving Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings.  Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot allege an essential element of his IIPER claim because a public works bidding is inherently speculative, and an IIPER cannot be based on speculative expectancies. LEGAL STANDARD A defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings when the “complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §438(b)(1) and (c)(1)(B)(ii).)  “A motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made at any time either prior to the trial or at the trial itself. [Citation.]”  (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 877.)  “A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed.  Presentation of extrinsic evidence is therefore not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.”  (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999 (citations omitted).)   The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322 (citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216).)   Like a demurrer, a motion for judgment on the pleadings may be addressed to the pleading as a whole or to separate counts.  If addressed to the pleading as a whole, the motion must be denied if even one count is good.  (Lora v. Garland (1946) 27 Cal.2d 840, 850; Heredia v. Farmers Ins. Exch. (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1345, 1358.)  If addressed to separate counts, the motion may be granted as to some counts and denied as to others.  (Steiner v. Rowley (1950) 35 Cal.2d 713, 720; Heredia, 228 Cal.App.3d at 1358.) MEET AND CONFER A party moving for¿judgment on the pleadings must¿meet and confer in person or telephonically with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to determine if an agreement can be reached regarding the claims raised in the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439, subd. (a).)  The moving party must file a declaration detailing the¿meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 439, subd. (a)(3).)  However, these meet and confer requirements do not apply to “[a] motion brought less than 30 days before trial.”  (Code Civ. Proc., )  Here, the motions for judgment on the pleadings are set to be heard by this Court on December 11, 2024. When the motions were filed with the Court, the trial in this matter was set for December 16, 2024.  Hence, the motions was set to be heard by this Court only five days before the December 16, 2024 trial date.  As a result, Code Civ. Proc.§ 439(d)(4) applies such that Defendants were not required to meet and confer before filing their motions for judgment on the pleadings.  In any event, the Court cannot deny a motion for judgment on the pleadings based on an insufficient meet and confer.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 439, subd. (a)(3).)   MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot show the first element of an IIPER claim, that the economic relationship between Plaintiff and the City of Los Angeles had a probability of future economic benefit to the Plaintiff.  The Court agrees. The elements of a claim for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage include “(1) an economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional or negligent acts on the part of the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the defendant.”  (Crown Imports, LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1395, 14014.) As to the first element, California law is clear that a public works contract does not create a future economic possibility.  In Roy Allan Slurry Seal, Inc., v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 505, 518, the California Supreme Court considered the following question of first impression:  “Can a disappointed bidder on a public works contract demonstrate the requisite economic relationship with the public entity?” The Supreme Court’s answer was a resounding no, a disappointed bidder cannot.  Public works bidding is inherently speculative, and IIPER does not protect speculative expectancies.  (Id. at 518-519.)  The Supreme Court explained the difference between typical commercial transactions and public contracts: “In ordinary commercial transactions, there is a background of business experience on the basis of which it is possible to estimate with some fair amount of success both the value of what has been lost and the likelihood that the plaintiff would have received it if the defendant had not interfered.  By contrast, in these public works contracts, the bidding was sealed, there were no negotiations, all qualified contractors were on equal footing regardless of past contractual dealings, the public entities were required to determine the bidder’s responsibility, and they retained discretion to reject all bids. These circumstances counsel against extending a tortious interference claim to the bid process for these public works contracts.” (Id. at 519-520.)  “Because the [public entity] was authorized to reject all bids, [the plaintiff] did not know at [the time its bid was submitted] whether the contract would even be awarded. Nor, because of the secrecy of the bidding process, did [the plaintiff] know whether it was indeed the lowest responsible bidder.” Therefore, given these uncertainties which are inherent in competitive bidding, public works bidding is inherently speculative, and it cannot create a future economic possibility.  (Id. at 518-519.)  So it is here.  A public agency, the City, put out a request for proposal (“RFP”) through a competitive bidding process.  There was no guarantee that the City would even select a bidder and award the contract.  The Los Angeles Charter and Administrative Code § 10.15(c) provides: “The right to reject any and all bids or proposals shall, in every case, be reserved, as shall the right to waive any informality in the bid or proposal when to do so would be to the advantage of the City or its taxpayers.”  Thus, the City was authorized to reject all bids to the RFP, and so no parties, including Plaintiff, knew whether or not the City would even award a contract.  Likewise, because of the City’s process, Plaintiff did not know whether Plaintiff was even the lowest responsive bidder, and consequently, that Plaintiff would have been awarded the bid if Moving Defendants had not submitted their bids.  As a result of these uncertainties that are inherent in the City’s competitive bidding process, Plaintiff’s expectation of a future economic benefit is pure speculation.  Consequently, Plaintiff is completely unable to satisfy the first element of an IIPER claim.  Plaintiff asserts that unlike in Roy Allan Slurry Seal, Inc. v. American Asphalt South, Inc., the SAC alleges “specific prior economic relationships between Maroon Society and the City of Los Angeles, along with a commission agreement that substantiates a probable economic benefit. The allegations go beyond speculative expectancy to demonstrate actual and probable economic advantage.”  But the Opposition does not point to any allegations in the SAC showing prior economic relationships between Maroon Society and the City that predated Defendants’ responses to the RFPs.   The SAC alleges a relationship between Plaintiff/Maroon Society and the City that is of a bidder and bid recipient.  This relationship simply entitled Plaintiff/Maroon Society to submit a bid. The SAC does not allege an actual existing economic relationship between the City and Plaintiff/Maroon Society, and Plaintiff’s bare allegation of such a relationship is nothing more than a conclusory allegation that the Court is not required to accept as true on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.  (Cf. Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966; Today’s IV v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1178.)  Plaintiff also points to the allegation that the economic relationship between himself and his company.  But the fact that Plaintiff may have a contract relationship with his company is immaterial. It is the relationship between that company and the City that counts.  Moreover, even if the SAC did allege that Plaintiff or his company had a prior economic relationship with the City, Plaintiff has failed to aver the reasonable probability of an economic benefit stemming from that relationship. Generally, courts have narrowly construed this first element of the claim, requiring specific facts to show that a benefit was almost certain. (See Roy Allan Slurry Seal, Inc., 2 Cal. 5th at p. 518.) The fact that a plaintiff has a pre-existing business relationship with a party is insufficient. The plaintiff must state details about the expected contract or other economic benefit, and why the plaintiff was likely to realize them. (See Soil Retention Prods. Inc. v. Brentwood Indus. Inc. (S.D. Cal. 2021) 521 F. Supp. 3d 929, 961 (requiring a plaintiff to allege “not just ‘an economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party’ but also the [‘]probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff.’” (quoting Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal. 4th 1134, 1153).)  Without facts to bolster the probability of the City awarding the contracts to Maroon Society, the SAC has only alleged that Plaintiff had “at most a hope for . . . future benefit.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 331; Westside Ctr. Assoc. v. Safeway Stores 23, Inc. (1996) 42 Cal. App. 4th 507, 527 (the tort does not protect mere “potential” relationships that are “at most a hope for an economic relationship and a desire for a future benefit.”); Roth v. Rhodes (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 530, 546 (holding that, in doctor’s lawsuit based on defendants’ refusal to lease office space to him, doctor failed to allege requisite “existing relationship,” because his claimed future patients were merely “speculative”).) CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motions for judgment on the pleadings as to Plaintiff’s intentional interference with prospective economic relations without leave to amend. IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED:   December 11, 2024                            ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 