  Case Number:  21STLC05178    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  26 Westlake Services, LLC v. JV Auto-Sales, et al.
MOTION FOR WAGE
GARNISHMENT ORDER 
AGAINST JUDGMENT
DEBTOR’S SPOUSE
(CCP § 706.120 et seq.)
 

REPLY: None filed as of July 12, 2024.
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: 
 
Judgment
Creditor Westlake Services, LLC’s Motion
Attaching the Wage Earnings and Other Assets of Rotha Valdovinos is DENIED.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Plaintiff American
Contractors Indemnity Company (“Judgment Creditor”) filed the instant action
for breach of contract against Defendant Cristian Valdovinos Aka Cris
Valdovinos Villalobos Aka Cristian A. Villalobos, Aka Christian Valdovinos Aka
Cristian A. Valdovinos Villalobos (“Judgment Debtor”) and others on July 14,
2021. On December 14, 2022, default judgment was
entered in favor Judgment Creditor and against Judgment Debtor. Judgment Creditor filed the instant Motion Attaching
the Wage Earnings and Other Assets of Rotha Valdovinos on March 5, 2024. The
Motion initially came for hearing on May 14, 2024 and was continued for further
briefing. (Minute Order, 05/14/24.) Judgment Creditor filed and served a
supplemental declaration on June 28, 2024. To date, no opposition has been
filed. 
 
Discussion
 
“An earnings withholding order may not be issued against the
earnings of the spouse of the judgment debtor except by court order upon
noticed motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 706.109.) Family Code section 903,
subdivision (a) provides that in the case of a contract, a debt is incurred “at
the time the contract is made” and subdivision (b) provides that in the case of
a tort, a debt is incurred “at the time the tort occurs.” (Fam. Code, § 903,
subds. (a)-(b).) Family Code section 910, subdivision (a) provides that
“[e]xcept as otherwise expressly provided by statute, the community estate is
liable for a debt incurred by either spouse before or during marriage,
regardless of which spouse had the management and control of the property and
regardless of whether one or both spouses are parties to the debt or to a
judgment for the debt.” (Fam. Code, § 910, subd. (a).) 
 
Judgment Creditor
contends that Judgment Debtor is married to Rotha Valdovinos (“Rotha”). Motion, Frischer Decl., ¶2 and Exhs. 1-2.)
This is demonstrated by copies of a grant deed from the Fresno County
Recorder and a property detail report showing a transfer of property to
Judgment Debtor and Rotha as husband and wife in October 2023. (Ibid.)
The Court finds this evidence demonstrates the spousal relationship between
Judgment Debtor and Rotha prior to entry of the judgment in this action, such
that an earnings withholding order may be issued against Rotha’s earnings. 
 
The supplemental declaration states that Rotha is employed as
a packer by Pactiv Corporation of Fresno, California. (Motion, Supp. Frischer
Decl., Exh. 2.) In support of this contention, Judgment Creditor attaches a
copy of Rotha’s First California Federal Credit Union Membership Application
& Account Agreement, listing Pactiv Corporation as their employer. (Ibid.)
That Application and Account Agreement, however, was completed by Rotha on
April 30, 2021, more than three years ago. Indeed, it was completed before this
action was filed or default judgment was entered against Judgment Debtor. The
evidence of Rotha’s employment, therefore, is not sufficiently timely to
support the issuance of an earnings withholding order under Code of Civil
Procedure section 706.109.
 
Conclusion
 
Judgment Creditor
Westlake Services, LLC’s Motion Attaching the
Wage Earnings and Other Assets of Rotha Valdovinos is DENIED.
Court clerk to give notice.