 Case Number:  22STLC08613    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  26 Nissanoff
v. Oscar Health Plan of Cal., et al.MOTIONS TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S FURTHER RESPONSES
TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
(CCP § 2030.300)
 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING:
 
Plaintiff Jonathan Nissanoff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, is DENIED AS TO NOS. 2, 3, 5, 7,
9, 11-14, 18-19 AND GRANTED AS TO NOS. 4, 6, 8, 10, 15-17, AND 20. DEFENDANT IS
TO SERVE FURTHER RESPONSES TO NOS. 4, 6, 8, 10, 15-17, AND 20 WITHIN 20 DAYS’
NOTICE OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Jonathan
Nissanoff (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action for common counts and
breach of contract against Defendant Oscar Health Plan of California (“Defendant”)
on December 27, 2022. Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint on February 14,
2023. 
 
Plaintiff
filed a “Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses” on February 20, 2024. At
the hearing on March 21, 2024, the Court noted that the motion improperly
combined multiple motions into one and ordered that they be filed separately.
Plaintiff filed the instant (1) Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One; and (2) Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request
for Production of Documents, Set One, on March 26, 2024. The Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, was granted
in part on May 23, 2024. (Minute Order, 05/23/24.) The Motion was initially set
for hearing on June 4, 2024 but was continued to allow for consideration of
Defendant’s opposition papers. Plaintiff filed a reply on May 30, 2024. 
 
Discussion
 
Notice of the
motion to compel further must be given “within 45 days of service of the
verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or any specific later
date to which the requesting party and the responding party have agreed in
writing,” otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further
response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).) Defendant’s discovery
responses were served electronically on June 13, 2023. (Motion, Nissanoff
Decl., ¶5.) Notice of the Motions was initially timely filed and served on July
23, 2023. (Id. at Exh. 4.)
 
Also, the Motion must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (b)(1); 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).) The supporting declarations demonstrate
an effort by Plaintiff to obtain further responses from Defendant after service
of the original and supplemental responses. (Id. at Exh. 3; Reply, Exh.
2.) The Court finds that Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts were in good
faith, starting with a letter regarding the interrogatories on June 16, 2023
and continuing over the course of many emails with Defendant’s attorneys. (Reply,
Exhs. 1-2.) 
 
Finally, Cal. Rules
of Court Rule 3.1345 requires all motions or responses involving further
discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the
response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further
responses. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a).) Alternatively, “the court
may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request
and each response in dispute.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(3).) The
Motion is accompanied by a separate statement. (Separate Statement, filed
03/26/24.) 
 
Special Interrogatories, Set One
 
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s further responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 2-20. Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.300 states in relevant part:
 
On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply:
 
(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory
is evasive or incomplete.
. . . .
 
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is
without merit or too general.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
 
Interrogatory No. 2 asks Defendant to describe how it takes
into account each of the factors under Title 28 of the California Code of
Regulations, Section 1300.71, subdivision (a)(3)(B) (“the Gould factors”) in
determining the reasonable and customary value of out-of-network physician’s
emergency medical services. 
 
Defendant objected to the request as vague as to time and
scope, ambiguous as to the terms “emergency medical services” and
“noncontracted physician”, and seeking proprietary, confidential, and trade
secret information. It then responds that it calculates the allowable amounts
in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. 
 
If a timely motion to compel responses has been filed, the
burden is on the responding party to justify its objections. (Fairmont Ins.
Co. v. Superior Court (Stendell) (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255 [citing Coy
v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221].) The Court also agrees
that Defendant’s purported response that it calculates the allowable amounts in
accordance with applicable laws and regulations is non-responsive. As Plaintiff
points out, this does not provide any factual information regarding how Defendant
takes into account the Gould factors when determining the usual, customary, and
reasonable (“UCR”) rate. Furthermore, Defendant’s objection that certain terms
are ambiguous is belied by its own use of those terms in its response. Third,
Defendant’s objection that the information sought is propriety, privileged or
confidential was addressed in the Court’s ruling on Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Request for Production, Set One. As the Court
explained, Defendant offers no evidence to show that the information sought
falls within the definition of a trade secret and the parties have a stipulated
protective order in place. 
 
Defendant’s opposition also argues that the interrogatory
contains various subparts, as prohibited by Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.060. A subpart is something that is part of a larger part. The
interrogatory does include subpart by asking Defendant to explain how it takes
into account each of the Gould factors. Responding as to each of the factors is
a smaller part of the larger question of how Defendant takes into accounts all
the Gould factors. Plaintiff argues that the interrogatory is simply asking one
thing: how does Defendant account for the Gould factors in determining the UCR
rate for emergency medical services? However, it also requires Defendant to
respond by addressing each factor listed. The interrogatory, therefore,
violates the prohibition on special interrogatories with subparts. Plaintiff’s
request to compel Defendant’s further responses to Interrogatory No. 2 is denied.

 
Interrogatory No. 3 asks Defendant to describe material
changes it made to the payment methodology for out-of-network emergency
services from 2017 to the present, including, not limited to the timing of
those changes, the nature of the changes to the methodology, and the rationale
for such changes. This interrogatory is compound in that it is comprised of two
or more separate questions. First, the interrogatory asks Defendant to describe
the material changes it made to the payment methodology. While the response to
that question may include the nature of the material changes, the timing and
rationale for those changes are separate from the changes themselves. Therefore,
Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s further responses to Interrogatory
No. 3 is denied for being impermissibly compound. 
 
Interrogatory No. 4 asks Defendant to describe material
changes it made to the payment methodology for out-of-network emergency
services due to the No Surprises Act, 42 USC, § 300gg-111, et. seq. In
response, Defendant objects that the interrogatory is ambiguous as to time and
scope, ambiguous as to the terms "changes [] made to YOUR payment
methodology” and “out of network emergency medical services,” and seeks
information that is proprietary, privileged, or confidential. As discussed
above, Defendant’s objections regarding ambiguity and confidential material are
without merit. Nor does Defendant’s opposition separate statement address any
of these objections. The separate statement makes alternative arguments, regarding
the relevance of the information sought and that this interrogatory is
duplicative of Special Interrogatory, No. 2. The Court already addressed this relevance
objection in its order regarding the Request for Production of Documents. Nor
does it find this interrogatory duplicative of the one above. This
interrogatory seeks more specific information about material changes to
Defendant’s payment methodology. Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s
further responses to Interrogatory No. 4 is granted. 
 
Interrogatory No. 5 asks Defendant to describe its
methodology for paying out-of-network physicians for post-stabilization
services rendered in the hospital setting. It goes on to state that if
Defendant’s methodology varies based on whether the hospital at which such
physicians’ services are rendered is in-network or out-of-network, Defendant
should explain how and why such variations occur. The Court agrees that this
interrogatory is compound in that it contains two distinct questions. The
request to compel a further response to Special Interrogatory No. 5 is denied. 
 
Interrogatory No. 6 asks Defendant to describe its
methodology for determining the UCR rate for post-stabilization services
rendered by out-of-network physicians. Based on the same relevance objections
and arguments discussed above, Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s
further responses to Interrogatory No. 6 is granted. 
 
Interrogatory No. 7 asks Defendant to describe how it
accounts for the Gould factors when determining how an out-of-network physician
is paid for post-stabilization services. As with Special Interrogatory No. 1,
requiring Defendant to respond with respect to each of the Gould factors means
the interrogatory includes subparts. The request to compel a further response
to Special Interrogatory No. 7 is denied. 
 
Interrogatory No. 8 asks Defendant to describe the
databases, data sources, or statistically credible information it uses as a
part of its UCR rate methodology. Defendant’s initial objections based on
ambiguity and confidentiality are deemed without merit, as discussed above. The
opposition now argues that the interrogatory is “hopeless overbroad” because it
asks Defendant to identify and describe any document it used in the payment
methodology. The interrogatory does not ask Defendant to identify every such
document. Rather, it asks that Defendant describe categories of information. Plaintiff’s
request to compel Defendant’s further responses to Interrogatory No. 8 is
granted.
 
Interrogatory No. 9 asks Defendant to describe material
changes it made to the payment methodology for out-of-network
post-stabilization services from 2017 to the present. As with Special
Interrogatory No. 3, this interrogatory contains subparts regarding the timing
and rationale for the changes. Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s
further responses to Interrogatory No. 9 is denied.
 
Interrogatory No. 10 asks Defendant to describe material
changes it made to the payment methodology for out-of-network
post-stabilization services due to the No Surprises Act, 42 USC, § 300gg-111,
et. seq. For the reasons set forth with respect to Special Interrogatory No. 4,
Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s further responses to Interrogatory
No. 10 is granted.
 
Interrogatory No. 11 asks Defendant to identify all
professional claims it paid for emergency medical services within 4-and-a-half
years of the date this action was filed. An additional objection by Defendant
to this interrogatory is that it requires the preparation of a compilation,
abstract, audit, or summary, in violation of Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.230. This statute does not prohibit an interrogatory that requires such a
preparation, however. Rather, it states: “If an answer to an interrogatory would
necessitate the preparation or the making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or
summary of or from the documents of the party to whom the interrogatory is
directed, and if the burden or expense of preparing or making it would be
substantially the same for the party propounding the interrogatory as for the
responding party, it is a sufficient answer to that interrogatory to refer to
this section and to specify the writings from which the answer may be derived
or ascertained.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230.) Defendant has not shown
that the burden of preparing such a compilation, etc. would be the same for it
as for Plaintiff, nor has Defendant specified the writings from which the
answer may be ascertained. This objection, therefore, is also without merit. 
 
Defendant also objects in its opposition that this
interrogatory contains subparts and the Court agrees. Plaintiff asks not only
for the professional claims paid by Defendant for emergency services over the
last four-and-a-half years, but also the date of service, all diagnosis and/or
billing codes, the payor type, the billed charges, the allowed amount, and the
patient responsibility for each claim. Plaintiff’s request to compel
Defendant’s further responses to Interrogatory No. 11 is therefore denied.
 
Interrogatory No. 12 asks Defendant to identify all
professional claims it paid for post-stabilization services within 4-and-a half
years of the date this action was filed. Based on the same objections and
arguments discussed above, Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s further
responses to Interrogatory No. 12 is denied on the same basis as Interrogatory
No. 11.
 
Interrogatory No. 13 asks Defendant to describe its
methodology for receiving, reviewing, and responding to requests for the
authorization of post-stabilization care made pursuant to Health & Safety
Code section 1262.8. It also asks Defendant to explain how its methodology
varies based on whether a provider’s authorization request is made via
telephone, fax, or electronic or other means; the hours during which staff and
personnel are available to review, approve and/or deny the request; and the means
by which YOU communicate the decision to approve or deny the request are
conveyed to the provider. This requests is both compound and contains subparts.
Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s further responses to Interrogatory
No. 13 is denied.
 
Interrogatory No. 14 asks Defendant to describe its policies
and procedures for transfer or repatriation of patients after a request for
authorization under Health & Safety Code section 1262.8, including any
changes from 2017 to the present. Again, this request contains subparts
relating to transfer and repatriation, and is compound with respect to changes
to the identified policies and procedures. Plaintiff’s request to compel
Defendant’s further responses to Interrogatory No. 14 is denied.
 
Interrogatory No. 15 asks Defendant to describe its policies
and procedures with respect to reimbursement of noncontracted
post-stabilization services when it does not notify the provider within 30
minutes of the request for authorization. Defendant again relies on objections
that the interrogatory is ambiguous, seeks confidential information, requires
the preparation of a compilation, and is irrelevant to this action. Based on
the same objections and arguments discussed above, Plaintiff’s request to
compel Defendant’s further responses to Interrogatory No. 15 is granted.
 
Interrogatory No. 16 asks Defendant to describe its policies
and procedures to pay the reasonable charges associated with the transfer of
the patient after their emergency medical condition has been stabilized. As
before, Defendant relies on objections that the interrogatory is ambiguous,
seeks confidential information, requires the preparation of a compilation, and
is irrelevant to this action
Therefore, Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s further
responses to Interrogatory No. 16 is granted.
 
Interrogatory No. 17 asks Defendant to describe its policies
and procedures to pay for all the immediately required medically necessary care
rendered to the patient prior to transfer after the emergency medical condition
has been stabilized. For the same reasons set forth with respect to
Interrogatory Nos. 15 and 156 Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s further
responses to Interrogatory No. 17 is granted.
 
Interrogatory No. 18 asks Defendant to identify any
physicians, physician groups, or other providers for the provision of emergency
medical services in California with which it contracts, to identify all such
contracts, including the contracted parties, the effective date(s), and payment
methodologies set forth therein. This interrogatory is impermissibly compound. Plaintiff’s
request to compel Defendant’s further responses to Interrogatory No. 18 is
denied.
 
Interrogatory No. 19 asks Defendant to identify any
physicians, physician groups, or other providers for the provision of
post-stabilization services in California with which it contracts. Like
Interrogatory No. 18, this interrogatory is compound. Plaintiff’s request to
compel Defendant’s further responses to Interrogatory No. 19 is denied.
 
Interrogatory No. 20 asks Defendant to identify all its
written policies and procedures that relate to the handling and resolution of
out-of-network provider grievances. Defendant again relies on objections that
the interrogatory is ambiguous, seeks confidential information, requires the
preparation of a compilation, and is irrelevant to this action. Based on the
discussion above, Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s further responses
to Interrogatory No. 20 is granted.
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff Jonathan Nissanoff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, is DENIED AS TO NOS. 2, 3, 5, 7,
9, 11-14, 18-19 AND GRANTED AS TO NOS. 4, 6, 8, 10, 15-17, AND 20. DEFENDANT IS
TO SERVE FURTHER RESPONSES TO NOS. 4, 6, 8, 10, 15-17, AND 20 WITHIN 20 DAYS’
NOTICE OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Moving party to give notice.