 Case Number:  23STLC07963    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  26   
Ovsepian
v. Lopez, et al.DEMURRER
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Cynthia Lopez’s Demurrer to the Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 

On December 18, 2023, Plaintiff Oganes
John Ovsepian (“Plaintiff”), in propria persona, filed the Complaint in this
action against Defendant Cynthia Lopez (“Defendant”). On June 11, 2024,
Defendant filed the instant Demurrer to the Complaint, also in propria persona.
No opposition to the Demurrer has been filed to date. 
 
Discussion
 
The Demurrer is not accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41. (Demurrer, Lopez Decl.) However, failure
to comply with the meet and confer requirement is not grounds to overrule the
Demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3)(B)(4).) Defendant is
admonished that failing to meet and confer in the future may result in the
Demurrer being placed off calendar. 
 
Defendant demurs on the grounds
that the Complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
(Notice of Demurrer, p. 2:10-11 [citing Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e)].)
The Courts finds that the Complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action. The Complaint is set forth on Judicial Council Form PLD-C-001
and indicates that Plaintiff asserts a single cause of action for breach of
contract. (Compl., ¶8.) However, beyond the name of the cause of action, no
factual allegations are included in the Complaint. The form complaint
specifically requires that such allegations be attached but no additional pages
are attached. (See ibid.) Nor has Plaintiff filed any opposition to the
instant Demurrer demonstrating that the Complaint includes sufficient
allegations or can be amended to do so. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Therefore, the Demurrer to the Complaint is sustained
without leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Cynthia Lopez’s Demurrer to the Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
 