 Case Number:  22STCV29276    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  C ANI KHACHIKYAN, ET AL. v. PLATINUM
TRANSPORTATION GROUP, INC., ET AL.
CASE
NO.:  22STCV29276
HEARING:  4/19/24 @ 9:30 A.M.
 
#1
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Plaintiff-in-Intervention
Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company’s Motions to Compel Minor Plaintiffs Leah
and Elah Kesablyan to appear for neurological examinations are GRANTED.  The requests for sanctions are DENIED. 
 
Moving
Party to give NOTICE.
 
 
Plaintiffs
Ani Khachikyan, Elah Kesablyan, a minor by and through her guardian ad litem,
Ani Khachikyan; and Leah Kesablyan, a minor by and through her guardian ad
litem, Ani Khachikyan, (collectively, Plaintiffs), filed this action against
defendants Platinum Transportation Group, Inc. (Defendant) and Miguel Angel
Pacheco (Pacheco) for damages arising from a motor vehicle accident. 
 
Plaintiffs
allege that defendants were hired to transport Plaintiffs, and that defendants
negligently caused an accident while Plaintiffs were passengers in defendants’
vehicle. Plaintiffs further allege that Pacheco was under the influence of
marijuana at the time of the accident, and that Platinum knew about Pacheco’s
history of marijuana use and still allowed him to operate the common carrier
vehicle. The complaint alleges claims for the following: (1) motor vehicle
negligence, (2) general negligence, and (3) negligent
hiring/training/supervision/retention. 
 
Plaintiff-in-Intervention
Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company moves to compel Leah and Elah Kesablyan
to appear for neurological examinations at the offices of Dr. Perry Robert
Lubens located at 2880 Atlantic Avenue, Suite 260, Long Beach, California
90806. 
 
Discussion
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310, a
party that seeks to require another party to submit to a mental examination
must obtain leave of court. The court must grant the motion if the moving party
shows good cause for the mental examination. (Code Civ. Proc., §2032.320, subd.
(a).)  A showing of good cause generally requires “that the party produce
specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the
subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d
833, 840.) In addition, the motion to compel a mental examination must
specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and specialty of the person who will
perform the examination.  (Code Civ. Proc., §2032.310.)  It must also
specify and list by name the diagnostic tests and procedures to be used in the
examination. (Carpenter v. Super. Ct. (Yamaha Motor Corp.) (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 249, 260.) 
 
In her responses to form interrogatories, Minor
Plaintiff LEAH KASEBLYAN claims she has suffered
headaches, anxiety, and difficulty with sleep due to the subject accident.  The injuries are continuing. (Decl. Russell,
¶ 3, Ex. A., Response to Form Interrogatory No. 6.3.) Based on this, Minor
Plaintiff LEAH KASEBLYAN has placed her mental condition “in controversy” and
good cause exists to compel her medical examination.  Plaintiff ELAH KASEBLYAN claims she has
suffered anxiety and insomnia/nightmares, and she is afraid to leave the house
and be in a car.  The injuries are
continuing. (Decl. Russell, ¶ 3, Ex. A., Response to Form Interrogatory No.
6.3.) Based on this, Minor Plaintiff ELAH KASEBLYN has placed her mental
condition “in controversy” and good cause exists to compel her medical
examination.
 
However, the Court finds that
Plaintiff-in-Intervention has not adequately specified which diagnostic tests
and procedures will be used.  Plaintiff-in-Intervention
states that the tests “may include testing, x-rays, and taking a history.” But
“testing” is vague. Further, Plaintiff-in-Intervention is not definitive about
the procedures. 
 
The Motions to Compel Leah and Elah Kesablyan to
Appear for Neurological Examination is GRANTED.  Plaintiff-in-Intervention is ordered to meet
and confer with Plaintiffs and, within 10 days, submit proposed orders which
meet the requirements of the statute, including the new testing dates and the
diagnostic tests and procedures to be used. (CCP § 2032.320, subd. (d).)  The Court intends to finalize the orders on
May 3, 2023.  In the Court’s discretion,
no sanctions will be awarded. 
 
 
 