 Case Number:  22STCV10554    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  29 Gonzalez v. County of Los Angeles
22STCV10554
Defendants’ Motion for Leave to Conduct Additional Physical (Neurological)
Examination
Tentative
The motion is granted.
 
Background
On March 28, 2022, Michelle Gonzalez
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against County of Los Angeles, Kristofor Masson
(collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 100 for negligence and
statutory liability arising out of an automobile accident occurring on August 2,
2021.
On April 11, 2022, Defendants each filed an
answer to the complaint.
Plaintiff was previously examined by an
orthopedic surgeon selected by Defendants. 
On September 9, 2024, the Court granted Defendants’ motion for a second
physical examination, this one by a pain management specialist.
On August 7, 2024, Defendants filed this motion for leave
to conduct an additional physical examination, this one by a neurologist, David
N. Alexander, M.D. 
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition on August 23, and Defendants
filed a reply on August 28. 
 
The motion came on for hearing on September 5, 2024.  The Court discussed the motion with counsel
and then continued the hearing to September 11.
 
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means
of a physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent
of any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control
of a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition (including
the blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in the
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
In a personal injury action, the defendant may
demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of right, without advance leave
of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.) 
If a defendant seeks a further physical
examination of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the defendant must first
file a motion and “obtain leave of court.” (Id., § 2032.310, subd. (a).)
Such a motion must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and
nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any,
of the person or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd.
(b).) The court may grant such a motion “only for good cause shown.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that
the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) 
The moving party must support the motion with a
meet and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd.
(b).) A meet and confer declaration must state facts “showing a reasonable
and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)
“An order granting a physical or mental
examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (d).) “The court is to describe in detail
who will conduct the examination, where and when it will be conducted, the
conditions, scope and nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and
procedures to be employed.  The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests
and procedures’—fully and in detail—is to list them by
name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)
The examination will be limited to whatever
condition is “in controversy” in the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd.
(a).) 
Discussion
The accident in this case occurred in
August 2021.  In March 2024, Plaintiff’s
treating neurologist diagnosed Plaintiff with “mild traumatic brain injury with
persistent and prolonged post concussive syndrome.”  (Stockalper Decl., ¶ 4 & Exh. A.)  Plaintiff’s neurologist attributes this injury
to the accident.  (Id., Exh. A., at p.3.)
Defendants argue that this relatively
recent diagnosis of a traumatic brain injury establishes good cause for an
additional defense physical examination, this time by a neurologist.  
Plaintiff, in opposition, does not
oppose the examination.  (Opp. at
p.2.)  Rather, Plaintiff requests only that
the Court order Defendants “to produce the raw test data, materials, and/or audio
recordings to Plaintiff’s counsel.”  (Ibid.)  In support of this request, Plaintiff cites Randy’s
Trucking Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818.
As an initial matter, the Court notes
that what Defendants request is a physical (neurological) examination, not a
mental (neuropsychological) examination of the type at issue in the Randy’s
Trucking case.  That is a significant
difference, for at least two reasons. 
First, the conduct of a physical examination is governed by Code of
Civil Procedure section 2032.510, and not section 2032.530, which governs
mental examinations.  Second, a
neurological examination does not involve the proprietary testing materials
that were at the core of the dispute in Randy’s Trucking.  Nonetheless, some of the general principles
of Randy’s Trucking apply here as well.
First, the examination requested by
Defendants must be conducted in accord with the provisions of Code of Civil
Procedure section 2032.510.  This
includes, but is not limited to, the right of Plaintiff to have her attorney
(or the attorney’s representative) attend the examination, observe the
examination, and record the examination (either “stenographically or by audio
technology”).  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.510, subd. (a).)  
Second, under the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.610, upon Plaintiff’s written demand, Defendants must provide to
Plaintiff (among other things) a “copy of a detailed written report setting out
the history, examination, findings, including the results of all tests made, diagnoses,
prognoses, and conclusions of the examiner.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.610, subd. (a)(1).)  Given
the overall purposes of the Civil Discovery Act, the Court interprets the
phrase “results of all tests made” in section 2032.610 broadly, to include raw
testing data, to the extent that any such raw testing data is produced by the
examination and captured by the examiner. 
That interpretation promotes the well-established policy in favor of
broad and mutual pre-trial disclosure that runs throughout the Civil Discovery
Act and the case law.
With these conditions, the motion is
granted.
Conclusion 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion for
leave to conduct a physical (neurological) examination of Plaintiff Michelle
Gonzalez.
 
The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff to appear for a neurological medical examination with David
Alexander, M.D.  at 9 a.m. on
September 20, 2024, at 323 North Prairie Ave., Suite 200 Inglewood, CA 90301. The examination shall
include, mental status examination and neurological testing, related physical
examination and the taking of a history of the incident, medical history,
current complaints and review of record.
 
The Court
ORDERS that the examination be conducted in a manner that strictly complies
with all requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.510.
 
The Court
ORDERS that following the examination Defendants are to comply strictly with
the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.610, and that that
statutory term “results of all tests made” in subdivision (a)(1) is to include any
and all raw test data that is produced by the examination and captured by the
examiner.
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice.