 Case Number:  21STCV12415    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  29 Terada v. Lumenta
21STCV12415
Motion of Nonparty Infinity Insurance Company to Intervene
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On April 1, 2021, Monica Terada (“Plaintiff”) filed the
complaint in this action against Olvi Lumenta (“Lumenta”) and Does 1 through
40, asserting a single cause of action for negligence arising out of a motor
vehicle accident on May 28, 2019.
On January 17, 2023, Plaintiff amended her complaint to name Olvi
Lumenta (“Estate”) as Doe 1.
On June 22, 2023, Estate filed an answer to the complaint.
On August 14, 2024, nonparty Infinity Insurance Company (“Infinity”)
filed this motion to intervene.  No
opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
“An intervention takes place when a¿nonparty,
deemed an intervenor, becomes¿a party to an action or proceeding between other
persons” and joins a plaintiff in seeking relief, unites with a defendant in
resisting the claims of a plaintiff, or demands relief adverse to both a
plaintiff and a defendant.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 387, subd. (b).)
Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision
(d),
provides as follows:
(1) “The court shall, upon timely application, permit
a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the following
conditions is satisfied: 
(A) A provision of law confers an unconditional right
to intervene. 
(B) The person seeking intervention claims an interest
relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the action and
that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair or
impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless the person’s
interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing parties.
(2) The court may, upon timely application, permit a
nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest
in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an
interest against both.”
“It is well settled that the intervener's interest
in the matter in litigation must be direct, not consequential, and that it must
be an interest which is proper to be determined in the action in which
intervention is sought.”¿(Simpson Redwood Co. v. State of California¿(1987)¿196
Cal.App.3d 1192, 1199-1200.)  To
establish a direct and immediate interest in the litigation for purposes of
permissive intervention, a non-party seeking intervention must show that he or
she stands to gain or lose by direct operation of the judgment, even if no
specific interest in the property or transaction at issue exists.¿ (Id.
at p. 1201.)  It is sufficient that there
is “a substantial probability” that the proposed intervenor’s interests will be
affected by the judgment.  (Timberidge¿Enterprises,
Inc. v. City of Santa Rosa¿(1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 873, 881-882.)
As one court has explained, a proposed
intervenor must show: [1] that the proposed intervenor has “an interest
relating to the property or transaction which is the subject of the action”; [2]
that the proposed intervenor is “so situated that the disposition of the action
may as a practical matter impair or impede that person's ability to protect
that interest”; and [3] that the proposed intervenor “is not adequately represented
by existing parties.” (Edwards v. Heartland Payment Sys., Inc. (2018) 29
Cal.App.5th 725, 732.)
“Whether the intervener’s
interest is sufficiently direct must be decided on the facts of each case.”  (Simpson Redwood Co., supra, 196
Cal.App.3d at p. 1200.)  “[S]ection 387
should be liberally construed in favor of intervention.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ 
Procedurally, subdivision (c) of section 387 requires that a motion
to intervene “shall include a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or
answer in intervention and set forth the grounds upon which intervention
rests.”¿ 
Discussion
In connection with the accident at issue in
this litigation, Defendant Lumenta was insured under a policy underwritten by
proposed intervenor Infinity.  (Dilag
Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.)  
Insurance Code section 11580, subdivision
(b)(2), states that insurance policies covered by the statute must contain:
“A provision that whenever judgment is secured
against the insured or the executor or administrator of a deceased insured in
an action based upon bodily injury, death, or property damage, then an action
may be brought against the insurer on the policy and subject to its terms and
limitations, by such judgment creditor to recover on the judgment.” 
Accordingly, under the terms of the policy
and Insurance Code section 11580, Infinity is potentially liable for any
judgment in this action entered against Defendant Lumenta or Defendant
Estate.  This provides Infinity with a
sufficient basis to intervene under Code of Civil Procedure section 387.
Infinity has satisfied all substantive and procedural
requirements for this motion.
Accordingly, the motion is granted.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Infinity’s motion for leave to intervene.
The Court GRANTS Infinity LEAVE to file the proposed Answer-in-Intervention
attached to the moving papers within 10 days of the hearing.
The Court ORDERS Infinity to give notice.