 Case Number:  21STCV06600    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Qualified and Production of
Documents. 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
Plaintiff Mariam Arutyunyan (“Plaintiff”) alleges that
she was seriously injured when an electric mixer or blender malfunctioned while
being used in a reasonably foreseeable manner. Plaintiff filed the complaint in
this action on February 18, 2021, asserting causes of action for negligence and
products liability against Defendants Conair Corporation, Waring Commercial,
and Does 1 through 20.
On August 31, 2021, Norguard Insurance Company
(“Norguard”) filed a complaint in intervention against Conair Corporation,
Waring Commercial, and Does 1 through 20, alleging that the accident occurred
during the course of Plaintiff’s employment and that Norguard made workers
compensation payments to Plaintiff as a result of the accident.
Conair Corporation filed an answer to the complaint on
November 4, 2021, and to the complaint in intervention on December 30, 2022.
On January 20, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to
name Conair LLC as Doe 1 and Conair LLC of CA as Doe 2.
On March 9, 2022, Conair LLC (“Defendant”) filed an
answer to the complaint.
Plaintiff filed requests to dismiss Conair Corporation,
Conair LLC of CA, and Waring Commercial on December 29, 2023. 
As is relevant to this motion, on February 12, 2024,
Plaintiff served a notice that she would take the deposition of Defendant’s
person most qualified on February 26, 2024, on 20 topics of examination (Topics
Nos. 24-43); the notice also included 12 requests for production. (Geragos
Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4 & Exh. 2.) On February 23, 2024, Defendant served objections
by email. (Id., ¶ 6 & Exh. 4.)
Defendant did not produce a PMQ for the deposition as
noticed.  Plaintiff inquired about the
non-appearance, but the parties were unable to resolve their dispute.  (Id., ¶¶ 7-9 & Exhs. 5-7.)
On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel.
Plaintiff also seeks sanctions.  Defendant
filed an opposition on April 15.  Plaintiff
filed a reply and objections on April 19. 
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral
deposition of any person, including any party to the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210
through 2025.280 provide the requirements for (among other things) what must be
included in a deposition notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and
how and when the notice must be served.  
“The service of a deposition notice … is effective to require any
deponent who is a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent,
or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection
and copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280,
subd. (a).)
Section 2025.230 provides: “If the deponent named is not a natural
person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the
matters on which examination is requested. 
In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the
deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or
agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to
the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the
deponent.”  
Section 2025.410, subdivision (a), requires any party to serve a
written objection at least three calendar days before the deposition if the
party contends that a deposition notice does not comply with the provisions of
sections 2025.210 through 2025.280.  If
the objection is made three calendar days before the deposition date, personal
service of the objection is required. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (b).)
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action
or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization
that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for¿inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.450, subd. (a).)  Any such motion to compel must show good
cause for the production of documents and, when a deponent has failed to
appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Id., subd. (b).)  
When a motion to compel is granted, “the court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor
of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Id., § 2025.450,
subd. (g)(1).) 
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010,
subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include
“[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  Where a party or attorney
has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary
sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(a).)
Discussion
As a preliminary matter, Plaintiff objects to
Defendant’s Separate Statement, but this is not an objection to evidence, and
so no ruling is required.  To the extent
a ruling is required, Plaintiff’s objections are overruled.
Plaintiff noticed the PMQ deposition at issue
for February 26, 2024.  (Geragos Decl., ¶¶
2, 4 & Exh. 2.) Defendant served objections by email only three days before
the deposition date.  (Id., ¶ 6 &
Exh. 4.)  That is not timely service of
the objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd.
(b).)  
Defendant did not serve a valid objection to the deposition notice
and did not produce the PMQ witness (or witnesses) in compliance with the
notice.  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion
is granted.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)  Plaintiff has shown good cause for the
production of the requested documents.  (Id.,
subd. (b).)  
The Court has considered, and finds without merit, the arguments
made by Defendant in its opposition.
Defendant points out that subsequent
to the filing of this motion, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel
relating to a separate PMQ deposition notice, and as a result there will be
overlap between the PMQ deposition previously ordered by the Court and the PMQ deposition
that Plaintiff now seeks.  But any such
overlap can be addressed by counsel at the deposition (or depositions) on a question-by-question
basis: the order granting the motion to compel and ordering the deposition to
proceed does not preclude Defendant’s counsel from asserting objections at the
deposition to any repetitive or otherwise improper questions. 
The Court also grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  The
Court does not find that Conair acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust was substantially justified or
that it would be unjust.
The Court sets sanctions in the amount of $1,185, calculated
based on three hours of attorney time, multiplied by a reasonable billable rate
of $375 per hour for the work necessary on this motion, plus the $60 filing
fee.  (See Schwar Decl., ¶ 6.)
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel.
The Court ORDERS Conair to produce a person most qualified to
answer questions on the topics set forth in the deposition notice served on
February 12, 2024.
The Court ORDERS that the deposition be taken on a date and
time to be arranged by counsel that is within 21 days of notice of this order.
The Court ORDERS Conair to produce, at or before the time of
the deposition, the documents in the categories set forth in the deposition
notice served on February 12, 2024.
The Court ORDERS Conair and its counsel Klinedinst PC, jointly
and severally, to pay monetary sanctions to Plaintiff under the Civil Discovery
Act in the amount of $1,185, within 30 days of notice.
The Court ORDERS moving party to give notice.