


[1]
The court notes Plaintiff’s separate statement does not include RPF Nos. 18 and
69. Accordingly, the court will not consider those requests.

Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc. v.
Paragon Relocation Resources, Inc., et al.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses from Defendant Paragon Global Resources, Inc. to Requests for Admission
(Set One)
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from a
contractual dispute.
            On
February 8, 2021, Plaintiff Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc. (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Paragon Relocation Resources and Paragon Global Resources,
Inc. (Defendant). The complaint alleges breach of contract, conversion, and
unjust enrichment.
            On
September 2, 2021, Plaintiff propounded request for admission (RFAs) on
Defendant. 
            On
December 7, 2021, Defendant responded to the RFAs. Plaintiff was dissatisfied
with the responses.
            On
April 19, 2023, Defendant provided supplemental responses to the RFAs.
Plaintiff was still dissatisfied with Defendant’s supplemental response to RFA
No. 10.
            On
June 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel further response to RFA No.
10.
LEGAL STANDARD
            Under the Code of Civil Procedure, “On
receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting
admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party
deems . . . [a]n answer to a particular request is evasive or incomplete [or]
[a]n objection to a particular request is without merit or too general.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (a)(1) & (2).) 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff seeks a further response
to RFA No. 10: “Admit that YOU have identified or listed amounts for debts owed
by [Defendant] to [Plaintiff] on YOUR corporate DOCUMENTS, including, but not
limited to, financial documents, profit and loss statements, earnings statements,
balance statements, tax returns or other filings, between April 1, 2004 and the
present.” Defendant initially responded with objections and nothing more. In
its supplemental response, Defendant repeated its objections.
First,
Defendant contends RFA No. 10 violates Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.060, subdivision (d): “Each request for admission shall be full and
complete in and of itself. No preface of instruction shall be included with a
set of admission requests unless it has been approved under Chapter 17
(commencing with Section 2033.710).” The court finds RFA No. 10 complete in and
of itself, especially since Plaintiff defines the documents sought within the
request. Moreover, Defendant has not demonstrated how the RFA’s preface or
instruction violated Chapter 17 beginning at Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.710.
Defendant
also contends RFA No. 10 violates Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.060,
subdivision (f): “No request for admission shall contain subparts, or a
compound, conjunctive, or disjunctive request . . .” Although RFA No. 10 asks
Defendant to admit it identified or listed debts owed in corporate documents,
the RFA is not truly disjunctive because identifying and listing debts in
documents amount to the same act. In addition, the request is not truly
conjunctive because the corporate documents listed are merely examples of
places where Defendant may have identified debts owed. Thus, the court finds
these objections lack merit, meaning a further response is necessary.
The
court does not award sanctions because Plaintiff’s counsel has not documented
the attorney’s fees she incurred for this motion. Plaintiff’s counsel
instead requests a lump sum for the work she performed on multiple discovery
motions, which is inadequate. (Toboco Decl., ¶ 21.) 
CONCLUSION
                The court grants Plaintiff’s motion
to compel further response to RFA No. 10. Defendant shall provide a further
code-complaint response to RFA No. 10 without objection by December 17, 2023.
The court denies the request for sanctions.
                Plaintiff shall give notice.