 Case Number:  21STCP00179    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  74 Soar Real
Estate Investors, LLC v. Sea Breeze Group, LLC, et al.
Motion for Reconsideration
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a dispute between members of a Limited Liability Company. Plaintiff
Soar Real Estate Investors, LLC (Plaintiff) filed its complaint on January 22,
2021, against Defendants Sea Breeze Group, Tradewinds Property Group, Charles
L. McMillan, Team Investment Group, Marcus Wilson, and Maria Monjaraz (Defendants).
            In
the third cause of action, Plaintiff seeks involuntary dissolution of
Tradewinds Property Group, LLC.
            On
March 3, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to stay the dissolution claim. On
March 27, 2023, the court granted the motion. On June 9, 2023, the court signed
and filed the order.
            On
June 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for reconsideration of the court’s
order. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            “When an application for an order
has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or
granted […] any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service
upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or
different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or
court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or
revoke the prior order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)
DISCUSSION  
            Plaintiff
requests that the court reconsider its order granting Defendants’ motion to
stay dissolution proceedings in light of new facts. In support of its request,
Plaintiff notes that Defendants’ person most knowledgeable revealed at
deposition that (1) Defendants’ members did not meet to vote about Plaintiff’s
membership status, and (2) Defendants did not document their decision about Plaintiff’s
status. Relying on Corporations Code sections 17701.13, subdivision (d) and
17704.10, subdivision (h) and Defendants’ operating agreement (Overby Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. 2.), Plaintiff contends a
membership vote and proper documentation were required to stay the
dissolution proceedings.
Plaintiff
reads too much into the statutes and the operating agreement. First, the
statutes Plaintiff cites do not require a meeting and a vote (see § 17701.13,
subd. (d) [document requirements], § 17704.10, subd. (h) [waiver of rights]).
Second, sections 3.6 and 3.7 of the operating agreement make annual meetings
merely optional but do not require them. (Overby Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. 2.) Hence,
even if the information Defendants’ person most knowledgeable constituted “new
facts” sufficient to support a motion for reconsideration, those facts do not
warrant vacating the stay of the dissolution proceedings.
CONCLUSION 
The
court denies Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration.
Plaintiff
shall give notice.