  Case Number:  20STCV03662    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  C VALLES v. INCLUSION SERVICES, LLC
CASE NO.:  20STCV03662 
HEARING:  02/15/24
 
#4
 
Defendant TRI-COUNTIES ASSOCIATION FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY
DISABLED, INC.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. The alternative
Motion for Summary Adjudication is MOOT. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED. (Cal.
Ev. Code §452.) 
 
This action for premises liability was filed by Plaintiff
Gloria Valles against Defendants Inclusion Services, LLC; Inclusion Specialized
Supporting Living Services, LLC; and the State of California on January 29,
2020. On June 3, 2021, a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. 
 
The FAC was amended on January 10, 2023 to name Tri-Counties
Regional Center (“TCRC”) and Eastern Los Angeles Regional Center for the
Developmentally Disabled, Inc. (“ELRC”) as defendants. 
 
On October 27, 2023, the operative Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) was filed. 
 
The SAC alleges that on January 24, 2019, Plaintiff was on
the driveway of her residence, and while exiting the driver’s side of her
vehicle, she was physically attacked by Doe 1, who was under the care and
custody of Defendants Inclusion Services, LLC; Inclusion Specialized Supported
Living Services, LLC; TLRC; and ELRC. (SAC ¶8.) Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants Inclusion Services, LLC; Inclusion Specialized Supported Living
Services, LLC; TCRC; and ELRC “were provided extensive documentation in
February of 2016 warning said defendants of DOE 1’s history of violent
behavior. The documentation advised defendants that DOE 1 required close
supervision at all times, that changes in his schedule were upsetting, that DOE
1 had ‘a long history of difficult and dangerous behaviors’ as well as a long
history of ‘severe aggression towards others causing injury that required
emergency care of the victims on more than one occasion.’ Said defendants were
further advised that DOE 1 required 2:1 staff supervision at all times.” (SAC
¶9.) 
 
The SAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
1.   
Negligence; 
2.   
Negligent Hiring, Retention, and
Supervision; 
3.   
Premises Liability; 
4.   
Negligence; 
5.   
Assault; 
6.   
Battery; 
7.   
IIED; 
8.   
NIED
 
Defendant TCRC now moves for summary judgment/adjudication as
to all causes of action asserted against it—the first, second, and third causes
of action.  TCRC argues that summary
judgment/adjudication is proper because: (1) Gloria Valles cannot establish
that TCRC owed her a duty; (2) Gloria Valles cannot establish a breach of any
duty to her; (3) Gloria Valles cannot establish that TCRC was a proximate cause
of her injuries; and (4) Gloria Valles cannot obtain competent, admissible
evidence of her claims. 
 
The elements for a claim of negligence are: (1) a legal duty
owed to plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of that duty; (3) causation; and
(4) damages. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137
Cal.App.4th 292, 318.) “An employer may be liable to a third person for the
employer’s negligence in hiring or retaining and employee who is incompetent or
unfit.” (Federico v. Sup. Ct. (Jenny G.) (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207,
1213.) “[A]n employer’s duty… is breached only when the employer knows, or
should know, facts which would warn a reasonable person that the employee
presents an undue risk of harm to third persons in light of the particular work
to be performed.” (Id. at 1213.) 
 
“The elements of a cause of action for premises liability
are the same as those for negligence…. [A] legal duty to use due care, a breach
of such legal duty, and the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury. [Citations.]” (Jones v. Awad (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th
1200, 1207.) 
 
TCRC argues that summary judgment/adjudication is proper
because TCRC owes no legal duty of care of Plaintiff.  
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that triable issues of
material fact exist which support that the Subject Incident was the result of
TCRC’s breach of duty. 
 
The Court concludes that there is no duty stated under the
Lanterman Act, which runs to Plaintiff under the facts of this case. The
Lanterman Developmental Disabilities Act, Welf. & Inst. Code §§4500-4845,
is a statutory scheme intended by the California Legislature “to provide a
‘pattern of facilities and services… sufficiently complete to meet the needs of
each person with developmental disabilities, regardless of age or degree of
handicap, and each stage of life.” (Association for Retarded Citizens-California
v. Dept. of Developmental Servs., (1985) 38 Cal.3d 384, 388.) “Regional
centers have important but limited monitoring responsibilities. A regional
center representative is required to monitor the provision of care and services
supplied by a provider to ensure they are provided in accordance with the developmentally
disabled person’s IPP. [Citations.]…. If conditions constituting an immediate
danger to a developmentally disabled person come to the attention of a regional
center, the regional center must investigate the situation immediately, and if
the immediate danger cannot be corrected within 24 hours of verification, the
regional center must take immediate steps to relocate the developmentally
disabled person.” (Morohoshi v. Pacific Home (2004) 34 Cal.4th 482,
490.) 
 
At all times relevant to this action, Doe 1 received
supported living services through Defendants Inclusion Services, LLC and
Inclusion Specialized Supported Living Services, LLC. Defendant TCRC was
responsible for placing Doe 1 with supported living services arrangements.
(Response to UMF No. 2.) At the time of the Subject Incident, Doe 1 was living
at 8340 Coral Lane, Pico Rivera, California 90660 and receiving supported
living services through Inclusion. (UMF NO. 3.) It is undisputed that TCRC is a
regional center that provides support and services for individuals with
developmental disabilities. (UMF No. 14.) 
 
The Lanterman Act expressly establishes that duties owed by
regional centers such as TCRC run to disabled individuals such as Doe 1, i.e.,
“consumers” under the Act. There is no portion of the Act that suggests any
duties would run from a regional center to Plaintiff. 
 
Moreover, the Court does not find that TCRC owed a duty to
Plaintiff under a common law “direct negligence” theory. There can be no
liability absent a duty, no matter how easily an injury might have been
prevented. (J.L. v. Children’s Institute, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th
388, 396.) The two categories of duty are: (1) duty to use care in ordinary
activities (under Cal. Civ. Code §1714); and (2) duty to act affirmatively to
prevent harm. The existence and scope of duty are questions of law for the
court. (Artiglio v. Corning, Inc. (1998) 18 Cal.4th 604, 614.) An actor
is under no duty to control the conduct of third parties or warn those
endangered by such conduct. (Melton v. Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th
521, 533.) “[A] person who has not created a peril generally has no duty to
take affirmative action to protect against it, and a person generally has no
duty to protect another from the conduct of third parties.[Citations.]” (Univ.
of Southern Calif. v. Sup. Ct. (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 429, 440.) Whether a defendant
has a legal duty to take action to protect [a] plaintiff from injuries caused
by a third party” involves a two step inquiry. “First the court must determine
whether there exists a special relationship between the parties or some other
set of circumstances giving rise to an affirmative duty to protect. Second, if
so, the court must consult the factors described in Rowland to determine
whether relevant policy considerations counsel limiting that duty.” (Brown
v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal. 5th 204, 209.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff does not allege that any special
relationship existed between TCRC and Plaintiff. Rather, Plaintiff alleges that
a special duty of care ran between TCRC and Doe 1. (See SAC ¶35.) Indeed, the
Court concludes that there is no special relationship between Plaintiff and
TCRC. 
 
The record reflects that TCRC, at most, had control of Doe
1’s placement in the Inclusion Defendants’ supported living services program.
(AMF Nos. 11-13.) Even if the Court finds that the Subject Incident was highly
foreseeable (due to Doe 1’s disability), the Court does not find that the
burden of preventing criminal third party conduct should be placed on a
regional center. Allowing liability here would be averse to public policy
because it would incentivize regional centers to consider risks to third parties
such as Plaintiff, as opposed to the limited monitoring duties imposed by law.
The limited duties expressly created by statute do not support the imposition
of more general duties—the duties run to disabled individuals. (Welf. &
Inst. Code §§4641-4643, 4646, 4647.) 
 
Summary adjudication of the first through third claims is proper
because TCRC owes no legal duty of care to Plaintiff. Since no claims remain
against TCRC, summary judgment is GRANTED. 
 
TCRC’s Evidentiary Objections
 
Nos. 1-9. OVERRULED. 