 Case Number:  22CHCV00637    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F-43
Date: 2-14-24
Case # 22CHCV00637,
Albert Hughes, III, et al., vs. The Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Company, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Albert Hughes III and Sabrina Crawford
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants Laura De Leon and FF Properties LP; Defendant Northwestern
Mutual Life Insurance Company
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiffs request
leave to file a Third Amended Complaint
 
RULING:
Motion for leave to amend granted
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION AND ANALYSIS
 
On August 15,
2022, Plaintiffs Albert Hughes III and Sabrina Crawford (Plaintiffs) filed their
original complaint. Plaintiffs alleged causes of action related to a breach of
contract as well as negligence causes of action. Plaintiffs alleged that
Defendants breached their agreement by failing to disclose that a homicide had
taken place at the premises where Plaintiffs were renting.
 
This case is
still in the pleadings stage. On August 28, 2023, the Court sustained Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint with leave to amend. Plaintiffs
filed their Second Amended Complaint on September 28, 2023. On November 6,
2023, Defendant Northwestern Mutual filed a demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Second
Amended Complaint. That demurrer is set to be heard on March 12, 2024.
 
On January 19,
2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion for leave to file a third amended complaint.
Plaintiffs seek to add one new cause of action to their complaint, as well as
requests for damages. Defendants primarily oppose Plaintiffs’ motion on the
basis that Plaintiffs’ amendments have no merit and would be subject to demurrer
and because Defendant Northwestern Mutual argues that it would be prejudiced by
the amended complaint. Defendant Northwestern Mutual also argues that there are
procedural defects with Plaintiffs’ motion.
 
Plaintiffs
argue in their reply that Northwestern Mutual’s prejudice argument is meritless
and that Plaintiffs have met the requirements for requesting leave to amend.
 
This court is
authorized, in its discretion, to “allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars . . .” (CCP §
473(a)(1).) Code of Civil Procedure § 576, likewise, provides that “any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment to any
pleading . . .” (CCP § 576.) The determination of whether to grant leave to
file an amended pleading rests in the court’s sound discretion.
 
Leave to amend
is to be liberally granted at any stage in the proceedings, up to and including
trial. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1986) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487; see
also County of Sanitation Dist. No. 2 of Los Angeles County v. Kern
County (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1618 (noting that a plaintiff may be
granted amendment even at the time of trial).) To overcome the policy of
liberally granting amendments at any stage of litigation, a defendant must show
both actual prejudice and inexcusable delay. (Magpali, 48 Cal.App.4th at
487.) Prejudice exists where an amendment to a complaint would result in a
delay of trial; loss of critical evidence; added costs of preparation; and
increased burden of discovery. (Id. at 486-488.)
 
Defendants have
failed to show how they would be prejudiced by allowing Plaintiffs to amend
their complaint. No trial date has even been set, so the trial would not be
delayed.
 
As for
Defendants’ arguments that Plaintiffs’ additions are without merit, that is not
something to be decided in a motion for leave to amend.
 
However, motions
for leave to amend must also meet certain procedural requirements. For
instance, Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1324(a) requires that the motion “(2) State
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any,
and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and (3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”
 
Defendant
Northwestern Mutual argues that Plaintiffs’ motion for leave amend does not
meet the requirements set forth in Rule 3.1324. Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs’ Appendix of Proposed Changes does not include the paragraph and
line numbers of the changes, only the page numbers. However, Plaintiffs do
include the paragraph numbers of the proposed additions. Though Plaintiffs did
not include the line numbers, it is easy to ascertain where Plaintiffs wish to
add paragraphs based on the information given by Plaintiffs. Defendant also
points out that Plaintiffs did not indicate that they changed two very minor
lines in Paragraphs 13 and 35 of the complaint: one being the Exhibit letter
and the other being a reference to Plaintiffs’ unit number that was removed.
The Court does not find that these discrepancies merit denying Plaintiffs’
motion.
 
Plaintiffs have
met the requirements for filing an amended complaint.
 
Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to file a third amended complaint is granted. Any demurrers to
the second amended complaint are taken off calendar.
 
Moving party to
give notice.