  Case Number:  22AHCV01237    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  X Bella Development, et al., v. Jin, et al.Defendants move for judgment pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 631.8 on several grounds.   First, Defendant seek judgment because Plaintiffs have not  established that Defendant Hoa Jin is a viable defendant.  That is, the allegations in the verified  complaint do not establish a cause of action against Defendant Hoa Jin.  In response to this motion, Plaintiffs seek  to amend the complaint to add to the allegations that Defendant H. Jin had an  oral agreement with Plaintiffs.   Second, Defendants seek judgment on similar grounds, as to  Defendant BY Jin, LLC – there are insufficient allegations in the verified  complaint to support a breach of contract claim against that business  defendant.   Third, Defendants seek judgment as to Plaintiffs Bella  Development and Rain LLC asserting that these businesses did not enter into an  oral agreement with Defendants, as opposed to Mr. Wonnie Kim entering into the  alleged individually with Defendant Byong Jin.   Fourth, Defendants seek judgment on the first cause of  action arguing that because the alleged oral agreement between the parties    TENTATIVE RULINGS   First Basis for Judgment – Insufficient Allegations in  the Complaint to Establish Breach of Contract Against Defendant Hoa Jin   “The trial court has broad discretion to grant or deny an  amendment to a complaint at trial, and California courts have been extremely  liberal in allowing such amendments to conform to proof. (General Credit  Corp. v. Pichel (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 844, 118 Cal.Rptr. 913; 3 Witkin, Cal.  Procedure (2d ed.1971) Pleading, § 1058, pp. 2633–2634.)  Even an amendment which gives rise to a  separate cause of action is permitted if recovery is being sought “ ‘on the  same general set of facts,’ ” and if the amendment is not prejudicial to the  party against whom it is offered.  (General  Credit Corp., supra, at p. 850, 118 Cal.Rptr. 913.)”  (Glaser v. Meyers (1982) 137  Cal.App.3d 770, 776-777.  See, Consol.  World Invs., Inc. v. Lido Preferred Ltd. (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 373, 383 [there  is a strong policy favoring liberal allowance of amendments to pleadings even  if they are requested during trial].)  The  decision to allow an amendment to the pleadings in the midst of trial rests in  the sound discretion of the trial court and should not be disturbed absent a  clear showing of abuse.  (Honig v.  Financial Corp. of America (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 960, 965.)    Here, in Plaintiffs’ verified First Amended Complaint (Ex.  1001), a breach of contract cause of action was asserted by all three  Plaintiffs – Rain Garden, LLC, Kim Real Estate, and Bella Development, LLC,  against the three Defendants – Byong Yop Jin, Hoa Jin, and BY Jin, LLC.  However, the actual allegations of the  Complaint represent that the three Plaintiffs entered into an oral agreement  with Defendant Byong.  (Ex. 1001, ¶¶ 17,  26.)  The Complaint does not contain any  allegations that individual Defendant H. Jin separately entered into the oral  contract.  Yet, this was the testimony  presented by Plaintiff representative Wonnie Kim at trial.  He asserted that Defendant H. Jin should also  be bound to the agreement because she was present and essentially said yes once  the meeting discussing the agreement adjourned.   Defendant H. Jin disputes that there was any such agreement between her  and Plaintiffs.   The allegations alone in the FAC (Ex. 1001) are sufficient  to support the granting of judgment in favor of Defendant H. Jin. Plaintiffs’  motion to amend.  However, the Court must  consider Plaintiffs’ trial request to amend the Complaint to include Defendant  H. Jin in paragraph 17 and 26, to establish that an oral agreement existed as  between her independent of her husband Defendant Byong.  Defendant H. Jin orally and in writing  opposed the request to amend.  Defense  counsel argued prejudice because Defendant H. Jin now suffers from dementia and  Defendants relied upon the allegations in the verified complaint, such  Defendant H. Jin is unable to participation in discovery concerning the allegations  made against her.  Notwithstanding the liberality  in granting such leave, the Court determines that the facts present sufficient  prejudice to preclude amending the complaint to allege claims against Defendant  H. Jin.   Even if, assuming arguendo, the Court did permit amendment  of the Complaint to allege an oral agreement between Plaintiffs and Defendant  H. Jin, judgment as to Defendant H. Lin would still be appropriate.  “To prevail on a cause of action for breach  of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s  performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s  breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley  (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  “A  contract is a voluntary and lawful agreement, by competent parties, for a good  consideration, to do or not to do a specified thing.”  (Robinson v. Magee (1858) 9 Cal. 81,  83.)  Plaintiffs have not established  that a contract was entered into between them and Defendant H. Lin.  The testimony on this issue had all  discussions between Plaintiff representative Kim and Defendant Byong making an  agreement.   The testimony on this issue  also had Defendant H. Lin being present when Defendant Byong and Plaintiff  representative Kim met, and Defendant H. Lin not saying anything about the oral  agreement.  Defendant Byong also  testified that his wife, Defendant H. Lin, suffered from dementia.  These facts, taken together, do not establish  a lawful agreement between competent parties.   Accordingly, Defendant H. Lin would be entitled to judgment in her favor  on Plaintiffs’ sole remaining cause of action against her for breach of  contract.   Second Basis for Judgment – Insufficient Allegations in  the Complaint to Establish Breach of Contract Against Defendant BY Jin, LLC   The Court also grants Defendants’ request for judgment on  behalf of Defendant BY Jin, LLC.  The  allegations in the Complaint are that there was an oral agreement between  Plaintiffs and Defendant Byong.  The evidence  presented at trial establishes a prima facie case for an oral agreement with  Defendant Byong.  There is insufficient  evidence to support that the agreement was entered into by Defendant BY Jin,  LLC (through an authorized agent).   Third Basis for Judgment – Defendants Bella Development  and Rain LLC did not enter into an agreement with Plaintiffs.     For similar reasons as the second basis, the Court grants Defendants’  request for judgment as to Defendants Bella Development and Rain LLC.  The evidence presented at trial establishes a  prima facie case for an oral agreement with Defendant Byong as between Plaintiff  representative Kim.  There is  insufficient evidence to support that the oral agreement was entered into by Bella  Development and Rain LLC through its authorized agent.    Fourth Basis for Judgment – Statute of Frauds and Failure  to Prove Oral Agreement  The evidence presented at trial establishes a prima facie  case for an oral agreement between Plaintiff representative Kim and Defendant Byong.  The terms of the agreement have Defendant Byong  purchasing a property, paying for the costs to flip the property, and splitting  the profits from any resale of the property.   Plaintiff representative Kim asserts that Defendant Byong failed to honor  this agreement.  With Defendant Byong  disputes that any such agreement exists, the evidence presented is sufficient  warrant proceeding with trial.   As to the issue related to statute of frauds, the Court  determines that there is insufficient evidence presented that the alleged oral  agreement entered into by the parties violates the statute of frauds.  The alleged agreement between the parties to  operate an investment enterprise is in the nature of a partnership agreement,  and it has long been held that the statute of frauds does not apply to a  partnership which acquires real property for partnership uses, or which has as  its object to deal in real property.  (See  Bates v. Babcock (1892) 95 Cal.479, 486-488; Koyer v. Willmon  (1907) 150 Cal. 785, 787 [“It is settled by the decisions in this state that a  partnership for the purposes of buying, holding, and selling lands may be  formed by an agreement resting in parol only, and that such parol agreement is  valid”]; Simpson v. Winkelman (1964) 225 Cal.App.2d 746, 751.)   The motion for judgment is denied as to the  fourth basis for judgment.Fifth Basis for JudgmentDefendant
Jin’s fifth basis for his motion for judgment pursuant to Section 631.8 of the
Code of Civil Procedure is denied.

 

Defendant
Jin argues that judgment should be granted in his favor where the breach which
allegedly occurred in the complaint did not occur (as opposed to a related, but
different breach which was not specifically pled but which was presented as evidence
at trial).

 

As
part of the factual allegations in the First Amended Complaint (Ex. 1001),
plaintiff alleged the following:

 

20. The
parties further agreed for BDLLC to manage the rehabilitation of the SUBJECT
PROPERTY because it is the PLAINTIFFS that have the knowledge and know how in
FLIPPING. Again, all costs including but not limited to, renovation was to be
paid based on the ALLOCATED SHARES. At the end of the flip, the parties were to
split the proceeds: 50% to PLAINTIFFS and 50% to DEFENDANTS were to split the
net proceeds equally.

 

In
the first cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff incorporated the
allegation above (para. 20), but only alleged the following with regard to the
breach:

 

28. On
or about October 2022, DEFENDANTS breached that contract by refusing to pay
their share in the costs despite numerous attempts to collect by the PLAINTIFF.

 

Both
parties agree that Defendant paid his/its share in the costs.  The breach
which Plaintiff alleges in trial is that the parties did not split the proceeds
50-50 after the sale of the property.

 

Defendant
argues that since this breach was not a part of the breach of contract cause of
action, it cannot be a basis for liability.  Plaintiff argues that because
part of the agreement identified in the complaint was to split costs (para. 20)
and because Defendant, after the complaint was filed, failed to split costs,
Defendant can still be liable for breach based on the testimony presented at
trial.

 

Plaintiff
has not moved for leave to amend the complaint on this issue.

 

The
Court denies judgment in Defendant’s favor.  In the absence of evidence of surprise or
unfair prejudice to Defendant, the evidence presented at trial coupled with the
allegations in the FAC allow for the cause of action for breach of contract to
proceed to Defendant’s case/presentation of evidence.  