 Case Number:  24NNCV04118    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  X PETITION FOR OSC: WHY MECHANIC’S
LIENS RECORDED BY Defendant SHOULD NOT BE STRICKEN OR REDUCED 
 
Plaintiff Olivewood Village LLC
requests that the Court order Defendant WPIC Construction, LLC to show cause
why its two mechanic’s liens totaling nearly $8.7 million recorded against Plaintiff’s
properties should not be stricken or reduced on the grounds that (a) the liens
were untimely recorded – i.e., more than 90 days after Plaintiff completed
construction on the encumbered property, and (b) both liens were recorded with
an intent to defraud.  Alternatively, Plaintiff
requests the total amount of the liens should be reduced to not more than
$335,981.47.             
 
Background
This
case involves a dispute between a Plaintiff-Owner and Defendant-Contractor over
mechanic’s liens totaling nearly $8.7 million recorded by Defendant against
Plaintiff’s properties.  The complaint
alleges causes of action for breach of contract (performance bond), breach of
contract (payment bond), and declaratory relief. 
 
Tentative Ruling
Olivewood’s Petition for an OSC: Why Mechanic’s Liens
Recorded by WPIC Construction, LLC Should Not Be Stricken or Reduced is DENIED.

            
Legal Standard
The purpose of a mechanic’s lien is to prevent private
property owners from obtaining a benefit to their property without paying the
cost for it. (Cal Sierra Construction, Inc. v. Comerica Bank (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 841, 848.)  The California
Constitution directs the Legislature to provide for the speedy and efficient
enforcement of mechanic’s liens in Article XIV, section 3.  The mechanics’ lien system is the only
creditors’ remedy stemming from a constitutional mandate. (Connolly
Development, Inc. v. Superior Court (1976) 17 Cal.3d 803, 810.) 
 
A property owner may file a Lambert motion to remove
a mechanic’s lien; in evaluating this motion, the court inquires as to the “probable
validity” of the lien.  (Lambert v.
Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 383, 387.)  “[T]he grant of a motion to remove a
mechanic's lien is essentially a judgment on the underlying foreclosure action
that no lien exists--a judgment that, upon recordation, removes the lien from
the public records.”  (Howard S.
Wright Construction Co. v. Superior Court (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 314,
318.) 
 
Request for Judicial
Notice
Under California
Evidence Code sections 452(c) and (h), the Court shall take judicial notice of
the records of: (1) official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial
departments of the United States and of any state of the United States, and (2)
facts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are
capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy.  However,
“judicial notice of other court records and files is limited to matters that
are indisputably true.  This generally
means judicial notice is limited to the orders and judgments in the other court
file, as distinguished from the contents of documents filed therein.”  (Weil and Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.
Before Trial Ch. 7(I)-A, Section 7:15 (The Rutter Group 2021) (emphasis omitted).)
 
Defendant seeks
judicial notice of:
 
1.    
Olivewood has not submitted to the Court proof that
Olivewood’s Petition was personally served on Olivewood.
2.    
Olivewood has not submitted to the Court proof of
acceptance of service of the Petition by WPIC’s counsel. 
3.    
JAMS Comprehensive Arbitration Rules &
Procedures (Exh. A). 
4.    
1990 Cal. Statutes, Chapter 1496, Sec. 1 (Exh. B). 
5.    
Assembly Bill 2067 Final History for 1990 Cal.
Statutes, Chapter 1496, Sec. 1 (Exh. C). 
6.      
January 17, 1990, Assembly Judiciary Committee on
Assembly Bill 2067 (Exh. D).
 
The Court grants the
request for judicial notice as to items 3 to 6 (Exhs. A-D) and denies the
request as to items 1 and 2.
 
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff
has lodged various evidentiary objections to declarations submitted by
Defendant in support of its opposition.  The
objections are overruled.
 
Discussion
Plaintiff
entered into a construction contract with Defendant on May 5, 2020 to construct
a project in Pasadena, California.  (Compl., ¶ 2.)  The contract required Defendant to achieve
substantial completion of Site A by May 11, 2022 and Site BC by July 25, 2022.  (Compl., ¶ 24.) However, Defendant repeatedly
failed to perform the work in a timely manner, resulting in Plaintiff
terminating Defendant’s contract on May 22, 2023.  (Compl., ¶ 44.)
 
On January 29, 2024,
a Certificate of Occupancy was issued for Site A and Plaintiff accepted delivery and immediately began
occupancy and use Site A.  On June 28,
2024, Defendant recorded
a mechanic’s lien in the amount of $3,632,555.54 against Site A only (the “Site
A Lien”).  On August 22, 2024, Contractor
recorded a second mechanic’s lien in the amount of $5,064,038.30 against Site
BC (the “Site BC Lien”).  The Site A Lien
and the Site BC Lien (collectively, the “Liens”) total $8,696,593.84.
 
Plaintiff
argues Defendant’s Site A
Lien is invalid because it was recorded more than 90 days after completion of
Site A and is therefore untimely as a matter of law.  (Civ. Code, § 8412.)  Plaintiff further argues that Defendant’s own payment
applications, compared to the unconditional waiver and releases signed by Defendant’s subcontractors
evidencing that those subcontractors have been paid, demonstrate that the
amount claimed to be owed by Defendant
can be no more than $335,981.47—which Plaintiff argues it has no
obligation to pay since Defendant owes Plaintiff
millions of dollars in liquidated damages and actual damages for delays and
defective construction.
 
Plaintiff presents
three main arguments for the removal or reduction of the Defendant’s liens.  First, the liens include amounts that do not
constitute the value of the work provided by the Defendant, such as delay and
interest damages, which are improper to include in a mechanic’s lien.  Second, the liens were recorded untimely, more
than 90 days after the completion of the work of improvement on Site A, and
therefore must be expunged.  Third, the
liens were recorded with the intent to defraud, as the Defendant knew that its
subcontractors had already been paid by the Plaintiff, yet refused to release
the liens in an improper effort to exert leverage against the Plaintiff’s claim
of damages.
 
If the Court does
not invalidate the lien, then in the alternative, Plaintiff requests the Court
to reduce the liens from $8,696.593.84 to $335,981.47.  Plaintiff calculated the amount by deducting
the total amounts paid directly to subcontractors for their work from the total
sum requested under Payment Applications Nos. 34-37, leaving only the sums for
Defendant’s alleged work.
 
In opposition,
Defendant argues that the Court lacks jurisdiction to hear Plaintiff’s petition
to strike or reduce Defendant’s mechanic’s lien.  Defendant asserts that the parties had
previously agreed to resolve all disputes related to the project through
binding arbitration.  (Eastman Decl., ¶¶
5, 14, Exh. A; McCormick Decl., ¶2, Exh. 1.)  On September 10, 2024, Plaintiff commenced
arbitration against Defendant regarding the claims between the parties,
including a determination regarding WPIC’s mechanic’s liens.  (Eastman Decl., ¶13, Ex. E).  Therefore,
Defendant argues that the arbitrator, not the Court, is required to adjudicate
the validity of Defendant’s claims underlying the mechanic’s lien.  Defendant cites several legal precedents to
support its position that the arbitrator has the authority to decide issues of
arbitrability, and that the Court lacks jurisdiction over the relief sought in Plaintiff’s
petition. 
 
Overall, Defendant challenges
the procedural propriety of Plaintiff’s petition and the appropriateness of
summarily adjudicating the complex issues at hand.  Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s attempt to
use a Code of Civil Procedure section 765.010 petition to challenge the lien is
improper and that Plaintiff is seeking to summarily adjudicate the key issue of
the validity of Defendant's claims without proper procedures.  Defendant contends that the issues involved
are complex and require substantial discovery, witness testimony, and expert
evidence, which cannot be properly addressed through an expedited procedure.  Defendant further argues that Plaintiff has
not shown any undue harm from the liens remaining in place and that Plaintiff can
simply obtain a surety bond to release the liens.  Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s actions are
an improper attempt to deprive Defendant of due process and to unduly harm and
irreparably prejudice Defendant. 
 
Further, Defendant
contends Plaintiff failed to meet its burden of proof in challenging the
timeliness and validity of the mechanic’s liens.  Defendant asserts that its mechanic’s liens
were timely filed, as the deadline is based on the completion of the entire
project, not individual buildings.  Defendant
contends that Plaintiff’s attempt to argue the liens are untimely based on the
alleged completion of individual buildings is inconsistent with well-settled
California law.  Defendant recorded the
liens out of an abundance of caution, anticipating Plaintiff’s arguments, and
argues that the project as a whole has not been completed.  Defendant also challenges Plaintiff’s claim
that the liens are “knowingly false,” made “with the intent to harass,” and
served “no legitimate purpose,” as required for relief under Code of Civil
Procedure section 765.010.
 
In reply, Plaintiff
argues the burden of proof is on the lien claimant (the contractor) to
establish the validity of the liens.  Plaintiff
asserts the contractor failed to record the liens against the property within
the required 90-day period from the completion of improvements on January 29,
2024, and the contractor’s speculation about the completion date is not
sufficient evidence to validate the timeliness of the liens.
 
First,
the Court determines that proof of service of the petition, which is filed with
Plaintiff’s motion, is sufficient.  Second, while the issues presented may be
within the jurisdiction of the parties’ arbitration, this case has not been
sent to arbitration nor been stayed pending completion of arbitration.
 
Third, the Court finds it is premature to reduce or
invalidate Defendant’s lien at this stage of the proceeding.  Each lien claimant has a constitutional right
to assert its own lien (including Defendant WPIC) without relying on others to
separately or competently assert those lien rights.  (See Cal. Const. Art. XIV § 3.)  Moreover, the Court cannot adjudicate the
amount of any lien without more evidence to do so.
 
Civil
Code section 8434 makes clear that the time to reconcile liens is at the
enforcement stage, not prior to a hearing on the merits.  (See Civ. Code, § 8434 [“A direct
contractor or a subcontractor may enforce a lien only for the amount due
pursuant to that contractor’s contract after deducting all lien claims of other
claimants for work provided and embraced within that contract.”].)  Section 8434 is meant to protect owners
against double recovery after the case has been heard.  Once this matter proceeds to determination,
any duplicative liens will be credited back to Plaintiff.
 
At this early stage of the litigation (the complaint was
filed recently on September 9, 2024) and without the benefit of an evidentiary
hearing, the Court finds that it is inappropriate to determine the merits of,
or to reduce or expunge any lien.  The Eastman
Declaration provided by Defendant is sufficient to establish a colorable claim
that Olivewood had stopped paying WPIC for any work performed on the project as
of May 29, 2023, and that the liens were recorded to provide security for the
work.
 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Olivewood’s Petition for an OSC: Why
Mechanic’s Liens Recorded by WPIC Construction, LLC Should Not Be Stricken or
Reduced is DENIED. 