  Case Number:  23VECV02224    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  T VASQUEZ
V HYUNDAI 23VECV02224
Tentative
ruling: Motion to compel deposition, production of documents, and monetary
sanctions.
The court
orders monetary sanctions against defendant Hyundai Motor America in the amount
of $1,860 (4 hours x $450 plus $60 fee). 
The court finds that the amount of sanctions requested were unreasonable
in relationship to the work product and the amount claimed was overreaching.  This was the simplest of motions with no
opposition. There was no evidence provided of what counsel did wrong to justify
sanctions.  
The court orders
that by 3/30/2024, Hyundai Motor America is ordered to pay $1,860 to the Client
Trust Account of Law Offices of Jon Jacobs, One Ridgegate Dr., Suite 245,
Temecula, CA 92590 pursuant to CCP section §2025.450(c)(1), discovery abuse
without substantial justification.  
The court
orders that defendant produce one or more persons who are most qualified to
testify as to the topics as listed below on 3/22/2024 at 10 a.m. unless agreed
to in writing between the parties.
The court
makes some modifications as noted. 
Except as noted, the other categories are denied.
1. The
PROBLEMS that Plaintiff has reported [added] experienced [deleted] with
the VEHICLE, including the causes or any potential causes [deleted] of
the PROBLEMS. [FOR EACH OF THESE TOPICS, “PROBLEMS” ARE AS REPORTED TO THE
DEALER]
2. The efforts
made by YOU or YOUR authorized service and repair facilities to diagnose or
repair the PROBLEMS that Plaintiff reported [added] experienced
[deleted] with the VEHICLE and whether those efforts were successful.
3. How the
PROBLEMS that Plaintiff reported [added] experienced [deleted] were
repaired.
4. Whether the
PROBLEMS that Plaintiff reported [added] experienced [deleted] were
covered under YOUR warranty.
5. The reasons
why the PROBLEMS reported [added] experienced [deleted] were or were not
covered under YOUR warranty.
7. Whether YOU
offered to repurchase or replace the VEHICLE.
8. The reasons
why YOU did or did not offer to repurchase or replace the VEHICLE.
10. YOUR
policies and procedures for complying with the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
[IN EFFECT IN California as to Hyundais in 2022 and 2023].
 
The court also
strikes the objections to the following document production (except as to attorney
client privilege and attorney work product) and orders the production of the
following documents, in a Bate stamped format, no later than 5 court days prior
to the deposition.
The court
makes some modifications as noted. 
Except as noted, the other categories are denied.
 
1. Any and all
DOCUMENTS reviewed by YOU in preparation for the testimony on the above
matters.
2. Any and all
DOCUMENTS which refer or relate to the VEHICLE (this is limited to
correspondence, emails, invoices, work orders, documents relating to plaintiff’s
complaints at the dealer but not attorney client communications.)
4. Any and all
DOCUMENTS in YOUR possession, custody, or control which refer to, relate to, or
evidence Plaintiff's purchase of the VEHICLE 
(this is limited to correspondence, emails, invoices, work orders,
documents relating to plaintiff’s complaints at the dealer (but not attorney
client communications.)
7. Any and all
express warranties issued by YOU in connection with Plaintiff's purchase of the
VEHICLE.
8. Any and all
service contracts issued by YOU in connection with Plaintiff's purchase of the VEHICLE.
9. Any and all
DOCUMENTS which refer to, relate to, or evidence, the warranty service contract
required by Civil Code §1793.2(a)(l)(B) between YOU and any DEALERSHIP that
performed repairs on the VEHICLE (not including attorney client
communications.)
10. Any and
all DOCUMENTS which refer to, relate to, or evidence, the policies and procedures
by which any DEALERSHIP will be compensated by YOU for performing warranty
repairs on the VEHICLE (limited to policies and procedures, and
communications between the defendant and the dealer).
14. All work
orders, repair orders, and invoices (including accounting, customer, and
warranty versions) for any maintenance, service and repair activity concerning
the VEHICLE.
15. Any and
all DOCUMENTS containing any handwritten or electronic notations concerning repairs
or attempts to repair the VEHICLE (limited to the conditions identified in
the complaint).
16. Any and all DOCUMENTS
maintained by any of YOUR DEALERSHIPS concerning any repairs made to the VEHICLE
(this is limited to correspondence, emails, invoices, work orders, documents
relating to plaintiff’s complaints at the dealer but not attorney client
communications.)
17. Any and all DOCUMENTS
evidencing or reflecting any payment made by YOU or any PERSON for any repairs
or attempts to repair the VEHICLE (this is limited to correspondence,
emails, invoices, work orders, documents relating to plaintiff’s complaints at
the dealer but not attorney client communications.)
18. Any and all DOCUMENTS which
refer to, relate to, evidence, or reflect any communications between PLAINTIFF
and any other PERSON concerning the VEHICLE (this is limited to
correspondence, emails, but not attorney client communications.)
19. Any and
all DOCUMENTS reviewed by YOU in response to any request for repurchase or replacement
of the VEHICLE prior to this lawsuit being commenced (not including attorney
client communications.)
20. Any and
all DOCUMENTS reflecting any investigation made by YOU in response to PLAINTIFF's
request for repurchase or replacement of the VEHICLE (not including attorney
client communications or attorney work product.)
21. Any and
all DOCUMENTS which YOU have provided to any of YOUR DEALERSHIPS which describe
the procedures or methods for diagnosing and repairing any of the PROBLEMS with
the VEHICLE (as identified in the complaint and not including attorney
client communications or attorney work product.)
22. The
workshop manual for the VEHICLE for the years 2022 and 2023.
23. Any
technical service bulletins issued by YOU for Plaintiffs VEHICLE.
24. Any and
all DOCUMENTS which refer to, relate to, evidence or reflect any policies or procedures
by which YOU comply with the requirements of Civil Code § 1793.2( d) in
effect in California in 2022 and 2023.
25. Any and
all DOCUMENTS which refer to, relate to, evidence or reflect any policies or procedures
by which YOU comply with YOUR obligations under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act in effect in California in 2022 and 2023.
IT IS SO
ORDERED.  CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.