 Case Number:  21STCV32162    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or adopt
the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely. 
Further, after the Court has posted/issued a
tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the
withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of
the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  4, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV32162




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Shorten Time on Hearing for Motion for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Timothy Fratt and Empire
  Transportation Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Ella
  Jackson



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint in this matter was filed on August 31, 2021. The answer
was filed on March 14, 2022. On July 25, 2023, Defendants filed their motion
for summary judgment. On the same date, Defendants filed the instant motion to
shorten time on hearing for Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment. On August
3, 2023, Defendants filed an ex parte application to shorten time on the
hearing, requesting the same relief as the instant motion. The Court denied the
ex parte application, noting that Defendants may file a noticed motion to
continue the trial to a date after the currently set hearing on the motion for
summary judgment, or the parties may file a stipulation and proposed order
setting forth good cause to continue trial. (See Minute Order dated August 4,
2023.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
            As an initial matter, the Court has
already ruled on Defendants’ request when Defendants brought their ex parte
application. However, Defendants did not withdraw the instant motion. 
 
            Plaintiffs argue that they will
suffer extreme prejudice if the Court sets the hearing on the motion for
summary judgment on October 11, 2023 because there will be no time for
Plaintiff to oppose the motion. The Court agrees. The Court also notes that the
Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub
provides that “[t]he PI Hub Courts have no capacity to hear multiple ex parte
applications or to shorten time to add hearings to their fully booked motion
calendars.” (See Eighth Amended Standing Order § 10.) Moreover, the prejudice
to Defendants of not having their summary judgment motion heard prior to trial
can be mitigated by continuing the trial date, as noted by the Court when it
ruled on Defendants’ ex parte application. 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Defendant’s motion to shorten time on hearing for motion for summary
judgment is denied.
 
Defendants shall give notice of the court’s order and file a proof of
service of such. 