  Case Number:  20STCV43326    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or adopt
the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely. 
Further, after the Court has posted/issued a
tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the
withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of
the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October 4, 2023




CASE NUMBER


20STCV43326




MOTIONS


Motion to Compel 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Cox/Kalmbach Enterprises, Inc. dba Marie
  Callendar’s Pie Shop #36




OPPOSING PARTY


N/A - Unopposed



 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a personal injury case
stemming from a fall allegedly sustained on the property of a Marie Callendars
restaurant. On November 22, 2018 Charles Tabizon (“Plaintiff”) was walking out
of a Marie Callendars restaurant to his vehicle when he fell, broke his arm,
and sustained other injuries. (Complaint, ¶¶ 15-18.) Plaintiff filed the
Complaint on November 12, 2020, alleging a single cause of action for
negligence (premises liability). Defendant has filed the instant Motions to
Compel (“Motion”) responses to Demand for Production, Set One, and Special
Interrogatories, Set One. No opposition brief has been filed.     
 
DISCUSSION

 
Legal Standard
 
If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (b), (c).) Failure to timely respond waives all
objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subds.
(a)(1), (a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel
where no responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a
party does not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the
moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the
opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of
any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 905-906.)
 
If a motion to compel responses to interrogatories is filed, the Court
shall impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand for the production of documents,
the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300, subd. (b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections,
including privilege and work product. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300, subd. (a).)
Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from
waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is
no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond,
the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before
filing the motion.¿ 
 
Analysis
 
Here, Defendant served Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Demand for Production of Records, Set One, on
Plaintiff on February 9, 2023. (O’Hara Dec., at Exh. A) Responses were due on
March 11, 2023; however, no responses were received. On June 2, 2023, the
parties met and conferred regarding the delay and Plaintiff communicated to
Defendant that the responses would be served by the end of June. (O’Hara Dec. ¶
4.) When no responses were received, Defendant’s counsel again attempted to
meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel, designating a new deadline of July
18, 2023 to serve responses without objections. (O’Hara Dec. ¶ 5.) Responses
were never received. (O’Hara Dec. ¶ 7.) 
 
Defendant also seeks sanctions
against Plaintiff in the amount of $360 for each motion. The Court finds that
sanctions are warranted due to Plaintiff’s misuse of the discovery process, and
awards sanctions in the amount of $360 (2 hours of attorney time plus filing
fees) for each motion.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One and Demand for Production of
Documents, Set One, is GRANTED. The Court orders Plaintiff to
serve verified responses without objections within 30 days of notice of the
Court’s order.
 
The request for sanctions is
GRANTED. Plaintiff must pay $720 to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of
notice of the Court’s order.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of
the Court’s orders and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
 