 Case Number:  22STCV06363    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or adopt
the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely. 
Further, after the Court has posted/issued a
tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the
withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of
the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  4, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV06363




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and Requests for
  Production of Documents, Set One.




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Global Freight Solutions Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 22, 2022, Plaintiff Robert Ray Martin (Plaintiff) filed
this action against Defendants Luis Jesus Mancillas, Global Freight Solutions,
Inc., and Does 1 to 50 for negligence surrounding a motor vehicle accident.
 
On April 13, 2023, Moving Defendant Global Freight Solutions, Inc.
(Global), served written discovery on Plaintiff including Form Interrogatories,
Set One and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. Global did not grant
an extension. Nevertheless, Plaintiff served late responses on June 6, 2023.
After reviewing the responses, Global finds that some are deficient and now
moves to compel further responses. Global also seeks sanctions. No opposition
has been filed. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
Global states that they sent a letter to meet and confer on the
deficiencies. The letter outlined the specific issues and proposed a new
deadline to submit responses. (Klimkowski Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. D.)  After Plaintiff did not respond to the
letter, Global attempted to meet on the phone with Plaintiff’s counsel but was
unsuccessful. (Id. ¶ 6, Exh. E.) Therefore, they have shown that a reasonable
and good faith attempt was made to resolve each issue. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Compel
Further Requests for Production
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(a) provides that on
receipt of a response to a request for production of documents, the demanding
party may move for an order compelling further responses if: 
 
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete. 
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. 
(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.  
 
“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right
to compel a further response to the demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).)   
 
Additionally,
the motion
must set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery
sought by the demand and must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310 (b).) The Eighth
Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub further
requires an informal discovery conference to be conducted prior to any motion
to compel further responses. In light of Plaintiff’s failure to respond to the
meet and confer efforts, the Court excuses Defendant’s failure to comply with
the Court’s standing order.
 
Here,
Global seeks to compel further Requests for Production, Set One, No. 8 and No. 19.
The Court agrees that the responses are deficient, by failing to identify insurance
information or otherwise providing a response compliant with the Code of Civil
Procedure. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230 (“A representation of inability to
comply…shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been
made in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody or control of the
responding party. …”) The Court grants Global’s motion to compel further
requests for production, set one, numbers 8 and 19. 
 
Compel
Further Responses to Form Interrogatories
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(a) provides that “on
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of
the following apply: 
 
(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. 
(2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate. 
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or
too general.” 
 
Here,
Global seeks to compel further Form Interrogatory, Set One, No. 4.1, 10.1, and
17.1. The Court agrees that the responses are deficient, by not identifying
insurance policies or otherwise providing a response compliant with the Code of
Civil Procedure. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.220(c) (“If the responding party
does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an
interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good
faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or
organizations, except where the information is equally available to the
propounding party.”) The Court grants Global’s motion to compel further responses
to Form Interrogatories, Set One. 
 
Sanctions
 
Sanctions
are mandatory against the party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories or a demand for production. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300 (d), 2031.310 (h).) Because Plaintiff has not opposed
this motion, the Court has no information regarding whether there is
substantial justification for the discovery abuse. However, the amount
requested is excessive given the similarity of the motions and the nature of
the motions. Accordingly, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $1,000 (4
hours of attorney time at $250.)
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants Global Freight Solutions Inc.’s motion to compel
further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and Requests for Production
of Documents, Set One. Plaintiff shall serve further responses within 30 days.
 
In addition, Plaintiff shall pay $1,000 in monetary sanctions to
counsel for Defendant within 30 days.
 
Defendant shall give notice of the court’s order and file a proof of
service of such. 