 Case Number:  22STCV21815    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or adopt
the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely. 
Further, after the Court has posted/issued a
tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the
withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of
the Court.  

 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October
  4, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22STCV21815




MOTIONS


(1)  
  Motion for an Order Compelling Responses to Form
  Interrogatories;
(2)  
  Motion for an Order Compelling Responses to Requests
  for Production of Documents




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Nestor Cabrera




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiffs Alejandra
Guzman (“Alejandra”), Joanna Guzman (“Joanna”), and Miguel Angel Moto, Jr. (“Moto”)
sued defendant Nestor Cabrera (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 50 for motor vehicle
negligence in connection with an auto accident that occurred on February 4,
2022.
 
            On February 28, 2023, Defendant
filed a motion for an order compelling responses to Form Interrogatories, Set
One against Joanna Guzman and a motion for an order compelling responses to Demand
for Inspection and Production of Documents, Set One against Alejandra Guzman. The
motions are unopposed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (b), (c).) Failure to timely respond waives all
objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subds.
(a)(1), (a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel
where no responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a
party does not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the
moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the
opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of
any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 905-906.)
 
If a motion to compel responses to interrogatories is filed, the Court
shall impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under
the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery,
even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion
was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party
after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand for the production of documents,
the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300, subd. (b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections,
including privilege and work product. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300, subd. (a).)
Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from
waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is
no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond,
the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before
filing the motion.¿ 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The Court finds Defendant’s motions to
compel are well-taken. Defendant served Form Interrogatories, Set One and
Specially Prepared Interrogatories, Set One on Joanna Guzman and Demand for
Inspection and Production of Documents, Set One, on Alejandra Guzman, on
December 12, 2022. (Arnold Decls., ¶ 2, Exs. A.) Despite multiple extensions,
Plaintiff has failed to respond. (Arnold Decls., ¶¶ 3-4.) Therefore, Defendant
is entitled to an order compelling responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One
from Joanna Guzman and Demand for Inspection and Production of Documents, Set
One, from Alejandra Guzman.
 
The Court further grants Defendant’s
requests for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $215.09 for each
motion, comprised of 1.0 hours at the hourly rate of $75.00 for the legal
assistant preparing each motion, and 0.5 hours at the hourly rate of $160.17
for Defendant’s counsel appearing at the hearing on each motion, plus $60.00
for each motion filing fee.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for an order compelling responses
to Form Interrogatories, Set One against Plaintiff Joanna Guzman. The Court
ORDERS Joanna Guzman to provide responses, without objections, within 20 days
of the date of this order.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Joanna Guzman and her counsel, Roy Penuela, Esq., jointly and severally
in the reduced amount of $215.09. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to
counsel for Defendant within 20 days of the date of this order.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for an order compelling responses
to Demand for Inspection and Production of Documents,
Set One, against Alejandra Guzman. The Court ORDERS Alejandra Guzman to
provide responses, without objections, within 20 days of the date of this
order.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Alejandra Guzman and her counsel, Roy Penuela, Esq., in the reduced
amount of $215.09. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for
Defendant within 20 days of the date of this order.
 
Defendant to provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such. 
 
 