 Case Number:  23NWCV01077    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  C ALICE J. COLEMAN, ET AL. v. THOR MOTOR COACH INC., ET AL. 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01077
HEARING:   3/13/24 @ 9:30 AM
#4
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant Thor Motor Coach, Inc.’s motion to stay
action based on Code of Civil Procedure section 410.30 is GRANTED. 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Background
 
This is a Song-Beverly
action. Plaintiffs Alicia J. Coleman and Jason E. Coleman sue Thor Motor Coach,
Inc.; Lippert Components, Inc.; Mike Thompson’s Recreational Vehicles, Colton,
Inc.; and Ford Motor Company, Inc. Plaintiffs allege breach of express
warranty, breach of implied warranty, violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200, and negligent repair. 
 
The other defendants
filed a joinder to this motion. 
 
Legal Standard

 
When a court upon motion of a party or its own
motion finds that in the interest of substantial justice an action should be
heard in a forum outside this state, the court shall stay or dismiss the action
in whole or in part on any conditions that may be just.  (Code Civ. Proc., §410.30.)  
 
Motion to Stay
 
Here, defendant Thor Motor Coach, Inc. asserts
that the plaintiffs are bound by a mandatory forum selection clause that states
the following: “exclusive jurisdiction for deciding legal disputes relating to
alleged breach of express warranty and implied warranties that arise by
operation of law as well as those relating to representations of any nature
must be filed in the courts within the state of manufacture, which is Indiana.”
(Decl. Alfsen ¶ 3, Ex. B; Decl. Stanley ¶ 3, Ex. B.) In opposition, plaintiffs
assert that Thor Motor Coach, Inc. was not a signatory to the agreement and
thus, the forum selection clause is unenforceable. 
 
Non-parties to contracts containing
forum-selection clauses lack standing to enforce them, with exceptions,
including those who were third party beneficiaries, those who had a close
relationship to the contractual transaction and participated in the
transaction, those who had an intertwining business relationship with the
signatory, or those who were the alter ego of the signatory. (Berclain Amer.
Latina v. Baan Co. (1999) 74 Cal. App. 4th 401, 408.) The document
containing the forum selection clause is titled, “Thor Motor Coach Product
Warranty Registration Form.” (Decl. Alfsen ¶ 3, Ex. B; Decl. Stanley ¶ 3, Ex.
B.) Based on this, the Court finds that Defendant had a close relationship to
the contractual transaction. Thus, Thor Motor Coach, Inc. has standing and the
forum selection clause is enforceable on that ground.  
 
The modern trend is to
enforce mandatory forum selection clauses unless they are unfair or
unreasonable. (Berg v. Mtc Electronics Techs. Co. (1998) 61 Cal. App.
4th 349, 358.) The factors that apply generally to a forum non conveniens
motion do not control in a case involving a mandatory forum selection clause. (Ibid.)

 
The law
applicable to forum-selection clauses is summarized in an opinion as follows:
 
Although
California has a policy favoring access to its courts by its resident
plaintiffs, our Supreme Court has concluded that policy is satisfied where a
plaintiff freely and voluntarily negotiates away his or her right to a
California forum….
….
Given
the significance attached to forum selection clauses, the courts have placed a
substantial burden on a plaintiff seeking to defeat such a clause, requiring it
to demonstrate enforcement of the clause would be unreasonable under the
circumstances of the case…. That is, that the forum selected would be
unavailable or unable to accomplish substantial justice…. Moreover, in
determining reasonability, the choice of forum requirement must have some
rational basis in light of the facts underlying the transaction…. However,
“neither inconvenience nor additional expense in litigating in the selected
forum is part of the test of unreasonability.”….  Finally, a forum selection clause will not be
enforced if to do so will bring about a result contrary to the public policy of
the forum….
 
[T]he
party opposing the enforcement of the forum selection clause, bears the burden
of proof….  “In contrast with the
abuse-of-discretion standard of review applicable in a noncontractual forum non
conveniens motion, a substantial-evidence standard of review applies where a
forum has been selected by contract.”….
….
(CQL
Original Prods., Inc. v. Nat’l Hockey League Players' Assn.
(1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1347, 1353-54.)
 
Plaintiff argues the following: (1) Plaintiff’s
substantive rights under the Song-Beverly Act will be extinguished if the court
grants defendant’s motion to stay; (2) Plaintiff’s substantive right to a jury
trial will be extinguished; and (3) Plaintiff’s Business and Professions Code
section 17200 claims and negligent repair claims against defendant Mike
Thompson cannot be preserved in the state of Indiana. 
 
The state of Indiana has a choice of law clause,
which would apply in this case. It states the following: “If a transaction
bears a reasonable relation to Indiana and also to another state or nation, the
parties may agree that the law either of Indiana or of the other state or
nation shall govern their rights and duties.” (IN Code § 26-2-2-301 (2022).)
Defendant has agreed to apply California law in the state of Indiana. (Decl.
Roberson, ¶ 3.) 
 
Based on the above, the Court GRANTS the stay. 
 
 
 