  Case Number:  22PSCV02768    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Defendant
Doe 1 School District DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT FOR
DAMAGES is SUSTAINED (i.e., Negligence COAs are duplicative such that
there shall be one negligence COA for negligent hiring, retention and
supervision; demurrer to Sexual Battery COA is sustained without
leave to amend; to the extent that Defendant argues AB 218 is unconstitutional,
the court determines the Gifts Clause is not invoked). 
 
Background
 
This case pertains
to a sexual assault. Plaintiff Jennifer Parker (“Plaintiff”) alleges the
following against Defendant Doe 1 School District (“Defendant”). In 1984, when
she was a junior in high school, Plaintiff served as John Fernandez’s (“Perpetrator”
or “Fernandez”) teaching assistant. Throughout the year, the Perpetrator made
sexually inappropriate comments to Plaintiff. On one occasion, Plaintiff asked
another teacher at the high school what to do, but the teacher did not help nor
report the matter. Then, while alone in the classroom, the Perpetrator sexually
assaulted Plaintiff. However, despite informing the school, the incident was
not reported to law enforcement nor investigated. When Plaintiff’s mother acted,
Defendant again did not report the incident to law enforcement, but rather transferred
the Perpetrator to a different school. The premise of Plaintiff’s action is that
Defendant “failed to thoroughly investigate such complaint, and failed to
timely take corrective action, or to warn subsequent parents and students of
the risks posed by Perpetrator.” 
 
On December
9, 2022, Plaintiff filed suit for the following causes of action (“COA”): 1.     Negligence 2.     Negligent Supervision/Failure To Warn 3.     Negligent Hiring/Retention 4.     Negligent Failure To Warn, Train, Or
Educate Plaintiff 5.     Intentional Infliction Of Emotional
Distress 6.     Sexual Battery
 
On May 18,
2023, Defendant filed a demurrer, which on 6/27/23 (after taking the matter
under submission) issued the following rule: Defendant Doe 1 School District’s
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the
Negligent Causes of Action and OVERRULED as to the 5th Cause of Action for
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. As for 6th Cause of Action for
Sexual Battery, which the court took under submission, the court SUSTAINS the
Demurrer with leave to amend because Plaintiff has failed to plead a statute
such that the Court cannot adequately address the ratification issue. 
 
On July 24,
2023, Plaintiff filed her first amended complaint (FAC) alleging the following
COAs: 1.    
Negligence/Negligent
Supervision/Failure To Warn, Train Or Educate/Negligent Failure To Protect
Plaintiff 2.    
Negligent
Hiring, Retention, And Supervision Of Perpetrator 3.    
Intentional
Infliction Of Emotional Distress 4.    
Sexual
Battery
 
On August 25,
2023, Defendant filed a demurrer to the FAC. 
 
On September
15, 2023, Plaintiff filed her opposition. 
 
On September
20, 2023, Defendant filed its reply. 
 
On September
28, 2023, the court continued the hearing on the demurrer to the FAC for
Plaintiff’s failure to meet and confer with Defendant. 
 
On October 6,
2023, Defendant filed a declaration regarding the meet and confer effort. 
 
Legal
Standard[1]
 
A demurrer,
in pertinent part, may be asserted when the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action or when the pleading is uncertain
(“uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible). (Code of Civ. Proc., § 430.10
subds. (e), (f).) Accordingly, a demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading,
and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from
judicially noticeable matters.[2] (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)
 
Discussion[3]
 
Defendant demurs
on three grounds: (1) AB 218 Violates California Constitution, Article XVI, §
6, (2) Plaintiff has not identified a statutory duty of care for the negligence
COAs and are otherwise duplicative, and (3) Plaintiff’s sixth COA for sexual
battery is legally untenable. 
 
As the second
and third arguments were previously addressed by the court, the court will
first address those first.  
 
1.     Statutory Duty for the Negligence COAs

 
“Under the California Tort Claims Act (Gov. Code § 810
et seq.), ‘a public entity is not liable for injury arising from an act or
omission except as provided by statute.’ [Citations]. Thus, in California,
‘all government tort liability must be based on statute [citation].’ [Citation].
‘In the absence of a constitutional requirement,
public entities may be held liable only if a statute ... is found declaring
them to be liable.’” [Citation.] (Hoff v. Vacaville Unified School Dist. (1998)
19 Cal.4th 925, 932.)
 
Defendant again
argues that the negligence COAs fail to state a distinct statutory basis.
Plaintiff avers that liability is derived from Government Code section 815.2. 
 
Here, as
noted before, Government Code section 815.2 is the statute that provides for
liability (i.e., vicarious liability for injuries within the course and
scope of employment).[4]
To the extent that Defendant argues a statutory duty must also be pled,
it fails to provide legal authority to support that contention.[5]

 
Non-statutory
duties aside, Plaintiff has pled various duties including, inter alia, “Defendants
owed Plaintiff, a minor child, a special duty of care, in addition to a duty of
ordinary care, and owed Plaintiff the higher duty of care that adults dealing
with children owe to protect them from harm” and that by virtue of standing in loco
parentis Defendants also owed “a heightened duty of care towards Plaintiff
and Defendant failed to take reasonable steps to protect Plaintiff,” (FAC ¶27).

 
Thus, Plaintiff
has pled both a statutory basis for liability (Government Code §§ 815.2 and
820) and duties (e.g., special duty of care).[6]

 
Therefore, the
court OVERRULES the demurrer on the grounds that Plaintiff has not pled the
statutory basis for each negligence COAs. 
 
2.     Duplicity of Negligence COAs 
 
As with
before, Defendant asserts that the negligence COAs are “based on the same idea
– i.e., that the District had a duty to take reasonable measures to protect
Plaintiff from an employee it knew or should have known had a dangerous
propensity, which ultimately caused damage to Plaintiff” and thus, “one of them
should be dismissed.” (Demurrer pp. 22-23.) 
 
As with
before, the court again agrees with Defendant that the negligence COAs are
duplicative based upon the primary right theory.[7]
Previously, the court noted that Defendant’s alleged failures “affected one
primary right, and that Plaintiff’s right to be free from injury to her person.”
(June 27, 2023 Final Ruling.) And when the injuries violate the same
primary right, only one suit is allowed. (See Panos v. Great Western Packing
Co. (1943) 21 Cal.2d 636, 638-639.) Thus,
regardless of the number of legal theories which the complaint states, if there
is but one injury to a primary right, only one cause of action arises. (Lippert
v. Bailey (1966) 241 Cal. App.2d, 376, 382.) 
 
Here, though
Plaintiff attempts to draw a distinction between the District’s failure to
supervise, warn, and protect Plaintiff (1st COA) versus the
District’s failure in retaining and supervising Perpetrator (2nd
COA), the ultimate injury is the same: harm to Plaintiff. 
As with the opposition to the initial demurrer, Plaintiff does not
address the primary right’s theory. 
 
Therefore, the
court SUSTAINS the demurrer on the grounds of duplicity WITHOUT leave to amend.
There is to be one
negligence COA for negligent hiring, retention
and supervision. 
 
 
 
3.     Sexual Battery 
 
Previously, the
court sustained the demurrer as to this COA with leave to amend. Now, the court
sustains the demurrer as to the sexual battery COA without leave to amend. 
 
Though
Plaintiff provides various cases, none are instructive as they do not involve
schools. (See Opp. pp. 14, 15, citing C.R. v. Tenet Healthcare Corp.
(2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1110 [involved a medical center]; Murillo v.
Rite Stuff Foods, Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 833, 852 [involved employment
law]; Baptist v. Robinson (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 151, 169 [involved a
winery]; Rakestraw v. Rodrigues (1972) 8 Cal.3d 67, 73 [involved action by finance company and title insurance
company]; Roberts v. Ford Aero. & Communications Corp. (1990)
224 Cal.App.3d 793 [involved an employment action]; Greenfield v. Spectrum
Investment Corporation (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 111, 120 [Personal injury action brought against employer arising out of
intentional physical assault of customer by employee]. 
 
The distinction in where
the cases took case is key because the courts in C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861 and John R.
v. Oakland Unified School Dist. (1989) 43 Cal.3d 438 have already spoken on
a school district’s vicarious liability for misconduct of its
employees that are outside the scope of employment. Though admittedly Hart expanded public school districts' potential liability
from the John R. standard,[8] the Hart court
carefully noted that its decision continues the California practice established
in John R. of immunizing public-school districts
from vicarious liability for its employees' intentional sexual misconduct,
as emphasized by the focus on a negligent hiring, supervising, and retaining
claim.[9]  Thus, as binding
authority has provided immunity for vicarious liability for the intentional
conduct of school personnel based upon similar facts (i.e., allegations
that the district turned a blind eye to a school personnel’s sexual misconduct),
this court is unwilling and unable to contravene such a ruling by
holding otherwise via merely a different form of liability.
 
What is more, as
noted above, statutory authority is required for claims against a public
entity. Here, though the 4th COA is predicated upon 815.2, Government
Code sections 815.2 codifies the concept of vicarious liability, not
direct liability[10] nor ratification. Thus,
Plaintiff has not provided a statutory basis for liability for sexual battery. (See
also Demurrer p. 24.) 
 
Thus, absent allegations that school personnel (e.g., the principal Nero or Dean Pruitt) “voluntary
elected to adopt in some manner as his own an act which was purportedly done on
his behalf by another person, the effect of which, as to some or all persons,
is to treat the act as if originally authorized by him” (Rakestraw,
supra, 8 Cal.3d at p. 73), a sexual battery COA fails. 
 
Therefore, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the 4th COA
for sexual battery WITHOUT leave to amend.
 
In sum, at this point, one of the negligence COAs
is to be dismissed and as is the sexual battery COA. That leaves one negligence
COA and an IIED COA. With sufficient facts pled as the foregoing COAs, the
court will now turn to the constitutional issue. 
 
4.     Whether AB 218 Violates California
Constitution, Article XVI, § 6 
 
As a
prefatory matter, the court notes that as of October 10, 2023, AB 452 was
passed which eliminates the statute of limitations (“SOL”) for sexual assault
cases arising after January 1, 2024. 
 
Additionally,
the court acknowledges that the legislative
branch is entitled to deference from the courts because of the constitutional
separation of powers, meaning courts presume legislative is valid. (California
Chamber of Commerce v. State Air Resources Bd. (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 604,
651-652). That said, the separation of powers principles allows courts to
interpret statutes, leaving the legislature with the task of revising it as it
deems wise. (Huff v. Securitas Security Services USA, Inc. (2018) 23
Cal.App.5th 745.) 
 
Preliminary comments aside, the court now turns to Defendant’s argument
that AB 218 is unconstitutional as it violates the Gifts Clause.  
 
AB 218
 
In 2019, the
California Legislature passed Assembly Bill 218 (“AB 218”), which took effect
January 1, 2020, and made several significant changes to Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.1 (“CCP § 340.1”)—the statute of limitations for claims
of childhood sexual abuse. Among other things, the law revives all claims of
childhood sexual abuse not previously litigated to finality for a 3-year
period; it extends the SOL for such claims to 22 years after the age of
majority (or age 40); it authorizes treble damages for “cover ups”; and it
retroactively eliminates the protection previously afforded to public school
districts by Government Code section 905, subdivision (m), which provided a
bright-line rule that public entities could not be held liable for abuse claims
arising from conduct occurring prior to January 1, 2009. 
 
Specifically, the statute provides, in pertinent part, the following: 


In an action for recovery of damages suffered as a
result of childhood sexual assault, the time for commencement of the action
shall be within 22 years of the date the plaintiff attains the age of majority
or within five years of the date the plaintiff discovers or reasonably should
have discovered that psychological injury or illness occurring after the age of
majority was caused by the sexual assault, whichever period expires later . . .
(q) Notwithstanding any other law, a claim for damages described in
paragraphs (1) through (3), inclusive, of subdivision (a) that has not been
litigated to finality and that would otherwise be barred as of January 1, 2020,
because the applicable statute of limitations, claim presentation deadline, or
any other time limit had expired, is revived, and these claims may be commenced
within three years of January 1, 2020. A plaintiff shall have the later of the
three-year time period under this subdivision or the time period under
subdivision (a) as amended by the act that added this subdivision.
 
Defendant
argues that revival of the SOL does not also revive, or otherwise affect, the
Government Claim filing requirement.[11]
Unless there is an exception, compliance with the claim filing requirement is a
substantive element of a plaintiff’s cause of action against a public entity. Accordingly,
prior to 2020, Plaintiff’s claims (for events occurring in 1985) were subject
to the claim filing requirement. Effectively, Plaintiff’s failure to submit a
government claim results in the lack of an enforceable COA. In fact, the court
in Perez v. Roe 1 (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 171 struck down, as
unconstitutional, the Legislature’s attempt to revive all past claims for
childhood sexual abuse, even those that had been previously dismissed because
of an expired statute of limitations. (Demurrer p. 12.) Accordingly, with no
viable claim, the Legislature’s subsequent effort (via AB 218) to create
liability where there previously was none, constitutes an improper gift of
public funds and violates California Constitution, Article XVI, § 6 (the “Gifts
Clause”). (See generally Demurrer p. 11, citing Shirk v. Vista Unified
School District (2007) 42 Cal.4th 201, 210-212, DiCampli-Mintz v. Cnty.
of Santa Clara (2012) 55 Cal. 4th 983, 990. 
 
For reasons
to be discussed below, the court determines that the AB 218 does not invoke the
Gifts Clause. 
 
The Gift
Clause prohibits the Legislature from making “any gift or authorize the making
of any gift, or any public money or thing of value to any individual, municipal
or other corporation whatever.” (Cal. Const. Art. XVI, Sec. 6.)[12]
As observed by the state Supreme Court in Stevenson v. Colgan (1891) 91
Cal. 649: 
 
By these provisions of the constitution, there is denied to the
legislature the right to make direct appropriations to individuals
from general considerations of charity or gratitude, or because of some
supposed oral obligation resting upon the people of the state, and such as a
just and generous man, although under no legal liability so to do, might be
willing to recognize in his dealings with others. It was because of abuses
which had crept into legislation by reason of the unlimited power
theretofore exercised by the legislature in determining what individual claims
should be recognized by private statute, and to relieve in some degree
legislators from the importunities of persons interested in securing such
appropriations, that the power of the legislature was thus limited by the
present constitution of this state. (Id. at p. 651, italics added.)[13] 
 
This focus on gift and extra compensation prohibitions of
the constitution was not arbitrarily read into the state Constitution. “The
most important changes made in the new constitution centered around the power
of the legislature and the position it should occupy. As previously stated,
there had been much opposition to and fear of previous legislature . . .
Interesting debates took place on the question of prohibition of the extension
of state credit, the prohibition of grants to religious societies
by the Legislature and sub-divisions of the State, and on the capacity of the
Legislature to provide for orphan and old folks' home.” (Sargent, The
California Constitutional Convention of 1878-9, 6 Cal.L.Rev. 1, 8-9,
italics added.) Article IV, section 32 (now art. XVI, section 6) was to prevent the arbitrary payment to
individuals “who were constantly asking the legislature to consider their
misfortunes in pity, and regard them as deserving subjects of public
benevolence.” (Miller v. Dunn (1887) 72 Cal.462, 468.) Hence, lobbying was
made a felony both as to the lobbyist and guilty legislator. (Id. at
p. 10.) Not only was the distrust of legislative largesse a concern in the
convention of 1879, but of the country’s constitution. “When the Americans set
up their new, independent government, they brought an original attitude towards
offices and gifts which separated them from Europe. Gifts, which were part
of European diplomatic culture, were recast as corrupt influences. And
offices were viewed with fear of their corrupting power, given the examples of
Europe. The ‘corner-stone’ of the new Constitution, according to one delegate,
was the provision designed to prevent lucrative offices from being sold and
traded for political power.” (Zephyr Teachout, Gifts, Offices, And Corruption, 107 NW. U. L. REV. COLLOQUY 30 (2012), italics added.) Thus,
whether the state constitution or the federal constitution, both contain a
“structural commitment to fighting corruption.” (Ibid, italics
added.) 
 
With that backdrop, the Gifts
Clause can be reasonably interpreted as an anti-corruption clause, but
Defendant has not provided an argument nor analysis as to how AB 218—which
merely simply provides Plaintiff and those similarly situated with a forum to
come forward and face their abusers (RJN Ex. 4, p. 28 of 160 of PDF)—amounts to
corruption (e.g., giving of a gift for a self-serving benefit of a legislator). Absent such a
showing, the court need not reach Defendant’s other arguments related to this
issue (e.g., creation of liability when none existed).  
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer is SUSTAINED in so far as one of the negligence COAs is
dismissed and the sexual battery COA is dismissed.  
 


