


[1] Upon review of the
meet and confer letter and response, the court determines the parties met and
conferred in good faith.  
 


[2] As neither party’s RJN provides binding authority,
the court declines to take judicial notice. 
That said, pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, the court takes
judicial notice of Plaintiff’s Exhibits 1-5 as they are official acts or
reports of the California Legislature in connection with the enactment of
Assembly Bill 218 during the 2019-2020 Legislative Session. 
 


[3] Aside from the
constitutional argument, much of the arguments and cited cases are similar to
the demurrer to the original complaint. Therefore, if the party does not engage
in a thorough analysis as to this instant demurrer, the court directs the
parties to the court’s previous final ruling. 
 


[4]  “A public entity is liable for injury
proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from
this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his
personal representative.”
 


[5] While Government Code section 815.6 provides that a public
entity may be found liable when it is under a mandatory duty imposed by an
“enactment” that serves the purpose of protecting against a specific risk, the
complaint is not largely predicated upon a mandatory duty. (Only mandatory duty
alleged is mandatory reporting (FAC ¶22.)) Plus, a breach of a
statutorily imposed duty owed by the entity to the injured party is required
for direct claims (see William S. Hart, 53 Cal.4th at p. 867),
here, however, the basis for liability against the district is vicarious
liability, as evidenced by citation to Government Code section 815.2. 
 


[6] The Reply does not
address Government Code sections 815.2 and 820, though raised by Plaintiff in
opposition, suggesting this requirement is met. 
 


[7] See previous ruling
for in-depth discussion. 
 


[8]
In John R., the court narrowly focused on public school
districts' vicarious liability for sexual abuse committed by teachers. (Id. at 949 (“The principal question before us is
whether the school district that employed the teacher can be held vicariously
liable for the teacher's acts [of sexual misconduct] under the doctrine of
respondeat superior.”). In comparison, the William S. Hart court
focused more broadly on school districts' potential liability for the negligent
supervision of all administrative or
supervisory school district employees. (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union Sch. Dist., 270 P.3d 699, 701-02 (Cal. 2012) (“On
review, the question presented is whether the District may be found vicariously
liable for the acts of its employees... not for the acts of the counselor,
which were outside the scope of her employment... but for the negligence of
supervisory or administrative personnel.”).
 


[9] (Hart, 53
Cal.4th at p. 878 [“and have followed John R.'s suggestion
that these remedial goals are best addressed “by holding school districts to
the exercise of due care” in their administrators' and supervisors' “selection
of [instructional] employees and the close monitoring of their conduct,” rather
than by making districts vicariously liable for the intentional sexual
misconduct of teachers and other employees.”].)  
 


[10] Id. at p. 874
[“As no statute made a public entity liable for
this type of negligence, no direct liability could be established under section
815.”].)  


[11] “The intent of the [Tort Claims Act] is not to expand
the rights of plaintiffs in suits against governmental entities, but to confine
potential governmental liability to rigidly delineated circumstances.”
(Demurrer p. 13, quoting Zelig v. Cnty. of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.
4th 1112, 1127–28.) 


[12] The
term ‘gift’ in the constitutional provision ‘includes all appropriations of
public money for which there is no authority or enforceable
claim,’ even if there is a moral or equitable obligation.” (Jordan v.
Department of Motor Vehicles (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 431, 450 [quoting Conlin
v. Board of Supervisors (1893) 99 Cal. 17, 21-22].) 
 


[13] As Stevenson was decided in 1891, twelve years
after the Convention of 1879, the court discussed Article 4, Sections 31 and 32 of the California Constitution, which
is the substantive equivalent of article XVI, section 6 (‘Public Finance’). Though the use of
the word “direct” appropriations to individuals has been removed, the focus on
“individuals” remains. The Reply does not address Stevenson, though
raised (tersely) by Plaintiff in Opposition. (Opp. p. 7.)  
 

