 Case Number:  24TRCV01108    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  8  Tentative RulingHEARING DATE: October 10, 2024CASE NUMBER: 24TRCV01108CASE NAME: Rosario Marcela Rivera Santos v. General Motors LLC, et al.MOVING PARTY: Defendant, General Motors, LLCRESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Rosario Marcela Rivera SantosTRIAL DATE: Not Set.MOTION: (1) Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One(2) Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One(3) Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One.(4) Request for Monetary SanctionsTentative Rulings: (1) MOOTED.(2) MOOTED.(3) MOOTED.(4) DENIED.I. BACKGROUNDA. FactualOn April 2, 2024, Plaintiff, Rosario Marcela Rivera Santos (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant General Motors (“GM”) and DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; and (3) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act § 1793.2.On August 5, 2024, GM served Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One on Plaintiff. Per his opposition papers, on September 23, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel became aware that the calendaring department had inadvertently mis-calendared the deadlines for responding to Defendant’s discovery request. Upon discovering that error, Plaintiff’s counsel promptly served the appropriate responses to Defendant on the same day. On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel notes that he attempted to meet and confer with Defendant’s counsel in order to preserve Plaintiff’s objections and claims of privilege in the responses to the discovery requests, noting that the allegedly Code-compliant responses were served promptly upon the discovery of the inadvertent mis-calendaring.Plaintiff also asserted that he requested that Defendant withdraw its discovery motions, as the motions became moot following Plaintiff’s service of its responses. However, Plaintiff’s counsel contends that Defendant’s counsel refused, no doubt due in some part to the contentiousness that has accompanied plaintiff’s discovery motions filed against Defendant.B. ProceduralOn September 9, 2024, Defendant GM filed Motions to Compel Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed opposition briefs. To date, no reply brief has been filed.II. ANALYSISAs noted by the opposition brief, on September 23, 2024, Plaintiff’s attorney late-served responses to GM’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One. As such, the Court finds that GM’s motions to compel an initial response are mooted by the serving of responses prior to the hearing on these motions. “If a part to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: (a) The party to whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under section 2030.230, as well as any objections to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product…” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) However, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (a), “[t]he court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with section 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and 2030.240; [and] (2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a)(1), (2).)Here, the pending motions were filed before any responses were served and before any objections were asserted. Further, this Court notes that Plaintiff’s opposition asserts that Defendant’s counsel failed to sufficiently meet and confer in good faith. However, as this is a motion to compel INITIAL responses, any meet and confer effort was not required.The Court determines that the motion to compel an initial response to the interrogatories and document demands has been MOOTED by Plaintiff’s service of belated written responses. The issue of waived objections or relief from any such waiver may be addressed in a future motion, unless the parties can resolve those issues by meeting and conferring as to the same. The Court thus encourages the parties to stipulate to extend the time to bring a motion to compel FURTHER responses, to meet and confer on resolving the objections and any assertion GM may have of claimed insufficient substantive responses, and to attempt to narrow the remaining issues if any requiring the court’s assistance in resolving.SanctionsGM has also requested monetary sanctions in bringing their motion. Sanctions are generally awarded in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel. (Code Civ. Proc. Sections 2030.290(c),2030.300(d),2031.300(c), and 2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are not mandatory if the Court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”(Id.)The Court notes that in each of its moving papers, GM includes a section stating that the court is required to impose monetary sanctions absent specified findings. However, nowhere in the moving papers or moving declarations does GM assert the amount of monetary sanctions requested. As such, at this time, the Court denies monetary sanctions.III. CONCLUSIONFor the foregoing reasons, this court finds that GM’s motions to compel Plaintiff’s initial responses are MOOTED. Further, at this time, GM’s request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.Unless waived, Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice.