  Case Number:  22TRCV01219    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling    HEARING DATE:                 October 10, 2024    CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV01219 CASE NAME:                        Jane Doe 1, et al v. Palos Verdes  Peninsula Unified School District, et al.   MOVING PARTY:                Attorneys for  Plaintiffs, Jane Doe 1, Jane Doe 2, Jane Doe 3, Jane Doe 4, and Jane Doe 5   RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Palos Verdes Peninsula Unified School District (No Opposition)     TRIAL DATE:                          January 27, 2025    MOTION:                             (1) Application  for Kevin J. Keane to appear Counsel Pro Hac Vice      Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED     I. BACKGROUND    A.     Factual   On November 14, 2022,  Plaintiffs, Jane Doe 1, Jane Doe 2,  Jane Doe 3, Jane Doe 4, and Jane Doe 5 (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a  complaint against Defendants, Defendant Doe School District (“Defendant”), and  Defendant DOES 2 through 100. On April 11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended  Complaint (“FAC”). On July 18, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended  Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent  Supervision/Failure to Warn; and (3) Negligent Retention/Hiring.     Counsel  for Plaintiffs now file a Motion to allow Kevin J. Keane, Esq. to Appear as  Counsel Pro Hac Vice.    B. Procedural    On September 17, 2024,  Attorneys for Plaintiffs submitted an Application for Kevin J. Keane to be  admitted as counsel pro hac vice for Plaintiffs, Jane Doe 1, Jane Doe 2, Jane  Doe 3, Jane Doe 4, and Jane Doe 5. To date, no opposition has been filed.       II. ANALYSIS   A.     Legal  Standard   To be  eligible for admission pro hac vice, the applicant must be admitted to  practice before a U.S. court or the highest court of any state or territory,  must not be a California resident, must be associated with a member of the  California bar, must have noticed the California State Bar in San Francisco at  least 21 calendar days before the hearing, and must have paid $50.00 to the  State Bar. Further, pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 the moving  papers must state: (1) The applicant's residence and office address; (2) The  courts to which he has been admitted to practice and the dates of such  admission; (3) That the applicant is a member in good standing in those courts;  (4) That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;  (5) The title of the court and cause in which he has filed an application to  appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years,  the date of such application and whether or not it was granted; and (6) The  name, address and telephone number of the active member of the State Bar of  California who is attorney of record.   B.      Discussion    On review  of the moving papers, the Court finds that Attorneys for Plaintiffs have  sufficiently shown that Kevin J. Keane is admitted to practice in good standing  before at least one U.S. Court (Declaration of Kevin J. Keane (“Keane Decl.”),  ¶ 3.) Plaintiffs’ attorneys have also included the dates of admission. (Keane  Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiffs counsel also notes that Keane is associated with an  attorney of record who is a member of the California Bar. (Keane Decl., ¶ 6;  Declaration of Jenifer R. Liakos (“Liakos Decl.”), ¶ 1.) Further, the moving  papers affirm that Keane has noticed the California State Bar along with paying  the associated $50 State Bar fee. (Liakos Decl., ¶ 2.) Lastly, Keane has  provided both his office address, and resident address. (Keane Decl., ¶ 2.)  Because Counsel for Plaintiffs have met the requirements, the Court grants the  instant motion.    III. CONCLUSION     For the foregoing reasons, Attorney for Plaintiffs Motion for  Approval of Kevin J. Keane to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED. Moving party is ordered to  give notice.  