 Case Number:  22STCV21799C    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


November
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV21799C




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment to the Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Susan Ahn and Serrano & Sixth, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs
  3800 West Sixth Street, LLC and Leo Lee



 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs 3800
West Sixth Street, LLC (“3800 West Sixth”) and Leo Lee (“Lee,” collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Susan Ahn (“Ahn”), Serrano
& Sixth, LLC (“Serrano,” collectively, Defendants), and Steven C. Kim (“Kim”),
asserting causes of action for misappropriation of trade secrets, breach of
fiduciary duty, unfair competition, and interference with prospective economic
advantage.  Kim is an attorney, and
Plaintiffs allege they hired him to serve as counsel to advise them regarding assembling
certain parcels of property in the Koreatown area of Los Angeles. (First
Amended Complaint, ¶ 6.)  With Kim’s
assistance, Plaintiffs acquired numerous parcels for a total purchase price of
approximately $34 million. (Id., ¶ 7.)  After Plaintiffs acquired the last parcel, a
dispute arose between Plaintiffs and a tenant of the property, and Kim continued
to represent Plaintiffs.  (Id., ¶
8.)  Because Kim represented Plaintiffs, Kim
was aware of Plaintiffs’ plans to develop the assembled parcel, including the
permitting, structural upgrades, and utility upgrades that were to take place.
(Id., ¶ 9.)  Further, Kim learned Plaintiffs
would require the “undergrounding” of electrical wires that traversed Defendants’
property.  (Id., ¶ 10.)
Kim represented
Plaintiffs in discussions with Defendants to obtain Defendants’ consent for the
undergrounding, and billed Plaintiffs 2.3 hours for these discussions with Defendants
and Ahn’s pastor.  (First Amended Complaint,
¶ 10.)  Subsequently, Kim agreed to
represent Defendants in negotiations concerning the placement of the utility
wires.  (Id., ¶ 13.)  Plaintiffs allege Kim violated the California
Rules of Professional Conduct by representing Defendants, including rule 1.7 by
simultaneously representing two clients with adverse interests and, even if Kim
had terminated his representation of Plaintiffs before representing Defendants,
he violated rule 1.9 by not obtaining Plaintiffs’ informed written consent.  (Id., ¶¶ 17-18.)  
Defendants
cross-complained against Plaintiffs for trespass to land.  Defendants now move for summary judgment on
their cross-complaint.  Plaintiffs oppose
the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
EVIDENCE
             Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections Nos. 1 and
2 to the declaration of Paul Park are sustained.  Plaintiffs’ other evidentiary objections are
overruled.[1]
DISCUSSION
Trespass to Land
            To
prevail on their cause of action for trespass to land, Defendants must show:
(1) Defendants’ ownership or control of the property; (2) Plaintiffs’ intentional,
reckless, or negligent entry onto the property; (3) Defendants did not give Plaintiffs
permission to enter the property, or Plaintiffs exceeded the scope of
permission; (4) Defendants were harmed by the trespass; and (5) the trespass
was a substantial factor in causing Defendants’ harm.  (Ralphs Grocery Company v. Victory
Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262.)  
In the cross-complaint,
Defendants allege Plaintiffs “used [a] forged easement to intentionally enter
the [Defendants’] Property, without [Defendants’] consent, and performed
excavation and construction work on the property to the disruption of its
tenants.” (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 22.)  In
support of their motion, Defendants present Ahn’s declaration wherein she  states she learned of unauthorized
construction and excavation on her property in October 2019, and she hired
attorneys to send letters to Plaintiffs regarding their trespass on her
property.  (Declaration of Susan Ahn, ¶¶
4, 5; Index of Exhibits in Support of Cross-Complainants Motion for Summary
Judgment (Index), Exhibits 2, 3, 4.)  Defendants
also offer three documents that purportedly granted Plaintiffs the right to
enter Defendants’ property.  The
documents bear Ahn’s signatures, but Ahn states the signatures are
forgeries.  (Ahn Decl., ¶¶ 6, 7; Index,
Exhibits 5, 6, 7.) 
However,
Defendants do not address the amount of damages they seek.  Defendants cannot obtain judgment on a trespass
cause of action in an amount of damages to be determined later because the
statutory language in Code of Civil Procedure section 437 does not provide for partial
summary judgment or summary adjudication as to liability only.  (See, e. g., Paramount Petroleum Corp. v.
Superior Court (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 226, 241-243 [in context of a breach
of contract claim, which has damages as an element, a party cannot obtain
summary judgment or summary adjudication in an amount of damages to be
determined later].) 
In any event, in
that Defendants have not set forth the damages they have sustained, they have
not satisfied their “burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of
material fact and that [they are] entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c)
[“The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted
show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law].)[2]
Accordingly, the
motion for summary judgment is denied.  
Defendants are ordered to give notice of the
Court’s order and to file proof of service of same.
 


