 Case Number:  23STCV27311    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


November 14, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV27311




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Teresita Mahayag Teichman




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendants Farivar Gouhari, Eric D. Beck, and Mag Estate
  Property LLC



 
MOTION
Plaintiff Teresita
Mahayag Teichmann (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Farivar Gouhari, Eric D. Beck,
and Mag Estate Property LLC (“Defendants”), alleging tenant harassment.  Plaintiff moves the court for an order
granting her trial preference due to her age and poor health pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivisions (a) and (e).  Defendants oppose the
motion.  
ANALYSIS
Code of Civil
Procedure section 36 (section 36) provides, in part: “A party to a civil action
who is over 70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the
court shall grant if the court makes both of the following findings: (1) The
party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole. [and]  (2) The health of the party is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party's interest in the
litigation.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a)(1)(2).)  In addition, Section 36, subdivision (e)
states: “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the court may in its
discretion grant a motion for preference that is supported by a showing that
satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served by granting
this preference.”
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 36.5, “An affidavit submitted in support of a motion
for preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by the
attorney for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief as
to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.” (See also Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th
529, 534 [“a motion under subdivision (a) [of section 36] may be supported by
nothing more than an attorney’s declaration ‘based upon information and belief as
to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party’”].)  However, “[a]dmissible evidence is still
required as to the party's age (e.g., declarations by party or
admissible records showing he or she is over 70).  The attorney's declaration is not sufficient
for this purpose.”  (Weil & Brown,
Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2024) ¶
12:247.3, italics in original.)
In the instant
case, Plaintiff is 75 years old. 
Plaintiff has scoliosis, which impacts her posture and walking and
arthritis, which causes pain in her joints. 
(See Declaration of Teresita Mahayag Teichmann, ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff also indicates her deposition on
August 27, 2024 was stressful, and she is worried the litigation will worsen
her health.  (Id., at ¶¶ 32, 33.)  But this evidence fails to demonstrate
Plaintiff’s health necessitates trial preference.  For example, while Plaintiff establishes Plaintiff
has medical conditions, she has not explained how they impact her participation
in this litigation.  
Plaintiff also
advances the declaration of her counsel, Andres Rapoport (“Counsel”) who states
“[h]aving to litigate three separate actions with her landlord at her advanced
age has left [Plaintiff] diminished”; and Plaintiff is “tired, physically and
emotionally drained, and her memory has begun to decline . . . ,” although “there
are days where her memory is sharp and reliable, and there are days that she
struggles to recount the chronology and details of events from the last couple
of years as accurately as she once could.” 
(Declaration of Andres Rapoport, ¶¶ 6-7.)  Counsel’s declaration establishes Plaintiff
experiences stress and is overwhelmed by the pending litigation, which any
litigant might experience.  
As such, Counsel’s
testimony has also not established preference is necessary to protect
Plaintiff’s interests in this litigation nor that the interests of justice
require preference.  Accordingly, the
Court denies the motion, but without prejudice to its renewal to the extent Plaintiff
is able to address the matters the Court notes above.  
Plaintiff is to
give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 