  Case Number:  22STCV21799A    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


November
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV21799A




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Susan Ahn and Serrano & Sixth, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs
  3800 West Sixth Street, LLC and Leo Lee



 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs 3800
West Sixth Street, LLC (“3800 West Sixth”) and Leo Lee (“Lee,” collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Susan Ahn (“Ahn”), Serrano
& Sixth, LLC (“Serrano,” collectively, Defendants), and Steven C. Kim (“Kim”),
asserting causes of action for misappropriation of trade secrets, breach of
fiduciary duty, unfair competition, and interference with prospective economic
advantage.  Kim is an attorney, and
Plaintiffs allege they hired him to serve as counsel to advise them regarding assembling
certain parcels of property in the Koreatown area of Los Angeles. (First
Amended Complaint, ¶ 6.)  With Kim’s
assistance, Plaintiffs acquired numerous parcels for a total purchase price of
approximately $34 million. (Id., ¶ 7.)  After Plaintiffs acquired the last parcel, a
dispute arose between Plaintiffs and a tenant of the property, and Kim continued
to represent Plaintiffs.  (Id., ¶
8.)  Because Kim represented Plaintiffs, Kim
was aware of Plaintiffs’ plans to develop the assembled parcel, including the
permitting, structural upgrades, and utility upgrades that were to take place.
(Id., ¶ 9.)  Further, Kim learned Plaintiffs
would require the “undergrounding” of electrical wires that traversed Defendants’
property.  (Id., ¶  10.)
Kim represented
Plaintiffs in discussions with Defendants to obtain Defendants’ consent for the
undergrounding, and billed Plaintiffs 2.3 hours for these discussions with Defendants
and Ahn’s pastor.  (First Amended Complaint,
¶ 10.)  Subsequently, Kim agreed to
represent Defendants in negotiations concerning the placement of the utility
wires.  (Id., ¶ 13.)  Plaintiffs allege Kim violated the California
Rules of Professional Conduct by representing Defendants, including rule 1.7 by
simultaneously representing two clients with adverse interests and, even if Kim
had terminated his representation of Plaintiffs before representing Defendants,
he violated rule 1.9 by not obtaining Plaintiffs’ informed written consent. (Id.,
¶¶ 17-18.)  
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision(f)(1)
permits a party to move for summary adjudication “a to one or more causes of
action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims
for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause
of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim of damages, . . . or that  one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. 
A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely
disposes of  cause of action, an
affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”   
EVIDENCE
             Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections Nos. 1 and
2 to the declaration of Paul Park are sustained.  Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections No. 5 to
the declaration of Susan Ahn is sustained.  Plaintiffs’ other evidentiary objections are
overruled.[1]
DISCUSSION
First Cause of Action: Misappropriation
of Trade Secrets
            To
prevail on the cause of action for misappropriation of trade secrets,
Plaintiffs must show: (1) They owned a trade secret; (2) Defendants acquired,
disclosed, or used Plaintiffs’ trade secret through improper means; and (3) Defendants’
actions damaged Plaintiffs.  (Cal. Civ.
Code § 3426.1; Sargent Fletcher, Inc. v. Able Corp. (2003) 110
Cal.App.4th 1658, 1665.)  Civil Code
section 3426.1(section 3426.1), subdivision (d) defines a “trade secret” as
“information, including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device,
method, technique, or process, that: (1) derives independent economic value,
actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to other
persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2) is
the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain
its secrecy.”  
In the first
amended complaint, Plaintiffs allege Kim disclosed trade secrets to Defendants,
including “the value of the project, the amounts already expended or committed
to the assemblage of land, and the need for access to adjoining properties in
order to run utility cables needed for the project.”  (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 24.)  Specifically, Plaintiffs allege Kim “used or
disclosed to [Defendants] Plaintiffs’ need to run utility cables beneath the
Ahn Property and that Plaintiff had no other viable alternatives to run utility
cables if Ahn failed to cooperate.” (Id., ¶ 27.)  Defendants argue Plaintiffs cannot prevail on
the cause of action for misappropriation of trade secrets because Kim did not
disclose any trade secrets to Defendants. 
In support of their
contention, Defendants submit Ahn’s declaration, wherein Ahn avers she learned
of Plaintiffs’ plans to run utility cables underneath her property in October
2019, before Ahn hired Kim, and she hired other attorneys to send letters to
Plaintiffs regarding their trespass on Ahn’s property before hiring Kim.  (Declaration of Susan Ahn, ¶ 15; Appendix of
Exhibits in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment (Appendix), Exhibits 10, 11,
12.)   With such evidence, Defendants have met their
burden of showing Plaintiffs cannot prevail on their cause of action for
misappropriation of trade secrets because Defendants did not obtain any such trade
secrets.  Defendants, therefore, have shifted
the burden to Plaintiffs to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether
Plaintiffs can prevail on this claim.
In opposition,
Plaintiffs argue an irrebuttable presumption arises that Kim used confidential
information he obtained from Plaintiffs in his representation of Defendants.  As Plaintiffs point out, a presumption the
client disclosed confidences arises from the existence of an attorney-client
relationship.  (People ex rel.
Deukmejian v. Brown (1981) 29 Cal.3d 150, 156.)  This presumption does not, however, excuse
Plaintiffs from having to show Defendants obtained information that constitutes
a trade secret; Defendants disclosed that trade secret; and Plaintiffs
sustained damages as a result.
Plaintiffs advance
Lee’s declaration in which Lee states, “[Plaintiffs] explained to Kim the
importance of access to Ahn’s Property to underground the utility lines and
asked him to draft an agreement that was as simple as possible to minimize the
chance that Ahn would back out if she saw a complex document.  Kim provided an initial draft in March 2018,
and then revised it at [Plaintiffs’] request in May 2018 to add a provision
that would allow shoring to be constructed on the Ahn property.  Again with the amendment, [Plaintiffs] had to
explain to Defendant why [Plaintiffs] needed the agreement and, with respect to
the revision, why shoring was necessary. 
Ahn ultimately refused to sign it.” 
(Declaration of Leo Lee, ¶ 9.) 
Plaintiffs contend “how badly [Plaintiffs] needed that easement” for the
underground utility lines to cross Ahn’s property constitutes a trade
secret.  (Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in Support of Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment, p.
12.)  It does not.  
Plaintiffs’ need
for the underground utility lines to cross Ahn’s property does not fall under the
definition of a trade secret as related in section 3426.1.  That provision defines a “trade secret” as
“information, including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device,
method, technique, or process . . . .”  (Civ.
Code, § 3426.1, subd. (d).)  A trade
secret is not “simply information as to single or ephemeral events in the
conduct of the business, as, for example, the amount or other terms of a secret
bid for a contract or the salary of certain employees, or the security
investments made or contemplated, or the date fixed for the announcement of a
new policy or for bringing out a new model or the like.  A trade secret is a process or device for
continuous use in the operation of the business.”  (Cal Francisco Inv. Corp. v. Vrionis
(1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 318, 322, internal quotations omitted.)  Plaintiffs fail to raise triable issues of
material fact as to whether Plaintiffs can prevail on the first cause of action
for misappropriation of trade secrets. 
Thus, the Court grants Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication concerning
it.
Third Cause of Action: Unfair Competition
In support of their
cause of action for unfair competition, Plaintiffs allege, “By exploiting
confidential information of Plaintiffs in order to extort an exorbitant payment
from Plaintiffs for the right to install subterranean utility lines across the
Ahn property, Defendants engaged in a business practice that was unfair,
unlawful and fraudulent.”  (First Amended
Complaint, ¶ 37.)  
Defendants advance
Ahn’s declaration wherein Ahn states she and Lee agreed to all material terms
of the purchase agreement between Lee and Ahn and Serrano without Kim’s involvement.  (Declaration of Susan Ahn, ¶¶ 8-9.)  Although, Defendants have provided no
contemporaneous documents to corroborate their position, and only relies on the
timing when Ahn first met Kim and hired him and when the purchase agreement was
signed, her testimony satisfies Defendants’ burden of showing Plaintiffs cannot
prevail on their claim for unfair competition because it suggests Defendants’
unfair competition, if any, did not cause damage to Plaintiffs.  Defendants shift the burden to Plaintiffs to
raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiffs sustained
damages such that Plaintiffs can prevail on this claim.
Plaintiffs again
point to Lee’s declaration.  Lee counters
by asserting he and Ahn did not agree to the purchase price prior to Kim’s
involvement.  (Declaration of Leo Lee, ¶
14.)  Plaintiffs also do not present any contemporaneous
documents in support of this contention. 
Nonetheless, such evidence is sufficient to raise a triable issue of
material fact as to whether Plaintiffs sustained damages due to Defendants’
unfair competition, and the trier of fact is to make that determination.  
Fourth Cause of Action: Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage
In opposing
Defendants’ motion challenging their claim for intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage against Defendants, Plaintiffs concede they
cannot state such a claim.  (Memorandum
of Points and Authorities in Support of Opposition to Motion for Summary
Judgment, p. 14.)  The Court, therefore,
grants the motion for summary adjudication of the fourth cause of action
against Defendants, as stipulated.
Lack of Standing
            Defendants
purport to move for summary adjudication of the issue of whether 3800 West
Sixth lacks standing. This is not a proper issue for summary adjudication.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1) [“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages”].) 
Federal Preemption
Defendants argue
the Uniform Trade Secrets Act preempts Plaintiffs’ third and fourth causes of
action.  The Uniform Trade Secrets Act
preempts common law claims based on the same nucleus of facts as a misappropriation
of trade secrets claim.  (See K.C.
Multimedia, Inc. v. Bank of America Technology & Operations, Inc.
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 939, 955-959.)  However, as this Court noted in its ruling on the
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ original complaint, there is only preemption when the
information is, in fact, a trade secret.  (See December 6, 2022 Minute Order.)  As set forth above, the information at issue
is not a trade secret.  As such,
preemption is inapplicable.  
Unclean Hands
Defendants contend
unclean hands bar all of Plaintiffs’ claims. 
For that bar to be applicable, Defendants must show Plaintiffs engaged
in conduct that was unconscionable, in bad faith, or inequitable in connection
with the matter in controversy, and it would, therefore, be inequitable for the
Court to provide relief to Plaintiffs.  (Fladeboe
v. Amer. Isuzu Motors Inc. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 42, 56.)  
Defendants point
to two documents Plaintiffs asserted granted Plaintiffs the right to enter Defendants’
property.  The documents purport to bear
Ahn’s signatures, but Ahn states the signatures on them are forgeries.  (Ahn Decl., ¶¶ 16-17; Appendix, Exhibits 13,
14.)  If Plaintiffs forged Ahn’s
signature to attempt to gain access to Ahn’s property without payment, the
doctrine of unclean hands would bar Plaintiffs from any recovery in this
action.  Defendants, therefore, have
shifted the burden to Plaintiffs to raise triable issues of material fact as to
whether unclean hands bar Plaintiffs’ recovery.
In opposition,
Plaintiffs again rely on Lee’s testimony. 
Lee states he paid a real estate agent, John Rhee (“Rhee”), to negotiate
with Ahn the terms reflected in these documents; he paid Rhee $290,000 to
obtain Ahn’s consent to the documents; and he assumed Rhee paid a substantial
portion of those funds to Ahn in exchange for her agreement.  (Lee Decl., ¶ 17.)  If Plaintiffs did not forge Ahn’s signature
or did not know her signature was not genuine, Plaintiffs do not have unclean
hands.  This evidence raises triable
issues of material fact as to whether unclean hands bar Plaintiffs’ recovery in
this case.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is
denied.  Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication of the third cause of action in Plaintiffs’ first amended
complaint is denied.  Defendants’ motion
for summary adjudication of the first and fourth causes of action in
Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint is granted.
Defendants are ordered to give notice of the
Court’s order and to file proof of service of same.
 


