 Case Number:  22STCV21799B    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


November
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV21799B




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Steven C. Kim




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs
  3800 West Sixth Street, LLC and Leo Lee



 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs 3800
West Sixth Street, LLC (“3800 West Sixth”) and Leo Lee (“Lee,” collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Steven C. Kim (“Defendant”), Susan Ahn
(“Ahn”), and Serrano & Sixth, LLC (“Serrano”) asserting causes of action
for misappropriation of trade secrets, breach of fiduciary duty, unfair
competition, and interference with prospective economic advantage.  Defendant is an attorney, and Plaintiffs allege
they hired him to serve as counsel to advise them regarding assembling certain
parcels of property in the Koreatown area of Los Angeles. (First Amended Complaint,
¶ 6.)  With Defendant’s assistance,
Plaintiffs acquired numerous parcels for a total purchase price of
approximately $34 million. (Id., ¶ 7.)  After Plaintiffs acquired the last parcel, a
dispute arose between Plaintiffs and a tenant of the property, and Defendant continued
to represent Plaintiffs.  (Id., ¶
8.)  Because Defendant represented
Plaintiffs, Defendant was aware of Plaintiffs’ plans to develop the assembled
parcel, including the permitting, structural upgrades, and utility upgrades
that were to take place. (Id., ¶ 9.)  Further, Defendant learned Plaintiffs would
require the “undergrounding” of electrical wires that traversed Ahn’s property.
 (Id., ¶ 10.)
Defendant
represented Plaintiffs in discussions with Ahn to obtain her consent for the
undergrounding, and billed Plaintiffs 2.3 hours for these discussions with Ahn
and her pastor.  (First Amended Complaint,
¶ 10.)  Subsequently, Defendant agreed to
represent Ahn and Serrano in negotiations concerning the placement of the
utility wires.  (Id., ¶ 13.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendant violated the
California Rules of Professional Conduct by representing Ahn and Serrano,
including rule 1.7 by simultaneously representing two clients with adverse
interests and, even if Defendant had terminated his representation of
Plaintiffs before representing Ahn, he violated rule 1.9 by not obtaining
Plaintiffs’ informed written consent. (Id., ¶¶ 17-18.)  
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision(f)(1)
permits a party to move for summary adjudication “a to one or more causes of
action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims
for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause
of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim of damages, . . . or that  one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. 
A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely
disposes of  cause of action, an
affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”   
EVIDENCE
             Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections Nos. 15, 16,
19, 20, 21, 22 to Defendant’s declaration are sustained.  Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections No. 5 to
the declaration of Susan Ahn’s declaration is sustained.  Plaintiffs’ other evidentiary objections are
overruled.[1]
DISCUSSION
First Cause of Action: Misappropriation
of Trade Secrets
            To
prevail on the cause of action for misappropriation of trade secrets,
Plaintiffs must show: (1) They owned a trade secret; (2) Defendant acquired,
disclosed, or used Plaintiffs’ trade secret through improper means; and (3) Defendant’s
actions damaged Plaintiffs.  (Cal. Civ.
Code § 3426.1; Sargent Fletcher, Inc. v. Able Corp. (2003) 110
Cal.App.4th 1658, 1665.)  Civil Code
section 3426.1(section 3426.1), subdivision (d) defines a “trade secret” as
“information, including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device,
method, technique, or process, that: (1) derives independent economic value,
actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to other
persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2) is
the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain
its secrecy.”  
In the first
amended complaint, Plaintiffs allege Defendant disclosed trade secrets to Ahn,
including “the value of the project, the amounts already expended or committed
to the assemblage of land, and the need for access to adjoining properties in
order to run utility cables needed for the project.”  (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 24.)  Specifically, Plaintiffs allege Defendant “used
or disclosed to Ahn and Serrano Plaintiffs’ need to run utility cables beneath
the Ahn Property and that Plaintiffs had no other viable alternatives to run
utility cables if Ahn failed to cooperate.”  (Id., Amended Complaint, ¶ 27.)  Defendant argues Plaintiffs cannot prevail on
the cause of action for misappropriation of trade secrets because Defendant did
not disclose any trade secrets to Ahn.  
In support of his
contentions, Defendant advances Ahn’s declaration, wherein Ahn avers she
learned of Plaintiffs’ plans to run utility cables underneath her property in
October 2019, before Ahn hired Defendant, and she hired other attorneys to communicate
with Plaintiffs regarding their trespass on Ahn’s property before Ahn hired
Defendant.  (Declaration of Susan Ahn, ¶
14; Appendix of Exhibits in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment (Appendix),
Exhibits 10, 11, 12.)  This evidence satisfies
Defendant’s burden of showing Plaintiffs cannot prevail on the cause of action
for misappropriation of trade secrets because Defendant did not disclose trade
secrets to Ahn.  Defendant, therefore, has
shifted the burden to Plaintiffs to raise triable issues of material fact as to
whether Plaintiff can prevail on this claim.
In opposition,
Plaintiffs argue an irrebuttable presumption arises that Defendant used
confidential information he obtained from Plaintiffs in his representation of
Ahn.  As Plaintiffs point out, a
presumption the client disclosed confidences arises from the existence of an
attorney-client relationship.  (People
ex rel. Deukmejian v. Brown (1981) 29 Cal.3d 150, 156.)  This presumption does not, however, excuse
Plaintiffs from having to show Defendant obtained information that constitutes
a trade secret; Defendant disclosed that trade secret; and Plaintiffs sustained
damages as a result.
Plaintiffs advance
Lee’s declaration in which Lee states, “[Plaintiffs] explained to [Defendant]
the importance of access to Ahn’s Property to underground the utility lines and
asked him to draft an agreement that was as simple as possible to minimize the
chance that Ahn would back out if she saw a complex document.  [Defendant] provided an initial draft in
March 2018, and then revised it at [Plaintiffs’] request in May 2018 to add a
provision that would allow shoring to be constructed on the Ahn property.  Again with the amendment, [Plaintiffs] had to
explain to [Defendant] why [Plaintiffs] needed the agreement and, with respect
to the revision, why shoring was necessary. 
Ahn ultimately refused to sign it.” 
(Declaration of Leo Lee, ¶ 9.) 
Plaintiffs contend “how badly [Plaintiffs] needed that easement” for the
underground utility lines to cross Ahn’s property constitutes a trade
secret.  (Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in Support of Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment, p.
12.)  It does not.  
Plaintiffs’ need
for the underground utility lines to cross Ahn’s property does not fall under
the definition of a trade secret as related in section 3426.1  That provision defines a “trade secret” as
“information, including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device,
method, technique, or process . . . .”  (Civ.
Code, § 3426.1, subd. (d).)  A trade
secret is not “simply information as to single or ephemeral events in the
conduct of the business, as, for example, the amount or other terms of a secret
bid for a contract or the salary of certain employees, or the security
investments made or contemplated, or the date fixed for the announcement of a
new policy or for bringing out a new model or the like.  A trade secret is a process or device for
continuous use in the operation of the business.”  (Cal Francisco Inv. Corp. v. Vrionis
(1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 318, 322, internal quotations omitted.)  Plaintiffs fail to raise triable issues of
material fact as to whether Plaintiffs can prevail on the first cause of action
for misappropriation of trade secrets.  Thus, the Court grants Defendant’s motion for
summary adjudication concerning it.
Second Cause of Action: Breach
of Fiduciary Duty
To prevail on
their claim for breach of fiduciary duty, Plaintiffs must show Defendant owed a
fiduciary duty to Plaintiffs; he breached that duty; and the breach caused
damages. (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 182.)  In support of this claim, Plaintiffs allege,
“[Defendant] breached his fiduciary duties to Plaintiffs by utilizing against
Plaintiffs information that he gained in his capacity as counsel for
Plaintiffs.”  (First Amended Complaint, ¶
33.)  
Defendant contends
Plaintiffs waived any conflict inherent in Defendant’s representation of Ahn.  A former client must agree in writing to an
attorneys’ representation of a client with conflicting interests after the attorney
explains the “relevant circumstances” and the material risks, including any
“actual and reasonably foreseeable adverse consequences” to the former client.  (Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, rule 1.0.1,
subds. (e), (n).)  In section 20.11 of the
purchase agreement by which Lee purchased property from Ahn and Serrano, the
parties agreed, “[Defendant] represented [Lee] in the past in his plan to build
a hotel and residential units on the adjacent property known as 3800 West Sixth
Street, Los Angeles and in his legal action to remove a tenant Smiling Tree
Preschool on the property located on Hobart Blvd.  [Defendant] has not worked for [Lee] since the
settlement with the tenant in March 2019.  [Defendant] now represents [Ahn and Serrano] in
this transaction, and [Ahn and Serrano] and [Lee] have been advised of [Defendant]'s
prior representation of [Lee] and the resulting potential conflict of interest.
 [Lee] is now represented by another
attorney.”  (Appendix of Exhibits in
Support of Motion for Summary Judgment, Exhibit 4.)   However,
by agreeing to these terms, Lee did not agree Defendant could use confidential
information Defendant obtained while representing Plaintiffs to assist
Defendant in his representation of Ahn.  Notwithstanding
any waiver of Defendant’s representation of Ahn, Defendant had a duty “[t]o
maintain inviolate the confidence, and at every peril to himself or herself to
preserve the secrets, of” Plaintiffs.  (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 6068, subd. (e)(1).) 
As set forth above, a presumption Plaintiffs disclosed confidences to Defendant
arises from the attorney-client relationship between Plaintiffs and Defendant.  (People ex rel. Deukmejian v. Brown,
supra, 29 Cal.3d at p. 156.)  The
waiver Lee executed is not dispositive of the issue of whether Defendant
breached his fiduciary duty to Plaintiffs.
Defendant also
advances Ahn’s testimony who states Lee and Ahn agreed to all material terms of
the purchase agreement between Lee and Ahn and Serrano without Defendant’s
involvement.  (Declaration of Susan Ahn,
¶¶ 8-9.)  This evidence satisfies
Defendant’s burden of showing Plaintiffs cannot prevail on their claim for
breach of fiduciary duty, because it suggests Defendant’s breach of fiduciary
duty, if any, did not cause damages to Plaintiffs.  Defendant, therefore, has shifted the burden
to Plaintiffs to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiffs
sustained damages such that Plaintiffs can prevail on the claim.
Plaintiffs advance
Lee’s declaration in which Lee states he and Ahn did not agree to the purchase
price prior to Defendant’s involvement. 
(Declaration of Leo Lee, ¶ 14.) 
This evidence is sufficient to raise a triable issue of material fact as
to whether Plaintiffs sustained damages due to Defendant’s breach of fiduciary
duty, and the trier of fact is to make that determination.  
Third Cause of Action: Unfair Competition
In support of their
cause of action for unfair competition, Plaintiffs allege, “By exploiting
confidential information of Plaintiffs in order to extort an exorbitant payment
from Plaintiffs for the right to install subterranean utility lines across the
Ahn property, Defendants engaged in a business practice that was unfair,
unlawful and fraudulent.”  (First Amended
Complaint, ¶ 37.)  Defendant repeats the
same arguments with respect to this claim as Defendant made in challenging Plaintiffs’
second cause of action.  As set forth
above, Ahn’s testimony she and Lee agreed to all material terms of the purchase
agreement between Lee and Ahn and Serrano without the involvement of Defendant meets
Defendant’s burden of showing Plaintiffs cannot prevail on their claim for unfair
competition because it suggests Defendant’s unfair competition, if any, did not
cause damage to Plaintiffs.  Defendant
shifts the burden to Plaintiffs to raise triable issues of material fact as to
whether Plaintiffs sustained damages such that Plaintiffs can prevail on this
claim.
As set forth
above, Lee states he and Ahn did not agree to the purchase price prior to Defendant’s
involvement.  (Declaration of Leo Lee, ¶
14.)  This evidence raises triable issues
of material fact as to whether Plaintiffs sustained damages due to Defendant’s unfair
competition.
Fourth Cause of Action: Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage
To state a cause
of action for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage,
Plaintiffs must allege an economic relationship exists between Plaintiffs and a
third party with the probability of future economic benefit to Plaintiffs;
Defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; Defendant’s intentional acts to
disrupt the relationship that result in actual disruption of the relationship;
and resulting harm to Plaintiffs.  (Salma
v. Capon (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1275, 1290.)  
Defendant repeats
the same arguments set forth above. 
Defendant also argues, “The only reason the sale was not completed was
that Plaintiffs cancelled the contract after they had already constructed the
underground electrical conduit, and thus no longer had any interest in
completing the purchase.”  (Motion for
Summary Judgment, p. 19.)  Plaintiffs
concede this point in their operative first amended complaint.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 20.)  Defendant has thus shown Plaintiffs cannot
prevail on the cause of action for intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage because Plaintiffs, not Defendant, disrupted the
relationship between Plaintiffs and Ahn by cancelling the purchase agreement.  Defendant, therefore, has  shifted the burden to Plaintiffs to raise
triable issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiffs can prevail on this
claim.  
Plaintiffs fail to
address this issue in any meaningful way in their opposition brief. Instead,
Plaintiffs argue Defendant “placed Plaintiffs at a disadvantage in that
business relationship” with Ahn. 
(Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Opposition to Motion
for Summary Judgment, p. 15.)  This is
insufficient.  Plaintiffs must raise
triable issues of fact to demonstrate Defendant’s actions somehow cut off the
future economic benefit to be derived from the relationship between Plaintiffs
and Ahn.  Plaintiffs fail to do so thereby
compelling this Court to grant summary adjudication as to the intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage claim.
Lack of Standing
            Defendant
purports to move for summary adjudication of the issue of whether 3800 West
Sixth lacks standing. This is not a proper issue for summary adjudication.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1) [“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages”].) 
Federal Preemption
Defendant argues the
Uniform Trade Secrets Act preempts Plaintiffs’ second, third, and fourth causes
of action.  The Uniform Trade Secrets Act
preempts common law claims based on the same nucleus of facts as a misappropriation
of trade secrets claim.  (See K.C.
Multimedia, Inc. v. Bank of America Technology & Operations, Inc.
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 939, 955-959.)  However, as this Court noted in its ruling on
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ original complaint, there is only
preemption when the information is, in fact, a trade secret.  (See December 6, 2022 Minute Order.)  As set forth above, the information at issue
is not a trade secret.  As such,
preemption is inapplicable.  
Unclean Hands
Defendant contends
unclean hands bar all of Plaintiffs’ claims. 
For that bar to be applicable, Defendants must show Plaintiffs engaged
in conduct that was unconscionable, in bad faith, or inequitable in connection
with the matter in controversy, and it would, therefore, be inequitable for the
Court to provide relief to Plaintiffs.  (Fladeboe
v. Amer. Isuzu Motors Inc. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 42, 56.)  
Defendant points
to two documents that Plaintiffs asserted granted Plaintiffs the right to enter
Ahn’s property.  The documents purport to
bear Ahn’s signatures, but Ahn states the signatures are forgeries.  (Ahn Decl., ¶¶ 16-17; Appendix, Exhibits 13,
14.)  If Plaintiffs forged Ahn’s
signature to attempt to gain access to Ahn’s property without payment, the
doctrine of unclean hands would bar Plaintiffs from any recovery in this
action.  Defendant, therefore, has shifted
the burden to Plaintiffs to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether
unclean hands bar Plaintiffs’ recovery.
In opposition,
Plaintiffs again rely on Lee’s testimony. 
Lee states that he paid a real estate agent, John Rhee (“Rhee”), to
negotiate with Ahn the terms reflected in these documents; he paid Rhee
$290,000 to obtain Ahn’s consent to the documents; and he assumed Rhee paid a
substantial portion of those funds to Ahn in exchange for her agreement.  (Leo Decl., ¶ 17.)  If Plaintiffs did not forge Ahn’s signature
or did not know her signature was not genuine, Plaintiffs do not have unclean
hands.  This evidence raises triable
issues of material fact as to whether unclean hands bar Plaintiffs’ recovery in
this case.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is
denied.  Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication of the second and third causes of action in Plaintiffs’ first
amended complaint is denied.  Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication of the first and fourth causes of action in
Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint is granted.
Defendant is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s order and to file proof of service of same.
 


