 Case Number:  22STCP03920    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



sam
  burton,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
  
 
keelson
  strategic corporation; tercio elite, llc; tercio elite consulting, inc.;
  nathanial a. romero; and
  NICHOLAS J. MOLINA,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22STCP03920
 
  Hearing Date:  September 27, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
APPLICATION FOR AN ORDER PERMITTING LEMA BARAZI AS
  COUNSEL PRO HAC VICE 
 



 
Lema Barazi (“Barazi”) applies as counsel pro hac vice for Plaintiff
Sam Burton.  The application is unopposed.

Under CRC Rule 9.40, attorneys licensed and in
good standing in other states may, upon the California court’s approval, appear
as counsel pro hac vice in a pending
case if an active member of the state bar is associated as attorney of
record.  (CRC 9.40(a).)  Barazi is an active
member, in good standing, of the Texas Supreme Court (November 2006); United
States District Court, Western District of Texas (April 2023); United States
District Court, Southern District of Texas (February 2012); United States District
Court, District of Colorado (September 2013); United States Court of Appeals,
Fifth Circuit (December 2022); United States Court of Appeals, Federal Circuit
(December 2022); United States Court of Federal Claims (October 2017); and
United States District Court, District of Columbia (May 2023).  (Barazi Decl. ¶ 5.)  In addition, Barazi states that she is not a
resident of California or regularly engaged in business in California and is a
resident of Houston, Texas with an office in Houston, Texas.  (Barazi
Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.)  Barazi states that she
has applied to be admitted pro hac vice one California action: Gravity
Speakers, LLC and RF Bank and Trust [Bahamas] Limited v. Keith Herman, and
Investment Property Advisors, Inc; Cause No. 22-CIV-03427 which was
approved.  (Barazi Decl. ¶ 7.)  Thus, counsel satisfies the
eligibility requirements of CRC 9.40(a).
Barazi’s application successfully addresses all six
content requirements outlined in CRC 9.40(d). 
Specifically, Barazi provides
in her application: (1) her residence and office address (Barazi
Decl. ¶¶ 2-3); (2) the courts to which Barazi has been admitted to practice and the
dates of admission (Barazi Decl. ¶ 5); (3) that Barazi is a member in good
standing in those courts (Barazi Decl. ¶ 5); (4) that she is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court (Barazi Decl. ¶ 6); (5) the title of each
court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years,
and whether or not it was granted if any (Barazi Decl. ¶ 7); and (6) the name,
address, and telephone number of an active member, Rachel M. Crockett of the
State Bar of California who is the current counsel of record for Plaintiff Sam Burton.  (Barazi Decl. ¶ 8).
Further, Barazi demonstrates that she has met the requirements of CRC 9.40(c)(1). That rule
provides: “a person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file with the court a
verified application together with proof of service . . . of a copy of the
application and of the notice on all parties who have appeared in the cause and
on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office.”  (See Crockett Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. A.)
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The application of Lema Barazi to appear as counsel pro hac vice for Plaintiff Sam Burton is GRANTED.
The
Moving Party is ordered to provide notice of this order and file a proof of service
of such.
 
DATED: September ___, 2023                                              ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court