 Case Number:  23STCV10497    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  26 On September 27, 2023, Counsel for the parties participated
in an informal discovery conference with the Court, at the conclusion of which
the parties agreed as follows:
 
Plaintiff withdraws Request for Production No 30.
 
No later than October 18, 2023, Defendant will voluntarily
supplement its response to Requests for Production, set one, numbers 1, 3, 5,
and 15.
 
The parties will meet and confer regarding the remaining Requests
for Production, as well as all remaining written discovery.
 
The parties entered into these stipulations in open Court.  Prior to finalizing this minute order, the
Court posted this minute order on the Court’s online tentative ruling website,
and all Counsel agreed to the accuracy of this minute order in reflecting the
parties’ stipulations.
 
If the parties fully resolve all pending discovery issues
relating to a pending motions to compel further, the moving party must promptly
take any pending motion off-calendar via the Court Reservation System (“CRS”)
and cancel all CRS reservations.  
 
 
For any motion to compel further in this action that has
been filed or will be filed in the future, the responding party’s voluntary
service of supplemental responses prior to the hearing will moot all issues for
the motion except for sanctions.  The
parties are ordered to meet and confer regarding sanctions and to file a joint
statement within 5 days of the service of supplemental responses; the joint
statement must advise that supplemental responses have been served and advise whether
the parties have been able to resolve the sole remaining issue of sanctions.  In order to demonstrate that supplemental
responses have been served thereby mooting a pending motion to compel further,
the responding party must also file and serve a copy of the verified
supplemental responses no later than when the opposition is due.  If the moving party deems that the
supplemental responses remain deficient and/or non-code compliant, the moving
party must timely (within 45 days of service of the supplemental responses)
file and serve a new motion to compel further complying with all statutory
requirements, including a meet and confer regarding the supplemental responses
and a separate statement that includes all responses (original and
supplemental).  The moving party may
contact Department 26 to request a further informal discovery conference to
discuss the remaining disputes following the service of supplemental
responses.  The parties are ordered to
file a joint statement of items remaining in dispute no later than 5 days before
the further IDC.
 
 
Plaintiff to give notice and file proof of service of such.