 Case Number:  BC678400    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  61  
I.                  
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Code Civ. Proc.
section 473 subd. (a)(1) states that: 
 
The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.
 
“The trial court
has discretion to permit or deny the amendment of the complaint, but instances
justifying the court's denial of leave to amend are rare.” (Armenta ex rel. City of Burbank v. Mueller
Co. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 636, 642.) 
 
“Although courts
are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial
[Citations], this policy should be applied only ‘[w]here no prejudice is shown
to the adverse party . . .’ [Citation.] A different result is indicated
‘[w]here inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is
shown. [Citation.]” (Magpali v. Farmers
Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.) 
 
Pursuant to California Rule of
Court Rule 3.1324, “[a] motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1)Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted,
if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations
are located; and (3)State what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”
Such a motion must include a
supporting declaration stating, “(1) The effect of the amendment; (2) Why the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) When the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) The reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.” (CRC Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)
Defendants and Cross-Complainants Faryan and Leila Afifi
(The Afifis) seek leave to file a second amended cross-complaint alleging a new
claim for equitable easement related to their access to a two by ten foot strip
of land that they use for necessary access to their pool equipment, and which
they claim would require severe construction and remodeling work on their home
if an easement were not granted. The Afifis claim to have discovered the issue
after conducting a survey in the course of settlement discussions with
Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants last year and earlier this year, in which
revealed that USCI’s claimed property line along the steep slope of the
property, where no fence previously existed, would cut off the narrow strip
necessary to access the Afifi pool and associated equipment. (Faryan Decl. ¶
4.) 
 
The motion has been unreasonably
delayed. This case began as a property line dispute back in October 2017.
Discovery has been closed for more than a year. Trial is set for July 2024.
Summary adjudication was granted on the Afifis’ adverse possession claim on the
same property in September 2019, more than four years ago. This court sustained
demurrers to the Afifis’ claims for prescriptive easement on the same property
in March and June 2018. Their claim that they could not discover the full
ramifications of the very property line dispute they had been extensively
litigating for years until they belatedly conducted a survey in mid-2023 is not
reasonable. To permit the amendment of the cross-complaint at this juncture
would require yet another delay of an already-delayed trial, and the reopening
of discovery to inquire into the relative hardships of abiding by the property
line. (Ranch at the Falls LLC v. O'Neal (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 155, 183.)
The motion is DENIED. 
 
 
 
 
