 Case Number:  22STCV04816    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
Paula Bawden’s Motion for Leave to File Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
I.                  
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Code Civ. Proc.
section 473 subd. (a)(1) states that: 
 
The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.
 
“The trial court
has discretion to permit or deny the amendment of the complaint, but instances
justifying the court's denial of leave to amend are rare.” (Armenta ex rel. City of Burbank v. Mueller
Co. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 636, 642.) 
 
“Although courts
are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial
[Citations], this policy should be applied only ‘[w]here no prejudice is shown
to the adverse party . . .’ [Citation.] A different result is indicated
‘[w]here inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is
shown. [Citation.]” (Magpali v. Farmers
Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.) 
 
Pursuant to California Rule of
Court Rule 3.1324, “[a] motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1)Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted,
if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations
are located; and (3)State what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”
Such a motion must include a
supporting declaration stating, “(1) The effect of the amendment; (2) Why the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) When the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) The reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.” (CRC Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)
Plaintiff Paula Bawden (Plaintiff) seeks
leave to file a first amended complaint to incorporate allegations related to
Plaintiff’s departure from her position in July 2023 and add a cause of action
for failure to pay all wages due at discharge. (Motion Exh. A.) 
Defendant contends that the present
motion should be denied because of the delay since Plaintiff’s discharge, and
because the current trial date of October 22, 2024, would not allow sufficient
time to conduct discovery. Defendant points to an email from Plaintiff’s
counsel dated February 15, 2024, a month before the present motion was filed,
in which Plaintiff indicated that they would not amend the complaint.
(Opposition Exh. A.)
The relevant course of events is as
follows. Trial in this matter was originally set for July 2, 2024. On February
14, 2024, Defendant’s counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel asking whether the
complaint would be amended so the parties could finalize deposition dates, and
Plaintiff responded that no amendment would take place. (Opposition Exh. A.) On
February 22, 2024, Defendant filed a substitution of attorney, indicating a
change of counsel. And on March 4, 2024, Defendants filed an ex parte
application seeking a continuance of trial and related dates to permit new
counsel to get up to speed. Plaintiff opposed the application, and the court
granted it on March 5, 2024. This motion followed three weeks later. 
While the above course of events is
perplexing, no prejudice from the amendment 
has been shown. Defendants cite no prejudice resulting from allowing
amendment save the legal fees already incurred in litigating the ex parte
application to continue. Although new issues related to final wages and
Plaintiff’s termination may ultimately require a further continuance,
Defendants merely contend that they could have sought a longer continuance in
their ex parte motion had they known that amendment would be sought.
(Opposition at p. 5.) Such a continuance has not been foreclosed.
The motion is GRANTED.