  Case Number:  19STCV47021    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendants
Los Angeles Unified School District and Harold Boger’s Motion for Summary
Judgment or Adjudication is DENIED.
 
I.                  
OBJECTIONS
 
Defendants Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) and Harold Boger
submit objections to the materials submitted by Plaintiff in opposition to
their motion for summary judgment. Objections No. 2 and 7 are SUSTAINED
against sign-in logs and a social media policy that are otherwise
unauthenticated. However, the ruling on this social media policy does not
foreclose Boger’s own testimony concerning the existence of another policy during
the relevant period. (See Contreras Decl. Exh.
2 at p. 114. The objections to the police report and criminal complaint against
Young are SUSTAINED to the extent that they are introduced for the truth of any
content contained within them, but are OVERRULED to the extent they demonstrate
to the existence of the report and complaint. The objection to the Lesure
deposition is OVERRULED.
 
II.               
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
A party may move for
summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there
is no defense to the action or proceeding.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted,
and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for
summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for
summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for
summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c, subd. (f)(2).)
 
The moving party
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the
existence of a triable issue of material fact. 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) 
The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Ibid.) 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendants Los
Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) and Harold Boger (Boger) move for
summary judgment or adjudication on Plaintiff Rashad Brooks’ (Plaintiff)
remaining fourth cause of action for sexual harassment under Civil Code § 51.9,
and the eighth, ninth and tenth causes of action for negligence, negligence per
se, and negligent supervision, asserted in his Second Amended Complaint (SAC).
 
a.      Sexual Harassment, Civil Code § 51.9
Defendants argue
that Civil Code § 51.9 does not apply to either LAUSD or Boger, the principal
at the school at which Plaintiff was abused by a substitute teacher, Defendant
Simone Young (Young). (Motion at pp. 10–12.) 
 
Liability
under Civil Code § 51.9 may be had against “[a] person” who, in the context of
a “business, service, or professional relationship” with the plaintiff, or a
number of other prescribed relationships, including “Teacher,” engages in
unwelcome, severe, and pervasive sexual harassment. (Civ. Code § 51.9, subd.
(a)(1), (2).) Defendants argue that “Civil
Code section 51.9 does not apply to public school districts.” (K.M. v.
Grossmont Union High School Dist. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 717, 755.) They
also argue that Boger cannot be liable under the statute as he was never
Plaintiff’s teacher, nor Defendant Young’s employer or principal. (Motion at p.
11.)
Plaintiff in opposition concedes that LAUSD cannot be
liable under Civil Code § 51.9, but argues that Boger may be liable under Civil
Code § 51.9 for ratifying Young’s abuse. (Opposition at pp. 10–11.)
Plaintiff presents the following facts. Boger was the
principal of Los Angeles Center for Enriched Studies (LACES) from 2012 to
January 2017. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
(PUMF) No. 2.) Plaintiff alleges assault by Defendant Young at LACES while he
was an eighth grade student there during the 2016–2017 school year. (PUMF No.
3.) During this time, Young was a day-to-day substitute teacher who worked
periodically at LACES. (PUMF No. 4.)
While Young was supervising Plaintiff’s Spanish class, she
invited students to contact her privately on Snapchat, which Plaintiff did.
(PUMF No. 6.) Young requested that Plaintiff “come hang with her” via Snapchat
after school one day. (Uyeshima Decl. Exh. E at p. 36.) They talked for about
20 minutes in the classroom. (Id. at p. 37.) During that time the door
was open and the windows uncovered, and people, such as janitors and students,
passed by. (Id. at pp. 37–38.) Young and Plaintiff went into the
hallway, where Young kissed Plaintiff on his lips for about one or two minutes,
while grabbing him with her arms. (Id. at pp. 38–42.) They talked in the
hallway for less than 15 minutes. (Id. at pp. 40–41.) Plaintiff does not
recall if anyone was around when they kissed. (Id. at pp. 41–42.)
Plaintiff thereafter walked with Young to her car in the parking lot, passing
other people (janitors and students) on the way. (Id. at pp. 43–44.) At
the parking lot they hugged and kissed, After Young left, he stayed at school
until his mother came to pick him up. (Id. at p. 42.) 
The next week Young and Plaintiff
walked around the LACES campus at lunchtime, and exchanged a hug. (Uyeshima
Decl. Exh. E at pp. 49–50.) Adults and students were around them when they
hugged, including Plaintiff’s friend Jaylen. (Id. at p. 51.) Plaintiff
described the hug occurring outside during lunch, “the whole school.” (Id.
at pp. 51–52.)  The hug lasted at least
ten seconds. (Id. at p. 53.) They walked to a classroom and had lunch
together inside, with the door was open and the windows uncovered. (Id.
at pp. 54–55.) Several adults walked by. (Id. at pp. 55–56.) In the
classroom, when Plaintiff left for his next class, he and Young hugged for five
to ten seconds. (Id. at pp. 56–57.) No one else was in the classroom. (Id.
at p. 57.) 
 
Plaintiff next saw Young at school
two weeks to a month later. (Uyeshima Decl. Exh. E at p. 58.) The “next couple
times” they saw each other on campus, they met for a “quick hug and kiss”
because “that was all the time we had.” (Id. at p. 58.) These
interactions took place outside, not in a classroom. (Id. at pp. 58–59.)
Plaintiff estimates he and Young kissed at LACES about four to five separate
times. (Id. at pp. 59–60.) Plaintiff hugged Young every time he saw her,
about 15 to 17 times. (Id. at pp. 63.) Every time they kissed, it was in
the hallway and outside. (Id. at p. 66.) 
 
It is unclear whether any school
staff witnessed Young and Plaintiff kissing on campus. Plaintiff at one point
stated that he did not recall if anyone walked by or was around when the kiss
occurred. (Uyeshima Decl. Exh. E at pp. 41–42.) At another point he stated that
he recalled janitors being in the vicinity. (Id. at pp. 68–72.) It also
appears an art teacher may have been near when the kiss occurred. (Id.
at pp. 68–69.) Plaintiff could not identify these individuals, however. 
 
Plaintiff and Young did not have
sex at school. They engaged in oral sex for the first time in Young’s car,
outside his house. (Uyeshima Decl. Exh. E at pp. 92–94.) They engaged in oral
sex over 20 times, and in sexual intercourse twice. (Id. at pp. 92–93.) Two
or three times these acts occurred in Plaintiff’s home. (Id. at pp.
95–96.) The rest of the time, they occurred in Young’s car. (Ibid.) The
last of these acts occurred in August 2017. (DAMF No. 8.) Young was arrested
for lewd acts with a minor on September 22, 2017, and convicted on August 2,
2018. (DAMF No. 9, 11.)
 
Defendant Boger was responsible
for conducting certifying that employees completed one of the two types of
sexual abuse training offered by LAUSD. (Defendant’s Response to Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement of Additional Material Facts (DAMF) No. 14.) Boger stated
that day-to-day substitutes like Young had their own district supervisor, but
he did not know who that was or who certified that they had completed child
abuse training. (DAMF No. 17–18.) Boger did not oversee day-to-day substitute’s
in-person abuse training unless they were assigned to the school on the day it
occurred. (DAMF No. 19.) Boger had ultimate responsibility for supervising
day-to-day substitutes, but delegated that task to assistant principals, whose
specific identity he could not recall. (Contreras Decl. Exh. 2 at pp. 23–24.) 
 
From the above, there are no triable issues as to whether
Boger ratified Young’s harassment. Although “[p]rinciples of ratification apply
to a section 51.9 cause of action” (C.R. v. Tenet Healthcare Corp.
(2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1111), “The theory of ratification is generally
applied where an employer fails to investigate or respond to charges that an
employee committed an intentional tort, such as assault or battery.” (Id.
at p. 1110.) But here, no charge, complaint, or evidence of Young’s abuse was
ever presented to Boger, and there is no indication that Boger knew or had
reason to know of Young’s actions such that any failure to investigate them
could constitute ratification. 
The motion is therefore GRANTED as to the fourth cause of
action.
b.     
Negligence
 “To establish a cause of action for
negligence, the plaintiff must show that the “defendant had a duty to use due
care, that [it] breached that duty, and that the breach was the proximate or
legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Doe v. Lawndale Elementary School
Dist. (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 113, 125.) “[A] school district and its
employees have a special relationship with the district's pupils, a
relationship arising from the mandatory character of school attendance and the
comprehensive control over students exercised by school personnel, ‘analogous
in many ways to the relationship between parents and their children.” (Id.
at p. 125–126.) ““Because of this special relationship, imposing
obligations beyond what each person generally owes others, the duty of care
owed by school personnel includes the duty to use reasonable measures to
protect students from foreseeable injury at the hands of third parties acting
negligently or intentionally,” including injuries to a student resulting from a
teacher's sexual assault.” (Id. at p. 126, internal quotation marks
omitted.)
 
Defendants present the declaration of Boger in support of
their arguments on the negligence claim. Boger denies having any knowledge of
Young’s relationship with Plaintiff or of any complaints or notices regarding
the same. (Boger Decl. ¶¶ 8, 13–15.) Boger states that LAUSD had district-wide
child abuse trainings required of all employees, and that as principal of
LACES, he certified each teacher on his roster had completed the in-person
phase of the training. (Boger Decl. ¶ 6.) Boger states that LACES’ after school
safety program states that students are not allowed on campus after school lets
out except for this after school tutoring programs or sports team practices.
(Boger Decl. ¶ 10.) He states that either himself or another administrator
conduct a “sweep” of the campus and hallways about 15 or 20 minutes after the
school day ends, and that they require students not in designated programs to
leave. (Boger Decl. ¶ 10.) Likewise, during lunchtime, LACES has a supervision
plan in which students are supervised by eight to nine supervisors, including
administrators, campus aides, a school safety officer, counselors, deans, and a
magnet coordinator. (Boger Decl. ¶ 11.) Students are permitted to eat lunch in
teachers’ classrooms with the door open, if allowed by the teacher. (Boger
Decl. ¶ 11.) Boger also states that he observed classes taught by substitute
teachers, including some by Young, during the 2016-2017 school year, during
which he saw nothing inappropriate. (Boger Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
“Once a court determines a defendant owes a duty to a
plaintiff, the remaining liability questions—breach as well as factual and
legal causation—are usually questions for the jury.” (Doe v. Lawndale
Elementary School Dist. (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 113, 126.) f
Triable issues exist here as to whether Defendants
breached their duty of care. First, triable issues exist as to the precise
range and number of school staff witnessed Young’s on-campus conduct with
Plaintiff. Plaintiff met with Young various times in an empty classroom with
the door open and the windows clear, and was seen walking together with Young
to her car and around the school’s lunchtime area. Boger testified that Young’s
status as a day-to-day substitute, as opposed to a permanent teacher, could make
such meetings suspect, as a day-to-day substitute would have fewer reasons to
meet alone with a student than a permanent teacher. (Contreras Decl. Exh. 2 at
pp. 79–81.) Plaintiff testified that during this lunchtime walk he hugged Young
in front of “the whole school.” (Uyeshima Decl. Exh. E, at pp. 51–52.) While
Plaintiff’s testimony concerning who saw him and Young kissing is ambiguous, it
is susceptible to the interpretation that janitors and one art teacher — a
district employee with mandatory reporting duties under Penal Code § 11166 —
were in the vicinity. Plaintiff’s evidence is to be “liberally construed” on
summary judgment. (Fernandez v. Alexander (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 770,
779.) 
 
Moreover,
while there is no evidence that Boger himself had any knowledge or received any
report of behavior indicating abuse, his testimony concerning the policies and
training applicable to day-to-day substitutes like Young amounts to little more
than a disclaimer of knowledge of District practices. At his deposition, Boger
did not know who at the district conducted trainings for day-to-day substitutes
like Young. (Contreras Decl. Exh. 2 at pp. 24–25.) Boger did not know how the
district managed day-to-day subs, the identity of the person charged with
managing them, or what position that person would occupy. (Id. at pp.
22–27.)   Boger testified that neither he
nor anyone at LACES had informed Young of applicable social media policies, and
vacillated between a denial that the district had provided her with that
information and a contention that he had “no way of knowing” whether the
district provided that information. (Contreras Decl. Exh. 2 at p. 114.) Strictly
construing his testimony as the court must on summary judgment (Fernandez,
supra, 31 Cal.App.5th at p. 779), Defendants have not shown
the absence of triable issues of fact as to the instruction and oversight of
day-to-day substitutes with regard to the district’s social media and
anti-abuse policies.
 
Defendants’
argument as to causation also furnishes no basis for dispositive relief. They
argue that there are no additional security or supervision measures that could
have been taken to supervise Plaintiff’s safety, and that Young would likely
have evaded any measures that Defendants took. (Motion at pp. 20–21.)
Defendants rely on Thompson v. Sacramento City Unified School Dist.
(2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1352, in which two student assailants formed
a “hasty plan” to rob the plaintiff student by luring him into a bathroom “out
of the immediate view of campus supervisory personnel for at least a couple of
minutes,” and “[o]nce the parties were in place, events unfolded extremely
quickly,” over the course of one to two minutes. (Id. at p. 1372.) The
court held:
 
Short of a prison-like lockdown
situation, students who, for their own purposes, deliberately intend to escape
the direct scrutiny of supervisory personnel will inevitably find a way to do
so. When, in such a case, an injury occurs with such rapidity that
supervisorial personnel could have no opportunity to discover and respond to
the situation, then claims of abstract negligence will not support recovery.
 
(Id.
at p. 1372, internal citations omitted.)
 
This case is distinguishable. Plaintiff does not present a
hasty plan to be accomplished out of view of administrative supervision.
Plaintiff presents evidence of several one-on-one classroom meetings (an odd
circumstance for a day-to-day substitute) conducted in full view of passers-by.
He presents evidence that he hugged Young at least once in front of multiple
students and adults at a crowded lunchtime gathering. Plaintiff contends that
Young kissed him outside, in the hallway, with other district staff nearby. And
Defendant Boger has testified that he does not know whether Young was
instructed in the very anti-abuse and social media policies she is alleged to
have violated. Plaintiff has thus presented a “reasonable causal explanation”
as to why the failure to report public intimate contacts between Plaintiff and
Young, and the failure to instruct Young in applicable policies, contributed to
his injury. (Bowman v. Wyatt (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 286, 312.)
Defendants’ remaining arguments against Education Code §
32280 and Penal Code § 11166 are not directed to disposing of any particular
cause of action, but rather toward eliminating an alternative basis of
liability upon which negligence can be asserted. (Motion at pp. 16–18.) Because
neither of these arguments can “completely dispose[] of a cause of action,”
they need not be addressed in light of the above. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c,
subd. f)(1).)
The motion is therefore DENIED. 