  Case Number:  23STCV11290    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JOHN A. SCHLAFF,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
MARTHA FLORENCE HEEBNER, aka MARTY STEVENS-HEEBNER, an
  individual, CLEAR HOME SOLULTION, a California business entity of unknown
  form, HALF THE SKY DESIGN, LLC, a California limited liability company, and
  DOES 1 through 100
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          23STCV11290
 Hearing Date:   September
  4, 2024
 Trial Date:        TBD
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants’
  Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint 
Defendant’s Motion
  to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint 



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
On March 26, 2024, Plaintiff John
Schlaff (Schlaff) filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against
Defendants Martha Florence Heebner, aka Marty Stevens-Heebner, Half the Sky
Design LLC, dba Clear Home Solutions, and Does 1 through 100 (collectively,
Defendants) alleging (1) Civil Extortion, (2) Tortious Violation of Business
& Professions Code § 6043.5(b), (3) Fraud, (4) Defamation, (5) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, (6) Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress, (7) Gross Negligence, (8) Intentional Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage, (9) Intentional Interference with Contract, and (10)
Violations of the Unfair Business Practices Act. 
The FAC alleges that Defendant
Heebner threatened to make a complaint against Schlaff to the State Bar unless
he sign a release of funds that his client instructed him not to sign, and that
Heebner submitted said bar complaint which falsely alleged that Schlaff had
committed theft. (FAC ¶¶ 13-14.) Schlaff alleges that in doing so, Heebner
impeded Schlaff’s representation of his client, and interfered with his
prospective economic advantage. (FAC ¶ 13.) He further alleges that Heebner
acted out of animus and in deliberate bad faith. (FAC ¶ 13.)  
B. Motions Before the Court
On April 16, 2024, Defendants
demurred to the second through tenth causes of action. Defendants demur to the
second through fifth and seventh through tenth causes of action on the grounds
that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and
are uncertain under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10 subdivisions (e) and
(f). Defendants demur to the sixth cause of action on the grounds 1) that it fails
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action under Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10 subdivision (e) and 2) that California does not
recognize a distinct cause of action for gross negligence. On the same day, Defendants
also moved to strike certain portions of the FAC. 
On July 16, 2024, Schlaff opposed
the demurrer and motion to strike. 
On the Court’s own motion, on July
17, 2024 the Court continued the hearing from July 26, 2024, to September 4,
2024.
On July 24, 2024, Defendants
replied.
 
II. Demurrer and Motion to Strike Procedural Requirements
Met
Meet and Confer
The Court notes that Defendants
have met the meet and confer requirement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.41, subdivision (a)(3)(B). (Potts Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.)
Procedural Deficiencies
Code of Civil Procedure, section
1005 subdivision (b) states that all papers opposing a motion must be filed
with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days before
the hearing. The hearing on Defendants’ Demurrer was originally scheduled for
July 26, 2024. Thus, Schlaff’s Opposition was due by July 15, 2024. Schlaff did
not serve his Opposition until July 16, 2024. 
Additionally, as the Demurrer and
the Motion to Strike are two separate motions, Schlaff should have submitted
two separate oppositions, rather than opposing both the Demurrer and Motion to
Strike in one opposition. 
However, as there is no apparent
prejudice to the parties, and the moving parties responded in two separate replies,
the Court will exercise its discretion and hear the motions on their merits. 
 
III. Continuance of hearing to permit further briefing
            The Court
continues the hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike in order to consider
further briefing by the parties. Specifically, the
Court requests further briefing on the effect of Business & Professions
Code section 6094, subdivision (a) to this action. That statute provides that:
“Communications to the State Bar relating to lawyer misconduct or disability or
competence, or any communication related to an investigation or proceedings and
testimony given in the proceeding are privileged, and no lawsuit predicated
thereon may be instituted against any person.” Although the parties do not
address this statute in the motion or subsequent opposition or reply, the Court
finds that it is an important threshold issue that may preclude some of the
causes of action in the FAC. 

 
IV. Conclusion
The Court will continue the hearing
on the Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike to October 4, 2024 at 8:30
a.m. Moving parties may serve and file a supplemental brief as to the effect of
Business and Professions Code section 6094, subdivision (a), not to exceed 10
pages, by September 19, 2024. Opposing party may serve and file a supplemental brief
in response, not to exceed 10 pages, by September 26, 2024.