 Case Number:  24STCP01552    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




CITY OF HOPE, et al.
                        Petitioners,
            vs.
UMA MAHESWARA RAO
  JONNALAGADDA, 
                        Respondent.


Case No.:


24STCP01552




Hearing Date:


October 25, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
PETITION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD




 
Background
On May 13, 2024, Petitioners
City of Hope and Armen Mardiros (jointly, “Petitioners”) filed a petition to
confirm arbitration award in this action against Respondent Uma Maheswara Rao
Jonnalagadda (“Respondent”). Petitioners petition the Court for an order
confirming an arbitration award issued on May 15, 2023 by Dr. Eldora Ellison in
a contractual arbitration between City of Hope and Armen Mardiros concerning
the inventor status of Respondent Uma Maheswara Rao Jonnalagadda. No opposition
to the petition was filed.    
Legal Standard 
“Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may
petition the court to
confirm,
correct or vacate the award. The petition shall name as respondents all parties
to the arbitration and may name as respondents any other persons bound by the
arbitration award.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.) 
“A petition under this chapter shall: (a) Set forth the substance of
or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner
denies the existence of such an agreement. (b) Set forth the names of the
arbitrators. (c) Set forth or have attached a copy of the award and the written
opinion of the arbitrators, if any.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1285.4.) “If a petition or response under this chapter is duly
served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as made…unless in
accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as
corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.) Any response to the
petition is required to be filed and served within 10 days after service of the
petition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.6.)
Discussion
In support of the
Petition, Petitioners submit the Declaration of Daralyn J. Durie, counsel for
City of Hope. Ms. Durie indicates that “[t]he Arbitration took place across
three days: February 27, 2023 (in Duarte, California); February 28, 2023 (in
Los Angeles, California); and March 6, 2023 (in Century City, California). The
arbitrator was Dr. Eldora Ellison, a Director of Sterne, Kessler, Goldstein
& Fox P.L.L.C.” (Durie Decl., ¶ 5.) Thus, Petitioners have “[s]et forth the names of the arbitrators.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1285.4, subd. (b).) 
Mr. Durie attaches as
Exhibit A to her declaration a copy of “the arbitration award and decision
rendered by Dr. Eldora Ellison on May 15, 2023, in an arbitration between City
of Hope and Dr. Armen Mardiros.” (Durie Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. A.) Thus, Petitioners
have “[s]et forth or
have attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators,
if any.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4, subd. (c).)

However, the Court does not
find that Petitioners have “[s]et forth the substance of or have attached a
copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence
of such an agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4,
subd. (a).) Petitioners do not appear to deny the existence of such an
agreement. Rather, Ms. Durie states that “[o]n June 24, 2021, City of Hope and
Dr. Mardiros agreed to participate in an arbitration to determine whether Dr.
Jonnalagadda was properly named as an inventor on the CD123 Patents and Spacer
Applications. The parties’ Agreement specified that following a final decision
by the arbitrator, any party can seek to confirm the award in court.” (Durie
Decl., ¶ 2.) 
In addition, it is unclear if
Petitioners provided Respondent with notice of the October 25, 2024 hearing on
the instant petition. Petitioners
filed a proof of service on June 24, 2024 indicating that certain documents
including the petition and a notice of hearing were served on Respondent via personal
service on June 24, 2024. However, the notice of hearing filed on June 13, 2024
references an August 21, 2024 hearing on the petition. 
In light of the foregoing,
the Court denies the petition to confirm arbitration award without prejudice. 
ADDITIONALLY, NO
COURTESY COPIES OF THE PETITION PAPERS WERE DELIVERED TO DEPARTMENT 50. COURTESY
COPIES MUST BE PROVIDED FOR ANY DOCUMENTS OVER 15 PAGES AND ANY DOCUMENTS WITH
A POINTS AND AUTHORITIES. 
 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the
Court denies Petitioners’ petition to confirm arbitration award without
prejudice. 
Petitioners are ordered to provide notice of this ruling.¿ 
 
DATED:  October 25, 2024                           ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court