 Case Number:  23STCV19426    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee S. Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December
8, 2023                              TRIAL DATE:  February 11, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Saryl Radwin v.  City of Los
Angeles
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV19426
 





















 
DEMURRER
TO DEFENDANT’S ANSWER WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Saryl Radwin 
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     City
of Los Angeles 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On August 15, 2023, Saryl Radwin (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against the City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) for injuries arising from a
trip and fall on December 7, 2022. 
            
            On October
26, 2023, Defendant filed its Answer which listed seven affirmative defenses. 
 
On November 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed this Demurrer to Defendant’s
Answer because the affirmative defenses in the Answer fail to state facts to
constitute an affirmative defense. 
 
On November 27, 2023, Defendant filed an Opposition arguing
that Plaintiff’s motion is premature because discovery will provide the
requested information.  
 
On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Reply arguing that the
Defendant fails to cite any law supporting its arguments. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD & DISCUSSION
 
Timeliness 
 
A party who has filed a complaint may, within 10 days after
service of the answer to his pleading, demur to the answer.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.40, subd. (b).)  
 
Here, Defendant served its answer on October 26, 2023 and
Plaintiff filed this demurrer to Defendant’s answer ten days later on November
9, 2023. Thus, Plaintiff’s motion is timely. 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party shall meet
and confer with the party who filed the pleading and shall file a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) 
 
Plaintiff’s Counsel satisfied this requirement because he provided
emails between the parties showing their meet and confer efforts. (Armen
Tashjian’s Declaration, ¶2; Exhibit F.) Therefore, the Court considers the
merits of Moving Parties’ demurrer.   
 
Legal
Standards & Discussion
Under California Code of Civil
Procedure 431.30, the answer to a complaint shall contain “(1) the general
or specific denial of the material allegations of the complaint refuted by the
defendant and (2) a statement of any new matter constituting a defense.”
“An important difference is that in
the case of a demurrer to the answer, as distinguished from a demurrer to the
complaint, the defect in question need not appear on the face of the answer.” (South
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 733.) “The
determination of the sufficiency of the answer requires an examination of the
complaint because its adequacy is with reference to the complaint it purports
to answer.” (Ibid.) “Generally, it is an abuse of discretion to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.” (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)   
Plaintiff
demurred to City’s affirmative defenses on the grounds that they fail to state
facts to support each affirmative defense. The first affirmative defense states
“[t]he damages alleged were directly and proximately caused and contributed to
by the negligence of plaintiff, and the extent of damages sustained, if any,
should be reduced in proportion to the amount of said negligence.” (Defendant’s
Answer p. 2, ¶2; Armen Tashjian’s Declaration, ¶6; Exhibit D.) Defendant’s
remaining six affirmative defenses also make additional claims such as
assumption of risk, statute of limitations, California Tort Claims Act, negligence,
and immunity but do not provide any facts as to how they are applicable.
(Defendant’s Answer p. 2, ¶¶3-8; Id.) Nevertheless, when applying the
court’s reasoning in South Shore Land Co., the complaint must also be
referenced to determine the answer’s sufficiency. When referencing the Answer
with the Complaint, the Plaintiff is not prejudiced by the lack of facts.
(Complaint p. 3-6; Exhibit C.)
 
The
case of Hoelzle v. Fresno County, (1958) 159 Cal.App.3d 278, is
instructive. In that case, the answer was similar to Defendant’s answer, but
the court considered it to be adequate when read with the complaint. 
 
When
read in concert with the Complaint’s allegations, the affirmative defenses here
provide sufficient information for Plaintiff to be put on notice of those
defenses.  Through discovery, Plaintiff
will be able to obtain information to determine if the actual facts support
those defenses.
 
The
Court overrules the demurrer in its entirety. 
 
Non- moving party to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   December 8,
2023                                                     ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 