 Case Number:  20STCV33177    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee S. Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December
8, 2023                              TRIAL
DATE:  February 28, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Susanna Ruiz v. Kristine Kelly, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV33177
 





















 
MOTION
TO BIFURCATE TRIAL



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Kristine Kelly and The Kris Kelly Foundation
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff Susanna
Ruiz
 
 
            On
August 31, 2020, Susanna Ruiz (“Plaintiff”), filed this action against Kristine
Kelly (“Kelly”), The Kris Kelly Foundation (“Kelly Foundation”), and Does 1 to 100 (collectively,
“Defendants”) for damages arising from a dog attack. Plaintiff alleges
negligence, strict liability, and statutory liability under Civil Code § 3342. 
 
The Instant Motion
 
            On
March 30, 2023, Defendants Kristine
Kelly and The Kris Kelly Foundation moved
to bifurcate the trial of all issues relating to Defendants’ liability and
Plaintiff’s damages because (I) it is appropriate to bifurcate trial of two or
more issues when doing so will serve the ends of justice, judicial economy, and
efficiency; and (II) the majority of evidence to be presented at trial pertains
to plaintiff’s medical damages. 
            
            On
November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Opposition. Plaintiff opposes because she
claims (I) bifurcation
will not result in greater judicial economy and will substantially
inconvenience witnesses, increase costs to both parties, waste valuable court
resources including jury panels that could be used for other trials; and (II) the
majority of the evidence to be presented at trial pertains to liability—not
medical damages which would cause significant overlap. Further, Plaintiff
claims that testimony/evidence regarding liability and medical damages will
have significant overlap. 
 
            On
November 30, 2023, Defendant filed a Reply claiming that Plaintiff wholly
misrepresented the issues in this matter because Defendants’ position is that Defendants
never owned the dog that bit her (“Snoopy”) and had no responsibility for it
which is not an issue requiring testimony from forensic experts to prove that
the Snoopy, as opposed to some other dog, bit plaintiff.   
 
            Defendant
properly sought a bifurcation (or severance) order in advance of the February
28, 2024 trial date as it was filed on March 30, 2023 which was more than 30
days. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 598 [court to issue order bifurcating case on
noticed motion by the pretrial conference or, absent a pretrial conference, no
later than 30 days in advance of trial].) A trial court may also “on its own
motion . . . make such an order at any time.” (Id.) 
 
            However,
given that in the Personal Injury (PI) Court system this case will be tried by
a different court than the Court ruling on this motion, the Court finds it
appropriate for the trial judge to determine whether bifurcation is warranted.
In the PI Court system, the trial court rules on motions in limine, even those
that significantly affect trial preparation. While this bifurcation request is
not a motion in limine, the logic of having the trial judge determine it here
is similar. The request for bifurcation here appears to be one for which the
trial judge should make a discretionary determination based on its experience. 
            
            As
such, Defendant’s motion to bifurcate is denied without prejudice to allow
Defendant to raise this issue for the trial judge to consider at the time that
the judge rules upon motions in limine. The Court recognizes that California
Rules of Court, rule 3.57, subdivision (c) states, “A motion in limine may not
be used for the purpose of seeking an order to try an issue before the trial of
another issue or issues,” and thus this order should not be construed in a way
that contradicts this rule. Defendant may direct the trial court to this order,
which should not be construed to in any way bind the trial court in making a
bifurcation decision on its own motion.      
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ motion is DENIED without prejudice. Trial is scheduled for February
28, 2024. If and/or when the case proceeds to trial, the bifurcation briefing
should be included in the trial binders in Tab B along with any motions in
limine filed at that time.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
Dated:   December 8,
2023                                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 