 Case Number:  21STCV27618    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December
8, 2023                  TRIAL
DATE:  February 28, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Marcia Sebastian v. Bodega Latina Corporation
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV27618
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO GENERAL FORM INTERROGATORIES
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
MOTION
TO DEEM THE MATTERS IN REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Bodega Latina Corporation
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On July 27,
2021, Plaintiff Marcia Sebastian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Bodega Latina Corporation (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 50, inclusive,
asserting causes of action for (1) negligence and (2) premises liability. 
 
On October 16, 2023, Defendant filed the instant four
motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses to their Request for Production of
Documents (Set Two) (“RPD”), Form Interrogatories (Set Two) (“FROGs”), Special
Interrogatories (Set Two) (“SROGs”), and to deem their Requests for Admission
(Set Two) (“RFAs”) admitted.  Defendants
also move for sanctions. 
 
As of December 1, 2023, no oppositions to the motions have
been filed. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            “Within 30
days after service” of a demand for inspection or interrogatories, the responding
party shall serve responses to the discovery “unless on motion” the court has
shortened or extended the time for response.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.260, subd. (a);
2030.260, subd. (a).) 
 
Failure to serve timely responses to demands for inspection
and interrogatories results in the responding party waiving any objection to
the discovery requests, including those based on privilege and work product.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.300, subd. (a);
2030.290, subd. (a).)
Similarly, “[w]ithin 30 days after service of requests for
admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve the original
of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the response on
all other parties who have appeared, unless on motion of the requesting party
the court has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the
responding party the court has extended the time for response.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.250, subd. (a).) 
 
If a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails
to serve a timely response, a “party may move for an order that the genuineness
of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be
deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with section 2023.010).”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)
 
            Monetary
Sanctions 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to
impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
            If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿ 
¿ 
            If the
court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to compel
responses to inspection demands, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction .
. . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).)  In the context of a motion to deem requests
for admission admitted, it is mandatory that the court impose monetary
sanctions on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely
response to the request necessitated the motion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
subd. (c).)
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant
served Plaintiff with the aforementioned discovery requests on January 20, 2023.  The Court has reviewed the requests and
interrogatories attached to defense counsel’s declarations and finds they seek
relevant information.
 
Plaintiff’s responses to those requests were due on February
21, 2023.  On July 31, 2023, having not
heard from Plaintiff, Defendant emailed to inquire about the status of those
requests and grant Plaintiff an extension to respond by August 17, 2023. 
To date, Plaintiff has not provided responses, nor has Plaintiff opposed
Defendant’s motions.¿ Therefore, all objections to the interrogatories and production
requests are waived.¿¿ 
 
            As Defendant
properly served the discovery requests and Defendant failed to serve responses,
the Court finds Defendant is entitled to an order directing Plaintiff to
provide responses to Defendant’s FROGs, SROGs, and RPD.¿ In addition, Defendant
is entitled to an order deeming RFAs admitted against Plaintiff.
            
             Monetary
Sanctions
 
            Defendant
requests sanctions against Plaintiff.  In
the context of requests for admissions, sanctions are mandatory.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  Given
that the Court has granted these motions, sanctions are warranted.  
 
Here, Defendant seeks sanctions of $1,545, consisting of
three-and-a-half (3.5) hours defense counsel spent on the moving papers, two-and-a-half
(2.5) hours he anticipates spending on a reply to an anticipated opposition,
and up to three (3) hours he anticipates spending on the hearing, for a total
of nine (9) hours at his billing rate of $165 per hour, plus a $60 filing fee.
(See Derflinger Decls.) 
 
The Court finds the requested sanctions excessive because Plaintiff
did not file any opposition, and Defendant did not reply.  Moreover,
the Court finds the three-hour allocation to prepare for and attend the hearing
excessive.  Therefore, the Court will
deduct four hours of attorney time (equaling $660) from the requested sanctions
and impose sanctions of $885 against Plaintiff. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The
unopposed motions are granted.  Plaintiff,
Marcia Sebastian is ordered to provide verified, objection-free responses to Defendant’s
General Form Interrogatories, Set Two, Special Interrogatories, Set Two, and
Request for Production of Documents, Set Two.  Defendant’s Request for Admissions, Set Two,
is deemed admitted against Plaintiff.
 
            The request
for sanctions is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered
to pay sanctions in the amount of $885 to Defendant.
 
            Discovery
responses are to be provided and sanctions are to be paid within 30 days of the
date of this order. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   December 5,
2023                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 