 Case Number:  22STCV27328    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT 
 



Malinda Mitchell, 
 
Plaintiff, 
vs. 
 
Sophia Stone, et al., 
 
Defendants. 


) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 


      CASE
  NO.: 22STCV27328 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS SOPHIA STONE AND
  RITA TUZON’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIES AND
  REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS 
 
Dept. 27 
1:30 p.m. 
Friday, December 8, 2023 



 
 
On
August 23, 2022, Plaintiff Malinda Mitchell (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Sophia Stone and Rita Tuzon (collectively “Defendants”) for
motor vehicle and general negligence arising from an automobile accident on
September 8, 2020.  Defendants filed an
answer on September 27, 2022. 
On
September 27, 2022, Defendants propounded upon Plaintiff, Demand for Production
of Documents, Set No. One, and Form Interrogatories, Set No. One.  On November 8, 2023, Defendants filed two
motions to compel further responses to these discovery requests.  Defendants also seek sanctions in connection
with each motion.  
No
opposition has been filed to either motion. 
This
ruling addresses both motions. 
 
Legal Standard
Compel
Further Responses 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300, subdivision (a), and Section
2031.310, parties may move for a further response to interrogatories or
requests for production of documents where an answer to the requests are
evasive or incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general.¿¿ 
Notice
of the motions must be given within 45 days of service of the verified
response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further
response.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)  The motions must also be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b).)¿¿¿¿ 
Finally,
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses
involving further discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each
request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for
compelling further responses.  (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(3)).¿ 
Analysis 
Informal
Discovery Conference 
On
October 23, 2023, no appearance was made by or for counsel for Plaintiff, nor
communication with the Court as to why there was no appearance.  The IDC was placed off calendar and counsel
for Defendant was allowed to proceed with the filing of motions to compel
further responses. 
Timeliness 
The
Court finds that the motions are timely made. 
The Court’s minute order of October 23, 2023 permitted Defendants to
proceed with filing of motions to compel further responses.  Shortly after, on November 8, 2023,
Defendants filed the instant motions.  The
Court also finds that moving Defendants have satisfied their obligation to meet
and confer.  (Declarations of David M.
Hillier (“Hillier Decls.”)). 
 
Plaintiff’s
Responses
Defendants
request further responses to Demand No. 1 and Form Interrogatory No. 2.8. 
Demand
No. 1: " Copies of any and all medical/ hospital
reports, records notes, diagnostic film including x-rays, CAT scans, MRI and
bills pertaining to your injuries as set forth in plaintiff's complaint.”
Response: “Responding Party will produce
documents at this time in their custody, control or possession responsive to
this respect. Please see attached Medical Records and Billing. Investigation
and discovery still continue and the Responding Party reserves the right to
amend this response upon obtaining additional information.”
Form Interrogatory No. 2.8: 
“Have you ever been convicted of a
felony? If so, for each conviction state: 
(a)  the
city and state where you where you were convicted;
(b)  the
date of the conviction; 
(c)  the
offense; and
(d)  the
court and case number.”
Response:
“No.”
On April 4, 2023, Plaintiff’s deposition
was taken wherein she identified her treatment with Kaiser for this accident
and testified to multiple felony convictions as well as having been
incarcerated.  (Hillier Decls. ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff’s attorney then agreed on the
record to provide further responses within 30 days and also waived the motion
cutoff date.  (Id. at ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff’s responses to Demand No. 1 and
Form Interrogatory No. 2.8 are inadequate. 
Also, Plaintiff has not provided further responses and production
despite Plaintiff’s attorney’s representation that such would be provided.  Accordingly, Defendants’ requests are GRANTED.

 
Monetary Sanctions 
Where the court grants a motion to compel further responses,
sanctions shall be imposed against the party who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with substantial
justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust.  (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2031.310, subd. (h), 2030.300, subd. (d).)  
Defendants’ requests for sanctions are GRANTED.  Sanctions are
imposed against Plaintiff and counsel of record, jointly and severally, for both
motions, in amounts provided below.  Because the motions are straightforward and
will be heard at the same hearing the Court reduced the attorney’s fees
requested for both motions. 
Sanctions are awarded as follows:
Request for Production of Documents — $497.50 for the filing fee of
$60 and two and a half hours spent preparing the motion and for attending the
hearing at the hourly rate of $175. 
Form Interrogatories — $497.50 for the filing fee of $60 and two
and a half hours spent preparing the motion and for attending the hearing at
the hourly rate of $175.  
The total amount of sanctions is $995.00 to be paid by Plaintiff and
her counsel of record, within twenty (20) days of the date of this Order.
 
Conclusion 
          Defendants
Sophia Stone and Rita Tuzon’s motions to compel further responses to Demand for
Production and Inspection of Documents, Set One, and Interrogatories, Set One,
are GRANTED. 
          Plaintiff
Malinda Mitchell is to provide further responses to the requests for which the
motions were granted within 20 days of the issuance of this order. 
          Plaintiff
Malinda Mitchell and her counsel of record, Igor Fradkin, Esq. are to pay
$995.00 to Bretoi, Lutz & Stele within 20 days of the issuance of this
order. 