  Case Number:  20STCV08781    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee S. Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December
8, 2023                              TRIAL DATE:  March 4, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         FRED WAI HUNG YUE,
AN INDIVIDUAL, et al. vs PC PALACES INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV08781
 





















 
DEMURRER



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
David Aguilar
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Fred
Wai Hung Yue
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On March 3, 2020, Fred Wai Hung Yue (“Yue”) and Tzu-Fi Chu
(“Chu”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”), initiated this action against Defendants
PC Palaces, Inc.  (“PC Palaces”), Xuong
Ha (“Ha”), Ruben Esparza (“Esparza”), Phu Mang Phang (“Phang”), David Aguilar
(“Aguilar”), and William Tom and Gertrude Tom as trustees of the Tom Family
Trust (“Tom Defendants”).  The action
arises from an alleged shooting occurring at PC Palaces, a restaurant and
karaoke bar.  On July 19, 2022,
Plaintiffs filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  The Fourth Cause of Action for Negligence is
the only cause of action asserted against Aguilar.
 
On July 13, 2023, Aguilar filed two substantively identical
demurrers to the Fourth Cause of Action in the FAC as to Plaintiffs Yue and
Chu.  In its August 23, 2023, Minute
Order (“Minute Order”), the Court sustained the demurrers with leave to amend,
on the grounds that the FAC failed to establish a special relationship between
Aguilar and the Plaintiffs.
 
            On August
28, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). 
 
            On November
9, 2023, Aguilar filed a demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action in the SAC as
to Plaintiff Yue.  Yue filed an
Opposition.  Aguilar did not reply. 
 
Factual Background
 
            The SAC
alleges as follows and in relevant part: on March 9, 2018, Plaintiffs were
patrons at PC Palaces, a restaurant and karaoke bar, when an argument occurred
between several individuals, including Defendant Ha.  The argument escalated and Ha thereafter
unexpectedly began firing a gun inside the premises.  Esparza and Aguilar were working at PC Palaces
at the time of the incident.  When Ha
began to shoot, Esparza and Aguilar locked the doors of the premises to prevent
patrons from exiting.  Plaintiffs
suffered gunshot wounds. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER  
 
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and
will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face.  (City
of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider
matters which may be judicially noticed.  [Citation.]”  (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].)  Allegations are to be liberally construed.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.)  In construing the allegations, the court is to give
effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent
general or conclusory allegations.  (Financial Corporation of America
v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.)   
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e).)  “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where
a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Where the complaint contains substantial factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given
leave to amend.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)  Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
 
The Code of Civil Procedure sets a three-amendment limit.
 “In response to a demurrer . . ., a
complaint . . . shall not be amended more than three times, absent an
offer to the trial court as to such additional facts to be pleaded that
there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to state a cause
of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (e).) 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer or motion to strike, the demurring
or moving party shall meet and confer with the party who has filed the pleading
and shall file a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a); 435.5,
subd. (a).)  Andrew J. Mallon, counsel
for Aguilar, declares that he met and conferred with Yue’s counsel over the
telephone on November 6, 2023.  (See
Demurrer to SAC, Mallon Decl.)  The meet
and confer requirement is satisfied. 
 
B.    
Timeliness
of Demurrer
 
Section 430.40(a) of the Code of Civil Proc. provides that
“A person against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed
may, within 30 days after service of the complaint or
cross-complaint, demur to the complaint or cross-complaint.” ¿ Aguilar’s
demurrer was filed more than 30 days after the SAC. Notwithstanding this defect,
the Court considers the demurrer to the SAC, as the delay did not affect Yue’s
substantial rights.  (Jackson v.
Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742, 750 [“As noted above, section
473, subdivision (a)(1) allows the court to increase the time for filing a
demurrer in furtherance of justice and on any terms that may be proper.
The trial court's consideration of the demurrer, filed 38 days after plaintiff
served the complaint, did not affect plaintiff's “substantial rights,”
where plaintiff did not take steps to obtain a default judgment or
demonstrate the delay prejudiced her.”])¿
 
C.    
Analysis
 
Aguilar’s Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action for
Negligence. 
 
“The elements of a cause of action for negligence are well
established.  They are (a) a legal duty to
use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; and (c) the breach as the
proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.”  (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12
Cal.4th 913, 917; CACI No. 400.)  (Quotations
omitted.)  The existence of a legal duty
is a question of law for the court to determine.  (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 674.)
 
The issue to be decided here is whether the SAC sufficiently
alleges that Defendant Agular owed Plaintiff Yue a duty of care.  Generally, there is no duty to protect another
from the conduct of third parties.  (Delgado
v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 235.)  However, a duty of care to protect a victim
from third party harm may arise when the defendant has a special relationship with
either the victim or the third party.  (Zelig
v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112, 1129.)  “A special relationship between the defendant
and the victim is one that ‘gives the victim a right to expect’ protection from
the defendant, while a special relationship between the defendant and the
dangerous third party is one that ‘entails an ability to control [the third party’s]
conduct.’  [Citation.]  Relationships between parents and children,
colleges and students, employers and employees, common carriers and passengers,
and innkeepers and guests, are all examples of special relationships that give
rise to an affirmative duty to protect.”  (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11
Cal.5th 204, 216.)  “A security guard is
in a special relationship with the customers of the business that hired the
guard.  This special relationship imposes
on the guard the obligation to act affirmatively to protect customers while on
the premises.  The security guard is liable
to an injured customer when the guard fails to act reasonably and that failure
causes injury.”  (Mata v. Mata (2003)
105 Cal.App.4th 1121, 1128-29).
 
Here, Aguilar advances substantially the same argument as it
did to support his demurrer to the FAC.  Aguilar
argues that he had no duty to protect Yue from Ha’s conduct because there was
no special relationship between Yue and Aguilar.  This Court ruled for Aguilar on the demurrer
to the FAC, noting that the FAC did not contain any allegations that Aguilar was
a security guard at the time of the shooting and had a special duty to protect
Yue.  Nothing has substantively changed
in the SAC with regard to Aguilar’s alleged role.  The only allegations that remotely go to a
special relationship are that Aguilar was a “direct employee of Defendant Always
Private Security, which provided security to Defendant PC Palaces and Plaintiff
had a ”special relationship” with Aguilar. 
However, much as with the FAC, the allegation that Aguilar was a direct
employee of Defendant Always Private Security does not create a special
relationship and the allegation that there was a special relationship is
conclusory.  Plaintiff appears to contend
that the SAC alleges that Aguilar supervised Defendant Esparza, who it is now
alleged was a security guard for Defendant Always Private Security, but that
does not appear to be alleged.  Or if it
somehow is, it is not done so in a clear way that puts Aguilar on notice.  
 
Further, much like in relation to the FAC, Plaintiff
contends in his opposition that he has alleged negligence per se.  Again, the Court has not found that in the
SAC.  It appears to suffer from the same
issue as the last time the Court sustained the demurrer in the faced of this
same argument.  
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
Aguilar’s demurrer to Yue’s Fourth Cause of Action of the
SAC is sustained.  Because the Court
already previously granted Yue leave to amend on these same issues, and
Plaintiff was unable to cure the deficiencies, the Court sustains the demurrer
without leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   December 7,
2023                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 