 Case Number:  22STCV13267    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



Erik Denton, individually and as Successor-in-Interest to
   Joanna Denton Carrillo, Terry Denton Carrillo, and Sierra Denton Carrillo,
  
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
City of
   Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles, and Does 1-50  ,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22STCV13267
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DISCOVERY SANCTIONS AND PITCHESS MOTION
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.

December
   8, 2023



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On April 21, 2022, Plaintiff, Erik
Denton (“Plaintiff”), individually, and as the Successor-in-Interest to Joanna
Denton Carrillo (“Joanna”), Terry Denton Carrillo (“Terry”), and Sierra Denton
Carrillo (“Sierra”), filed this wrongful death and survivorship action against
Defendants, City of Los Angeles (“City”) and County of Los Angeles, arising
from the death of Plaintiff’s three children, Joanna, Terry, and Sierra, at the
hands of their mother, Liliana Carrillo. 
On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion
to Compel Further Answers to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and
Production of Documents and a Motion to Compel Police Officer Personnel Files (the
“Pitchess motion”). On October 25, 2023, City filed an opposition. On
November 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
On November 14, 2023, the Motion to
Compel Further Responses came before the Court for hearing.  The Court adopted its tentative ruling
granting Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses but continued that
motion on the issue of sanctions and continued the Pitchess Motion, ordering further
briefing on those issues.  
II.         
DISCUSSION

Sanctions
The Court shall generally issue monetary
sanctions for reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with bringing motions
to compel. (C.C.P. §§2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).) If the court finds that a party
has unsuccessfully made or opposed such a motion, the court “shall impose a
monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c),
2031.300, subd. (c).)
Here, the Court granted Plaintiff’s request to
compel further responses.  As such,
sanctions against Defendant is mandatory absent Defendant’s showing that they
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make sanctions
unjust.  While the Court sympathizes with
Defendant’s counsel’s workload and bureaucratic challenges (e.g., the wishes
of criminal prosecutors), the Defendant fails to identify any circumstance that
would make imposition of sanctions unjust, nor does it appear that Defendant
acted with substantial legal justification in withholding further response and
opposing the motion to compel further responses. As such, the Court hereby
awards reasonable sanctions in the amount of $6,500.
The Pitchess Motion  
Having read and considered the ordered additional
briefing, the Court grants an in camera review of the personnel files of
the 12 officers identified in Plaintiff’s Pitchess Motion (see Plaintiff’s
Memo of Points and Authorities in Support of Pitchess Motion, pp. 9-11).  
III. 
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for
Production of Documents is GRANTED. The request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED
in the amount of $6,500 against Defendant City and Defendant City’s counsel. 
The Court will hold an in camera
review of the LAPD personnel files as the first step in the Pitchess
motion.
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
                                                Dated
this 8th day of December 2023




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 