  Case Number:  23CHCV03607    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  F51 LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F-51
 

JANUARY 8,
2025
 

MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Special
Interrogatories and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23CHCV03607

 
Motions
filed: 9/3/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
SolarSesame Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant
Smart Main Panel Inc., dba LA/TX Solar Group (“Defendant”)
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: Orders
compelling Defendant’s further responses to the following discovery requests:
·        
Plaintiff’s
Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1, 7–15, and 18–19;
·        
Plaintiff’s
Requests for Production of Documents (“RFPs”), Set One, Nos. 3 and 4.
Plaintiff
also seeks monetary sanctions to be imposed against Defendant in the combined
amount of $7,195.00.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One, is granted in part. Defendant to provide further objection-free
responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatory Nos. 1, 7–11, 13–15, and 18–19 within 30 days. 
 
The motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to
Plaintiff’s RFPs, Set One, is granted. Defendant to provide further responses
to RFP Nos. 3 and 4 within 30 days.
 
The Court imposes sanctions against Defendant in the amount
of $960.00.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a contract action in which Plaintiff alleges that on
8/10/23, Defendants each entered into agreements with Plaintiff, engaging
Plaintiff as their authorized dealer and sales affiliate to solicit orders for Defendants’
solar energy equipment and services. (SAC ¶¶ 6–12.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
breached the agreement by, inter alia, failing to pay Plaintiff sales
commissions, terminating the agreements without sufficient notice, and
otherwise frustrating Plaintiff’s efforts to complete projects. (Id. at
¶¶ 14–33.)
 
On 11/29/23, Plaintiff filed its complaint, alleging against
Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach
of Contract; (3) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;
and (4) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. On
2/9/24, Plaintiff filed its first amended complaint (“FAC”), alleging the same
causes of action against Defendants. On 8/1/24, Plaintiff filed its operative
second amended complaint (“SAC”), alleging the same causes of action against
Defendants. On 8/27/24, Defendants filed their answer.
 
On 4/22/24, Plaintiff served its first set of discovery
requests on Defendant. (Decl. of Adam Losey ¶ 2.) On 5/22/24, Defendant served its
responses thereto. (Id. at ¶ 3.) On 7/17/24, Defendant served
supplemental responses to the subject discovery requests. (Ibid.)
 
On 9/3/24, Plaintiff filed the instant motions to compel further
responses to the subject discovery requests. On 12/26/24, Defendant filed its
oppositions thereto. On 1/2/25, Plaintiff filed its replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks to
compel Defendant’s additional responses the subject discovery requests, arguing
that Defendant’s responses are evasive and incomplete, and its objections are
without merit.
 
A.   
Meet and Confer 
 
A motion to compel further
discovery responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310, subd. (b)(2); 2016.040.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s
counsel declares that on 8/8/24, he sent Defendant’s counsel a meet-and-confer
letter raising the issues discussed herein. (Losey
Decl. ¶ 4.) On 8/26/24, counsel for the
parties met and conferred telephonically, but were unable to resolve the
dispute. (Id. at ¶ 5.) Therefore, the Court
finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirement
under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300, subdivision (b)(1) and
2031.310, subdivision (b)(2).
 
B.    
Timeliness
 
As a preliminary matter, Defendant argues that the instant
motions to compel should be denied as untimely. “A motion to compel further
response … [must] be made within 45 days of the service of the response.” (Standon
Co. v Superior Court (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 898, 902.) “Unless notice of
this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or
any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later
date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to
the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300, subd. (c); 2031.310, subd. (c)
[emphasis added].)
 
Defendant contends that the parties agreed upon a deadline
of two weeks after any supplemental responses were served for Plaintiff to file
the instant motions. (Def.’s Opp. 3:6–22, citing Exs. 2–4 to Decl. of Geoffrey
G. Melkonian.) Defendant asserts that because it served its supplemental
responses to the subject discovery requests on 7/17/24, Plaintiff had until
7/31/24 to file the instant motions. However, “rather than filing its Motion to
Compel, or even attempting to meet and confer with Defendant’s counsel on or
before July 31, 2024, Plaintiff waited until August 8, 2024, after the mutually
agreed upon deadline to file any motions to compel, to first meet and confer
regarding the discovery responses.” (Id. at 4:3–6.)
 
Plaintiff argues in reply that the plain language of the
statute cannot be interpreted to shorten the statutory 45-day period for
parties to bring motions to compel further discovery responses. The Court
agrees with Plaintiff, and notes that the statute unambiguously allows for the
propounding and responding parties to agree upon a date later than the
45-day statutory period for the propounding party to bring a motion to compel
further responses. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300, subd. (c); 2031.310, subd. (c).)
As Plaintiff observes, “the inclusion of the word ‘later’ plainly indicates
that the rule does not contemplate that a party may waive or limit their rights
to bring such a motion by agreeing to an earlier date.” (Pl.’s Reply
3:13–15 [emphasis added].)
 
Plaintiff contends that “‘extension’, of course, means
enlargement and cannot possibly be construed to mean that Plaintiff agreed to
narrow the new 45-day period to 14 days.” (Pl.’s Reply 3:20–22.) Therefore,
Plaintiff argues that the parties’ agreement to a two-week extension added two
weeks to the 45-day statutory period to file the instant motions. The Court
agrees.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the deadline
for Plaintiff to bring the instant motions was 9/16/24, which is two weeks
after the 45-day statutory period provided under Code of Civil Procedure
sections 2030.300 and 2031.310. Accordingly, as the instant motions were filed
on 9/3/24, the Court finds that the motions are not untimely.
 
C.   
Special Interrogatories
“The
party to whom interrogatories have been propounded shall respond in writing
under oath separately to each interrogatory by any of the following: (1) An
answer containing the information sought to be discovered; (2) An exercise of
the party’s option to produce writings; or (3) An objection to the particular
interrogatory.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.210, subd. (a).) “If the responding
party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an
interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good
faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or
organizations, except where the information is equally available to the
propounding party.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.220, subd. (c).)
 
A propounding party may move for an order
compelling further responses to interrogatories if any of the following apply:
“(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete; (2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate; or
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.300, subd. (a).) 
 
1.      Defendant’s
Objections
 
A demanding party must take the initiative to
obtain a judicial determination of the validity of any objection by moving to
compel a further response, but the objecting party has the burden of justifying
the objection. (See, e.g., Coy v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County
(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220.) Here, Defendant asserted the following objections
to each of the subject interrogatories: “Objection. This request is objected to
on the grounds that the information sought is irrelevant and not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, overly broad,
harassing and oppressive, and seeks information Protected by the attorney-client
privilege.”
 
However, as Plaintiff observes, Defendant’s “Opposition
and Response have not carried Defendant’s burden of justifying any of its
objections or incomplete answers and does not even attempt to address the
inappropriateness on the boilerplate objections.” (Pl.’s Reply 5:14–16.)
Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant’s objections are without merit.
 
2.      Defendant’s
Substantive Responses
 
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatory No. 1 seeks,
“with specificity, the facts around the decision-making process that led up to
Michael Le’s email to Blake Yang on September 28, 2023 that said, ‘our
relationship will be terminated as of OCT 1.’” (Pl.’s Sep. Stmt. 4:3–5.)
Defendant’s supplemental response to Special Interrogatory No. 1 states that “the
September 28, 2023 email was sent as Propounding Party had breached the
agreement and was actively sabotaging jobs.” (Id. at 4:16–17.) Plaintiff
argues that this further response is impermissibly conclusive and evasive, as “Plaintiff
has the right to be apprised of the alleged factual basis of such statements.
This response must be updated to provide specificity.” (Id. at 5:1–2.)
Defendant argues in opposition that its response is adequate, that “Plaintiff
may send subsequent interrogatories to further inquire or take the Defendant’s
deposition but the ‘follow up’ interrogatory should not be a Motion to Compel.”
(Def.’s Sep. Stmt. 3:11–13.) The Court finds that Defendant’s response is
evasive and incomplete, and therefore the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to
compel a further response to Special Interrogatory No. 1.
 
Special Interrogatory Nos. 7 and 14 ask
Defendant to identify documents supporting Defendant’s responses to separate related
interrogatories. In response, Defendant cited: “Contracts, communications
between the parties, communications with customers, project documents, and
project spreadsheet.” (Pl.’s Sep. Stmt. 5:18–19, 13:15–16.) Plaintiff argues
that Defendant’s responses are insufficient because they fail “to
identify with specificity the responsive documents.” (Id. at 6:2,
13:20.) The Court agrees and finds these responses impermissibly vague.
Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
Special Interrogatory Nos. 7 and 14.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 8 asks Defendant to
“identify all business entities, as of August 1, 2023, that were contracted
with YOU as ‘an authorized dealer’ (as that term is used in the AGREEMENT).” (Id.
at 6:8–9.) Special Interrogatory No. 10 seeks additional information on
these purported additional authorized dealers. (Id. at 8:5–8.) In
response, Defendant asserts that “the AGREEMENT does not contain the exact
phrase ‘an authorized dealer’ as such, the request is vague and ambiguous with
regard to that term. Notwithstanding said objections and in the spirit of
discovery, the AGREEMENT does not contract with any other ‘authorized dealer’
other than Propounding Party.” (Id. at 6:11–14.) However, as Plaintiff
observes, the phrase “authorized dealer” is contained on the first page of the
subject agreement. (Ex. B to SAC, p. 1.) The Court further finds Defendant’s
response to be evasive, deliberately maintaining that the “Agreement” does not
contract with other authorized dealers, rather than stating whether Defendant
contracts with other authorized dealers, as the term is used in the subject
agreement. Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 8 and 10.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 9 asks Defendant to “state,
with specificity, why SolarSesame’s ability to complete site surveys and credit
applications in YOUR DMS portal was revoked in late August 2023.” (Pl.’s
Sep. Stmt. 7:3–4.) In its further response, Defendant stated that “access was
not permitted as Propounding Party had breached the Agreement.” (Id. at
7:15–16.) Plaintiff argues that this response is impermissibly vague, as
Defendant fails to state, for example, “when did Plaintiff alleged breach the
Agreement? And how?” (Id. at 8:1–2.) While Defendant maintains that its
response is sufficient, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that the response is
incomplete as written. Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion
to compel a further response to Special Interrogatory No. 9.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 11 asks Defendant to
“identify any and all persons assigned by YOU as Project Manager under the
Agreement.” (Id. at 9:6–7.) Special Interrogatory No. 15 asks Defendant
to “state, with specificity, the facts and circumstances behind why Michael Le
is no longer employed by or otherwise associated with YOU.” (Id. at
14:3–4.) Defendant provided objection-only responses to the subject
interrogatories. Plaintiff argues that a further response to Special
Interrogatory No. 11 is necessary because “the subject agreement
required Defendant to assign a ‘Project Manager’ to support Plaintiff’s
projects and ‘serve as the main point of contact.’ … This is plainly relevant
to this breach of contract action, so none of the objections are applicable,
even if they were not per se inappropriate.” (Id. 9:15–18.) Plaintiff
further argues that Special Interrogatory No. 15 “seeks information regarding
the termination of Michael Le, who was Plaintiff’s primary point of contact
with Defendants during the term of the subject agreement. … Such information is
within the scope of discovery and admissible evidence.” (14:11–14.) The Court
agrees, and therefore grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
Special Interrogatory Nos. 11 and 15.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 12 asks Defendant to “state,
with specificity, the relationship between YOU and Defendant LA SOLAR GROUP,
INC., including but not limited to any arrangements for the sharing of
employees.” (Id. at 10:3–4.) Defendant responded that “the parties are ‘sister’
organizations doing business in separate states. There is no formal agreement
between the parties.” (Id. at 10:15–16.) Plaintiff asserts that this
response is insufficient because “the statement that they are ‘sister’
companies provides no useful information beyond the fact that they are
affiliates. Do they share the same ownership? If employees are shared, which
company(ies) formally employ them? Etc.” (Id. at 11:1–3.) However, to
this extent, the Court finds that this interrogatory does not specifically seek
information about Defendant’s shared ownership with co-defendant LA Solar
Group. Defendant argues in opposition that “Defendant is uncertain what further
information Plaintiff is looking for and cannot speculate to respond further.”
(Def.’s Sep. Stmt. 9:18–19.) The Court finds Defendant’s response to be
sufficient, and therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel a further
response to Special Interrogatory No. 12.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 13 asks Defendant to bolster
a previously-produced deal spreadsheet with the following information: “the
status of each such project (completed, canceled by customer, canceled by YOU,
etc.), moneys received by YOU attributable to such project, amounts still due
to YOU from such project, and moneys paid by YOU to SolarSesame attributable to
such project.” (Pl.’s Sep. Stmt. 11:15–18.) Plaintiff argues that Defendant
partially complied with this request, producing a “file [which] only contained
a status update and did not contain the moneys received by Defendant, the
amounts still due, or the moneys paid to SolarSesame. These monies are at the
heart of this dispute.” (Id. at 12:14–16.) Defendant maintains that no
additional responses are warranted. (Def.’s Sep. Stmt. 10:19–11:1.) The Court disagrees
and finds Defendant’s response to be incomplete. Accordingly, the Court grants
Plaintiff’s motion to compel a further response to Special Interrogatory No.
13.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 18 asks Defendant to “describe,
with specificity, YOUR relationship with Monique Cruz from August 1, 2023 to
the present, including but not limited to any authority she had or has to act
on YOUR behalf.” (Pl.’s Sep. Stmt. 14:17–19.) Defendant responded that “Responding
Party is not familiar with Monique Cruz.” (Id. at 15:13.) Plaintiff
argues that a further response is warranted because “it seems unlikely that
Defendant would be unfamiliar with Monique Cruz after a good faith diligent
inquiry, considering that Plaintiff is aware of communications with her, coming
from a @lasolargroup.com address (noting that Defendants are ‘sister’ companies
as admitted above in response to No. 12) and signed as ‘Project Manager.’” (Id.
at 15:17–20.) Defendant maintains that no further response is warranted. “The
object of discovery is to prevent surprise at trial,” therefore a responding
party may not delay “producing what was clearly in his possession and failed to
make a diligent search for records he could easily have obtained.” (Manlin
v. Milner (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 1004, 1025.) The Court is not persuaded
that Defendant’s response to Special Interrogatory No. 18 reflects
a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information sought, and
therefore finds Defendant’s response to be evasive. (Code
Civ. Proc. §
2030.220, subd. (c).) Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion
to compel a further response to Special Interrogatory No. 18.
 
Special Interrogatory No. 19 asks Defendant to “state
the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of any PERSON who was involved in
drafting or revising the AGREEMENT.” (Pl.’s Sep. Stmt. 16:3–4.) Defendant’s
response states that “the AGREEMENT was drafted and negotiated between the
parties. Responding Party is not aware who initially drafted the AGREEMENT.” (Id.
at 16:15–17.) The Court agrees with Plaintiff that “Defendant has provided
only a vague response that does not identify a single person.” (Id. at
16:23.) The Court is not persuaded that Defendant’s response to Special
Interrogatory No. 19 reflects
a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information sought, based on
Defendant’s undisputed access to its own business records, and therefore finds
Defendant’s response to be evasive. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.220, subd. (c).) Accordingly, the
Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel a further response to Special
Interrogatory No. 19.
 
D.   
RFPs
 
California law requires a
responding party to respond to each request for production of documents with
either a statement of compliance, a representation that the party lacks the
ability to comply, or an objection to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210,
subd. (a).) A propounding party may move for an order compelling further
response to a discovery request if it decides that “an objection in the
response is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd.
(a).)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s RFP No. 3 seeks
all communications between Defendant and any customer since the 8/1/23. (Pl.’s
Sep. Stmt. 3:3–4.) In response, Defendant asserted objections based on
ambiguity, relevance, overbreadth, and privacy. (Id. at 3:5–12.) Discovery
is relevant if it is admissible as evidence, or “appears reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
“Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or
of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff argues that “this
request is highly relevant, contrary to Defendant’s assertions, because
Plaintiff has asserted that Defendant exercised bad faith in cancelling
projects with mutual customers and also in communicating to Plaintiff that
certain projects were being cancelled when they in fact were not.” (Id. at
3:20–22.) The Court agrees that the documents sought by RFP No. 3 are relevant.
In opposition, Defendant maintains that “the request is overbroad in that it
seeks all communications with all customers.” (Def.’s Sep. Stmt. 2:23.) However,
the Court notes that the party objecting to a discovery request on this basis
bears the burden of supplying evidence of “the quantum of work required,” and
here, Defendant has made no such showing. (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 549.) Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to
compel a further response to RFP No. 3.
 
RFP No. 4 seeks “any and all
COMMUNICATIONS between D. A. Dabner and Ara Petrosyan that refer to or
otherwise concern the AGREEMENT or the propounding party.” (Pl.’s Sep. Stmt.
5:3–4.) In response, Defendant asserted objections based on relevance,
overbreadth, and attorney-client privilege. (Id. at 3:5–12.) Plaintiff
argues that “the request is patently not overbroad, as it is narrowly tailored
to communications between two of Defendant’s executives that ‘refer to or
otherwise concern the AGREEMENT or the propounding party.’ Communications that
reference the contract at the heart of this dispute, or otherwise concern
Plaintiff, are patently discoverable and admissible – such communications could
include, for example, admissions by Defendant’s agents of the amounts owed to
Plaintiff, or how Defendant improperly terminated the agreement. … The only
exception would be communications subject to the attorney-client privilege –
however, Defendant has not provided a privilege log as required by CCP §
2031.240(b).” (Id. at 5:11–19.) The Court agrees, and therefore grants
Plaintiff’s motion to compel a further response to RFP No. 4.
 
E.     Monetary
Sanctions
 
“The court shall impose a monetary
sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories [or RFPs], unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.290, subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
Additionally, “the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030,
subd. (a).)
 
Here, Plaintiff requests a total
combined sum of $7,195.00 in
monetary sanctions against Defendant, which encompasses: (1) 5.3 hours of Plaintiff’s
attorney’s time spent preparing the motions; and (2) 8 hours preparing Plaintiff’s
replies; at counsel’s hourly billing rate of $450.00 per hour. Plaintiff also
seeks to recover $60.00 in filing fees per motion, and an anticipated 2 hours
attending the instant hearing, at counsel’s hourly billing rate of $545.00 per
hour. In granting the instant motions, the Court finds it reasonable to award
Plaintiff monetary sanctions in the amount of $960.00 against Defendant.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion to compel Defendant’s
further responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, is granted
in part. Defendant to provide further objection-free responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatory Nos. 1, 7–11,
13–15, and 18–19 within 30 days. 
 
The motion to compel Defendant’s
further responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs, Set One, is granted. Defendant to
provide further responses to RFP Nos. 3 and 4 within 30 days.
 
The Court imposes sanctions against
Defendant in the amount of $960.00. 
JANUARY 8,
2025
 
MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH
DISCOVERY RESPONSES
(Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23CHCV03607
 Motion
filed: 10/4/24 MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
SolarSesame Inc. (“Plaintiff”)RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant
Smart Main Panel Inc., dba LA/TX Solar Group (“Defendant”)NOTICE: OK RELIEF
REQUESTED: An order
compelling Defendant’s compliance with its responses to Plaintiff’s Requests
for Production of Documents (“RFPs”), Set One, agreeing to provide documents
responsive to RFP Nos. 1,
2, and 5. Plaintiff
also seeks to recover monetary sanctions against Defendant and/or its counsel
in the amount of $465.00. TENTATIVE
RULING: The unopposed motion is granted. Defendant is ordered
to produce documents to Plaintiff’s RFPs, Set One, Nos. 1, 2, and 5, in compliance
with its responses thereto, within 30 days. The Court imposes sanctions against
Defendant in the amount of $250.00. BACKGROUND This is a contract action in which Plaintiff alleges that on
8/10/23, Defendants each entered into agreements with Plaintiff, engaging
Plaintiff as their authorized dealer and sales affiliate to solicit orders for
Defendants’ solar energy equipment and services. (SAC ¶¶ 6–12.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants breached the agreement by, inter alia, failing to pay
Plaintiff sales commissions, terminating the agreements without sufficient
notice, and otherwise frustrating Plaintiff’s efforts to complete projects. (Id.
at ¶¶ 14–33.) On 11/29/23, Plaintiff filed its complaint, alleging against
Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach
of Contract; (3) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;
and (4) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. On
2/9/24, Plaintiff filed its first amended complaint (“FAC”), alleging the same
causes of action against Defendants. On 8/1/24, Plaintiff filed its operative
second amended complaint (“SAC”), alleging the same causes of action against
Defendants. On 8/27/24, Defendants filed their answer. On 4/22/24, Plaintiff served its first set of RFPs on
Defendant. (Decl. of Adam Losey ¶ 2.) On 7/17/24, Defendant served supplemental
responses thereto. (Id. at ¶ 3.) On 10/4/24, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel Defendant’s
compliance with its agreement to produce documents responsive to Plaintiff’s
RFPs, Set One, Nos. 1, 2, and 5. No opposition has been filed to date. ANALYSIS A responding party must respond to
each propounded request for production of documents with either a statement of
compliance, a representation that the party lacks the ability to comply, or an
objection to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210, subd. (a).) “If a party
filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling
under Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280 thereafter
fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance
with that party’s statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling compliance.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.320, subd. (a).) Here, “in response to
three of the Requests (No. 1, 2, and 5), Defendant stated: ‘Responding party
shall comply with this request by producing any and all documents in his
possession, custody and/or control.’” (Losey Decl. ¶ 4.) However, as of the
filing date of the motion, “no documents have been forthcoming other than the
single spreadsheet.” (Id. at ¶ 7.) The Court notes that
Defendant has failed to oppose the instant motion. Based on the foregoing, the
Court grants Plaintiff’s unopposed motion to compel Defendant’s compliance with
its responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs, Set One. “The court shall impose a monetary sanction … against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
compliance with a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.320, subd. (b).)
Additionally, “the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030,
subd. (a).) Here, Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $465.00
to be imposed against Defendant and/or its counsel. This amount includes 0.9
hours of Plaintiff’s attorney’s time spent working on this motion, at his
hourly billing rate of $450.00 per hour. (Losey Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff also
seeks to recover an additional $60.00 in filing fees. (Ibid.) In granting the instant unopposed motion, the Court finds it
reasonable to award Moving Defendant sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount
of $250.00.¿To the extent that Defendant has now produced documents responsive
to the subject RFPs, thereby rendering the instant motion moot, the request for
sanctions is respectively moot. CONCLUSION 
The unopposed motion is granted.
Defendant is ordered to produce documents to Plaintiff’s RFPs, Set One, Nos. 1, 2, and 5, in compliance
with its responses thereto, within 30 days. The Court imposes sanctions against
Defendant in the amount of $250.00.