 Case Number:  24SMCV01140    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV01140




MOTION


Ex Parte Application for TRO and OSC re: Preliminary
  Injunction




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Sanaz Afsar




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute concerning the residence Plaintiff
Sanaz Afsar[1]
(“Plaintiff”) has leased from Defendant Dust Bowl Real Estate LLC (“Defendant”)
for the past four years.  Following a
fire on March 3, 2024, which damaged the garage and part of the laundry room,
Plaintiff discovered gas leaks and mold on the premises.  Plaintiff has had the gas turned off and has temporarily
relocated herself and her two small children down the street, pending the remediation
of soot in the home, which is estimated to take six days, but has otherwise
continued to timely make all rent payments, and returns to the home daily to
retrieve clothing, etc. 
 
Plaintiff has filed suit, alleging that Defendant is now improperly
trying to evict and lock Plaintiff out of the residence.  Plaintiff has now filed an ex parte
application for a temporary restraining order and order to show cause why a
preliminary injunction should not issue during the pendency of the litigation
to prevent Defendant from pursuing the threatened lock-out/forcible detainer
during the pendency of this action.
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS – TRO AND PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
 
A party seeking a TRO must establish “(1) irreparable injury to the
moving party without the TRO; (2) no harm to the public interest; (3) no
substantial harm to other interested parties; 
and (4) a likelihood of prevailing on the merits.”  (Sarale v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co.
(2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 225, 243.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 527, subdivision (a), “[a]
preliminary injunction may be granted at any time before judgment upon a
verified complaint, or upon affidavits if the complaint in the one case, or the
affidavits in the other, show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist
therefor.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 527, subd. (a).) “The purpose of a preliminary
injunction is to preserve the status quo pending final resolution upon a
trial.” (Grothe v. Cortlandt Corp. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1313, 1316.)
The status quo has been defined to mean the last actual peaceable, uncontested
status which preceded the pending controversy. (14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s
Assn. v. VRT Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402.) Preliminary
injunctive relief requires the use of competent evidence to create a sufficient
factual showing on the grounds for relief. (See, e.g., ReadyLink Healthcare
v. Cotton (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016; Ancora-Citronelle Corp. v.
Green (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146, 150.)
 
The trial court considers two factors in determining whether to issue
a preliminary injunction: (1) the likelihood the plaintiff will prevail on the
merits of its case at trial, and (2) the interim harm the plaintiff is likely
to sustain if the injunction is denied as compared to the harm the defendant is
likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary injunction. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 526, subd. (a).) The balancing of harm between the parties “involves
consideration of such things as the inadequacy of other remedies, the degree of
irreparable harm, and the necessity of preserving the status quo.” (Husain
v. McDonald’s Corp. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 860, 866-67.)
 
“The decision to grant a preliminary injunction rests in the sound
discretion of the trial court ... before the trial court can exercise its
discretion the applicant must make a prima facie showing of entitlement to
injunctive relief. The applicant must demonstrate a real threat of immediate
and irreparable injury.” (Triple A Machine Shop, Inc. v. State of Cal.
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 131, 138.) “[A]n injunction is an unusual or
extraordinary equitable remedy which will not be granted if the remedy at law
(usually damages) will adequately compensate the injured plaintiff,” and the
party seeking injunctive relief bears the burden to prove its absence. (Department
of Fish & Game v. Anderson-Cottonwood Irrigation Dist. (1992) 8
Cal.App.4th 1554, 1564-1565.)
            
ANALYSIS
 
A.   
IRREPARABLE HARM
 
“The
hardship, if any, to defendant in requiring him to show that his desire to
evict someone is motivated by a legitimate reason is insignificant when
compared to the irreparable harm plaintiffs will suffer if they […] are
evicted.”  (Hernandez v. Stabach
(1983) 145 Cal.App.3d 309, 315.)  Thus,
in the absence of Defendant demonstrating some countervailing irreparable harm,
because Plaintiff is being threatened with eviction, Plaintiff has demonstrated
an irreparable harm that outweighs the hardship, if any, to Defendant of first
litigating the legitimacy of the threatened eviction or lock-out.
 
B.    
PROBABILITY OF SUCCESS ON THE MERITS
 
A
TRO or preliminary injunction may not issue unless it is “reasonably probable
that the moving party will prevail on the merits. (San Francisco Newspaper
Printing Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 438, 442; see
Costa Mesa City Employees’ Association v. City of Costa Mesa (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 298, 309 [no injunction may issue unless there is at least “some
possibility” of success].)
 
On
March 10, after Plaintiff had an investigator examine the home, who discovered
several gas leaks and mold in the walls, Plaintiff emailed Defendant notifying
Defendant of the mold.  (Ex. F to Kashani
Decl.)  
 
On
March 11, Plaintiff contends Defendant emailed Plaintiff the following:
 
Your rent was received on Thursday, March 8th,
and it is being refunded to you because you and your family are no longer
occupying the premises after of [sic] the fire. What is your present address so
that the rent refund can be mailed directly to you? Please reconfirm that you
have had all utilities turned off as well as you stated to me.
 
To
which, Plaintiff contends she immediately emailed back:
 
We do not intend to relinquish occupancy. The
premises can be restored to occupiable condition in 6 days once work starts. If
the work starts immediately I will not ask for a pro-rata of rent for the few
missing days.
 
(Kashani Decl. at
¶ 12.)  
 
            On March 13, 2024, Defendant sent
Plaintiff a sixty-day notice to quit, pursuant to Civil Code section 1946.1, and
citing paragraph 28 of the lease agreement. 
Section 1946.1 provides:
 
 
(a) Notwithstanding Section 1946, a hiring of
residential real property for a term not specified by the parties, is deemed to
be renewed as stated in Section 1945, at the end of the term implied by law
unless one of the parties gives written notice to the other of his or her
intention to terminate the tenancy, as provided in this section.
 
(b) An owner of a residential dwelling giving notice
pursuant to this section shall give notice at least 60 days prior to the
proposed date of termination. A tenant giving notice pursuant to this section
shall give notice for a period at least as long as the term of the periodic
tenancy prior to the proposed date of termination.
 
Paragraph
28 of the lease agreement provides, in relevant part: 
 
28. DAMAGE TO PREMISES: If, by no fault
of Tenant, Premises are totally or partially damaged or destroyed by fire,
earthquake, accident or other casualty that render Premises totally or
partially uninhabitable, either Landlord or Tenant may terminate this Agreement
by giving the other written notice.  Rent
shall be abated as of the date Premises become totally or partially
uninhabitable.  The abated amount shall
be the current monthly Rent prorated on a 30-day period.  If the Agreement is not terminated, Landlord
shall promptly repair the damage, and Rent shall be reduced based on the extent
to which the damage interferes with Tenant’s reasonable use of Premises.  […]
 
(Ex. A to Kashani
Decl.)  
 
The
March 11 email suggests Defendant may have been trying to deem the property
abandoned, and the March 13 notice to quit appears to be invoking Defendant’s
right to terminate the lease agreement, pursuant to the no fault damage clause
of paragraph 28 of the lease and Civil Code section 1946.1.  
 
Abandonment
 
Plaintiff
argues that she does not meet the criteria for abandonment:
 
(b) Real property shall be deemed abandoned by the
lessee, within the meaning of Section 1951.2, and the lease shall terminate if
the lessor gives written notice of belief of abandonment as provided in this
section and the lessee fails to give the lessor written notice, prior to the
date of termination specified in the lessor's notice, stating that the lessee
does not intend to abandon the real property and stating an address at which
the lessee may be served by certified mail in any action for unlawful detainer
of the real property.
 
(c) The lessor may give a notice of belief of
abandonment to the lessee pursuant to this section only where the rent on the
property has been due and unpaid for at least 14 consecutive days and the
lessor reasonably believes that the lessee has abandoned the property. The date
of termination of the lease shall be specified in the lessor's notice and shall
be not less than 15 days after the notice is served personally or, if mailed,
not less than 18 days after the notice is deposited in the mail.
 
(Civ. Code, §
1951.3, subd. (b) & (c).)  As
Plaintiff points out, here, the rent was never unpaid, much less for 14
consecutive days, and Plaintiff immediately responded to Defendant’s email,
indicating that Plaintiff did not abandon the property.  Thus, to the extent Defendant is attempting
to evict Plaintiff on the basis of abandonment, Plaintiff is likely to prevail.
 
            Paragraph 28 and Civil Code
Section 1946.2
            
Civil
Code section 1946.2 provides:
 
(a) Notwithstanding any other law, after a tenant
has continuously and lawfully occupied a residential real property for 12
months, the owner of the residential real property shall not terminate the
tenancy without just cause, which shall be stated in the written notice to
terminate tenancy. […]
 
(b) For purposes of this section, “just cause”
includes either of the following:
[…]
 
(2) No-fault just cause, which includes any of the
following:
 
(A)(i) Intent to occupy the residential real
property by the owner or their spouse, domestic partner, children,
grandchildren, parents, or grandparents.
 
(ii) For leases entered into on or after July 1,
2020, or July 1, 2022, if the lease is for a tenancy in a mobilehome, clause
(i) shall apply only if the tenant agrees, in writing, to the termination, or
if a provision of the lease allows the owner to terminate the lease if the
owner, or their spouse, domestic partner, children, grandchildren, parents, or
grandparents, unilaterally decides to occupy the residential real property.
Addition of a provision allowing the owner to terminate the lease as described
in this clause to a new or renewed rental agreement or fixed-term lease
constitutes a similar provision for the purposes of subparagraph (E) of
paragraph (1).
 
(B) Withdrawal of the residential real property from
the rental market.
 
(C)(i) The owner complying with any of the
following:
 
(I) An order issued by a government agency or court
relating to habitability that necessitates vacating the residential real
property.
 
(II) An order issued by a government agency or court
to vacate the residential real property.
 
(III) A local ordinance that necessitates vacating
the residential real property.
 
(ii) If it is determined by any government agency or
court that the tenant is at fault for the condition or conditions triggering
the order or need to vacate under clause (i), the tenant shall not be entitled
to relocation assistance as outlined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (d).
 
(D)(i) Intent to demolish or to substantially
remodel the residential real property.
 
(ii) For purposes of this subparagraph,
“substantially remodel” means the replacement or substantial modification of
any structural, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical system that requires a
permit from a governmental agency, or the abatement of hazardous materials,
including lead-based paint, mold, or asbestos, in accordance with applicable
federal, state, and local laws, that cannot be reasonably accomplished in a
safe manner with the tenant in place and that requires the tenant to vacate the
residential real property for at least 30 days. Cosmetic improvements alone,
including painting, decorating, and minor repairs, or other work that can be
performed safely without having the residential real property vacated, do not
qualify as substantial rehabilitation.
 
(c) Before an owner of residential real property
issues a notice to terminate a tenancy for just cause that is a curable lease
violation, the owner shall first give notice of the violation to the tenant
with an opportunity to cure the violation pursuant to paragraph (3) of Section
1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure. If the violation is not cured within the
time period set forth in the notice, a three-day notice to quit without an
opportunity to cure may thereafter be served to terminate the tenancy.
 
(d)(1) For a tenancy for which just cause is
required to terminate the tenancy under subdivision (a), if an owner of
residential real property issues a termination notice based on a no-fault just
cause described in paragraph (2) of subdivision (b), the owner shall,
regardless of the tenant's income, at the owner's option, do one of the
following:
 
(A) Assist the tenant to relocate by providing a
direct payment to the tenant as described in paragraph (3).
 
(B) Waive in writing the payment of rent for the
final month of the tenancy, prior to the rent becoming due.
 
(2) If an owner issues a notice to terminate a
tenancy for no-fault just cause, the owner shall notify the tenant of the
tenant's right to relocation assistance or rent waiver pursuant to this
section. If the owner elects to waive the rent for the final month of the
tenancy as provided in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1), the notice shall
state the amount of rent waived and that no rent is due for the final month of
the tenancy.
 
(3)(A) The amount of relocation assistance or rent
waiver shall be equal to one month of the tenant's rent that was in effect when
the owner issued the notice to terminate the tenancy. Any relocation assistance
shall be provided within 15 calendar days of service of the notice.
 
(B) If a tenant fails to vacate after the expiration
of the notice to terminate the tenancy, the actual amount of any relocation
assistance or rent waiver provided pursuant to this subdivision shall be
recoverable as damages in an action to recover possession.
 
(C) The relocation assistance or rent waiver
required by this subdivision shall be credited against any other relocation
assistance required by any other law.
 
(4) An owner's failure to strictly comply with this
subdivision shall render the notice of termination void.
 
(Civ. Code, §
1946.2.)
 
            Here, the sixty-day notice to quit
does not specify any “just cause” listed in section 1946.2.  As such, Defendant does not appear to have
strictly complied with the statutory requirements, rendering the sixty-day quit
notice potentially void.
 
Moreover,
Civil Code section 1942.5, subdivision (a) provides:
 
(a) If the lessor retaliates against the lessee
because of the exercise by the lessee of the lessee’s rights under this chapter
or because of the lessee’s complaint to an appropriate agency as to tenantability
of a dwelling, and if the lessee of a dwelling is not in default as to the
payment of rent, the lessor may not recover possession of a dwelling in any
action or proceeding, cause the lessee to quit involuntarily, increase the
rent, or decrease any services within 180 days of any of the following:
 
(1) After the date upon which the lessee, in good
faith, has given notice pursuant to Section 1942, has provided notice of a
suspected bed bug infestation, or has made an oral complaint to the lessor
regarding tenantability.
 
(2) After the date upon which the lessee, in good
faith, has filed a written complaint, or an oral complaint which is registered
or otherwise recorded in writing, with an appropriate agency, of which the
lessor has notice, for the purpose of obtaining correction of a condition
relating to tenantability.
 
(3) After the date of an inspection or issuance of a
citation, resulting from a complaint described in paragraph (2) of which the
lessor did not have notice.
 
(4) After the filing of appropriate documents
commencing a judicial or arbitration proceeding involving the issue of
tenantability.
 
(5) After entry of judgment or the signing of an
arbitration award, if any, when in the judicial proceeding or arbitration the
issue of tenantability is determined adversely to the lessor.
 
In each instance, the 180-day period shall run from
the latest applicable date referred to in paragraphs (1) to (5), inclusive.
 
(Civ. Code, §
1942.5, subd. (a).)  Because Defendant
sent Plaintiff the email purporting to evict on the basis of abandonment the
day after Plaintiff emailed Defendant about the mold and then sent Plaintiff
the sixty-day quit notice two days later, Defendant’s eviction attempts appear
to be retaliatory.
 
Therefore,
Plaintiff is likely to prevail on the merits that an attempt to evict based on
section 28 of the lease agreement and Civil Code section 1946.2 is similarly
invalid.
 
            As such, Plaintiff appears likely to
prevail on the merits of demonstrating that the actions Defendant took in
attempting to evict Plaintiff were improper.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, because the Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated an
immediate and irreparable harm (eviction) that outweighs any harm to Defendant
and a likelihood of success on the merits of demonstrating that the actions
Defendant took in attempting to evict Plaintiff were improper, the Court grants
Plaintiff’s motion for a temporary restraining order and sets an order to show
cause why a preliminary injunction should not issue for May 8, 2024 at
8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  
 
·        
Plaintiff shall and file serve her opening
memorandum of points and authorities in support of the preliminary injunction
on or before April 3, 2024.  
·        
Defendant may then file and serve its memorandum
of points and authorities in opposition to the preliminary injunction on or
before April 17, 2024.  
·        
Plaintiff may then file her memorandum of points
and authorities in in reply to any opposition on or before May 1, 2024.  
 
Further, the Court orders all parties to lodge courtesy copies of their
papers in Department 207.  
 
Plaintiff shall prepare a proposed order in conformity with the Court’s
ruling by no later than March 22, 2024, and provide notice of the Court’s
ruling forthwith.  
 
 
 
DATED:  March 20, 2024                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


