 Case Number:  23SMCV00873    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV00873




MOTION


Motion to Compel Further Deposition Responses and
  Production of Documents




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Albert Saman




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTION
 
            This lawsuit arises out of a dispute
concerning alleged construction defects causing water intrusion into Plaintiff
Albert Saman’s (“Plaintiff”) condominium unit and other units in the condominium
complex.  Plaintiff has sued Defendant
Rahul Dhawan (“Defendant”), the prior owner of the unit, who sold the unit to
Plaintiff.  The Homeowners’ Association
(“HOA”) settled with the developer in pre-lawsuit negotiations.  As part of that negotiations, the HOA’s
attorney hired AVELAR, an engineering firm, which conducted an investigation of
the condominium complex.  
 
            Plaintiff subpoenaed Eric Archuletta
(“Archuletta”), an AVELAR employee, for fact witness deposition testimony and for
documents related to that investigation. 
At the direction of the HOA’s attorney, Archuletta provided only a
limited report concerning Plaintiff’s unit and testified only as to Plaintiff’s
unit and the general fact of the HOA’s retention of AVELAR.
 
            Plaintiff now moves to compel
further responses and documents concerning AVELAR’s investigation of the
building generally.  Plaintiff’s motion
is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS   
 
1.      Legal
Standards
 
“In California, discovery may be obtained from a nonparty through an
oral deposition, a written deposition, or a deposition for the production of
business records and things. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (a).)” (Board
of Registered Nursing v. Superior Court of Orange County (2021) 59
Cal.App.5th 1011, 1030 (“Board of Registered Nursing”).) “To pursue the
deposition of a nonparty, a party must generally serve a deposition subpoena.”
(Ibid.).)
 
“‘A deposition subpoena that commands only the production of business
records for copying shall designate the business records to be produced either
by specifically describing each individual item or by reasonably
particularizing each category of item, and shall specify the form in which any
electronically stored information is to be produced, if a particular form is
desired.’ [Citation.]” (Board of Registered Nursing, supra, 59
Cal.App.5th at p. 1030
 
“‘If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd.
(a).)” (Board of Registered Nursing, supra, 59 Cal.App.5th at p. 1031.)
“‘[D]iscovery conducted by way of a business records subpoena is a “deposition.”’
[Citation.]” (Id. at pp. 1031-1032.) “If a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein,
or
at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a
party or a witness] . . . may make an order . . . directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)
 
Plaintiff moves to compel testimony and documents regarding what work
Archuletta and AVELAR did for the HOA, including which of the complaints in the
notice of claim Archuletta evaluated and whether Archuletta heard or reported
popping noises during his investigation of the property, as well as
Archuletta’s expert opinion about his recommended remediations for the popping
noises, why there were so many water intrusion issues, and whether the
curtainwall at the building needs to be replaced.  (Lowenstein Decl. at pp. 4-6.)
 
            Plaintiff contends the HOA made
two objections to the requested testimony and documents: attorney work-product
doctrine and the mediation privilege. 
The Court analyzes each in turn.
 
2.      Attorney
Work-Product Doctrine
 
            The attorney work product doctrine
is codified under Code of Civil Procedure section 2018.010, et seq.  
            
It is the policy of the state to do both of the
following:
 
(a) Preserve the rights of attorneys to prepare
cases for trial with that degree of privacy necessary to encourage them to
prepare their cases thoroughly and to investigate not only the favorable but
the unfavorable aspects of those cases.
 
(b) Prevent attorneys from taking undue advantage
of their adversary's industry and efforts.
 
(a) A writing that reflects an attorney's
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories is not
discoverable under any circumstances.
 
(b) The work product of an attorney, other than a
writing described in subdivision (a), is not discoverable unless the court
determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking
discovery in preparing that party's claim or defense or will result in an
injustice.
 
(See
Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2018.020, 2018.030.) 
“Absolute protection is afforded to writings that reflect ‘an attorney's
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories.’ All other
work product receives qualified protection; such material ‘is not discoverable
unless the court determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice
the party seeking discovery in preparing that party's claim or defense or will
result in an injustice.’ ”  (Coito v.
Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480, 485, citations omitted (hereafter Coito).)
 
            In Coito, the California
Supreme Court decided “[w]hat work product protection, if any, should be
accorded two items: first, recordings of witness interviews conducted by
investigators employed by defendant's counsel, and second, information
concerning the identity of witnesses from whom defendant's counsel has obtained
statements.”  (Coito, supra, 54
Cal.4th at p. 485.)  With respect to both
items, the Coito court opined:
 
[W]e hold that the recorded witness statements
are entitled as a matter of law to at least qualified work product protection.
The witness statements may be entitled to absolute protection if defendant can
show that disclosure would reveal its attorney's impressions, conclusions,
opinions, or legal research or theories. 
If not, then the items may be subject to discovery if plaintiff can show
that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice [her] in preparing [her] claim
or will result in an injustice.
 
As to the identity of witnesses from whom
defendant's counsel has obtained statements, we hold that such information is
not automatically entitled as a matter of law to absolute or qualified work
product protection. In order to invoke the privilege, defendant must persuade
the trial court that disclosure would reveal the attorney's tactics,
impressions, or evaluation of the case (absolute privilege) or would result in
opposing counsel taking undue advantage of the attorney's industry or efforts
(qualified privilege).
 
(Id.
at p. 486 [cleaned up].)   Attorneys are
the holders of the “work product privilege.” 
(See Curtis v. Superior Court (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 453, 468 [“The
work product privilege is held by the attorney, not the client”].)  
 
            Plaintiff argues that he will be
unfairly prejudiced if denied the requested discovery because Archuletta’s
report on the building’s condition provides necessary factual context for the
settlement between the HOA and the developer, which is not included in the
settlement agreement or notice of claims, and which is necessary for Plaintiff
to prove his claim that Defendant was mistaken about the factual condition of
the building when he sold the unit to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff further contends that the HOA is a
fiduciary to Plaintiff, a dues-paying member, and therefore the HOA owes a duty
not to conceal facts regarding construction defects in the building.  (See Kovich v. Paseo Del Mar Homeowners’
Assn. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 863, 867.)
 
            The Court finds that the HOA in
failing to oppose the motion has not met its burden to establish that the
work-product doctrine applies to forestall Archuletta from answering the
subject questions posed, or producing documents requested, by Plaintiff.  In particular, the neither counsel for the
HOA nor counsel for Archuletta has persuaded this Court that disclosure would
reveal an attorney's tactics, impressions, or evaluation of the case (absolute
privilege) or would result in opposing counsel taking undue advantage of an
attorney's industry or efforts (qualified privilege).  
 
As such, the Court determines that the HOA’s
assertion of the attorney work-product doctrine to be without merit.  

 
3.      Mediation
Privilege
 
            Evidence Code section 1119 provides:
 
Except as otherwise provided
in this chapter:
 
(a) No evidence of anything said or any admission
made for the purpose of, in the course of, or pursuant to, a mediation or a
mediation consultation is admissible or subject to discovery, and disclosure of
the evidence shall not be compelled, in any arbitration, administrative
adjudication, civil action, or other noncriminal proceeding in which, pursuant
to law, testimony can be compelled to be given.
 
(b) No writing, as defined in Section 250, that
is prepared for the purpose of, in the course of, or pursuant to, a mediation
or a mediation consultation, is admissible or subject to discovery, and
disclosure of the writing shall not be compelled, in any arbitration,
administrative adjudication, civil action, or other noncriminal proceeding in
which, pursuant to law, testimony can be compelled to be given.
 
(c) All communications, negotiations, or
settlement discussions by and between participants in the course of a mediation
or a mediation consultation shall remain confidential.
 
Evidence Code, section 1120, subdivision (a) provides:
 
(a) Evidence otherwise admissible or subject to
discovery outside of a mediation or a mediation consultation shall not be or
become inadmissible or protected from disclosure solely by reason of its
introduction or use in a mediation or a mediation consultation.
 
Plaintiff contends that the HOA’s counsel retained AVELAR to advise
them of the condition of the building, which ultimately informed the March 2021
Notice of Claims, which ultimately resulted in a pre-suit settlement between
the HOA and the developer.
 
Notwithstanding, the Court notes that the HOA has not opposed the
motion and in turn has not met its burden to establish that the mediation
privilege applies to prevent Archuletta from answering the subject questions
posed, or producing documents requested, by Plaintiff.  (See, e.g., Wimsatt v. Superior Court
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 137 [The party advancing the mediation privilege has the
burden to show that the discovery sought is protected].)   
 
As such, the Court determines that the HOA’s assertion of the
mediation privilege to be groundless.  
 
            CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            The Court grants Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel Further Testimony and Production of Documents, and orders Archuletta to
appear at a second deposition session and to provide additional testimony and
documents to Plaintiff per the subject subpoena, within 30 days of notice of
the Court’s order.  
 
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of
the Court’s orders and file a proof of service regarding the same.  
 
 
 
 
DATED:  March 20, 2024                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 