 Case Number:  23SMCV05762    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March
  20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05762




MOTION


Motion
  to Quash Service of Summons and Dismiss




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Ty Warner Hotels & Resorts, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Michelle Stornetta 



 
MOTION
 
            Specially
appearing Defendant Ty Warner Hotels & Resorts, LLC (“TWHR”) moves to quash
service of the summons and complaint, and to dismiss the complaint, on the
basis of lack of personal jurisdiction.  
 
Plaintiff Michelle Stornetta
(“Plaintiff”) opposes the motion and Defendant replies.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            The
Court rules as follows with respect to TWHR’s Objections to Plaintiff’s
Opposition Evidence: 
 
1.     
Overruled
2.     
Overruled
3.     
Overruled
4.     
Overruled
5.     
Overruled
6.     
Overruled
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or
within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and
file a notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes:  (1) To quash service of summons on the ground
of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a)(1).)  
 
“[W]hen jurisdiction is challenged by a nonresident defendant, the
burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to demonstrate that ‘minimum contacts’
exist between the defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of
personal jurisdiction.” (Mihlon v. Superior Court (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d
703, 710.) It is thus upon the plaintiff to demonstrate by a preponderance of
the evidence that all jurisdictional criteria are met. (Ziller Electronics
Lab GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232.)   
 
Moreover, “on a challenge to personal jurisdiction by a motion to
quash, the plaintiff has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, the factual bases justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.”  (ViaView, Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 198, 209–210 (hereafter ViaView).)  “The plaintiff must come forward with
affidavits and other competent evidence to carry this burden and cannot simply
rely on allegations in an unverified complaint.”  (Id. at p. 210.)  If plaintiff meets this burden, “it becomes
the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the existence of jurisdiction would
be unreasonable.” (Buchanan v. Soto (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1362.)
 
California’s long-arm statute grants its courts the power to assert
personal jurisdiction over out-of-state parties to the maximum extent that the
state and federal constitutions allow. (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.) Under the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States
Constitution, state courts may exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresidents
who have “minimum contacts” with the forum state. (International Shoe Co. v.
Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.) Minimum contacts exist when the
relationship between the nonresident and the forum state is such that the
exercise of jurisdiction does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice.” (Id. at p. 316.) The primary focus of the personal
jurisdiction inquiry is the relationship of the defendant to the forum state. (Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. v. Superior Court of California, San Francisco County (2017)
582 U.S. 255 (hereafter Bristol-Myers).) 
 
“Minimum contacts exist where the defendant’s conduct in the forum
state is such that he should reasonably anticipate being subject to suit there,
and it is reasonable and fair to force him to do so.” (F. Hoffman-La Roche,
Ltd. v. Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 795, citing World–Wide
Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson (1980) 444 U.S. 286, 297; Kulko v.
California Superior Court (1978) 436 U.S. 84, 92; Pavlovich v. Superior
Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269.) 
 
Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific. General (also
called all-purpose) jurisdiction means that a defendant's contacts with a state
are sufficiently extensive that the “defendant is ‘essentially at home,’ ” and
the court may exercise jurisdiction over the defendant regardless of whether
the claims relate to the forum state.  (Ford
Motor Company v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 141
S.Ct. 1017, 1024; Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S. A. v. Brown
(2011) 564 U.S. 915, 919.) 
 

Specific personal jurisdiction hinges on the “ ‘relationship among the
defendant, the forum, and the litigation.’ ” (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014)
571 U.S.117, 133; accord Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 284.)  Such jurisdiction requires “ ‘an affiliation
between the forum and the underlying controversy, principally, [an] activity or
an occurrence that takes place in the forum State and is therefore subject to
the State’s regulation.’ ” (Bristol-Myers, supra, 582 U.S. at p. 262.)
Consistent with the constraints of due process, “the defendant’s suit-related
conduct must create a substantial connection with the forum State.” (Walden
v. Fiore, supra, 571 U.S. at p. 284.) 
 
Further, “a nonresident defendant may be subject to the court's
specific jurisdiction if three requirements are met: (1) the defendant has
purposefully availed itself of forum benefits with respect to the matter in
controversy; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant's
contacts with the forum; and (3) the exercise of jurisdiction would be
reasonable and comports with fair play and substantial justice.”  (ViaView, supra, 1 Cal.App.5th at p. 216.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
TWHR contends that it lacks the “minimum contacts” with California to
confer personal jurisdiction over it because (1) its principal place of
business is in Illinois; (2) the alleged incident occurred in Mexico; and (3)
Plaintiff’s injury did not arise from TWHR’s contacts with California.
 
Plaintiff counters that (1) California has personal jurisdiction over
TWHR because TWHR was personally served in California; and (2) TWHR has
sufficient contacts with California to establish both Specific and General
jurisdiction.
 
Personal Service in California
 
California’s long-arm statute grants its courts the power to assert
personal jurisdiction over out-of-state parties to the maximum extent that the
state and federal constitutions allow. (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.)  Under the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, state courts may
exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresidents who are personally served in
the forum.  (Burnham v. Superior Court
of California, County of Marin (1990) 495 U.S. 604 (hereafter Burnham).)
 
However, Burnham’s “tag” jurisdiction does not apply to corporate
entities.  (Martinez v. Aero Caribbean
(9th Cir. 2014) 764 F.3d 1062, 1069.)  Instead,
personal jurisdiction exists over a corporate entity only if that entity’s
contacts with California support either specific or general jurisdiction.  The “mere designation” of an agent for
in-state service of process does not create general jurisdiction over a
corporation.  (King v. American Family
Mut. Ins. Co. (9th Cir. 2011) 632 F.3d 570, 576.)
 
Therefore, while the proof of service indicates TWHR’s agent for
service of process was personally served with a copy of the summons and
complaint in Glendale, California, the Court finds that service of the summons
and complaint is insufficient to confer personal jurisdiction over TWHR.
 
Specific Jurisdiction
 
While TWHR has purposefully availed itself of the benefits of
California generally by registering to do business in California, it has not
availed itself of California’s benefits with respect to the injury
Plaintiff allegedly suffered in Mexico. 
Moreover, TWHR’s contacts with California are not related to the injury
that occurred at TWHR’s Mexico resort.
 
Plaintiff argues that TWHR advertises the sale of “memberships” to its
California properties.  But the injuries
Plaintiff sustained at TWHR’s Mexican resort do not arise out of TWHR’s memberships
for its California properties, or its online advertisements thereof.
 
Therefore, California does not have specific jurisdiction over TWHR
with respect to the allegations at issue in this action.
 
General Jurisdiction
 
Plaintiff contends California has general jurisdiction over TWHR
because TWHR owns and operates five California properties, including three golf
courses and two hotels.  
 
The secretary of state documents demonstrate that TWHR is a Delaware
Corporation with principal place of business in Illinois that has been
registered to do business in California since 2002.  (Exs. A-D to Pettit Decl.)
 
The TWHR website lists seven total properties, five of which are in
California, one of which is in New York, and one of which (the property where
the incident occurred) located in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico.  (Exs. E & G to Pettit Decl.)
 
TWHR sells memberships for (1) the Montecito Club; (2) regular or
“signature” membership to the Coral Casino Beach and Cabana Club in Santa
Barbara; (3) Connoisseur membership for full access to the Montecito Club and
Coral Casino Beach and Cabana Club and complimentary green fees at Sandpiper
Golf Club in Santa Barbara; (4) “signature” membership to Montecito, with
complimentary green fees at Sandpiper. 
(Ex. G to Pettit Decl.)  Thus, the
membership packages TWHR sell pertain primarily to three properties located in
Santa Barbara and Montecito, California.
 
As such, a substantial, if not majority of TWHR’s business appears to
stem from its connections to resort properties located in California.  If so, TWHR may be sufficiently “at home” in
California for California to exert personal jurisdiction over it.
 
TWHR contends that although the properties are all marketed as “Ty
Warner Hotels & Resorts,” it does not actually own any of the properties;
that the properties have separate owners, and TWHR merely provides “advisory or
management services […] including accounting, insurance, and property tax
services” but does not otherwise control or run the “day to day operations” of
the properties.  (Hwang Decl. ¶¶ 5-10.)  Further, TWHR contends it does not own any
real estate in California or have any California bank accounts, and the
majority of TWHR’s employees work out of its Illinois headquarters; it has only
three employees in California.  (Hwang
Decl. ¶¶ 13-15.)
 
However, TWHR’s 2010 Secretary of State filings indicate that the type
of business TWHR conducts is “Real Estate Investments,” which suggests TWHR may
currently have or previously have had an ownership interest in the California “Ty
Warner Hotels & Resorts” branded properties.  (Ex. C to Pettit Decl.)  Moreover, TWHR indicates “the advisory or
management services TWHR provides for those California properties are distinct
from the services TWHR provides to the ownership of the Las Ventanas Resort,”
suggesting that TWHR may have even more robust financial interests and/or
managerial control over the California properties than the out-of-state
properties, further suggesting that TWHR may be “essentially at home” in
California.  (Hwang Decl. ¶ 10.)
 
Ultimately, the Court cannot determine from the existing record
whether TWHR’s contacts with the California properties are sufficiently
substantial that TWHR is “essentially at home” in California for the Court to
exercise personal jurisdiction over it.  As
such, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request for limited jurisdictional discovery
to determine the extent of TWHR’s involvement with the California-based
properties and what proportion of TWHR’s business derives from its involvement
with these “Ty Warner Hotels & Resorts” branded properties in California.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            The Court finds the current record
insufficient to grant or deny TWHR’s motion to quash and dismiss and grants
Plaintiff’s request to conduct limited jurisdictional discovery to determine
the extent of TWHR’s involvement with the California properties and the
proportion of TWHR’s business derived from the California properties.  
 
            Further, the Court continues the
hearing on the motion to June 27, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department
207.  Following the completion of the
limited jurisdictional discovery, Plaintiff may file and serve a supplemental
memorandum of points and authorities in opposition to the motion on or before June
5, 2024, and TWHR may file and serve a supplemental memorandum of points and
authorities in reply on or before June 17, 2024.  
 
            Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the Court’s orders and file a proof of service
regarding the same.       
 
 
 
DATED:  March 20, 2024                                          ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court