 Case Number:  23STCV03076    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Defendant Emiliano Malizia’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons.
 
BACKGROUND
In this case, SOLUTIONS 30 EASTERN EUROPE, S.R.L. et
al. (“Plaintiffs”) seek damages against TOSOLINI, LAMURA, RASILE & TONIUTTI;
TOSOLINI & LAMURA; EMILIANO MALIZIA; EMANUELE TOSOLINI; ROCCO LAMURA; NICOLA
RASILE; and GIANNI TONIUTTI (“Defendants”), for alleged legal malpractice and
other claims related to Defendants’ representation of Plaintiffs in a separate defamation
case Plaintiffs filed in federal court against a third party. 
Defendant MALIZIA (“Defendant”) filed a motion to
quash service of the summons and Complaint for lack of personal jurisdiction
due to invalid substituted service. After Defendant filed the motion but before
the hearing on the motion, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs
also filed an opposition to the motion and Defendant filed an objection to the
late opposition. 
LEGAL STANDARD
 “‘[C]ompliance
with the statutory procedures for service of process is essential to establish
personal jurisdiction.’” Ellard v. Conway  (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 544. Complainants
have the initial burden to evidence valid statutory service of a summons and
complaint. Floveyor Internat. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th
789, 794.
Direct estoppel would apply after dismissal of a
complaint for lack of personal jurisdiction, as to an amended complaint subject
to a motion to quash service on the same ground, and bars relitigating. S.
Sutter, LLC v. LJ Sutter Partners, L.P. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 634, 661.
See also Sabek, Inc. v. Engelhard Corp. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 992, 1000
(“personal jurisdiction was completely resolved by the finding that no minimum
contacts existed…. After the previous orders quashing service on this ground,
it was incumbent … to seek reconsideration or appellate review…. Sabek is
barred from relitigating the issue by direct estoppel. The lower court properly
quashed service of the summons and Fifth Amended Complaint.”).
ANALYSIS
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs failed to serve the
summons and Complaint in compliance with all requirements for substituted
service, including the need for a declaration regarding attempts at personal
service and a mailing of the documents. Plaintiff opposes, arguing the motions
are moot after the Court’s receipt of the FAC, and the motions are late after
proper service shown by proofs of service of a process server.
A decision states the requirements for substituted
service, as follows:
Code of Civil Procedure
Section 415.20, subdivision (b), provides in part: “If a copy of the summons
and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the
person to be served ... a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the
summons and complaint at the person's dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual
place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal
Service post office box, in the presence of a competent member of the household
or a person apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or
usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office
box, at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof,
and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by
first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place where
a copy of the summons and complaint were left.” 
Trackman v. Kenney
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 175, 182-183.
On the merits, Plaintiffs have untimely filed
oppositions having evidence of service of the summons and Complaint in
statutory compliance, not addressed by any reply.
As for mootness, the Court timely received the FAC
that by law is deemed filed on receipt, where it was electronically
transmitted for filing, in keeping with the timing of Code of Civil Procedure,
section 472. The filing of an amended complaint pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure Section 472 renders moot a demurrer addressing the superseded
pleading because it "'"ceases to perform any function as a
pleading."'" Sylmar Air Conditioning v. Pueblo Contracting
Services, Inc. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1049, 1054. Accord State
Compensation Ins. Fund v. Superior Court (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1124, 1131
(“the filing of an amended complaint moots a motion directed to a prior
complaint.”).
Because the motions to be heard this date (and the
next day) address the Complaint and not the FAC, the Court finds that they are
moot, and intends to order them off calendar.
CONCLUSION
The Court orders the motion off calendar as moot, considering
the filing of the First Amended Complaint.