  Case Number:  20STCV15663    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Motion of Kaufman Dolowich LLP to be Relieved as Counsel-Civil.
 
BACKGROUND
This is a legal malpractice case brought by ROLAN FELD
(“Plaintiff”) against DAVID A. ERIKSON and ERIKSON LAW GROUP.  
On 3/5/24, the Court stayed the case until 9/5/24
because Defendant David A. Erikson passed away and Defendants needed time to name
a personal representative for Mr. Erikson and for Defendants to determine how
to proceed in this case. Now, counsel moves to be relieved as attorney of
record for Defendants David A. Erikson and S. Ryan Patterson, by declaring that
after the passing of Mr. Erikson, there is insufficient insurance coverage to
pay for the defense of this case through trial.
LEGAL STANDARD
“The determination whether to grant or deny an
attorney’s motion to withdraw as counsel of record lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court, having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.” Lempert v. Superior
Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173. 
 
ANALYSIS
Counsel did not provide proof they gave notice of the
motion to Plaintiff, as required under CRC 3.1362(d). Also, the notice states
that counsel seeks to be relieved as counsel for Mr. Erikson and Mr. Patterson.
The Court wants to confirm if counsel will continue to represent the Erikson Law
Group, which is also a defendant in the case. Also, the docket does not reflect
that Mr. Patterson is a named defendant in the case so the Court wants to confirm
his status. Otherwise, the form notice, declaration, proposed order, and proof
of service sufficiently comply with the requirements for a motion to be
relieved as counsel. See Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. Further, moving counsel’s declaration shows
cognizable grounds for withdrawal: 
·        
Attorney “believes in good faith, in a
proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will find the existence
of other good cause for withdrawal.” Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16.
There should be a substitution of a deceased
defendant’s representative. Sacks v. FSR Brokerage (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
950, 959.
CONCLUSION 
Based on the above, the Court is willing to continue
the motion to permit counsel to serve Plaintiff with the papers. And once the
Court is satisfied with the other issues regarding Mr. Patterson and the
Erikson Law Group, the Court would be inclined to grant the motion. 