  Case Number:  20STCV20469    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ELLIOT HAAS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
LITTLE LOVE RESCUE, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  20STCV20469
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 1, 2024
 Calendar Number:  9



 
 
 
Defendant Brittany Littleton moves to strike the fourth
cause of action of the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed by Plaintiff
Elliot Haas (“Plaintiff”) under California’s anti-SLAPP statue.
 
The Court DENIES Littleton’s motion.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Brittany Littleton and
Little Love Rescue (“Little Love”) (collectively, “Defendants”) unlawfully took
away his dog Luna.
 
The Court takes the following information from the evidence
submitted by the Littleton.   On January
24, 2020, non-party Shayla McGhee came across a row of tents along Aaron Street
in Los Angeles, where Plaintiff was living. McGhee engaged in light
conversation, and McGhee discovered Plaintiff’s dog, Luna. Luna was covered in
dried feces and appeared to have serious injuries and an infection. McGhee
asked Plaintiff if she could take Luna to a veterinarian to get her checked
out. Plaintiff agreed.
 
McGhee took Luna to a vet, who determined that Luna had
several serious conditions. Unprepared for the extreme amount of care Luna
needed, McGhee reached out to an animal rescue organization – Little Love – to
ask for help. 
 
Littleton was the one who answered the phone when McGhee
called Little Love. Although Little Love did not have the resources to provide
for Luna’s care, Littleton gave the vet her credit card information and agreed
to assume financial responsibility for Luna’s care.
 
Approximately a day later, the police contacted McGhee, who
referred them to Littleton, regarding Luna. The police told Littleton that a
man had come into the station demanding his dog back. Littleton discussed
Luna’s state with the police told the police that they could give the man her
contact information.
 
Plaintiff then contacted Littleton, and they discussed
Luna’s condition and the treatment she needed. Plaintiff periodically called
Littleton several times after that, going back and forth between thanking
Littleton and threatening her and demanding Luna back. Plaintiff threatened to
“freak out and do something bad” and later to kill Littleton and her son.
(Littleton Decl. ¶ 13.) Littleton asked Plaintiff for proof of ownership of
Luna, which Plaintiff never provided.
 
The police stopped calling Littleton. Littleton began
receiving calls from an organization called Heart LA, which threatened that
they would send people to protest Littleton’s unrelated business if Littleton
did not “give back Luna.” (Littleton Decl. ¶ 16.)
 
Little Love continued taking Luna to the veterinarian, who
determined that Luna would not be eligible for surgery to repair some of her
injuries. 
 
During the time when Little Love was taking Luna to the
veterinarian, Littleton made a number of posts on Little Love’s social media
accounts, including GoFundMe, soliciting donations to help pay for the
veterinarian bills.
 
In February 2020, Alex Angel saw the story of Luna online
and reached out to Little Love. She reached out to Little Love, offering to
adopt Luna. Angel adopted Luna in early March 2020.
 
About a month later, Luna’s condition was still bad, and a
veterinarian told Angel that he thought it was humane to euthanize Luna. Luna
was euthanized shortly thereafter.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on May 29, 2020. The operative
complaint is the FAC, which raises claims for (1) trespass to chattels; (2)
conversion; (3) violation of California Penal Code, section 496, subd. (a); and
(4) violation of Business and Professions Code, section 17200. 
 
Littleton filed this motion on December 19, 2023. Plaintiff
did not file an opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 requires the court to
strike causes of action arising from an act in furtherance of the defendant’s
right of free speech or petition unless the plaintiff establishes that there is
a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim. 
 
In assessing a defendant’s Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16 special motion to strike, the court must engage in a two-step process. (Shekhter
v. Financial Indem. Co. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 141, 150.) First, the court
must decide whether the defendant has met the threshold burden of showing that
the plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the defendant’s constitutional
rights of free speech or petition for redress of grievances. (Ibid.)
This burden may be met by showing the act which forms the basis for the
plaintiff’s cause of action was an act that falls within one of the four
categories of conduct set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16,
subdivision (e). 
 
Once a defendant has met its initial burden and established
that the anti-SLAPP statute applies, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to
demonstrate a “probability” of success on the merits. (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (b); Equilon Enters. LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29
Cal.4th 53, 67.) “[T]he plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both
legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts
to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.” (Matson v. Dvorak (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 539, 548, internal
quotations omitted.) 
 
Discussion
 
Littleton moves to strike Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action
for violation of Business & Professions Code, section 17200.
 
Protected Activity
 
To determine the gravamen of an alleged SLAPP, courts look
to the factual basis for liability. (Wallace v. McCubbin (2011) 196
Cal.App.4th 1169, 1190, as modified on denial of reh'g (July 26, 2011)
disapproved of on other grounds by Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th
376.) 
 
          The
anti-SLAPP statute applies to a “cause of action again a person arising from
any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free
speech under the United States Constitution or the California Constitution in
connection with a public issue.”  (Civ.
Proc. Code § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) The statute defines such acts to include
the following:
 
(1)
any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive,
or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, 
(2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, 
(3)
any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or
a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or 
(4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §425.16, subd. (e).) 
 
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action alleges that Defendants
engaged in unfair business practices by soliciting donations “claiming that
money was needed for veterinary care for Luna and misrepresenting Luna’s
condition.”  (FAC ¶ 79.)  Defendants “continued to solicit from the
public” on various media platforms.  (FAC
¶79.)  Plaintiff alleges that Little Love
was not registered as a charitable trust. Plaintiff also alleges that
statements made by Littleton “eventually authorizing Luna’s euthanasia”
constituted unfair business practices. (FAC ¶ 81.)
 
Littleton contends that all of the foregoing constitute
statements “made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law” under section 425.16, subdivision (e)(2) (“Subdivision
(e)(2)”). Subdivision (e)(2) is the only category that Littleton raise or argues.  (See 12/19/2023 Memorandum of Points and
Authorities at 3:8-9.)  Littleton does
not contend that any of the other 425.16(e) subdivisions apply.  Accordingly, at the first step of the
analysis—determining whether the conduct is protected under the anti-SLAPP
statute—the Court considers only whether the statements at issue were “made in
connection with” an issue that is under consideration or review by a “judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law.”  (Civ. Proc. Code § 425.16, subd. (e)(2).)
 
“[A] statement is ‘in connection with’ litigation under
section 425.16, subdivision (e)(2) if it relates to the substantive issues in
the litigation and is directed to persons having some interest in the
litigation.” (Neville v. Chudacoff (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1255, 1266; Fremont
Reorganizing Corp. v. Faigin (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1153, 1167.)
 
There are several problems with Littleton’s argument.
 
First, beyond listing various paragraphs of the First
Amended Complaint and the request for judicial notice, Littleton has not
explained or supported her argument that the allegations of the complaint fall
within Subdivision (e)(2) or otherwise fall within the anti-SLAPP statute.  Littleton does not cite a single case in
support of this argument or even explain the basis for her argument with any
clarity. The Court is left to guess at the precise perimeters of her argument
and to try on its own to find the authority that applies to it. An argument is
waived if it is not supported with reasoned argument or legal authority.  (See, e.g. Central Valley Gas Storage, LLC
v. Southam (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 686, 718 [failure to cite legal authority
may be grounds for waiver]; Kim v. Sumimoto Bank (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th
974, 979, quotation omitted. [“This court is not required to discuss or
consider points which are not argued or which are not supported by citation to
authorities or the record”].) The unsupported briefing that Littleton has
provided would, in the Court’s view, support a finding that Littleton has
waived her argument that the anti-SLAPP statute applies.
 
Second, assuming for the sake of argument that Littleton has
not waived this argument, Littleton lacks the legal or logical basis to support
such an argument.  Littleton appears to
contend that the donation requests regarding veterinary bills were made in
connection with the police’s investigation of Plaintiff’s claim that Defendants
stole Luna. (12/19/2023 Memorandum of Points and Authorities at 14:9-13.)  Littleton has not explained how the
solicitations on behalf of Luna were made “in connection with” the substantive
issues in the police investigation.  The Fourth
Cause of Action at issue on this motion is not primarily based on particular
statements but on the ability of Little Love Rescue to raise money at all in
connection with Luna.
 
The allegations here do not fit any recognizable pattern of “statements”
made “in connection with” a litigation. 
Such statements, for example, include litigation updates describing the
litigation itself.  (Contemporary
Services Corp. v. Staff Pro, Inc. (152 Cal.App.4th 1043, 1055.)  The Court is unaware of case law supporting
what appears to be Littleton’s argument: that the mere overlap of the general subject
matter between the subject of a defendant’s statement and the subject of an
“other official proceeding” (for example, here, the issue of a particular dog
and its condition) is enough to implicate Subdivision (e)(2).  The donation requests that are the subject of
the Fourth Cause of Action made no reference to the propriety or merits of the
police investigation, the question of what the police were investigating, or which
party was correct in connection with the police investigation.  The communications did not mention or concern
the police investigation at all.
 
Third, even assuming that the issues discussed above were
not problems for Littleton, the statements at issue were still not “directed to
persons having some interest in the litigation” as required under the standard
applicable to Subdivision (e)(2).  (Neville,
supra, 160 Cal.App.4th at p. 1266.)    Defendants’ statements were not directed at
persons with some interest in the police investigation, but rather, at the
general public. (Contrast Contemporary Services Corp. v. Staff Pro Inc. (2007)
152 CalApp.4th 1043, 1055 [email to customers accusing competitor of
litigation-related misconduct was protected] and Fremont Reorganizing Corp.
v. Faigin (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1153, 1167 [statements made by the
defendant, who was a court-appointed liquidator in an insolvency proceeding, to
the Insurance Commissioner concerning the assets of the insolvent company were
protected]. )
 
Even though the audience to the statements need not be a
party to the proceeding, or even a potential party, there needs to be a level
of specific interest in the litigation of the audience and direction of the
communication. Defendants’ communications do not appear to be directed to any
specific audience.  For this reason, too,
Subdivision (e)(2) does not apply.   
 
Littleton also asserts that the reference in FAC paragraph
79 that “Defendants continued to solicit from the public” was a reference to
soliciting funds necessary to pay Littleton’s legal fees.  (12/19/2023 Memorandum of Points &
Authorities at 13:24-25.)  Littleton does
not provide any evidentiary support for this assertion and fails to make any
legal argument about her assertion.   The
only legal argument she seems to make is that because the return of Luna was
being considered by the police, “all of the alleged statements Littleton posted
on social media that form the basis for the unfair business practices cause of
action” were made in connection with the police investigation.”  Thus, this unsupported assertion does not
provide a basis for the anti-SLAPP motion either.
 
For all these reasons, the Court denies the motion.