 Case Number:  21STCV19397    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



FOSTER WASHINGTON, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
DANIEL STURRIDGE,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV19397
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 1, 2024
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
Defendant Daniel Sturridge (“Defendant”) moves to set aside
the default and default judgment entered in favor of Plaintiff Foster
Washington (“Plaintiff”) against him on December 21, 2021.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion.  Defendant shall respond to Plaintiff’s
complaint within 30 days.
 
Background
 
          This
is a breach of contract action. Plaintiff alleges that he found and returned
Defendant’s lost dog and filed this action to recover the promised reward. The
facts stated here are taken from the allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
          In
July 2019, Defendant announced on social media that he had been burglarized and
his dog was stolen. Defendant offered a reward of $30,000.00 for the return of
his dog.
 
          Plaintiff
found and returned Defendant’s dog, but Defendant did not pay the reward.
 
          Plaintiff
filed this action against Defendant on May 24, 2021, raising claims for (1)
breach of oral contract; and (2) breach of written contract.
 
          Plaintiff’s
proof of service filed on August 20, 2021, states that Defendant was served on
July 3, 2021 at 2351 Mt. Olympus Drive, Los Angeles, CA 90046 by substituted
service. (Proof of Service of Summons at p. 1.)
 
          The
Court entered Default against Defendant on November 8, 2021.
 
          The
Court entered default judgment against Defendant on December 21, 2021 in the
total amount of $30,085.00.
 
          Defendant
filed this motion on January 3, 2024, contending that he was not properly
served in this action. Plaintiff filed an opposition and Defendant filed a
reply.
 
 
Discussion
 
 
Defendant relies on Civil Procedure Code section 473, subd.
(d), which states as follows.  “The court
may, upon motion of the injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical
mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment
or order directed, and may, on motion of either party after notice to the other
party, set aside any void judgment or order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(d).)  Defendant argues that the judgment
here is void for lack of proper service. 

 
          “To
establish personal jurisdiction, it is essential to comply with the statutory
procedures for service of process.” (OC Interior Services, LLC v. Nationstar
Mortgage, LLC (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 1318, 1330.) “Accordingly, a default
judgment entered against a defendant who was not served with a summons in the
manner prescribed by statute is void.” (Id. at p. 1331 [citation and
quotation marks omitted].) “Whether the lack of jurisdiction appears on the
face of the judgment roll, or is shown by extrinsic evidence for a judgment
that appears valid on its face, in either case the judgment is for all purposes
a nullity—past, present and future.” (Ibid. [citation and quotation
marks omitted].)
 
          The
Court grants Defendant’s motion for two separate and independent reasons.
 
          First,
the proof of service on which the default judgment is based is defective on its
face.  The proof of service states that
the papers were served “by substituted service” on July 3, 2021.  (1/3/2024 Leventhal Decl. Ex. A.)  They were served by leaving the documents
with an unidentified person who was a “competent member of the household.”  (Ibid.)  However, the proof of service fails to check
box number (5), which states that it attaches a declaration of diligence reporting
the actions taken first to attempt personal service.  (Ibid.)
 
Accordingly, the proof of service, on its face, fails to
establish substituted service.  It does
not comply with Civil Procedure Code section 415.20, which requires that
substituted service is allowed only if “the summons and complaint cannot with
reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served.”  Accordingly, considering only the face of the
proof of service, entry of the default and default judgment was not proper.
 
Second, the evidence in the court record does not support Plaintiff’s
contention that Defendant was personally served. The process server states in
her recently filed declaration that she “personally served” Defendant and that
she “believe[s]” that she served “the real Daniel Sturridge, because he matched
his description.”  (1/19/2024 Wolford
Decl. ¶ 6.)  But this contradicts the
proof of service filed back in 2021, which asserted that substituted service,
and not personal service, had been effected. 
To put matters plainly, prior to Defendant’s motion there is no
indication whatsoever in the court record that Defendant was ever personally
served.  Moreover, the process server’s stated
basis for her current belief that she personally served Defendant himself is
not sufficiently strong to show that Defendant was, in fact, served.
 
In addition, there is unequivocal evidence from Michelle
Wizman, the CEO of Mount Management, Inc. that Defendant did not live at or
have access to 2351 Mount Olympus Drive on July 3, 2021, when Defendant was
allegedly served there in 2021.  (1/3/2024
Wizman Decl. ¶5.)  He last lived at that
address in 2019.  (Id. ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff’s only response to this evidence is
to question whether Mount Management, Inc. controls the property at 2351 Mount
Olympus Drive and whether Ms. Wizman is who she says she is.  But the evidence submitted by Defendant on
reply answers both those questions in the affirmative.  (1/24/2024 Reply Leventhal Decl. Exs. A-B.)
 
For these reasons, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to
vacate the default and default judgment. 
