 Case Number:  24STCV18650    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


November 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV18650




MOTION


Motion to Stay Action 




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Simply Good Foods USA, Inc., and Quest
  Nutrition, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs Zachary Kazarian, Kyle Kazarian, Jake Jessa, Christopher
  Quemena, Chris Van de Polder, and Richie Fiene



 
MOTION
Plaintiffs Zachary
Kazarian, Kyle Kazarian, Jake Jessa, Christopher Quemena, Chris Van de Polder,
and Richie Fiene (“Plaintiffs”) sued Defendants Simply Good Foods USA, Inc.,
and Quest Nutrition, LLC (“Defendants”) seeking declaratory relief concerning
their rights under employment agreements Plaintiffs entered into with
Defendants.  Plaintiffs’ current
employer, Legendary Foods, LLC (“Legendary”), separately filed an action
against Defendants in federal court: Legendary Foods, LLC v. Simply Good
Foods USA, Inc., et al. (C.D. Cal., 2024, No. 2:24-cv-06337 (Legendary
Foods)).  Defendants move to stay
this action pending resolution of the Legendary Foods matter.  Plaintiffs oppose the motion.   
ANALYSIS
“Trial courts
generally have the inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests of
justice and to promote judicial efficiency.”  (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.)  “It
is black letter law that, when a federal action has been filed covering the
same subject matter as is involved in a California action, the California court
has the discretion but not the obligation to stay the state court action . . .
.  In exercising its discretion the court
should consider the importance of discouraging multiple litigation designed
solely to harass an adverse party, and of avoiding unseemly conflicts with the
courts of other jurisdictions.  It should
also consider whether the rights of the parties can best be determined by the
court of the other jurisdiction because of the nature of the subject matter,
the availability of witnesses, or the stage to which the proceedings in the
other court have already advanced . . . . 
The California Supreme Court also has isolated another critical factor
favoring a stay of the state court action in favor of the federal action[:] the
federal action is pending in California not some other state . . . .”  (Caiafa Prof. Law Corp. v. State Farm Fire
& Cas. Co. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 800, 804.) 
Defendants argue Legendary
filed the Legendary Foods action approximately 30 minutes before
Plaintiffs filed this case.  That contention
is not accurate.  Legendary filed the
complaint in Legendary Foods on July 26, 2024 at 1:57 PM, which was 20
minutes after Plaintiffs filed the complaint in this case.  (See Declaration of Shara Evaskovich in
Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion to Stay, ¶¶ 4-7, Exhibit A; Complaint
for Declaratory Relief, p. 1 (file stamp).) 
As “the principle of comity may call for a discretionary refusal of the
court to entertain the second suit pending determination of the first-filed
action . . . ,” this Court is not required to stay this case in favor of Legendary
Foods, as Plaintiffs filed this case first. 
(Gregg v. Superior Court (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 134, 136 (Gregg).)  
Further,
Plaintiffs are not parties in the Legendary Foods case.  Consequently, this Court cannot preclude
Plaintiffs “from pursuing an action because other litigants are suing the same
defendants over similar grievances in another forum.”  (Gregg, supra, 194
Cal.App.3d at p. 138.)  The motion is
denied.
Defendants are ordered
to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 