 Case Number:  22STCV13023    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


November 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV13023




MOTIONS:  


Motion to Compel Answers to Judgment Debtor Examination
  Questions;
Motion for Protective Order



            
MOTION
Petitioners Porch.com, Inc. and Matthew Ehrlichman
(“Petitioners”) participated in an arbitration of claims with Respondent
Kandela, LLC (“Respondent”).  In its
order of October 12, 2022, the Court confirmed the arbitration award and
entered judgment pursuant to its terms.  Petitioners
subsequently assigned their rights in the judgment to Assignee Scottsdale
Indemnity Company (“Judgment Creditor”). 
Judgment Creditor moves to compel Respondent’s principal Eli Gordon
(“Gordon”) to answer questions at his judgment debtor’s examination.  In response, Respondent filed a motion for
protective order regarding judgment debtor examinations in this action.  As the motions substantially overlap, the
Court considers the motions together.
ANALYSIS
A judgment debtor
examination is the post-judgment equivalent of a deposition.  (Imperial Bank v. Pim Elec., Inc.
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 540, 546-547.) 
Service on the judgment debtor of an order for appearance at a judgment
debtor’s examination obligates the judgment debtor to appear in court “to
furnish information to aid in enforcement of the money judgment.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.110, subd. (a).)  After service of such an order, the judgment
debtor may move the court for a protective order to quash or modify the order.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1; see Lee v.
Swansboro Country Property Owners Ass'n (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 575, 582-583.)
Because the
purpose of the examination is to “compel the judgment debtor to give
information concerning his property . . . ,” the judgment creditor has “the
widest scope for inquiry concerning property and business affairs of the debtor
. . . .”  (Young v. Keele (1987)
188 Cal.App.3d 1090, 1093.)  The judgment
creditor may “leave no stone unturned in the search for assets which might be
used to satisfy the judgment.”  (Jogani
v. Jogani (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 158, 172, internal quotations omitted.)  However, the judgment debtor is entitled to
claim the same privileges as trial witnesses. 
(Hooser v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 997, 1002-1003.)  If a judgment debtor refuses to answer a
question without invoking an applicable privilege, the judgment creditor may
move for an order for the judgment debtor to respond.  (Ahart, Cal. Practice Guide: Enforcing
Judgments and Debts The Rutter Group 2024) 
¶ 6:1335.10, p. 28.)
In the instant
case, counsel for Respondent instructed Gordon not to answer questions during the
debtor examination.  Counsel should not
instruct an examinee not to answer any question unless the question implicates
a privilege.  (Stewart v. Colonial
Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1014.)  In opposition, Respondent makes no showing
that questions about Respondent’s past assets or its board members implicate
any privilege.  Accordingly, Gordon should
have answered those questions.  
While Respondent
argues questions regarding the payment of Respondent’s legal expenses implicate
the attorney-client privilege, Respondent is incorrect.  A client has a privilege to refuse to
disclose, and to prevent another from disclosing, a confidential communication
between the client and the lawyer. 
(Evid. Code, § 954.)  “‘[C]onfidential
communication between client and lawyer means information transmitted between a
client and his or her lawyer in the course of that relationship and in
confidence by a means which, so far as the client is aware, discloses the
information to no third persons other than those who are present to further the
interest of the client in the consultation or those to whom disclosure is
reasonably necessary for the transmission of the information or the
accomplishment of the purpose for which the lawyer is consulted, and includes a
legal opinion formed and the advice given by the lawyer in the course of that
relationship.”  (Evid. Code, § 952.)  The payment of attorney fees is not a confidential
communication between Respondent and its counsel.  Therefore, the attorney-client privilege is
inapplicable in this instance.  
As Respondent
points out, its “written fee contract” with its counsel is “a confidential
communication” for purposes of the attorney-client privilege.  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6149.)  However, the privilege does not extend beyond
the written fee agreement to such information as invoices for concluded matters.  (See Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors
v. Superior Court (2016) 2 Cal.5th 282, 298-299 [invoices for legal
services are not categorically privileged].) 
In this matter, Respondent does not seek specific information regarding
the nature of the work Respondent’s counsel performed on Respondent’s
behalf.  Instead, Respondent seeks
information regarding the source of funds by which Respondent pays its Counsel,
which is pertinent as Respondent claims it is insolvent.  Gordon must respond to all questions to which
Counsel instructed Gordon not to respond. 
The motion to compel responses is granted as to all such questions.
Judgment Creditor also
moves to compel Gordon to provide different responses to questions Gordon
answered that he could not recall, or otherwise failed to provide answers that
Judgment Creditor deemed satisfactory. 
The Court cannot compel Gordon to provide specific answers in response
to Judgment Creditor’s questions, even if the answers are obvious.  The motion to compel Gordon to respond to
questions to which Gordon already responded is denied.
Judgment Creditor
seeks sanctions in connection with its motion. 
The Court declines to award sanctions. 
Judgment Creditor admittedly did not attempt to resolve this dispute
without resorting to motion practice.  As
such, the Court considers sanctions unwarranted.  Likewise, the Court does not consider
appointment of a referee warranted at this time.  However, given what the Court has observed
thus far with respect to this examination, the request is reasonable, and despite
the Court’s hesitancy at this time to grant the request, if the parties do not
show a greater amount of cooperation moving forward, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 639, the Court will entertain a properly filed motion for appointment of
a referee or appoint one on the Court’s own motion.
Respondent moves
for a protective order to limit Judgment Creditor’s questions at the judgment
debtor examination to questions about Respondent’s current assets.  The basis for Respondent’s motion is that the
parties are also engaged in another matter: Porch.com,
Inc., et al., v. Kandela, LLC, et al. (Super. Ct. L.A. County, 2023, No. 23STCV01162
(case No. 23STCV01162)).  Respondent
contends Judgment Creditor is using the judgment debtor examination to seek
evidence that is pertinent to that matter. 
Despite Respondent’s persistent refrain in this regard, Respondent cites
no authority under which this Court could severely curtail Judgment Creditor’s
rights to take a judgment debtor examination because of other pending litigation.  Further, Respondent cites no authority that
Judgment Creditor’s rights to obtain discovery in case No. 23STCV01162 are
circumscribed such that any information Judgment Creditor might obtain in its
judgment debtor examination would not otherwise be discoverable in that case.  Likewise, Respondent fails to show the other
parties in case No. 23STCV01162 do not have the right to pursue complete
discovery in that case.  
While Respondent
argues Judgment Creditor triggered a stay in case No. 23STCV01162 by filing a
motion to compel arbitration, there appear to be no such motion pending in that
matter.  Rather, Judgment Creditor filed
a motion for summary adjudication and argues, in the alternative, the Court
should compel arbitration.  That motion
did not stay litigation of case No. 23STCV01162, as the Court granted Judgment
Creditor’s motion for leave to amend in that matter after Judgment Creditor
filed its motion for summary adjudication. 
(See October 30, 2024 Minute Order in case No. 23STCV01162).  The motion for protective order is denied. 
Judgment Creditor
requests sanctions for opposing Respondent’s motion for protective order.  Again, the Court declines to award
sanctions.  By Judgment Creditor’s
admission, Judgment Creditor made no effort to informally resolve the dispute
between the parties regarding the judgment debtor examination.  The Court, therefore, considers sanctions
inappropriate.
Judgment Creditor
is ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 