 Case Number:  23STCV23191    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


November 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV23191




MOTIONS


Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant McDonald’s
  Restaurants of California, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Liam Carballo



 
MOTION
Plaintiff Liam
Carballo (“Plaintiff”) brought this action against Defendant McDonald’s
Restaurants of California (“Defendant”), contending Defendant served Plaintiff
contaminated milk.  Defendant demurs to
the sixth cause of action for fraud/deceit/intentional misrepresentation in the
first amended complaint.  Defendant also
moves to strike the punitive damages allegations from the first amended complaint.  Plaintiff opposes the motions.  
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(b).)  On a motion to strike, the court may: (1)
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading;
or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the
court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42
Cal.2d 767, 782.)
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action is for
fraud, which must be alleged with particularity.  “This means: (1) general pleading of the legal
conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2) every element of the cause of
action for fraud must be alleged in full, factually and specifically, and the
policy of liberal construction of pleading will not usually be invoked to
sustain a pleading that is defective in any material respect.”  (Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams &
Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.) 

To state a case of action for fraud and
deceit based on concealment, Plaintiff must allege Defendant concealed or
suppressed a material fact Defendant was under a duty to disclose to Plaintiff
with the intent to defraud Plaintiff; Plaintiff was unaware of the fact and
would not have acted in the same way if Plaintiff knew of the concealed fact;
and the concealment caused damages to Plaintiff.  (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown
Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 868.)  In this regard, Plaintiff alleges Defendant was
“aware of various health code violations, such as but not limited to: 1.) Not
certifying employees with mandatory food handling training; 2.) Not properly
packaging the food products, including the subject product; 3.) Not properly
refrigerating the food products, including the subject product; 4.) Not
properly using temperature thermometers; 5.) Improper food storage, including
the subject product; and 6.) Inadequate food storage space. In spite of this
knowledge, [D]efendant[] intentionally concealed this information from the
public, including Plaintiff.”  (First
Amended Complaint, ¶ 62.)  Plaintiff does
not allege material facts, which Defendant had a duty to disclose to
Plaintiff.  Instead, Plaintiff speculates
about improper practices.  
To state a case of action for intentional
misrepresentation, Plaintiff must allege Defendant made misrepresentations of facts
to Plaintiff with knowledge of their falsity and intent to defraud Plaintiff;
Plaintiff justifiably relied on Defendant’s misrepresentations; and Plaintiff
sustained damages as a result.  (Charnay
v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant “advertise[s] [its] food, including the
subject product and expressly misrepresented through [its] website that [its]
food, including the subject product, [is] ‘quality, great-tasting’ and
‘refreshing’” (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 60) and  Defendant knew these misrepresentations were
false because Defendant knew or should have known that its milk was
contaminated (id., Complaint, ¶ 61.) 
These allegations do not support a claim for intentional
misrepresentation in that Plaintiff does not allege he relied on any misrepresentations
on Defendant’s website, and he  does not
allege misrepresentations of fact. 
General statements Defendant’s food is palatable are not statements of
fact but rather of opinion.  
Accordingly, the Court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the sixth cause of action and grants Plaintiff leave to amend.
 
To the extent it is not moot, the Court
likewise grants the motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages with leave
to amend.  
To state a prima facie claim for punitive
damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages
statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
8 Cal.4th 704, 721 (College Hospital).)  Pursuant to Civil Code section 3294, a
plaintiff must allege the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(a).)  “Malice is defined in the statute
as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (College
Hospital, supra,  8 Cal.4th at p. 725.)  “The mere allegation an intentional tort was
committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  Not only must there be circumstances of
oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.”  (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166 (Grieves),
internal citations and footnotes omitted.) 

Plaintiff does not allege any specific facts
that constitute malicious conduct, which could support an award of punitive
damages.  (See,
e.g., First Amended Complaint, ¶ 71.) 
Accordingly, to the extent it is
not moot, the Court grants the motion to strike with leave to amend.
The Court has already provided Plaintiff with
an opportunity to state a claim for fraud and a claim for punitive damages against
Defendant, and Plaintiff has failed to do so. 
As such, leave to amend is likely futile. (Grieves, supra,
157 Cal.App.3d at p. 168.)  However, in
an abundance of caution, the Court will provide Plaintiff with one more
opportunity to amend to state these claims.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s
demurrer to the sixth cause of action in Plaintiff’s complaint is sustained
with leave to amend.
To the extent it
is not moot, Defendant’s motion to strike is granted with leave to amend.  
Plaintiff is to
file an amended complaint within 20 days of his receipt of notice of this
order.  
Defendant is ordered
to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 