  Case Number:  19STCV30877    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  76             Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants committed wage and hour violations and retaliated
against him for complaining about such violations. He also alleges constructive
termination based on racial and sexual battery from a manager while on
construction jobs.
Plaintiff Robin Josue Rubio moves
for leave to file a supplemental complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Robin Josue Rubio’s motion for leave to file a Supplemental Complaint is DENIED.  Plaintiff may file a new action against E Room
Design if Plaintiff deems such necessary, but the Court expresses no opinion on
any statute of limitations issues at this time.
ANALYSIS
Motion For Leave To First Supplemental Complaint
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff Robin Josue Rubio moves
for leave to file a supplemental complaint. 
 
The ground for this motion is based upon facts which occurred after this action was filed, namely,
Defendant WYD Design was wound up, dissolved and all of the debts and
liabilities of the entity were paid or paid as its assets permitted. Around the
same time, on August 14, 2020, Defendants formed a new entity, named E Room
Design, Inc. 
 
Plaintiff seeks to
file a Supplemental Complaint to pursue successor and alter ego liability against
E Room Design. 
 
Plaintiff cites to
the joint stipulation to continue the trial date from March 11, 2024 to some
time in June 2024. However, the order continuing the trial date has not been
signed, and the trial date as of now remains March 11, 2024. 
 
            Because
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324 only applies to motions to amend a pleading,
the Court does not address those factors, aside from when the new facts
occurred and when they were discovered, relative to the filing of this motion. 
 
             “The plaintiff and defendant, respectively,
may be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint or answer, alleging
facts material to the case occurring after the former complaint or answer.” (Civ.
Proc. Code, § 464(a).)
 
[T]echnically an
amended complaint will supersede the original complaint unless there is
something in the former showing that it is to be considered merely an amendment
to the complaint and a "supplementary" complaint is supposed to deal
only with facts arising subsequently to the filing of the original complaint
and has nothing to do with amendment to conform to the proofs, 
 
(Nels E.
Nelson, Inc. v. Tarman (1958) 163 Cal.App.2d 714, 720.)
 
The rule appears to be that where a complaint is unobjectionable, a
supplemental pleading may be filed in aid thereof, which, leaving the
original complaint intact, brings to notice material facts relating to the
case, alleged to have occurred after the commencement of the action, but which
may materially affect the rights of the plaintiff. (Sec. 464, Code Civ. Proc.;
Giddings v. The 76 Land & W. Co., 109 Cal. 116 [41 P. 788]; California Farm
etc. Co. v. Schiappa-Pietra, 151 Cal. 732 [91 P. 593].)


(Dolley v. Ragon (1924) 66 Cal.App. 707, 711.)
 
It is the general policy that courts should exercise
liberality in permitting the filing of supplemental pleadings when the alleged
"occurring-after" facts are pertinent to the case. (Citations omitted.) Nonetheless,
the motion to file a supplemental pleading is addressed to the sound legal
discretion of the court, and its ruling will not be disturbed on appeal in the
absence of a showing of a manifest abuse of that discretion. (Citations
omitted.) There is no such showing in the instant case. Moreover, the court
properly denied the motion on the basis that the supplement to the complaint
sought to introduce new causes of action. (Citations omitted.)

     (Flood
v. Simpson (1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 644, 647.)
 
Moreover, the filing of an amended or supplemental complaint adding
new parties requires leave of the court (citation omitted) and leave could be
denied, in the court's discretion, if the
plaintiff had unreasonably delayed. (Citations omitted.)

     (Hutnick
v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co. (1988) 47 Cal.3d 456, 470.)
 
            Here, Plaintiff represents that after
he became aware of the facts upon which the proposed supplemental complaint by
way of the June 29, 2021 depositions of Defendants Sang K. Jun and Chae K. Lim,
he filed a Doe amendment on March 7, 2022. On November 28, 2023, the Court
found that the Doe amendments was not the proper vehicle to amend the complaint
and instructed Plaintiff to seek leave to file a supplemental complaint. Plaintiff
then filed a motion for leave to amend, but Plaintiff withdrew that motion on
January 8, 2024, having filed the instant motion on December 20, 2023. 
 
            A procedurally improper effort was
made on March 7, 2022 to bring E Room Design, Inc. into this case by way of a
Doe amendment.  Thus, from at least March
7, 2022, Defendants were on notice that Plaintiff intended to pursue E Room Design, Inc.  Notwithstanding
the lack of surprise, However, the proximity of the instant motion to the trial
date is itself a form of prejudice, since allowing a supplemental pleading
would necessarily require a continuance of trial to allow service of the
pleading, response thereto (potentially including motion practice) and possibly
some amount of additional discovery.
 
            In light of the delay that would be necessitated,
Plaintiff’s lack of diligence in timely seeking a supplemental complaint is a significant
issue.  Standard 2.2 of the Standards of
Judicial Administration provides that the goal of each trial court should be to
manage unlimited civil cases from filing so that 100% of cases are disposed of
within 24 months, or within three years for cases involving “exceptional
circumstances.”  This case involves a
straightforward set of claims and a limited number of parties, and does not
appear to have the degree of complexity or unusual circumstances that would justify
delay.  This case was filed more than
four years ago, and further continuances would jeopardize the Court’s ability
to have the case brought to trial within five years of filing—even accounting
for pandemic-related tolling of the five year rule.
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has not presented evidence showing that E Room Design,
Inc. has potential successor liability. However, a plaintiff need not prove the
merits of their claims in order to amend or supplement their pleadings.  If a party makes unsupported or false
allegations, the opposing party may challenge those allegations by the usual
means of law and motion. 
 
Moreover, the
Court finds that the proposed Supplemental Complaint (Gabriel Decl., Exh. H) is
functionally both a supplemental and amended complaint, since it is not
limited to facts which occurred after the original Complaint was filed, and
asserts all causes of action against all Defendants dating back to events that
occurred before the original Complaint was filed.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 464(a) (“The plaintiff and
defendant, respectively, may be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental
complaint or answer, alleging facts material to the case occurring after
the former complaint or answer.”).)[1]
 
As such, the motion
for leave to file a supplemental complaint is DENIED.  Plaintiff may file a new action against E Room
Design if Plaintiff deems such necessary, but the Court expresses no opinion on
any statute of limitations issues at this time.


