

 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 16, 2024, Plaintiff Joanne Doram (“Plaintiff”)
filed the Complaint against Defendants Discover Bank (“Defendant”) and Does 1
through 10, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) violation of the
Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (Cal. Civ. Code § 1788, et seq.)
and (2) violation of the Unfair Competition Law (Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §
17200, et seq.).
 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
improperly contacted Plaintiff in connection with collection on an account,
despite explicitly revoking consent to be contacted directly by Defendant.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s failure to cease contacts caused confusion,
harassment, anxiety, and retention of counsel to reasonably respond to
Defendant’s collection efforts. Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant’s
actions caused her to suffer economic and emotional harm.
 
On September 3, 2024, Defendant
filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. Defendant’s Answer alleges a general
denial to all causes of action and allegations contained in Plaintiff’s
complaint, as well as 19 affirmative defenses.
 
On September 18, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the Demurrer to Defendant’s Answer. As of October 14, 2024, no opposition
or reply has been filed.
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
claims that Defendant’s Answer fails to state any facts sufficient to
constitute any affirmative defense alleged, and that each affirmative defense,
as alleged, is uncertain. Plaintiff notes that every affirmative defense set
forth in Defendant’s Answer seems like a boilerplate, or copy-and-pasted,
defense because each affirmative defense does not allege any factual
allegations, only mere legal conclusions. Therefore, Plaintiff contends that
Defendant failed to meet the bare minimum pleading requirements for each
affirmative defense, which should all be struck, and the opportunity to amend
denied.
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None. 
 
REPLY
 
            None.
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Demurrer
A.               
Meet and Confer Requirement 
Prior to filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring
or moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a
filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer. (CCP §§ 430.41 and 435.5.) 
            On September
4, 2024, Plaintiff’s Counsel sent a detailed email, listing the claimed
deficiencies in Defendant’s answer and stating that, unless Defendant amended
its answer, Plaintiff would file a demurrer. (Robenzadeh Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff’s
Counsel received numerous responses from Defendant’s Counsel stating that
Defendant intended to file a Motion to Compel Arbitration, thus, Plaintiff’s
Counsel held off on filing the instant demurrer to avoid duplicative
litigation. (Id., ¶¶ 7-10.) Plaintiff’s counsel does not submit
Defendant’s Counsel’s responses to the Court as part of his Declaration. Since
the parties were unable to come to an agreement regarding the claimed
deficiencies in Defendant’s Answer, and because no Motion to Compel had been
filed at the time, Plaintiff moved forward with the instant demurrer. (Id.,
¶¶ 11-12.)
            Here, the Demurrer is untimely,
however, Plaintiff requests the Court to consider the late-filed demurrer. The
Court finds that Defendant suffered no prejudice, the lateness was brief, and
Defendant has had an opportunity to respond. 
B.        Legal Standard 
A demurrer for sufficiency
tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of
the cause of action, the Court admits “all material facts properly pleaded” and
“matters which may be judicially noticed,” but does not consider contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. [Citation].”  (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  It gives these facts “a reasonable
interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.”  (Hahn,
supra, at 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury
Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994; Weil & Brown, Civ. Pro.
Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2011) ¶7:8.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed
(430.30, 430.70). The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747. A complaint will be upheld
against a demurrer for sufficiency if it pleads facts sufficient to place the
defendant on notice of the issues sufficient to enable the defendant to prepare
a defense.  Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-50.
On the other hand,
“demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored. We strictly construe such demurrers
because ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of
discovery. [Citation.]” (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
(2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135; see also William v. Beechnut Nutritional
Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2 (“[U]nder our liberal pleading
rules, where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations
sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a
demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to
amend.”)
The same standard applies
to demurrer made toward an answer. A demurrer to an answer may be taken to the
whole answer or to any one or more of the several defenses set up in the
answer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§430.50(b).) The demurrer to the answer may object to
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense or is uncertain. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§430.20.)
C.    Discussion: 
Plaintiff seeks an order sustaining without leave to
amend the Answer to the Complaint on the grounds that Defendants fail to assert
or allege any facts to support the affirmative defenses. 
“A party
against whom an answer has been filed may object, by demurrer as provided in
Section 430.30, to the answer upon any one or more of the following grounds:
(a) The
answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense.
(b) The
answer is uncertain. As used in this subdivision, “uncertain” includes
ambiguous and unintelligible.
(c) Where the
answer pleads a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the answer whether the
contract is written or oral.”
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.20.)
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.30(a),
“[w]hen any ground for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer
appears on the face thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required
to or may take judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a
demurrer to the pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30(a).) “The determination
of the sufficiency of the answer requires an examination of the complaint
because its adequacy is with reference to the complaint it purports to answer.”
(South Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 733.”
 
            Here,
Defendants generally deny each and every allegation in the Complaint, and each
and every cause of action pleaded therein. Defendants also assert nineteen
affirmative defenses. 
Based on a review of the Defendant’s
Answer, and all moving papers on file, the Court concludes that Defendant’s Answer
sufficiently states facts to support an affirmative defense against Plaintiff. 
Complaint alleges on or
about July 3, 2024, Plaintiff sent a letter to Defendant Discover Bank via
certified mail, revoking all consent to be contacted directly by Defendant.
Despite receiving the certified letter on July 3, 2024, Defendant Discovery
Bank continued to contact Plaintiff by telephone in an attempt to collect the
alleged debt. Defendant’s conduct caused injuries to Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶¶7-10,
22) The remainder of the Complaint largely contains legal allegations and
conclusions. Thus, the Answer alleges facts in accordance with how the
Complaint is pled.
For example, the Court observes that
Defendant’s first affirmative defense, Agreement to Arbitrate, is based on the
following statement: 
“The claims
alleged by Plaintiff in the Complaint are subject to binding arbitration
pursuant to the arbitration provision contained in the agreement governing
Plaintiff’s credit card account with Discover. Discover expressly reserves the
right to elect to resolve this matter in arbitration pursuant to the parties’
arbitration agreement.”
(Answer, p. 2:23-28.)
            The
Court finds that the affirmative defenses in Defendant’s Answer can reasonably
be clarified under modern rules of discovery including by engaging in
meaningful meet and confer process. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Demurrer is OVERRULED.

III.       Conclusion

            In all, Plaintiff’s Demurrer to Defendant’s
Answer to Complaint is OVERRULED. 
The Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint filed on 09/03/2024
by Defendant Discover Bank stands.
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 