

 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 23, 2024, Petitioners Serdar Dagkesen Harout
Keuroghlian, and JohnHart Corp. (collectively, “Petitioners”) filed the instant
Petition to Vacate the Contractual Arbitration Award against Respondents
Patricia Petralia, Jeb Stuart Adams, and XG Management, Inc., dba REMAX One
(“REMAX One”) (collectively, “Respondents”). 
 
Petitioners and Respondents are all members of the
Southland Regional Association of Realtors (“SRAR”). The parties entered a
dispute regarding which broker was the procuring cause regarding the sale of a
real estate property at 1540 Buster St., Simi Valley, CA 93065 (“Property”). As
members of the SRAR, each party agreed to submit commission disputes to
arbitration before a panel of arbitrators. On April 9, 2024, an arbitration
hearing was conducted before a panel of three arbitrators. And on April 11, 2024,
a signed copy of the award was tendered in favor of Respondents (“Arbitration
Award”).
 
On May 23, 2024, Petitioners filed their Petition to Vacate
the Contractual Arbitration Award.
 
On September 4, 2024, Respondent REMAX One filed its
Petition to Confirm the Contractual Arbitration Award against Petitioners
Serdar Dagkesen and JohnHart Corp.
 
On
September 6, 2024, Respondents filed an opposition to the petition to vacate.
And on September 25, 2024, Petitioners filed their reply in support.
 
On
October 4, 2024, Petitioner filed supplemental briefing relating to potential
grounds for disqualification based on preexisting professional involvement of
Patricia Petralia, a party to the action, and Tom Carnahan, one of the arbitrators.

 
On October 7, 2024, Respondent REMAX One filed its
Supplemental Opposition to vacate the arbitration award. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Petitioners
claim that the Arbitration Award must be vacated, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 1286.2, on the following grounds. 
 
First, the Arbitration
Award was obtained by corruption, fraud, or other undue means, pursuant to §
1286.2(a)(1), because Presiding Officer Tim Carnahan (“Presiding Officer”) was
prejudiced against Petitioners. Petitioners note that the Presiding Officer failed
to refer to Petitioners and Petitioners’ counsel in a professional manner but
consistently referred to Respondents and Respondents’ counsel professionally, and
failed to require Respondents comply with the proper procedure for arbitration
hearings. Petitioners also note that they only reluctantly agreed that the
arbitration had been fair.
 
Second, the
Presiding Officer exceeded his authority in issuing the award, pursuant to §
1286.2(a)(4), because he improperly decided on evidentiary objections in a
biased manner. Further, the Presiding Officer prevented Petitioners’ counsel
from presenting outcome determinative evidence because he stated the panel
members had all read the exhibits Petitioner requested to present even though
that there was confusion regarding what documents Petitioners’ counsel was
attempting to discuss.
 
Third,
Petitioners were substantially prejudiced by the Presiding Officer’s refusal to
hear evidence, pursuant to § 1286.2(a)(5), that would have allowed Petitioners
to impeach Respondents on cross examination. 
 
Finally, the
Presiding Officer failed to timely disclose grounds for his disclosure,
pursuant to § 1286.2(a)(6), because he failed to disclose that he was currently
involved in an arbitration involving Respondents’ counsel until the
commencement of the arbitration proceeding.
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In
Opposition, Respondents contend that Petitioners have failed to meet the
required burden of proof for each violation they allege, on the following
grounds.
 
            First,
the Petitioners waived their right to object to the Presiding Officer’s alleged
late disclosure. Although the Presiding Officer failed to accurately fill out
the disclosure forms, the Presiding Officer stated that he had an ongoing case
with Respondents’ counsel at the beginning of the hearing. The Presiding
Officer also asked the Respondents if they would like him to recuse himself, or
whether they would like a different panelist to act as Chairperson, who was
fully qualified to do so. However, the Respondents and Respondents’ counsel all
expressly stated that they had no objections.
 
            Second,
the Petitioners failed to establish that any alleged prejudice by the
arbitrators was akin to that of extrinsic fraud, or at all affected the
outcome. The hearing was conducted by three arbitrators and only two
arbitrators needed to agree on the outcome. However, the Petitioners only
claimed that the Presiding Officer was prejudiced against them and made no
arguments regarding the other two members of the panel. Further, the Presiding
Officer regularly referred to Respondents’ attorney in the same informal manner
as Petitioners’ attorney. The Presiding Officer’s failure to reprimand
Respondents for not appearing on camera also fails because the person was
standing directly beside the camera, and the minor violation, if any, had no
effect on the hearing. Finally, petitioners failed to raise any post-hearing
objections regarding the fairness of the hearing, and eventually answered that
the hearing was conducted in a fair manner.
 
            Third,
the panel of three arbitrators did not exceed their authority in issuing an
award for Respondents. The arbitrators were specifically empowered to arbitrate
disputes between members of the SRAR, and Petitioners and Respondents are all
SRAR members. Further, according to the rules of procedure for SRAR
arbitrations, the Presiding Officer and other panel members have authority to
determine the relevancy and appropriateness of evidence. 
 
            Fourth,
the panel of arbitrators did not refuse to hear any material evidence, and,
even if they did, the Petitioners were not substantially prejudiced by such
refusal. Petitioners have failed to show that the Presiding Officer abused his
discretion in any of his rulings on evidentiary objections, and, even if there
was an abuse of discretion, Petitioners have failed to show resulting
prejudice. Further, Petitioners were not prevented from presenting any evidence
on the day of the hearing; the Presiding Officer only prevented Petitioners
from presenting evidence out of turn based on the procedure established earlier
in the proceeding. In fact, the Presiding Officer expressly allowed Petitioners
to present references to both the material impeachment evidence and the outcome
determinative evidence that Petitioners contend they were not allowed to
present.
 
REPLY
 
            On
Reply, Petitioners contend that the Court should vacate the Arbitration Award
because the evidence establishes prejudice on behalf of the Arbitrator that
affected the outcome of the Arbitration Award, on the following grounds.
 
            First,
the Presiding Officer’s failure to properly disclose his disqualification
information is, on its own, grounds to vacate the Arbitration Award.
Petitioners need not demonstrate the mens rea of the two other
arbitration panel members because, according to the guidelines for arbitration proceedings
adopted by the SRAR, failure to properly disclose grounds for disqualification
with the parties is grounds for the court to vacate an Arbitration Award.
Further, even though the Presiding Officer addressed his involvement in an
arbitration with Respondents’ counsel, he did not fully disclose the
information required by the Form A-21. Additionally, the Presiding Officer did
not address his mistake in the entire month-long period before the hearing, and
only revealed the grounds for his disqualification immediately before the
hearing, which surprised Petitioners. 
 
            Second,
Petitioner’s evidence establishes that the award was obtained by fraud,
corruption, or other undue means. There is no legitimate dispute that the
Presiding Officer prevented Petitioners’ counsel from presenting evidence
because the members of the panel had already read such exhibit, even though there
was confusion regarding what documents the panel possessed and what counsel
sought to present. Such evidence would have directly circumvented Respondents’
claim. Accordingly, the Presiding Officer’s ruling was not based on the
relevancy of such evidence, but an erroneous blanket statement, because the
arbitrators could not have decided for Respondents if they had fully considered
Petitioners’ evidence. Further, the guidelines for arbitration proceedings
adopted by SRAR, as well as California caselaw, establish that failure to
accept material and relevant evidence is basis for overturning an award.
 
            The
Presiding Officer’s prejudicial refusal to consider Petitioners’ material
evidence mirrors the continuous microaggression that Petitioners and their
counsel were subject to throughout the arbitration hearing. The two individual
Petitioners have names that are one or two syllables, however, the Presiding
Officer refused to refer to them professionally, instead referring to them as
“Team Hart.” Although the Presiding Officer referred to Respondents’ counsel by
his first name a total of ten times throughout the hearing, the Presiding
Officer refused to address Petitioners’ counsel by her respected title. The
Presiding Officer referring to Petitioners’ counsel by her first name at least thirty-eight
times throughout the hearing.
 
            Finally,
the panel of arbitrators exceeded their authority by denying Petitioners’
fundamental right to a fair hearing. According to the SRAR’s counsel, the rules
of evidence in this type of arbitration of proceeding is very loose, and
generally any evidence that a businessman might consider important to a
decision is allowed in. Here, the Presiding Officer afforded Respondents’
counsel broad discretion to ask many questions that would be stricken from
normal legal proceedings. However, arguably based on the Presiding Officer’s
biased interpretation of the “businessman’s evidence rule,” he did not allow
Petitioners’ counsel to present basic evidence and prevented Petitioners’
counsel’s objections to questions regarding third party opinions.
 
            In
Supplemental Reply, Petitioner contends that Arbitrator Carnahan and Party to
the action Patricia Petralia, have notable histories within the Southland
Regional Association of Realtors.  Ms.
Petralia served as President in 2010 and remains active on various SRAR
committees. On the other hand, Mr. Carnahan made history by becoming the
association’s youngest President in 1988, which he repeated in 2003, being the
only realtor to do so. Petitioner contends that their professional relationship
raises questions regarding the fairness of the process given their historical
relationship. 
 
            In
Supplemental Opposition, Respondent argues board membership is not required to
be disclosed and that Petitioner’s counsel falsely claims that she only learned
of Ms. Petralia’s board membership the day prior to Court hearing. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal
Standard 
“Regardless of the particular relief
granted, any arbitrator's award is enforceable only when confirmed as a
judgment of the superior court.” (O'Hare v. Municipal Resource Consultants¿(2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 267, 278.) “Once a petition to confirm an award is filed, the
superior court must select one of only four courses of action: it may confirm
the award, correct and confirm it, vacate it, or dismiss the petition.” (EHM
Productions, Inc. v. Starline Tours of Hollywood, Inc.¿(2018) 21
Cal.App.5th 1058, 1063.) “It is well settled that the scope of judicial review
of arbitration awards is extremely narrow.” (California Faculty Assn. v.
Superior Court¿(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 935, 943.) “Neither the trial court,
nor the appellate court, may ‘review the merits of the dispute, the sufficiency
of the evidence, or the arbitrator's reasoning, nor may we correct or review an
award because of an arbitrator's legal or factual error, even if it appears on
the award's face. Instead, we restrict our review to whether the award should
be vacated under the grounds listed in section 1286.2. [Citations.]’” (Id.)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1286.2, subdivision (a),
states, in pertinent part:
 
“Subject to Section 1286.4, the court shall vacate the
award if the court determines any of the following: 
 
(1) The award was procured by corruption, fraud or other
undue means. 
(2) There was corruption in any of the arbitrators.
(3) The rights of the party were substantially prejudiced
by misconduct of a neutral arbitrator. 
(4) The arbitrators exceeded their powers and the award
cannot be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision upon the
controversy submitted. 
(5) The rights of the parties were substantially
prejudiced by the refusal of the arbitrators to postpone the hearing upon
sufficient cause being shown therefor or by the refusal of the arbitrators to
hear evidence material to the controversy or by other conduct of the
arbitrators contrary to the provisions of this title. 
(6) An arbitrator making the award either: (A) failed to
disclose within the time required for disclosure a ground disqualification of
which the arbitrator was then aware; or (B) was subject to disqualification
upon grounds specified in Section 1281.91 but failed upon receipt of timely
demand to disqualify himself or herself as required by that provision ….” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.2, subd. (a).) 
 
Only where both (1) the arbitrator abused his or her
discretion and (2) there was resulting prejudice, can a trial court properly
vacate an arbitration award. (SWAB Financial, LLC v. E*Trade Securities, LLC
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1198.)
 
 
 
 
II.        Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award 
 
Here, Petitioner
contends that the Arbitration Award must be vacated because the Presiding
Officer failed to timely disclose grounds for his disqualification that he was
aware of, and because the Presiding Officer’s prejudice against Petitioners
tainted the proceedings in various ways that affected the outcome. The Court is
satisfied that Petitioners have presented sufficient evidence warranting
vacation of the arbitration award.
 
A.        Failure to
Timely Disclose Required Grounds for Disqualification
 
First, the Court
is satisfied that Presiding Officer failed to timely disclose grounds for his
disclosure during the required time. Neither party disputes that, at the very
beginning of the arbitration hearing, Presiding Officer revealed that he was
involved in an ongoing arbitration with Respondents’ counsel, which he
mistakenly failed to disclose on the required disclosure forms. In fact,
Respondents further contend that Respondents’ counsel had retained him in such
arbitration as an expert witness. Respondents argue that, because Presiding
Officer disclosed such mistake before the hearing, and because Petitioners
stated that they had no objections, Petitioners waived their right to raise
this issue upon judicial review. (See Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase, 3
Cal.4th 1, 30 (A party may not “sit on h[er] rights, content in the knowledge
that should [s]he suffer an adverse decision, [s]he could then raise … the
issue in a motion to vacate the arbitrator’s award.”); Dornbirer v. Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc. 166 Cal.App.4th 831, 835-36; Paramount
Unified School Dist. v. Teacher’s Assn. of Paramount (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th
1371.) 
 
However, these
cases are directly distinguishable with the facts at issue here. In Dornbirer,
as Respondents directly acknowledge, the potential arbitrator’s disclosures
were only deficient as to specific information; the Court expressly ruled that
the disclosure, even if inadequate, “put [the plaintiff] on notice that [the
arbitrator] had served as an arbitrator in a number of cases in which [the
defendant] was a party.” (Dornbirer, supra, at p. 842; Opp., p.
7:20-26.) In Paramount, the Court ruled that a party who had prior
notice of issues in arbitration, but failed to raise those issues with the
arbitrator, waived those issues for future judicial review. (Paramount,
supra, 26 Cal.App.4th at p. 1376.)
 
Here, however,
Petitioners properly note that they had no notice of Presiding Officer’s
potential grounds for disqualification because, as the parties both understand,
Presiding Officer did not raise the issue until the arbitration hearing had
already commenced. This material omission is in direct contrast with the
Court’s finding in Dornbirer and does not comport with the requirements
for arbitration proceedings adopted by the SRAR. (See Id. at p. 842
(“The exception to this waiver applies only if the proposed arbitrator made a
material omission or material misrepresentation in his or her disclosure.”);
Exhs. D; E (“[F]ailure to provide the parties with the proper disclosures in
ground for the court to vacate an arbitration award”.)
 
Accordingly, the evidence submitted
by Petitioners supports the conclusion that Presiding Officer Tom Carnahan
failed to timely disclose grounds for disqualification that he was aware of,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1286.2(a)(6).
 
 
B.        Arbitration
Award Obtained by Undue Means
 
            Further,
the Court is also satisfied that Petitioners have presented sufficient evidence
to support that the Arbitration Award was obtained by undue means. Although Code
of Civil Procedure § 1286.2 does not define “undue means,” courts have
interpreted that language to mean “any conduct which amounts to fraud or which
deprives either party of a fair and impartial hearing to his substantial
prejudice …” and such finding bears “a strong resemblance to the longstanding
description of extrinsic fraud.” (Pour Le Bebe, Inc. v. Guess? Inc.
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 810, 827-28; see also Maaso v. Signer (2012) 203
Cal.App.4th 362, 371-72.)
 
            Here,
Petitioners demonstrate that the Presiding Officer prevented Petitioners’
counsel from material evidence that bore direct relevance to her case in chief,
and was designed to circumvent Respondents’ chief claim. The parties do not
dispute that, when Petitioners’ counsel attempted to submit a packet of
documents into evidence, the Presiding Officer stated that she may not because
the “[panel members] have already read it … panel members have read every
single word and seen every single thing [she] has presented to [them] … while I
understand it is important to re-highlight, they’ve already read it.”
(Petition, Exh. 8(c); Opp., p. 20:9-11; Reply, p. 13:1-3.) However, both
parties also agree that there was confusion regarding what documents the panel
possessed versus what documents Petitioners’ counsel sought to “re-highlight.”
(Opp, p. 20:20-22; Reply, p. 13: 4-5.) Although Respondents claim that
Petitioners were allowed to put display a reference to the exhibit, such does
not repair the prejudice of not being able to present the evidence in full. 
 
Further, as
Petitioners’ evidence demonstrates, the applicable standard of evidence in this
arbitration proceeding was the “businessman’s evidence rule.” (Petition, Exh.
8(c); Reply p. 16:19-26.) According to SRAR’s counsel, who advised the
Presiding Officer throughout the proceeding, the standard “is very loose,” and
considers admissible anything “important to a business man … that said, usually
the presiding officer allows generally unless there’s some kind of privilege or
whatever allows the evidence to be introduced by the testimony and answer of
the documents” (Ibid.) In contrast to the Court’s refusal to present
evidence directly bearing on Petitioners’ case in chief, Petitioners contend
that the Presiding Officer allowed Respondents’ counsel to engage in lines of
questioning that would be stricken from the record in normal legal proceedings,
including opinions regarding third party’s state of mind. (See Petition, Exh.
8(c); Opp., p. 16: 9-12; Reply, p. 17:2-6.)
 
Petitioners
further contend that this prejudicial decision to prevent Petitioners’ counsel
from presenting material, relevant evidence mirrors the Presiding Officer’s
bias against Petitioners throughout the arbitration hearing. Petitioners
contend that the Presiding Officer refused to refer to the individual
Petitioners by the legal names based on difficulty of pronunciation, even
though each man’s name was one or two syllables. Further, the Presiding Officer
allegedly failed to refer to Petitioners’ counsel by her respected title,
instead only referring to her by her first name. Although Respondents’ counsel
notes that the Presiding Officer referred to him by first name ten (10) times,
Petitioners’ counsel states that she was never referred to as “counsel” or
“Ms.,” and was referred to by her first name at least thirty-eight (38) times.
While such findings do not, alone, demonstrate substantial prejudice to
Petitioners, it bolsters the proposition that the Presiding Officer’s bias in
this sense arguably was the grounds for preventing a fair trial as to
Petitioners’ case on its merits.
 
Accordingly, the
evidence supports the conclusion that the Arbitration Award was procured by
undue means, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1286.2(a)(1), because the
arbitrators unduly prevented them from presenting material evidence that
directly bore on their case in chief, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
1286.2(a)(5).
 
C.        Professional Relationship between Party and Arbitrator 
 
Lastly, the
Court finds that the professional relationship between a party to the action
Ms. Petralia and the arbitrator Mr. Carnahan was relevant information to be
disclosed prior to the arbitration hearing. Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.9
(a)(6) requires disclosure when any professional relationship the arbitrator
has or had with any party or the spouse to the arbitration proceeding. “An
arbitrator’s failure to disclose information indicative of bias may constitute
grounds to vacate the award… Whether an award is tainted by bias because an
arbitrator failed to disclose a particular relationship is a factual
determination made by the court reviewing the award. (Figi v. New Hampshire
Ins. Co. (1980) 108 Cal. App., 3d 772, 776. (See Ceriale v. AMCO Ins.
Co. (1996) 48 Cal. App. 4th 500, 504 [arbitration award may be
vacated where “the record reveals facts which might create an impression of
possible bias in the eyes of the hypothetical, reasonable person.”]) 
 
In this instant,
Petitioners have submitted the following: 
 
The 2012 list of
Board Members of Politically Active Nonprofits and Donor Organizations that
include both Tom Carnahan and Patricia Petralia. 
 
The 2013 list of
Board Members of Politically Active Nonprofits and Donor Organizations that
include both Tom Carnahan and Patricia Petralia.
 
A 2013 article
published by the Southland Regional Association of REALTORS®   describing the newly elected 2014 President
of the association. Further detailing, that members of the arbitration panel,
Jerry Ascencio and Presiding Officer, Tom Carnahan, served on the 2014 Board of
Directors with Patricia Petralia. 
 
The
February/March 2016 edition of the Realtor Report published by the Southland
Regional Association of REALTORS® describing the association’s 96th Inaugural
Ball held to install the new president for the association, Gina Uzunyan,
whereby Patricia Petralia and Tom Carnahan served as “the evening’s masters of
ceremonies. Both have served as president of SRAR. 
 
The 2017 RPAC
President’s Circle Annual Conference list includes Tom Carnahan and Patricia
Petralia. 
 
A 2017 article
published by the Los Angeles Daily News that highlights the three-day real
estate summit “involving more than 7,000 realtors from throughout the nation,
including a contingent of leaders from the Southland Regional Association of
Realtors.” The article goes on to describe that “the delegation from the
Southland Regional Association of
Realtors
included: SRAR President Patti Petralia, President- Elect Fred Sabine, Mel
Wilson, Winnie Davis, Alice McCain, Gary Washburn, Mary Funk, Steve White, Tom
Carnahan, Pat Zicarelli, Jim Ezell and Jim Link. SRAR’s chief executive
officer. During the week, they met with legislators on Capitol Hill to urge
action toward stabilizing the U.S. mortgage finance delivery system,
strengthening housing stability, and improving liquidity for the commercial
real estate market.” 
 
The
February/March 2019 edition of the Realtor Report published by the Southland
Regional Association of REALTORS detailing the 2019 SRAR Board of Directors,
which included Patricia Petralia and the wife of Presiding Officer Tom Carnahan
– Nancy Troxell Carnahan, who was then-serving as the 2019 President-elect. 
 
The August 2023
Southland Regional Association of REALTORS Foundation Trustees that included
Tom Carnahan, serving as Chairman, and Patricia Petralia and Wendy Silver-Hal,
serving as one of the few selected Trustees. 
 
The October 2023
Southland Regional Association of REALTORS Finance Committee that included Tom
Carnahan, serving as Chairman, and Patricia Petralia, serving as Vice-Chairman.
 
The 2024
Southland Regional Association of REALTORS C.A.R. Committee list that details
the seven (7) committees Patricia Petralia sits on with the Tom Carnahan and
Wendy Silver-Hale. 
 
The Q4/Fall 2023
edition of California Real Estate that contains the 2023 Hall of Fame Gold VIP
member list that includes Tom Carnahan and Patricia Petralia. 
 
The Court finds
that Petitioner has substantiated the grounds for disclosure based on
professional relationship between Arbitrator Carnahan and Ms. Petralia. 
 
Therefore, based on the findings
above, Petitioners’ Petition to Vacate the Contractual Arbitration Award is
GRANTED.
 
III.       Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award
 
            Here, because the Court grants
Petitioners’ Petition to Vacate the Contractual Arbitration Award, Respondents’
Petition to Confirm the Contractual Arbitration Award is DENIED as moot.
 
IV.       Conclusion

            
            In all, Petitioners’ Petition to
Vacate the Contractual Arbitration Award is GRANTED. 
 
Respondents’
Petition to Confirm the Contractual Arbitration Award is DENIED as MOOT.
 
Moving Party to Vacate the Contractual Arbitration is
ordered to give notice of ruling as to both petitions. 