

 
BACKGROUND
 
On June
12, 2023, Plaintiff State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (Plaintiff)
filed a complaint against Defendant Alina Kulesh (Defendant) for subrogation. 
 
On August
12, 2024, Defendant Alina Kulesh filed the present motion to admit Attorney
Jeffrey T. Gorcyca pro hac vice. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
California Rules of Court rule 9.40
provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and
is not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other
activities in the State of California.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
9.40.) 
 
“The application must state: (1) the
applicant’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the
applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission; (3) that
the applicant is a member of good standing in those courts; (4) that the
applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title
of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the
date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name,
address, and telephone number of the active member of the State Bar of
California who is attorney of record in the local action.”  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 9.40(d).) 
 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Attorney Jeffrey T. Gorcyca has submitted the instant
verified application to appear as counsel pro hac vice for Defendant
Alina Kulesh, in association with Counsel of Record Mary Haroutunian. (Gorcyca
Decl. ¶ 6.)  
 
Mr. Gorcyca’s application establishes that he is an
active member and in good standing with the State Bar of Michigan. (Gorcyca
Decl., ¶ 3.) His application establishes that his residence and office address
are both in Michigan, and that he is not a resident of California nor is he
regularly engaged in the practice of law in California. (Ibid. ¶¶ 2-3.)
The application also lists the courts to which he has been admitted to
practice. (Ibid. ¶ 3.) Mr. Gorcyca provides the name, address, and telephone number of Defendant’s
Counsel of Record, Mary Haroutunian, Esq., an active member of the State Bar of
California.  (Ibid. ¶ 6.) Mr. Gorcyca has also submitted Proof of
Service indicating that Plaintiff and the State Bar of California have been
served with the notice, application, and supporting documents. (Haroutunian
Decl., ¶ 5.)  Ms. Haroutunian also stated
that Mr. Gorcyca’s application was submitted to the State Bar along with
payment of the $50.00 filing fee. (Haroutunian Decl., ¶ 5.)  
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Thus, Defendant ‘s Application for an Order to Admit Jeffrey T. Gorcyca as Counsel Pro Hac
Vice for the Defendant is GRANTED/Approved.
 
Order to Show Cause Re: 
Attorney Jeffrey T. Gorcyca’s Pro Hac Vice Status / Renewal Fees is set
for 10/14/2025 at 9:30 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
 Moving Party is
ordered to give notice of ruling. 
 