  Case Number:  22STCV35923    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
            Defendant
Bird, Inc. filed a motion to compel the deposition of third party Bobby
Brown.  Defendant says Plaintiffs served
a deposition subpoena on Bobby Brown and at the deposition asked him
questions.  At the end of Plaintiffs’
questions, Defendant stated it was invoking a provision of the July 8, 2022 CMO
that, “Unless stipulated otherwise by all parties or ordered by the Court upon
a showing of good cause, if Plaintiff’s attorney conducts the deposition
examination first (direct examination), Defendants may elect to commence their
examination either immediately after the conclusion of Plaintiff’s direct
examination or within 5 Court days after the conclusion of Plaintiff’s direct
examination.”  (July 8, 2022 CMO,
Appendix B-6.)  Defendant said it would
commence its examination within five court days.  According to Defendant, Plaintiffs did not
allow the break, and the deposition ended for the day.  Defendant then filed this motion to compel
the continuance of the deposition.
            Plaintiffs
argue that the five-day provision does not apply to non-party witnesses and
only applies to elderly and dying plaintiffs. 
(Opposition at p. 4.)  However,
nothing in the July 8, 2022 CMO states that the five-day provision only applies
to elderly and dying plaintiffs.  It
would be unfair to allow Plaintiffs to examine the witness and then prevent the
defendants from their chance to examine the witness based on an interpretation
of the July 8 2022 CMO that is not supported by the language of the CMO.
            Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant did not subpoena the witness and did not serve him with a
copy of the motion to compel.  That is
easily solved.  Defendant can serve a new
subpoena on the witness and set a new date for the continuation of the
deposition.  
            Plaintiffs
argue that the witness should not have to take another day off of work.  If the witness cannot take time off of work,
the deposition can take place in the evening or on a weekend or another
non-work day for the witness.
            The
motion is granted to the extent that Defendant is permitted to subpoena the
witness for a deposition so that the defendants can question him.  
            The
moving party is to give notice.
 