 Case Number:  23STCV19133    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO AMEND EXPERT
DESIGNATION
            Defendant
J-M Manufacturing Company filed an ex parte application for leave to amend its
expert designation.  The court granted
the ex parte application in part by allowing J-M Manufacturing to make a motion
on shortened time, setting a hearing date, and setting a date for Plaintiffs to
file an opposition.
            Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.620, a court can grant leave to amend an
expert witness list if the court takes into account the extent to which the
opposing party has relied on the list of expert witness, the opposing party is
not prejudiced, and either the moving party would not have determined to call
the expert in the exercise of reasonable diligence or the moving party failed
to call the expert due to mistake, inadvertence surprise, or excusable neglect
and then sought leave to amend promptly and served expert witness information
promptly.
            Defendant
states it served expert designations on February 5, 2024, first learned about
the expert witness Gary Girard on February 15, 2024, first spoke to him on
March 6, 2024 when it learned he had expertise, served expert witness
information for him, and offered him for deposition on March 22, 2024.  Defendant argues that Plaintiffs will not be
prejudiced because there is time for an expert deposition and for Plaintiffs to
offer a rebuttal expert, and there is no need to continue the trial date.
            Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant could have determined Gary Girard had expert testimony long
ago because Defendant knew since October 9, 2023 that Plaintiff was a
contractor.
            According
to defense counsel, Defendant learned about the existence of Gary Girard on
February 15, 2024 when she saw his name on a document obtained from the
California Contractor’s Licensing Board. 
(Lin Decl., ¶ 3.)  When she spoke
with him on March 6, 2024, she learned he is a general contractor with
expertise about the types of materials used in residential and sewer
applications in the 1980s in Los Angeles. 
(Ibid.) 
But Defendant does not
explain why it did not earlier retain an expert on that topic.  Defendant has known for many months, at least
since Plaintiff’s deposition, that he claims to have been exposed from doing
construction work in the 1980s in Los Angeles. 
If Defendant wanted an expert on the types of materials used in such
work, it had the time prior to expert designations on February 5, 2024 to
identify an expert.  Also, Defendant has
also known for months that Plaintiff worked as a general contractor.  If Defendant wanted an expert from the
Contractor’s Licensing Board, it had plenty of time to find someone before the
expert designation date.  Thus, Defendant
has not shown that with reasonable diligence, it would not have determined to
call the Gary Girard.
In addition, Defendant already
designated experts on the topic of the types of materials used in sewer systems,
the installation of piping, and the plumbing and construction industry in
California including the use of materials in plumbing systems in California and
compliance with California law and regulations, such as David Michael Arthurs, Benjamin
Heckman, Rachel Maines, Richard Mellen, John Osteraas, Roger Thomas Price, Michael
Stone, and Steven Wintch.  (Lin Decl.,
Ex. A [the exhibit has no page numbers].) 
Defendant does not explain why it needs yet another expert on topics
already covered by its previously designated experts.
The motion is
DENIED.  The moving party is to give
notice.