 Case Number:  23STCV22561    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  32      JONATHAN MARTIN, et    al.,                         Plaintiffs,             v.   CURATIVE, INC., et al.,                             Defendants.           Case No.:  23STCV22561   Hearing Date:  May 20, 2024        [TENTATIVE]    order RE: cross-defendants’ demurrer to    cross-complaint               BACKGROUND             On September 18, 2023, Plaintiffs  Jonathan Martin and Paul Scott filed this action against Defendant Curative,  Inc. Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) on November  16, 2023, adding Defendant Fred Turner. The FAC asserts causes of action for  (1) fraudulent inducement, (2) breach of contract, and (3) breach of the  implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.              The dispute stems from a joint  venture to distribute COVID tests in 2020. Plaintiffs owned KorvaLabs, Inc., a  laboratory with the capability and infrastructure to develop and distribute  COVID tests. Defendant Curative, whose CEO is Defendant Turner, partnered with  KorvaLabs, and the two formed the joint venture known as Curative-Korva LLC.  Plaintiffs allege that after Turner visited Washington, D.C. to discuss a  potential billion-dollar deal with the U.S. military, Defendants sought to reap  the profits for themselves and proposed to amend the joint venture accordingly.  Because Defendants’ interests no longer aligned with Plaintiffs’, the parties  agreed for Curative to buy out Plaintiffs’ interest in KorvaLabs. Defendants  allegedly proposed a reduction in the sales price in exchange for providing  Plaintiffs with shares or stock options. These representations were allegedly  false and induced Plaintiffs into signing the Stock Purchase Agreement (SPA) containing  a lower sales price. Plaintiffs further allege that Defendants breached the agreement  by failing to issue shares or stock options.              On March 15, 2024, Curative filed a  cross-complaint against Martin and Scott, asserting causes of action for (1)  breach of contract – representations and warranties, (2) breach of contract –  noncompete clause, (3) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair  dealing, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) promissory fraud, and (6) civil  conspiracy.  The Cross-Complaint alleges that Martin  and Scott led Curative to believe they were selling 100% of KorvaLabs because  they were the only shareholders, when in reality, they hid the fact that Anton  Toutov was a 20% owner. Martin and Scott allegedly pocketed the sales proceeds  for themselves and deprived Toutov of his share. Toutov sued Martin, Scott, and  Curative in federal court. Curative settled with Toutov, while Martin and Scott  were found liable to Toutov at trial. Curative alleges that Martin and Scott  fraudulently represented they were selling 100% of KorvaLabs when they were  actually selling 80%. Curative alleges it would have paid a lower purchase  price had it known it was only buying 80% of KorvaLabs. Curative also alleges  that Martin and Scott breached the noncompete clause in the SPA by forming a  new laboratory business to compete with KorvaLabs and then partnering with  Avricore, Curative’s competitor.  On April 16, 2024, Martin and Scott filed  the instant demurrer to the cross-complaint. Curative filed its opposition on  May 7, 2024. Martin and Scott filed their reply on May 13, 2024. LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether  the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When  considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in  context. (Taylor v. City of Los  Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.  (a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other  extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior  Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the  defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a  demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with  extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) MEET AND CONFER Before filing a demurrer or a motion to  strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the  party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the  motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be  reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the  objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)  The Court notes that Cross-Defendants have complied with the meet and confer  requirement. (See Davidovicz Decl.) DISCUSSION I. Economic Loss  Rule             Economic loss  consists of “damages for inadequate value, costs of repair and replacement of  the defective product or consequent loss of profits—without any claim of  personal injury or damages to other property.” (Robinson Helicopter Co.,  Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.) The economic loss rule  requires a purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to  disappointed expectations, unless the purchaser “can demonstrate harm above and  beyond a broken contractual promise,” such as some form of personal injury or  damage to property other than the defective product itself. (Ibid.) The  economic loss rule exists to prevent “the law of contract and the law of tort  from dissolving one into the other.” (Ibid.) On the other hand, “[t]ort  damages have been permitted in contract cases . . . where the contract was  fraudulently induced” because in such cases “the duty that gives rise to tort  liability is either completely independent of the contract or arises from  conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm.” (Robinson, supra, 34  Cal.4th at pp. 989-90.) Martin and Scott argue that the fraud  claims are barred by the economic loss rule because they simply reiterate the  allegations from the breach of contract claim. Curative alleges that Martin and  Scott misrepresented owning 100% of KorvaLabs and falsified documents showing  that Toutov’s shares had been revoked. (Cross-Compl. ¶¶ 84-85.) Curative  further alleges that during negotiations of the SPA, Martin and Scott falsely  represented that they would not compete with Curative’s COVID-19 testing  business.” (Id., ¶ 90.) This is the same conduct that underlies  the breach of contract. (See Cross-Compl. ¶ 64.) Martin and Scott fail to  allege that they were fraudulently induced into the contract. Instead, they  allege that they would have paid less or negotiated different terms had they  known they were only receiving 80% of KorvaLabs. (See Cross-Compl. ¶¶ 65, 87,  93.) This is simply a different way of stating that they did not receive the  benefit of the bargain, i.e., contracted for 100% and received 80%.  There is no independent conduct justifying a tort claim. Moreover, the fraud  claims rehash the same damages as the contract claims. (See Cross-Compl. ¶¶ 65,  87, 88, 93, 94.) Therefore, the fraud claims are barred by the economic loss  rule.     The Court notes that Rattagan v. Uber  Techs., Inc., (Ca Supreme Court S272113) is fully briefed before the  California Supreme Court, and this case concerns the economic loss doctrine.   Also, Dhital v. Nissan North America,  Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828 found a fraudulent inducement claim viable  notwithstanding the economic loss rule. However, Dhital has been placed  under review by the Supreme Court. The parties may revisit the issue should the  Supreme Court decision in Rattagan and/or Dhital allow for a  fraudulent inducement claim under the facts of this case.     II.  Civil Conspiracy             “Civil conspiracy is not an  independent cause of action.” (Navarrete v. Meyer (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th  1276, 1291.) “Instead, it is a theory of co-equal legal liability under which  certain defendants may be held liable for ‘an independent civil wrong’ . . .  committed by others.” (Ibid.) “By its nature, tort liability arising  from conspiracy presupposes that the coconspirator is legally capable of  committing the tort, i.e., that he or she owes a duty to plaintiff recognized  by law and is potentially subject to liability for breach of that duty.” (Applied  Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 511.)              As discussed above, the fraud claims  are barred by the economic loss rule. Without the underlying tort liability,  there is no basis for civil conspiracy. Therefore, the pleading for civil  conspiracy is stricken.   III.  Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing The SPA provides that it shall be governed  by Delaware law. (Cross-Compl., Ex. A, § 8.8.) Under Delaware law, “[t]he implied covenant of good faith and  fair dealing inheres in every contract and requires ‘a party in a contractual  relationship to refrain from arbitrary or unreasonable conduct which has the  effect of preventing the other party to the contract from receiving the fruits’  of the bargain.” (Kuroda v. SPJS Holdings, L.L.C. (Del.Ch.  2009) 971 A.2d 872, 888.) “The implied  covenant seeks to enforce the parties' contractual bargain by implying only  those terms that the parties would have agreed to during their original  negotiations if they had thought to address them.” (Gerber v. Enter. Prods.  Holdings, LLC (Del. 2013) 67 A.3d 400, 418.) If “the language of the  contract expressly covers a particular issue, . . . the implied covenant will  not apply.” (Cygnus Opportunity Fund, LLC v. Wash. Prime Grp., LLC  (Del.Ch. 2023) 302 A.3d 430, 458.) Delaware law does not impose “a  free-floating requirement that a party act in some morally commendable sense.”  (Allen v. El Paso Pipeline GP Co., LLC (Del. Ch. 2014) 113 A.3d 167,  182-183.) Nevertheless, “even the most carefully drafted agreement will harbor  residual nooks and crannies for the implied covenant to fill.” (Gerber,  supra, 67 A.3d at p. 419.)  Here, Curative’s  implied covenant claim alleges that “Martin and Scott agreed that they would  continue to assist Curative following execution of the SPA. (SPA § 5.7.) Martin  and Scott thus impliedly agreed to act in good faith when carrying out these  obligations, including by providing full and accurate information to Curative.  During this period, however, Martin and Scott continued to conceal Toutov’s  ownership interest, by omission and by continuing to affirmatively misrepresent  Toutov’s role at KorvaLabs.” (Cross-Compl. ¶ 80.) The failure to disclose  Toutov’s ownership interest and role in KorvaLabs is the same breach alleged in  the first cause of action. (See Cross-Compl. ¶ 64.) The conduct alleged under  this claim is already covered by the express terms of the contract, and  Delaware law does not otherwise impose a free-floating requirement to act in  good faith. Therefore, there is no gap for the implied covenant to fill.  CONCLUSION             The  demurrer to the cross-complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.   


 
JONATHAN MARTIN, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
CURATIVE, INC., et al.,

                        Defendants.



 
  Case No.:  23STCV22561
  Hearing Date:  May 20, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiffs’ motion to stay arbitration 




 


 




BACKGROUND

            On September 18, 2023, Plaintiffs
Jonathan Martin and Paul Scott filed this action against Defendant Curative,
Inc. Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) on November
16, 2023, adding Defendant Fred Turner. The FAC asserts causes of action for
(1) fraudulent inducement, (2) breach of contract, and (3) breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. The third cause of action was
stricken on demurrer.

            The dispute stems from a joint
venture to distribute COVID tests in 2020. Plaintiffs owned KorvaLabs, Inc., a
laboratory with the capability and infrastructure to develop and distribute
COVID tests. Defendant Curative, whose CEO is Defendant Turner, partnered with
KorvaLabs, and the two formed the joint venture known as Curative-Korva LLC.
Plaintiffs allege that after Turner visited Washington, D.C. to discuss a
potential billion-dollar deal with the U.S. military, Defendants sought to reap
the profits for themselves and proposed to amend the joint venture accordingly.
Because Defendants’ interests no longer aligned with Plaintiffs’, the parties
agreed for Curative to buy out Plaintiffs’ interest in KorvaLabs. Defendants
allegedly proposed a reduction in the sales price in exchange for providing
Plaintiffs with shares or stock options. These representations were allegedly
false and induced Plaintiffs into signing the Stock Purchase Agreement (SPA) containing
a lower sales price. Plaintiffs further allege that Defendants breached the agreement
by failing to issue shares or stock options. 

            On March 15, 2024, Curative filed a
cross-complaint against Martin and Scott, asserting causes of action for (1)
breach of contract – representations and warranties, (2) breach of contract –
non-compete clause, (3) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) promissory fraud, and (6) civil
conspiracy. 

The Cross-Complaint alleges that Martin
and Scott led Curative to believe they were selling 100% of KorvaLabs because
they were the only shareholders, when in reality, they hid the fact that Anton
Toutov was a 20% owner. Martin and Scott allegedly pocketed the sales proceeds
for themselves and deprived Toutov of his share. Toutov sued Martin, Scott, and
Curative in federal court. Curative settled with Toutov, while Martin and Scott
were found liable to Toutov at trial. Curative alleges that Martin and Scott
fraudulently represented they were selling 100% of KorvaLabs when they were
actually selling 80%. Curative alleges it would have paid a lower purchase
price had it known it was only buying 80% of KorvaLabs. Curative also alleges
that Martin and Scott breached the noncompete clause in the SPA by forming a
new laboratory business to compete with KorvaLabs and then partnering with
Avricore, Curative’s competitor. 

On March 18, 2024, Curative initiated a
JAMS arbitration to enforce an indemnification provision in the SPA, demanding
indemnification for the claims brought by Toutov. On April 19, 2024, Martin and
Scott filed the instant motion to stay the arbitration. Curative and Turner
filed their opposition on May 7, 2024. Martin and Scott filed their reply on
May 13, 2024. 

 

 

LEGAL STANDARD

“On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses
to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that . . . [a] party to
the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of
related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a
common issue of law or fact.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2(c).) 

“[T]he court may
pursue one of several options, including denying arbitration so that all issues
between all parties are resolved in the judicial proceeding; compelling
arbitration to the extent the issues are arbitrable and staying the litigation
until the arbitration is completed; or staying the arbitration pending
resolution of the nonarbitrable issues in the judicial proceeding.” (Metis
Development LLC v. Bohacek (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 679, 691.) 

DISCUSSION

            Curative
and Turner argue that the arbitrator, not the Court, determines whether to stay
arbitration. The Court agrees that it lacks jurisdiction to decide the matter.
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2(c) applies when a party moves to compel
arbitration, and the Court determines that an arbitration agreement exists.
Section 1281.2(c) is an exception to the rule that a court must compel
arbitration upon finding that the parties agreed to arbitrate. (“[T]he court
shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy . .
. unless . . . .”) Section 1281.2(c) does not authorize the court to stay an
arbitration independently initiated by JAMS. Here, there was no motion to
compel arbitration, and the Court never made a finding on the existence of an
arbitration agreement. Therefore, there is no basis to apply the exception in
Section 1281.2(c).  

CONCLUSION

            The
motion to stay arbitration is DENIED. 