 Case Number:  23STCV21282    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
VISM STUDIO,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
WOO-JIN CHOI, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV21282
  Hearing Date:  May 20, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
cross-defendant vism studio’s demurrer
  and motion to strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On September 5, 2023, Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant VISM Studio initiated this action by filing a complaint against
Defendants and Cross-Complainants Woo-Jin Choi and Eunmi Song, alleging breach
of contract. 
The complaint alleges that VISM sponsored
O-1B visas for Choi and Song, who are from South Korea, so that they could work
at VISM’s tattoo studio in Los Angeles. VISM allegedly entered into employment
contracts with both Choi and Song, which provided for VISM to receive a portion
of gross sales generated by Choi and Song. Choi and Song allegedly abandoned
their positions to work at another tattoo studio before their employment terms
ended. VISM sues for the lost profits that it would have been entitled to had
Choi and Song remained in their positions for the entirety of their terms.  
            Choi and Song have cross-complained
against VISM, with the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC) filed on
March 20, 2024. The FACC asserts causes of action for (1) breach of contract,
(2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3)
intentional misrepresentation, (4) negligent misrepresentation, (5) unfair
business practices, and (6) common count – goods and services rendered. 
The FACC alleges that VISM induced Choi
and Song to uproot their lives in South Korea and move to the United States on
promises that: VISM would foster a small number of tattoo artists; the artists’
share of revenues would increase annually; and VISM would assist Choi and Song
in filing their taxes and obtaining green cards. VISM allegedly reneged on its
promises by drafting employment contracts that did not provide for an
increasing share of revenue and did not confirm that VISM would assist Choi and
Song with their taxes or green cards. Additionally, VISM allegedly required
Choi and Song to pay VISM’s staff for overtime and hired too many tattoo
artists for a supposedly small and focused studio, which disrupted Choi’s and
Song’s work. Ultimately, VISM informed Choi and Song that their work would
cease on April 30, 2023 but that they would be paid through May 15, 2023. VISM
has allegedly failed to pay Choi and Song for work performed in April 2023. 
On April 18, 2024, VISM filed the instant
demurrer and motion to strike against the FACC. Choi and Song filed their
opposition on May 3, 2024. VISM filed its reply on May 9, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that VISM has complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See
Satnick Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer
            a. Breach of Contract
            “When a plaintiff attaches a written
agreement to his complaint, and incorporates it by reference into his cause of
action, the terms of that written agreement take precedence over any
contradictory allegations in the body of the complaint.” (Kim v. Westmoore
Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 282.) Moreover, “[a] pleader may
not attempt to breathe life into a complaint by omitting relevant facts which
made his previous complaint defective.” (Vallejo Development Co. v. Beck
Development Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 929, 946.) 
            Here, the employment contracts
attached to the FACC provide that “[a]rtist commissions are generally paid by
the 15th of the following month of the month in which profits are generated”
and that “[a]rtists must still be employed by VISM to receive artist
commissions on the 15th of next month for their monthly gross income generated
in the previous month.” (FACC, Ex. A, B.) VISM argues that this means Choi and
Song must have been employed on May 15, 2023 in order to receive payment for
the month of April 2023. VISM argues that because Choi and Song alleged in the
original cross-complaint that they “stopped working” for VISM on April 30, 2023
(Cross-Compl. ¶ 20), they were not entitled to payment on May 15, 2023. VISM
argues that Choi and Song changed the allegation in the FACC, which now alleges
that Choi and Song were told to stop working on April 30, 2023 but were
nonetheless assured that they would be paid through May 15, 2023. (FACC ¶ 23.) VISM
contends that the allegations in the FACC contradict both the prior pleading
and the express terms of the contract.
            However, “[t]he Labor Code . . .
contemplates that employees will be paid for all work performed.” (Troester
v. Starbucks Corp. (2018) 5 Cal.5th 829, 840.) VISM cannot deprive Choi and
Song of payment for work performed simply because their employment terminated
before a particular date. The cited provision, which conditions payment on an
employee’s employment on the 15th of each month, is void for illegality.
Therefore, the FACC sufficiently pleads a breach of contract claim. The
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first cause of action.     
b. Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing
“The covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, implied by law in every contract, exists merely to prevent one
contracting party from unfairly frustrating the other party’s right to receive
the benefits of the agreement actually made.” (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc.
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 349-50.) However, “[i]f the allegations do not go beyond
the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts,
simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion
contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no
additional claim is actually stated.” (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific
Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.)
Here, the implied covenant claim alleges
that VISM failed to pay Choi and Song for the work they performed in April
2023. (FACC ¶ 34.) This is identical to the conduct that forms the breach of
contract claim (FACC ¶ 28), and no additional facts are alleged demonstrating
bad faith. Therefore, the demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to
the second cause of action.
c. Fraud
            1.
Essential Elements
“The elements of fraud that will give rise
to a tort action for deceit are: ‘(a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.’” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15
Cal.4th 951, 974, quoting Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 638.) Negligent misrepresentation involves “the tortfeasor’s lack
of reasonable grounds for believing the assertion to be true” but otherwise
still requires intent to induce reliance and justifiable reliance. (SI 59
LLC v. Variel Warner Ventures, LLC (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 146, 154.) 
VISM argues that
the FACC lacks allegations that VISM knew the representations were false, that
VISM intended to deceive Choi and Song, or that Choi and Song justifiably
relied on the representations. While the FACC alleges that the representations were
false, it does not allege that VISM knew them to be false or intended for Choi
and Song to rely on them. (See FACC ¶¶ 36-49.) Therefore, the fraud claims fail
to allege all essential elements. 
            2.
Specificity
Fraud must be
pleaded with specificity rather than with general and conclusory allegations. (Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The specificity
requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made. (Lazar, supra, 12
Cal.4th at p. 645.)
The FACC alleges
that in November 2021, VISM’s CEO, Dasol Kim, offered Song employment and
stated that he was planning to operate a tattoo studio with a small number of
artists. (FACC ¶ 8.) From December 2021 to January 2022, Kim allegedly told
Song about the profit-sharing plan, including the annual increases, and stated
that VISM would assist in filing Song’s taxes and obtaining a green card. (Id.,
¶ 9.) In January 2022, Kim allegedly offered employment to Choi and informed
him that VISM would assist in filing taxes and obtaining a green card. (Id.,
¶ 11.) 
Contrary to
VISM’s argument, these allegations sufficiently specify who made which
statements to whom. Kim, as VISM’s alleged CEO, inferably had authority to
speak on VISM’s behalf. While the FACC later references these statements
collectively under the fraud claim (FACC ¶ 38), that alone does not render the
complaint ambiguous as to whom the statements were made to. The complaint must
be read in its entirety, and the earlier allegations clearly establish which
statements were directed at Choi and which were directed at Song. 
Nonetheless, the
FACC fails to specify how or by what means each statement was made, instead
using generic terms such as Kim “informed,” or Kim “told.” These are facts that
should be in Cross-Complainants’ possession. Therefore, the fraud claims do not
meet the specificity standard.  
            3.
Actionable Statements
“[A]ctionable
misrepresentations must pertain to past or existing material facts. Statements
or predictions regarding future events are deemed to be mere opinions which are
not actionable.” (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
1462, 1469, internal citations omitted.) VISM argues that its representations
that it was “planning” on operating a tattoo studio with a small number of
artists, that it “would” increase the artist’s commissions annually, and that
it “would” assist with taxes and green cards are predictions of future events
that are not actionable as fraud. 
VISM reads Cansino
too broadly. That case does not stand for the proposition that any statement
relating to future conduct is nonactionable. Rather, Cansino holds that
predictions which amount to opinions are not actionable. In Cansino, the
nonactionable opinion was “a prediction about future market conditions.” (Cansino,
supra, 224 Cal.App.4th at p. 1470.) By contrast, VISM’s alleged
representations were promises to perform certain actions, not predictions or
opinions. False promises are actionable as fraud. “A promise to do something
necessarily implies the intention to perform; hence, where a promise is made
without such intention, there is an implied misrepresentation of fact that may
be actionable fraud.” (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039,
1060.) Therefore, the alleged statements are actionable. 
            4.
Parol Evidence Rule
“Terms set forth in a writing intended by
the parties as a final expression of their agreement with respect to the terms
included therein may not be contradicted by evidence of a prior agreement or of
a contemporaneous oral agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc, § 1856(a).) However, “[w]here
the validity of the agreement is the fact in dispute, this section does not
exclude evidence relevant to that issue.” (Id., § 1856(f).) Additionally,
the rule does not preclude evidence “of the circumstances under which the agreement
was made” or “to establish illegality or fraud.” (Id., § 1856(g).) “[P]arol
evidence of fraudulent representations is admissible as an exception to the
parol evidence rule to show that a contract was induced by fraud.” (Julius
Castle Restaurant, Inc. v. Payne (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 1423, 1440.)  
Here, the fraud claims do not attempt to
alter the terms of the employment contracts with prior statements. Rather, those
claims seek to establish that the statements induced Choi and Song to upend
their lives in South Korea and move to the U.S., incurring relocation expenses
and attorney’s fees for the visa application. (FACC ¶¶ 12-14.) This relates to
fraud independent of the contract. The statements are also actionable as
fraudulent inducement to the extent they caused Choi and Song to enter into the
contracts in the first place. Although Choi and Song also have causes of action
that seek to enforce the contract, “[a] plaintiff may plead cumulative or
inconsistent causes of action.” (Gherman
v. Colburn (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 544, 565.) Therefore, the fraud claims are
not barred by the parol evidence rule.     
In sum, the fraud claims fail to allege
all essential elements and lack the requisite specificity. Therefore, the
demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the third and fourth causes of
action.
d. Unfair Business Practices
Business and Professions Code section
17200 prohibits unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business acts or practices.
Each of the three prongs is an independent basis for relief. (Smith v. State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 700, 718.)
Unlawful conduct is defined as any practice forbidden by law. (Farmers Ins.
Exchange v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 383.) UCL actions alleging
unlawful conduct “borrow” from other statutes or common law causes of action
outside Section 17200. (Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012)
202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1383.) 
According to the FACC, VISM engaged in
unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent practices by failing to pay commissions and
requiring Choi and Song to pay for overtime. (FACC ¶ 53.) As discussed above,
VISM’s failure to pay Choi and Song constitutes a breach of contract, which is “unlawful”
for purposes of the UCL. Being deprived of just compensation constitutes
“injury in fact.” 
Choi and Song argue in their opposition
that requiring them to pay other employees overtime violated Labor Code section
510 and harmed competition because Choi and Song had to pay the wages of other
tattoo artists. These theories are not pled in the FACC, and the UCL claim
should be amended to the extent Choi and Song wish to include them as bases for
the claim. Therefore, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the
fifth cause of action. 
e. Common Count
“A common count is not a specific cause of
action, … rather, it is a simplified form of pleading normally used to aver the
existence of various forms of monetary indebtedness, including that arising
from an alleged duty to make restitution under an assumpsit theory. When a
common count is used as an alternative way of seeking the same recovery
demanded in a specific cause of action, and is based on the same facts, the
common count is demurrable if the cause of action is demurrable.” (McBride
v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 394.)
This cause of action is premised on VISM’s
alleged failure to pay Choi and Song their commissions, as well as requiring
them to pay other employees overtime. (FACC ¶ 59.) VISM argues that because the
contract claim is demurrable, so is the derivative common count claim. VISM
also argues that restitution is unavailable where a contract already covers the
subject matter. However, as discussed above, the breach of contract claim is
adequately pled. Contractual payment for work performed constitutes a “form[] of
monetary indebtedness” aside from restitution. (See McBride, supra, 123
Cal.App.4th at p. 394.) Additionally, Choi and Song are entitled to plead
restitution in the alternative even if they have a contract claim. (See Gherman,
supra, 72 Cal.App.3d at p. 565.) The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the sixth
cause of action. 
II.
Motion to Strike
“In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
VISM argues that Choi and Song cannot
recover punitive damages because all of the claims in the FACC derive from
contract. However, the FACC asserts two causes of action based in fraud. As
discussed above, the fraud claims are distinct from breach of contract because
Choi and Song allege that they were induced into leaving South Korea and moving
to the U.S., incurring related damages, as well as being induced into the
contracts. Assuming these claims are adequately pled, they would justify
punitive damages. (See Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(3).) However, as discussed above,
the fraud claims are not adequately pled in their current form. Therefore, the
FACC lacks a basis for punitive damages. The motion to strike is GRANTED with
leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION
            Cross-Defendant VISM’s demurrer is
SUSTAINED in part as set forth above. VISM’s motion to strike is GRANTED with
leave to amend. 
  