  Case Number:  23AHCV00659    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PASEO PASADENA HOTEL INVESTMENT, LLC, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ONNI
   CAPITAL, LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00659
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF PASEO PASADENA HOTEL INVESTMENT, LLC’S MOTION FOR
   LEAVE TO FILE A SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
 



 
          Plaintiff
Paseo Pasadena Hotel Investment, LLC (“Plaintiff”) seeks leave to file a Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”). 
The court may, in its discretion and
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading, including adding or striking out the name of any
party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) A motion to amend a
pleading must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading
which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments and must state what allegations in the previous pleading are
proposed to be deleted or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the allegations are located. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a).) The motion shall also be
accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the
amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 1.324(b).)
          The motion’s
caption page states that the Declaration of Carla Christofferson and proposed
Second Amended Complaint are concurrently-filed, but no copy of the proposed
pleading is attached as required by CRC 3.1324.) 
Defendants Onni Capital LLC and Onni
Paseo LLC filed a declaration from its attorney, Ryan T. Waggoner, who states
that Defendants do not oppose Plaintiff filing a Second Amended Complaint and,
in fact, sent a letter to Plaintiff’s counsel on December 12, 2023, stating
their willingness to stipulate to the filing of one. However, Plaintiff’s
counsel has yet to respond to Defendants’ offer or follow-up correspondence. 
In light of the incomplete motion, the
Court DENIES the motion without prejudice. Given Defendants’ willingness to
stipulate, the Court suggests that the parties meet and confer to submit a
signed stipulation and proposed pleading in order to avoid the need for (and expense
of) a noticed motion and hearing. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 11th
day of January
2024




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.