 Case Number:  24CHCV00391    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 7-9-24
Case #24CHCV00391, J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc. vs.
Contractor’s Wardrobe, Inc.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Contractor’s Wardrobe, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Complaint
·        
2nd Cause of Action for Common Counts
·        
3rd Cause of Action for Unjust
Enrichment
 
Motion to Strike
·        
Request “for attorneys’ fees and costs of suit
herein incurred and according to the Agreement” in Plaintiff's Prayer [p. 6:17-18
of the Complaint]
·        
“Attorneys’ fees” [pp. 4:16, 4:25, 5:6, 5:8, and
5:13]
·        
Request for special and consequential damages in
Plaintiff’s Prayer [p. 6:15]
 
RULING: Demurrer is sustained; motion to strike is
granted.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
Plaintiff J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc. (Plaintiff) is
alleging that it entered into a written agreement with Defendant Contractor’s
Wardrobe, Inc. (Defendant). The written agreement, titled Dedicated Contract
Services Transportation Agreement, was signed on March 12, 2020. The Agreement
is attached as Exhibit A to Plaintiff’s complaint. Pursuant to the terms of the
Agreement, Plaintiff was to provide transportation of Defendant’s good
throughout California for an initial term of five years, beginning on April 1,
2020.
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant terminated the Agreement
on August 25, 2023, effective September 9, 2023. Plaintiff is alleging that
Defendant has failed to pay Plaintiff for services provided by Plaintiff under
the Agreement at the total costs of $1,448,158.87. Plaintiff also alleges that
Defendant failed to pay Plaintiff $340,282.82 in unamortized start-up costs and
permanent delete charges.
 
Plaintiff’s complaint, filed on February 8, 2024, alleges
three causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) common counts, and (3) unjust
enrichment. Defendant filed its demurrer and motion to strike on May 13, 2024.
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s Second and Third Causes of Action.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition to Defendant’s demurrer and
motion to strike on June 25, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
            Second Cause
of Action for Common Counts
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for
Common Counts on the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action and is uncertain.
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action for common
counts pleads four different types of common counts that should have been
listed as separate causes of action. Those four distinct common counts are (1)
open book account; (2) account stated; (3) goods and services rendered; and (4)
money had and received.
 
Each cause of action, count, or defense must be separate
stated and given a separate number. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 2.112.) Defendant
argues that the four common counts listed by Plaintiff should be distinct
causes of action because they each have separate jury instructions: Money Had
and Received (CACI § 370); Goods and Services Rendered (CACI § 371); Open Book
Account (CACI § 372); and Account Stated (CACI § 373).
 
Demurrers have long been sustained when separate causes of
action are not listed separately. (Haddad v. McDowell (1931) 213 Cal.
690, 692; Campbell v. Rayburn (1954) 129 Cal.App.2d 232, 235 (“the
special demurrer was properly sustained because the complaint was defective in
that two purported causes of action were not separately stated”).)
 
Plaintiff’s opposition does not address Defendant’s
arguments that the common counts should be listed separately. Instead,
Plaintiff only argues that common counts are not subject to fact pleading
standards. However, as Defendant argues in its reply, the case that Plaintiff
cites in support of this argument sustains a demurrer to common counts for
failing to comply with facts pleadings standards. (Farmers Ins. Exchange v.
Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460 (demurring to common counts because
plaintiff failed to comply with fact pleading standards by pleading them in a
“conclusional fashion”).)
 
Defendant’s demurrer to this cause of action is sustained on
the basis that the common costs listed under this cause of action should be
pled as separate causes of action.
 
Defendant also demurs to this cause of action on the basis
that it improperly pleads common counts seeking the same damages as the breach
of contract cause of action.
 
Plaintiffs cannot simultaneously: (1) plead that an
enforceable express contract exists; and (2) plead common counts seeking the
same relief for the same alleged breach. (See Leoni v. Delany (1948) 83
Cal.App.2d 303, 307 (“It is the unenforceability of an otherwise valid contract
which gives rise to the right of relief through the medium of a common
count.”); Moore v. Bartholomae Corp. (1945) 69 Cal.App.2d 474, 477 (“The
law is established in California that a debt which is predicated upon the
breach of the terms of an express contract cannot be the basis of an account
stated.”).)
 
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that the damages sought by the
common counts cause of action are the same as those caused by Defendant’s
breach of a valid and enforceable contract. (See Comp., ¶¶ 12, 13, 18, 22, 24,
29, 31, and 33.) Two of the common counts also expressly allege that they are
based on an alleged breach of contract and seek breach of contract damages.
(See Comp., ¶¶ 20-21; 24-25, 27.)
 
Plaintiff’s cause of action for common counts is based on
the same damages as Plaintiff’s cause of action for breach of contract and is
therefore improperly pled. Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action
can also be sustained on this basis.
 
Defendant also argues that the second cause of action is
uncertain because Plaintiff does not plead that it is an alternative to the
breach of contract cause of action and instead pleads it as its own distinct
cause of action. Plaintiff’s opposition argues that the common counts are pled
in the alternative, but as Defendant points out in its reply, there is no
language in Plaintiff’s complaint indicating that the common counts are being
pled as an alternative to the breach of contract cause of action. The opposition
also does not explain how the common counts could be pled in the alternative.
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action
is sustained with leave to amend for the reasons given above.
 
            Third
Cause of Action for Unjust Enrichment
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for
Unjust Enrichment on the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to state
a cause of action against Defendant.
 
Defendant argues that demurrer to this cause of action is
appropriate because there is no cause of action for unjust enrichment in
California. (Melchior v. New Line Productions, Inc. (2003) 106
Cal.App.4th 779, 785, 793 (“unjust enrichment is not a valid cause of action
under California law”).) Defendant further argues that unjust enrichment cannot
stand as its own cause of action. (See Everett v. Mountains Recreation &
Conservation Authority (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 541, 553.) 
 
Plaintiff’s opposition does not address Defendant’s argument
that unjust enrichment is not a cause of action in California. Plaintiff cites
CACI § 375 in its opposition, but that section does not apply to the unjust
enrichment that Plaintiff has pled because it involves third-party middlemen, and
that section states that unjust enrichment is not a cause of action.
 
Defendant also argues that even if there were a cause of
action for unjust enrichment in California, this cause of action would also be
duplicative of Plaintiff’s breach of contract cause of action because it
requests the same damages. (See Comp., ¶ 37.)
 
Because there is no cause of action for unjust enrichment in
California, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action is
sustained without leave to amend.
 
Motion to Strike
A court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof.” Under CCP § 436(a), “[t]he court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper . . . [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” Under CCP § 436(b), the court may “[s]trike out all
or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” 
 
            Attorney
Fees
Defendant has requested that Plaintiff’s request for
attorney fees be stricken because attorney fees are available only when
provided for by contract or statute. (CCP §1021.)
 
Plaintiff’s complaint claims that it can recover attorney
fees “according to the Agreement,” but the Agreement makes no provision for
attorney fees. Plaintiff also makes this claim in its opposition, but its claim
is not supported by reference to any section of the Agreement. Plaintiff does
refer to Paragraph 3(a) on page 2 of the Contract, but that paragraph only
mentions costs, not attorney fees.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request for attorney fees is
ordered stricken from the complaint.
 
            Special
and Consequential Damages
Plaintiff also requests special and consequential damages,
but Defendant points out that the alleged relevant agreement expressly
prohibits the parties from seeking such damages. (Wilson Decl., Ex. A, § 6(d)
(“in no event will either Party be liable for incidental, consequential
(including lost profits and chargebacks), special, punitive or exemplary
damages in connection with the goods or the services rendered hereunder even if
notice was given of the possibility of such damages and even if such damages were
reasonably foreseeable”).) 
 
Plaintiff argues in its opposition that it does not seek
damages for the goods or services rendered; rather, Plaintiff seeks damages for
Defendant’s unilateral cancellation of the contract. However, Plaintiff does
not give a basis for seeking special and consequential damages for the
cancellation of the contract. Furthermore, Defendant argues in its reply that terminating
the services under a service contract arises “in connection with…the services
rendered hereunder.” Therefore, the provision cited above could, in fact, apply
to this situation.
 
Because the requested damages are based on a breach of the
Agreement but the Agreement forbids recovery of such damages, Plaintiff’s
request for special and consequential damages is ordered stricken from the
complaint.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action
is sustained with leave to amend. Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Third
Cause of Action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Defendant’s motion to strike is granted.
 
Plaintiff is given 30 days leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.