  Case Number:  23CHCV02647    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 7-9-24
Case # 23CHCV02647, Avo Topjian, et al. vs. Florence
Seckler, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Florence Seckler and Charles
Orellana
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Avo Topjian and Lilia Iranoosian
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion to Strike
·        
Claims for Punitive Damages and related
allegations [FAC, portions of ¶¶
8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 22, 23, and 24; and Paragraph 4 of the prayer]
 
RULING: The motion to strike is granted in part
and denied in part. Leave to amend is given.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
Plaintiffs Avo Topjian and Lilia Iranoosian (Plaintiffs)
filed this case on September 1, 2023. Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint (FAC)
alleges that Topjian was driving and Iranoosian was a passenger when their
vehicle was rear-ended by Defendant Charles Orellana, who was driving a vehicle
which Plaintiffs believe to be insured in the name of Defendant Florence
Seckler.
 
After Orellana rear-ended Plaintiffs, he sped away from
the scene of the collision without stopping to check on Plaintiffs or exchange
information. Plaintiffs followed Orellana’s vehicle into the nearby parking garage
in an attempt to get Orellana to stop and exchange information. Instead,
Orellana ran a stop sign and drove around other vehicles to get away from
Plaintiffs. Orellana eventually abandoned the vehicle on the second floor of
the parking garage. When the Sheriff’s Department arrived to investigate, there
was an open bottle of vodka in the rear seat. Plaintiffs allege that they
suffered bodily injuries and emotional distress because of the collision.
 
Plaintiffs’ FAC alleges one cause of action for
negligence. Plaintiffs have also requested punitive damages as part of their
complaint based on Orellana’s conduct after the collision. 
 
Defendants filed their motion to strike on October 26,
2023. Defendants want the Court to strike Plaintiffs’ request for punitive
damages and the related allegations, as well as allegations related to Seckler
and insurance. Plaintiffs oppose Defendants’ motion.
 
On March 12, 2024, a hearing was held on this motion to
strike. The Court ordered the parties to provide further briefing because it
was difficult to tell what the parties’ arguments were based on their briefs. On
May 8, 2024, Defendants filed their supplemental points and authorities. On May
30, Plaintiffs filed their supplemental brief.
 
ANALYSIS
This Court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof.” Under CCP § 436(a), “[t]he court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper . . . [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.”
 
Defendants have moved to strike Plaintiffs’ claim for
punitive damages and associated allegations.
 
First, Defendants have requested that allegations related to
Defendant Seckler being the insured (Paragraph 8 on page 2) be stricken because
of Evidence Code § 1155. However, nothing about the insurance is being offered
as evidence or to prove negligence or other liability. Additionally, the
statement that says “nor insurance information” from Paragraph 9 on page 3 is
not being offered as evidence and is simply related to the allegations that
Defendant Orellana did not stop to give insurance information. 
 
Defendants’ supplemental briefing on this issue does not
make their reasoning any clearer. Instead, Defendants argue, without citing any
authority, that “the inclusion of insurance details, even indirectly, can
unduly sway a jury’s perception by suggesting financial responsibility beyond
the factual matter of the collision…” (Defendants’ Supp. Brief, p. 2.) Plaintiffs
argue in their supplemental briefing that the mention of insurance information
in their complaint is only related to the fact that Defendants did not stop to
give insurance information. 
 
However, Orellana is alleged to be the owner of the car, not
Seckler, and she therefore has no liability simply because she was the named
insured. There are no allegations concerning whether Orellana was insured or
not, and even if there were, those allegations would not be relevant. The
reference to Seckler being the insured is ordered stricken, but the Court will
grant Plaintiffs leave to amend to give them the opportunity to allege some
liability on the part of Seckler.
 
Next, Defendants have requested that allegations from
Paragraph 9 on page 3 related to what happened after the collision be stricken.
Defendants argue in their supplemental brief that these allegations should be
stricken because they are not sufficient to show malice for purposes of
punitive damages. (See Civ. Code § 3294.) “Malice” is “despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).) 
 
Nothing in the above indicated paragraph implicates punitive
damages, nor is there any suggestion of malice. This paragraph will not be
stricken.
 
Defendants have also requested that allegations related to Orellana’s
alleged violation of Vehicle Code Sections 20001 and 20003 be stricken from
paragraph 10 on page 3. Defendants argue that these allegations should be
stricken because they do not exhibit malice beyond ordinary negligence.
However, there is nothing in this paragraph related to punitive damages or
malice. The Court will not strike these allegations, as Defendant’s conduct in
fleeing the scene could show consciousness of guilt.
 
Further allegations that Defendants have requested be
stricken from the complaint are allegations related to Plaintiffs’ alleged
emotional distress caused by Defendants’ actions (Paragraphs 11, 12, 13, 14,
and 15). Defendants did not include any supplemental briefing for these paragraphs.
The Court will not strike them from Plaintiffs’ complaint.
 
Additionally, Defendants have requested that several
allegations related to Orellana’s conduct after fleeing the scene be stricken
(Paragraphs 17, 22, 23, and 24.) Defendants also request that Plaintiffs’ claim
for punitive damages be stricken from the complaint.
 
Plaintiffs argue that because People v. Carbajal
(1995) 10 Cal.4th 1114 held that the perpetrator of a hit and run may be
required to pay restitution, then that means that they can recover punitive
damages for Defendants’ actions after the accident. However, nothing in Carbajal
explicitly states that the restitution may take the form of punitive damages.
Furthermore, restitution, as contemplated by Carbajal, appears to be payment
for the specific loss suffered by the injured party, and not punitive damages,
as suggested by Plaintiffs. (Id. at 1126-1127.) Plaintiffs cannot
recover punitive damages for simple negligence (see Paragraph 17 of the FAC),
which is the only cause of action that they have alleged, as discussed in more
detail below.
 
To the extent that Paragraphs 17, 22, and 23 allege that
Defendant Orellana acted maliciously or with conscious disregard for the rights
of others, those parts of the paragraphs should be stricken, as they implicate
punitive damages. Plaintiffs’ requests for punitive damages in Paragraph 24 of
the FAC and Paragraph 4 of Plaintiffs’ prayer for relief should also be
stricken. 
 
Plaintiffs also argue in their supplemental brief that fleeing
the scene of accident may constitute an independent tort. (See Karl vs. C.A.
Reed Lumber Company (1969) 275 Cal.App.2d 358, 361.) While that may be the
case, Plaintiffs complaint is not structured so that Defendants’ fleeing the
scene is a separate tort. Instead, it appears to be folded into Plaintiffs’
negligence cause of action. If Plaintiffs wish for it to be a separate cause of
action, they should structure their complaint to reflect this. Plaintiffs’
complaint as it is written now only shows simple negligence because Plaintiffs
have alleged that Defendant failed to exercise due care (Paragraph 17). There is
currently no basis for a separate cause of action for leaving the scene.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ motion to strike is granted in part and denied
in part. It is granted for Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages and related
allegations (Paragraphs 17, 22, 23, 24 and Paragraph 4 of the prayer for
relief) and Plaintiffs’ allegations concerning Seckler’s insurance (Paragraph
8). It is denied for the other allegations (Paragraphs 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, and
15).
 
Plaintiffs are given 30 days leave to amend their complaint.
 
Moving parties to give notice to all parties.