 Case Number:  24AHCV00216    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  X MOTION TO QUASH PLAINTIFF’S DEPOSITION SUBPOENA Defendants move to quash Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena for production of business records by non-party DB Insurance Co.Plaintiff filed a complaint against his homeowners association (HOA) and individuals in the HOA, alleging six causes of action arising out of his ownership of a condominium unit in a complex he shared with Defendants.  According to Plaintiff, he observed issues on the property, including a roof that needed to be replaced but was ignored; these property issues caused damage to his unit and the common areas. Tentative RulingThe Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to quash and modifies the subpoena request.Legal AnalysisIf a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of documents, the court may, upon motion reasonably made, make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(a).)Defendants argue the subpoena seeks information and documents from a liability insurer’s claim file, which is not discoverable in a third-party context for reasons of work-product privilege, as the file was prepared in anticipation of litigation.  Also, Defendants argue the insurance claim files are subject to a right to privacy.  The motion also argues the subpoena seeks irrelevant information and documents from DB Insurance Co., a non-party insurer, which is not discoverable by a third-party claimant.The subpoena issued to DB Insurance Co. (Defendant’s liability insurer) describes the records to be produced as follows:All WRITINGS comprising the November 1, 2023, claim files for Policy No. CBP 2320005 01, Claim No. 23CBP0000404 by insured, Monterey Vista HOA, LLC, including recorded statements, investigations, invoices, receipts, correspondence and any other document constituting evidence that was considered by YOU in the course of the investigating and concluding the claim.(Gravdal Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. A.)The motion argues the subpoena seeks documents protected by statute (Insurance Code, § 791.13).  The motion also argues the information sought is private and irrelevant and thus the subpoena should be quashed. The Insurance Code establishes that insurance records are privileged and thus may only be produced in discovery upon a showing that the interests of the propounding party outweigh the interest of the other party in keeping the information private.  (Ins. Code., § 791.3; Griffith v. Allstate Mutual Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 59, 68.)  “However, even though the policy limits are ‘personal,’ the Insurance Code authorizes the release of such information in a number of different situations.  An authorization from the insured enables the carrier to release the information.  (Ins. Code, § 791.13, subd. (a).)  Additionally, disclosure is authorized if it is ‘[o]therwise permitted or required by law.’  (Ins. Code, § 791.13, subd. (g).)”  (Griffith, supra, at p. 68.)Production of private documents may be ordered where there is an interest in production which justifies infringement on the right of privacy.  (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 855.)  There must also be no other, less intrusive means of obtaining the information.  (Id., at pp. 855-856.)  “ ‘When the right to discovery conflicts with a privileged right, the court is required to carefully balance the right of privacy with the need for discovery.’  Discovery may be compelled only upon a showing of a compelling public interest.  In those situations where it is argued that a party waives protection by filing a lawsuit, the court must construe the concept of ‘waiver’ narrowly and a compelling public interest is demonstrated only where the material sought is directly relevant to the litigation.  The party seeking the constitutionally protected information has the burden of establishing that the information sought is directly relevant to the claims.”  (Tylo v. Superior Court (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1387, citations omitted, italics in original.)However, in Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, the California Supreme Court rejected the need to always show a compelling interest to justify the production of private information.  The Supreme Court clarified that, even where a party has shown a discovery request will intrude on its right to privacy, the burden remains on the party moving to quash the discovery to show the extent and seriousness of the prospective invasion.  (Williams, supra, at p. 557.)  The court must then weigh the countervailing interests identified by the opposing party as required by Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1.  “Only obvious invasions of interests fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest.  To the extent prior cases require a party seeking discovery of private information to always establish a compelling interest or compelling need, without regard to the other considerations articulated in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn., they are disapproved.”  (Ibid., citations and footnote omitted.)Here, Plaintiff seeks production of all writings comprising of the November 1, 2023 claim files by the insured HOA defendant, “including recorded statements, investigations, invoices, receipts, correspondence and any other document constituting evidence that was considered by [DB] in the course of the investigating and concluding the claim.” The Court determines that the subpoena requests records which may be relevant to Plaintiff’s claim.  Plaintiff learned in discovery that in approximately November 2023—before this lawsuit was filed in February 2024—the HOA started a property damage insurance claim.  (Opp., p. 2.)  Plaintiff further argues that the request is narrowly tailored as Plaintiff is not seeking any documents that are related to the liability side of the insurance policy related to the defense of his claims against the HOA and individual owners.  (Ibid.)  The request seeks records related to the November 1, 2023 property damage claim.  However, DB’s investigations are privileged and not subject to disclosure, but any communications, documents, invoices, or reports prepare or provided by a third-party and which are not privileged pursuant to the attorney-client privilege or work product doctrine can be produced to Plaintiff.  To the extent that any privilege is attached to the latter documents, Defendant is to provide a privilege log of any documents withheld.  Compliance with the Court’s order is required within 30 days of mailing of a notice of ruling.The Court declines to award sanctions on behalf of either party. Moving party is to give notice.