  Case Number:  21STCV14537    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  X MOTION TO COMEPL COMPLIANCE WITH RECORDS SUBPOENAPlaintiff moves for an order to compel the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing (hereinafter “Commission” or “CCTC”) to produce all records related to Defendant Jeremy Hules (“Hules”) in response to Plaintiff Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”)’s deposition subpoena.This is a sexual assault case.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Jeremy Hules, during his employment as a teacher of the Los Angeles Unified School District (“District”), committed acts of sexual abuse against Plaintiff and other students when Plaintiff was a minor student of the District.  The complaint asserts the following causes of action: (1) childhood sexual assault, (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (3) negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, (4) failure to report suspected child abuse, (5) negligent supervision of a minor, and (6) negligence.Tentative RulingPlaintiff’s motion to compel the Commission’s compliance with her subpoena for business records is GRANTED in part.Legal Analysis Generally speaking, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010; but see Catholic Mutual Relief Society v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 358, 366, fn. 6 [“The permissible scope of discovery in general is not as broad with respect to nonparties as it is with respect to parties.”].)“If a subpoena requires . . . the production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made . . . may make an order . . . directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare[.]”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)  “In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”  (Ibid.)On June 5, 2024, Plaintiff served a deposition subpoena for the production of business records on the Commission.  (Suh Decl., Exh. 1.)  Plaintiff requested 9 categories of documents, including any and all documents regarding the Commission’s investigation and/or hearing regarding Hules, disciplinary action taken by the Commission against Hules, complaints filed against Hules and response to complaints filed by Hules, alleged “improper behavior” by Hules, documents submitted by Hules to the Commission, correspondence between the Commission and Hules, correspondence between the Commission and LAUSD regarding Hules, and the Commission’s “complete file” of Hules.On July 31, 2024, the Commission produced 54 pages of documents, which included Hules’ credential history, credentials, and documents pertaining to Hules’ credential applications.  The Commission redacted personal information.  Hules’ responses to questions regarding professional conduct (“Personal and Professional Fitness”) were redacted from documents entitled Application for Credential Authorizing Public School Service.  (Suh Decl., Exh. 4.)  The Commission also sent an objection letter along with its production of documents.  The letter stated that, except for the documents identified above, (1) the Subpoena seeks information deemed confidential under the California Education Code; (2) the Subpoena seeks records that are not business records of the Commission and are equally available or in the possession of the subpoenaing party; (3) the Subpoena seeks privileged information; and (4) the Subpoena seeks information subject to statutory privacy protections.  (Suh Decl., Exh. 3.)The production contains redactions that render several of the documents useless.  For example, all information concerning Hules’ personal and professional character and fitness were redacted, including his responses as to whether he had been the subject of any disciplinary action, criminal charges, and whether he was terminated from a school based on misconduct.  (Suh Decl., Exh. 4, pp. 12, 17-18, 24, 26, 41 and 47.)  Plaintiff submits that no records concerning complaints, suspensions, revocations, or the Commission’s investigatory efforts as to Hules’s credential were produced. Plaintiff moves to compel the Commission to comply with the subpoena and (1) produce all withheld records requested in Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena and (2) release complete, unredacted versions of records already produced regarding Hules’ personal and professional character and fitness.  Generally, the Commission fails to provide any persuasive reasoning or authority that overcomes the relevancy of the sought records.  The records are relevant to determine whether the District was on notice of Hules’ alleged improper conduct and how the District responded to any complaints.  The Commission cites authority that does not prevent this Court from ordering production.  In fact, the cited authority suggests that this Court does have authority to order production.  (See Ed. Code, §§ 44230, 44245.)The Court agrees that certain third-party privacy interests may require redactions, such as the personal identifying information of third parties, including the dates of birth and social security numbers of other credential holders who are unrelated to the underlying conduct at issue in this case.  But any responses by Hules should be disclosed.The Commission argues that the subpoena seeks records that are not business records of the Commission and can be obtained from other sources.  For example, some of the documents not produced by the Commission include “Hules’ academic transcripts and examination results (prepared by a third-party), LAUSD incident and investigative documents (prepared by a third-party), and Los Angeles County Superior Court Case No. 21STCV14537 civil case filing documents (primarily prepared by Plaintiff).”  (Opp., p. 5.)A deposition subpoena for business records is to be “directed to the custodian of those records or another person qualified to certify the records.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410(c).)  “At first blush, a person or entity that maintains records would also be the custodian of those records. Nevertheless, the custodian of records or other qualified witness contemplated by Evidence Code section 1561 must also be able to attest to various attributes of the records relevant to their authenticity and trustworthiness. As such, execution of a section 1561 affidavit is more than simply a clerical task.”  (Cooley v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1044.)  The Commission argues the Court should deny Plaintiff’s motion to the extent it seeks documents prepared and maintained by third parties as it cannot attest to the contents. In reply, Plaintiff argues it is far more difficult for Plaintiff to discover what documents remain from an investigation into Hules thirteen years ago.  Plaintiff argues that just because the Commission cannot attest to the records in its possession does not bar the Court from ordering production.  In all cases, “it is not necessary that the witness called to present foundational facts have personal knowledge of every transaction; he need only be familiar with the procedures followed.”  (Conservatorship of S.A. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 438, 449 [citing Jazayeri v. Mao (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 301, 322].)  As such, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that it is improper for the Commission to withhold non-privileged records that it can authenticate.  Such records necessarily include all documents prepared by Commission employees that derive from documents prepared by third parties.  These documents, specifically, are not shielded from disclosure by section 1561 of the Evidence Code.The Court also declines to find that the Official Informational privilege (Evid. Code, § 1040) applies here.  The official information privilege only applies to “official information,” which is defined as “information acquired in confidence by a public employee in the course of his or her duty and not open, or officially disclosed, to the public prior to the time the claim of privilege is made.”  (Evid. Code, § 1040, subd. (a).)  Said information can only be withheld if: (1)  Disclosure is forbidden by an act of the Congress of the United States or a statute of this state. (2)  Disclosure of the information is against the public interest because there is a necessity for preserving the confidentiality of the information that outweighs the necessity for disclosure in the interest of justice; but no privilege may be claimed under this paragraph if any person authorized to do so has consented that the information be disclosed in the proceeding.  In determining whether disclosure of the information is against the public interest, the interest of the public entity as a party in the outcome of the proceeding may not be considered. (Evid. Code, § 1040, subds. (b)(1)-(2).) Here, even accepting that the withheld documents contain “official information,” the Commission has not shown that the Commission’s interest in confidentiality “clearly outweigh[s]” the interests of an individual litigant seeking information that may assist with her case.  However, the Court finds that certain records may be protected by the Deliberative Process privilege, as contended by the Commission.  More specifically, Plaintiff is seeking any and all documents related to “statements of decision, findings, summaries, opinions, rulings, and/or minutes regarding any California Commission on Teacher Credentialing investigation and/or hearing regarding JEREMY HULES[.]”  (Suh Decl., Exh. 1, Requested Document No. 1.)  Suspension and revocation decisions are made in closed session, and the deliberations are not subject to public disclosure.  (See Education Code, §§ 44230, 44245, 44248; See Gov. Code, § 6254, subdivision (f); see also Civil Code section 1798.24.)  However, withholding “purely factual, investigative” documents is only proper upon an additional showing that the requests are “actually . . . related to the process by which policies are formulated” or “inextricably intertwined with policy-making processes.”  (See Times Mirror Co v. Superior Court (1992) 53 Cal.3d at pp. 1325, 1342.)  As such, the Commission is only entitled to protect records which are “actually . . . related to the process by which policies are formulated” or “inextricably intertwined with policy-making processes.”  (Ibid.) Taken together, the Court finds that the Commission must comply with the majority of Plaintiff’s subpoena requests.  The Court determines that the Commission need not produce documents which are “actually . . . related to the process by which policies are formulated” or “inextricably intertwined with policy-making processes.”  (Times Mirror Co., supra, 53 Cal.3d at p. 1342.)