 Case Number:  24NNCV01103    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  X CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCEThe Court issues the following Case Management Order:The Court sets the following dates:Jury Trial: Thursday, December 9, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. in Dept. X.               Final Status Conference: Tuesday, November 20, 2025, at 9:00 a.m. in Dept. X.The Court sets a trial estimate of four court days based upon the information in the Case Management Statement.  Both parties have posted jury fees.The Court further orders the parties to comply with the Court’s Trial Preparation Order, which may be found on the LASC website (www.LACourt.org), “Online Services” section, under the “Courtroom Information” link for Department X (Alhambra Courthouse).  Trial counsel are ordered to personally appear – in court – for the Final Status Conference with a copy of their lodged binders so that same can be reviewed in preparation for trial.  Counsel for Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this Order and file a proof of service with the Court.DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE Defendant demurs to the second cause of action (fraudulent inducement) and moves to strike references to punitive damages in the first amended complaint.This is a lemon law case arising from Plaintiffs purchase of a used, certified pre-owned 2017 Honda Pilot in 2022. The first amended complaint alleges two causes of action: (1) breach of express warranty (Song-Beverly) and (2) fraudulent inducement – concealment.Tentative RulingDefendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action in the complaint is OVERRULED.  Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED.  Defendant is to answer the operative complaint within 20 days.Legal AnalysisDemurrer to Second Cause of Action for Fraud Fraudulent inducement requires a showing of (1) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of its falsity; (3) intent to induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) a resulting damage.  (Dhital v. Nissan North American, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 838, review granted February 1, 2023.)  In Dhital, the defendant argued that because plaintiffs bought a vehicle from a dealership and not directly from defendant, that plaintiff had not adequately pled the buyer-seller relationship.  (Id., at p. 844.)  Defendant similarly argues here that because Plaintiff purchased from a dealership, they have not adequately pled that Honda is a participant in any potential fraudulent inducement by concealment.  In Dhital, the court noted that plaintiffs had sufficiently alleged defendant’s involvement where the allegations included that they bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and that Nissan’s authorized dealerships are its agents for sales purposes.  (Ibid.)  Here, Plaintiff alleges that he purchased the car from a Honda dealership with an express warranty from Honda and that the dealership is Honda’s agent.  (FAC, ¶¶ 9, 114.) Additionally, in Dhital, the defendant argued that the allegations were not specific about what should have been disclosed.  That court noted that plaintiffs alleged the specifics of the defects and that defendant was aware of the defects because of their premarket testing and consumer complaints made to defendant, its dealers, and to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”).  (Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at p.  838.)  Here, Plaintiff alleged the transmission defect and his having experienced the transmission’s (1) sudden unexpected and violent jerking or shaking when attempting to shift into higher gear settings, (2) hesitation when accelerating plus unexpected acceleration, and (3) a hard downshift when decelerating.  (FAC, ¶ 13.)  Plaintiff also alleged that Honda was aware of the defects based on premarket testing and consumer complaints. (FAC, ¶ 16.) Dhital refrained from addressing the issue of whether the complaint sufficiently alleged corporate liability for punitive damages for the motion to strike.  (Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at fn. 8.)  Generally, fraud actions are required to be pled with particularity.  (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216, superseded by statute on other grounds.)  Allegations of fraud against a corporation require that the plaintiff allege who made the fraudulent representation and that person’s authority to speak.  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)  However, less specificity is required when the defendant has superior knowledge of the facts.  (Committee on Children’s Television, supra, 35 Cal.3d at p. 217.) Here, Plaintiff alleged that Defendant has exclusive knowledge of the transmission defect since at least 2012.  (FAC, ¶ 22.)  The FAC has sufficiently alleged the fraudulent inducement cause of action.Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED. Motion to Strike Punitive DamagesDefendant moves to strike the punitive damages from the FAC based on similar grounds as Defendant’s arguments concerning the viability of the second cause of action for fraud.  Defendant further argues that punitive damages should be stricken where Plaintiff has failed to comply with Civil Code section 3294(b).  The Court determines that the allegations, if taken as true, are sufficient to maintain a punitive damages claim.Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED. 