 Case Number:  22STCV41093    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
4-3-24 
Case
Number: 22STCV41093
Trial
Date: 7-8-24
 
SUPPLEMENTAL DOCUMENT PRODUCTION
 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, R.W. Selby & Co.,
Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Luis Licea
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Responses to Supplemental Request for Production of Documents (set 3)
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Luis Licea alleges a certain “business establishment” (an apartment complex)
owned and/or managed by defendant R.W. Selby & Co., Inc. insufficiently
accommodates visually impaired patrons, such as Plaintiff, thereby improperly
depriving Plaintiff of use of the facilities. Plaintiff identifies as a
“tester,” defined as “individual[] with disabilities who visit[s] places of
public accommodation to determine their compliance with Title III [of the
ADA].”
 
On
December 30, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Violations of the Unruh Act,
California Civil Code section 51, et seq. On March 28, 2023, the court
overruled the demurrer to the complaint, granted the motion to strike the two
references to Plaintiff alleging status as a “tester,” denied the remainder of
the motion to strike, and denied the motion to reclassify the action as one for
limited jurisdiction court. Defendant answered on April 17, 2023.
 
RULING: Granted.
Defendant,
R.W. Selby & Co., Inc. moves to compel responses to Supplemental Request
for Production of Documents (set three) served on Plaintiff, Luis Licea. While
the motion was reserved and identified as one for initial responses, the motion
in fact seeks further responses to numbers one and two, which seek information
regarding Plaintiff’s “ability to financially qualify to rent the apartment.” The
responses consist entirely of objections: “Request is compound, vague and
overbroad, disproportionate to the needs of the case considering the
Plaintiff’s case of action and Defendant’s asserted affirmative defenses,
unduly burdensome and harassing, violates the attorney-client, work product and
tax privileges, violates Plaintiff’s and third parties’ constitutional rights
to privacy, calls for speculation, and seeks information that is irrelevant and
unlikely to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”
 
The
responses were served by mail on January 22, 2024, and the subject motion filed
exactly 50 days later. [Declaration of Rachelle Golden, Ex. B.] The motion is
timely. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1013, 2031.310, subd. (c).)
 
Plaintiff
in opposition contends Plaintiff’s right to privacy “outweighs” the need for
said information. Plaintiff maintains less intrusive means of discovery exist.
Plaintiff requests the court refrain from imposing sanctions. Defendant in
reply reiterates the placement of Plaintiff’s financial condition at issue in
brining the subject action.
 
Defendant moves to compel further responses on grounds that
because the court struck the “tester allegations” in March 28, 2023, order on
the motion to strike, Defendant remains entitled to conduct discovery into the
“bona fide intent” to engage the goods and services of the business, as opposed
to a public interest enforcement objective. (Thurston
v. Omni Hotels Management Corporation
(2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 299, 307.) 
 
Plaintiff provides no opposition
to the majority of the defenses, except for the privacy claim. The court
addresses the objections.
 
On the compound and vague objections, Plaintiff may not
intentionally misconstrue a work for obstreperous purposes. “Indeed, where the question is somewhat
ambiguous, but the nature of the information sought is apparent, the proper
solution is to provide an appropriate response.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783 superseded by
statute on unrelated ground as stated in Guzman
v. General Motors Corp. (1984) 154 Cal.App.3d 438, 444.) The
objections lack merit.
 
On
the disproportionate and overbroad objections, the objection lacks support “When discovery requests are grossly overbroad on their face,
and hence do not appear reasonably related to a legitimate discovery need, a
reasonable inference can be drawn of an intent to harass and improperly burden.
When a judge evaluates such factors to determine whether a party has acted
reasonably and in good faith in attempting informal resolution, a factual
component of decision, derived from the trial judge's knowledge of the case, is
inevitably involved.” (Obregon v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
424, 431.) Again, the objections lack support.
 
On the burdensome and harassing objections, objecting
parties must file evidence detailing the amount of work involved, in order to
support objections based upon burden and oppression. (West Pico Furniture
Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) “[S]ome burden is
inherent in all demands for discovery. The objection of burden is valid only
when that burden is demonstrated to result in injustice.” (Id. at p. 418.) Plaintiff lacks
support. 
 
The attorney-client privilege attaches to a confidential
communication between the attorney and the client and bars discovery of the
communication irrespective of whether it includes unprivileged material.” (Costco Wholesale
Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 734.) The transmission
of information between third parties and counsel also maintain attorney client
privilege protection, if the communication is in further interest of the
client. (Evid. Code, § 952.) “Once that party establishes facts necessary to
support a prima facie claim of privilege, the communication is presumed to have
been made in confidence and the opponent of the claim of privilege has the
burden of proof to establish the communication was not confidential or that the
privilege does not for other reasons apply.” (Costco Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court, supra, 47 Cal.4th at p. 733.) 
 
The work product privilege applies where the sought after
documents contains Defendant’s “impressions, conclusions, opinions or legal
research or theories,” the information is protected by the work product
doctrine. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030(c).) “An
objecting party may be entitled to protection if it can make a preliminary or
foundational showing that answering the interrogatory would reveal the
attorney's tactics, impressions, or evaluation of the case, or would result in
opposing counsel taking undue advantage of the attorney's industry or
efforts”].) (Coito v.
Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th
480, 502.) Notes, statements, and impressions of the case are protected
by the work product doctrine. A list of potential witnesses is not work
product. (Id. at p. 495; Nacht & Lewis Architects, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 214, 217–218.)
 
Neither of the subject objections present any basis of
support. 
 
“But ‘[f]or discovery purposes,
information is relevant if it “might reasonably assist a party in evaluating
the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement….” [Citation.] Admissibility is not the test and
information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to
admissible evidence. [Citation.] These rules are applied liberally in favor of
discovery [citation], and (contrary to popular belief), fishing expeditions are
permissible in some cases. [Citation.]’ (Citations.)” (Cruz
v. Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 646, 653–654.) The
subject items seek relevant information regarding the right to proceed with the
case. Upon the court striking the “tester allegations” in the March 28, 2023,
order, proof of the claim requires proof of “bona fide intent” to engage the
goods and services of the business, as opposed to a public interest enforcement
objective. (Thurston v. Omni Hotels
Management Corporation (2021) 69
Cal.App.5th 299, 307.) The information is both relevant, and Defendant
is entitled to conduct discovery. Plaintiff cannot bring multiple lawsuits as a
“tester” and then elect to withhold information, when a party elects to both
substantively defend the action and succeeds in undermining a lynchpin basis of
the lawsuit. The relevance and speculation objections are overruled.
 
Relevance constitutes a liberal standard, with privacy as a
form of counterbalance. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th at p. 541.) “Privacy interests
generally fall into one of two categories: (1) an interest in making intimate
personal decisions or conducting personal activities without observation,
intrusion, or interference (‘autonomy privacy’); and (2) an interest in
precluding the dissemination or misuse of sensitive and confidential
information (‘informational privacy’).” (Ortiz
v. Los Angeles Police Relief Assn. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1288, 1301.) A
party “alleging an invasion of privacy in violation
of the state constitutional right to privacy must establish each of the
following: (1) a legally protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable
expectation of privacy in the circumstances; and (3) conduct by [a party]
constituting a serious invasion of privacy.” (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 39–40.) “[I]ndividuals have a
legally recognized privacy interest in their personal financial information.” (International
Federation of Professional & Technical Engineers, Local 21, AFL-CIO v. Sup.
Ct. (2007) 42 Cal.4th 319, 330.) The objecting party has the burden to file
evidence of the preliminary facts establishing a privilege exists. (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531,
557; HLC
Properties, Limited v. Sup. Ct. (2005) 35
Cal.4th 54, 59; Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th at pp.
39-40.) 
 
Other than a series of
conclusions, the court finds the opposition and objections lack any articulated
basis. Notwithstanding, potential disclosure of financial records constitute a
basis of privilege. (Valley Banks
of Nevada v. The Superior Court of San Joaquin County (1975) 15 Cal. 3d
652, 655-657.) Upon the showing of a privacy interest, a party must present a
compelling basis for discovery, including a showing of no other available
alternatives. (Britt v. Superior Court
(1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 855, 864; Fortunato
v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 475, 482 [“The waiver
of both privileges and the constitutional right to privacy ‘must be narrowly rather
than expansively construed,’ in order to protect the purposes of the privilege
or right’”].) 
 
As determined in the relevance section, financial ability to
rent the premises directly addresses a required element of the claim, and
therefore a valid defense. Furthermore, Plaintiff
placed the information at issue, thereby both making the inquiry relevant and
arguably constituting a waiver of said privacy rights. Nevertheless, the
court remains bound to follow the requirements of determining no less intrusive
means exist for a determination of a “bona fide intent” to rent from Defendant.
(Fortunato v. Superior Court (2003)
114 Cal.App.4th 475, 481-483.) 


The actual written demands only
actually seek information relating to financial ability to qualify for the
rental without directly identifying any specifically sought after items. While
Plaintiff pushes back on the valid, yet conclusive less intrusive means
argument, missing from the opposition is any meaningful effort to present the
required, non-privileged information. Again, regardless of the public policy
basis for the multitude of “tester” lawsuits brought by Plaintiff, each
and every named defendant maintains a right to defend the actions, including
permissible discovery. This court adheres to a robust open discovery policy in
order to allow full and fair adjudication of all claims on the merits. 
 
The court therefore finds a basis
to compel production of supplemental responses, with a reservation of right to
later determine any true financial privacy implications upon actual
identification of any and all privileged documents. Plaintiff is therefore
ordered to provide factual, non-privileged information containing responses in
compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.210, subdivision (a)(1-2)
through 2031.240. Plaintiff may include a privilege log where applicable. If
Plaintiff maintains ALL information constitutes privileged material, and Defendant
elects to seek information potentially deemed privileged by Plaintiff, the
court will consider any renewed motion addressing subsequent arguments thereby
considering the public policy concerns of insufficient available information
versus the right to defend the action. Such a hearing will likely include an in
camera review of any and all said items.
 
The court otherwise finds no basis
of support for this objection or the third party privacy objections. Again, if
Plaintiff elects to double down on this objection, Plaintiff must include any
and all objections in the privilege log. The court will also consider any and
all third party notice criteria requirements should this objection actually
find support upon further potential review.
 
In summary, Plaintiff to serve
verified, non-privileged factual responses to Defendant within 30 days, and a
privilege log, if applicable. The minimum amount of sanctions for each
motion to compel production of documents increased to $1,000 per motion. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.050, subd. (a)(1).) The court therefore imposes sanctions in
the amount of $1,000 joint and severally imposed against both counsel and Plaintiff,
and payable within 30 days of this order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(h).) Non-compliance with this order may support a further motion for
additional monetary sanctions, issue, evidentiary or even terminating
sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.310, subd. (i).)
 
Trial remains scheduled for July 8, 2024.
 
Defendant to give notice. Dept.
68Date:
4-3-24 Case
Number: 22STCV41093Trial
Date: 7-8-24 INSPECT COMPUTER MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, R.W. Selby & Co.,
Inc.RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Luis Licea RELIEF
REQUESTEDMotion
to Compel Inspection of Plaintiff’s Computer SUMMARY
OF ACTIONPlaintiff
Luis Licea alleges a certain “business establishment” (an apartment complex)
owned and/or managed by defendant R.W. Selby & Co., Inc. insufficiently
accommodates visually impaired patrons, such as Plaintiff, thereby improperly
depriving Plaintiff of use of the facilities. Plaintiff identifies as a
“tester,” defined as “individual[] with disabilities who visit[s] places of
public accommodation to determine their compliance with Title III [of the
ADA].” On
December 30, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Violations of the Unruh Act,
California Civil Code section 51, et seq. On March 28, 2023, the court
overruled the demurrer to the complaint, granted the motion to strike the two
references to Plaintiff alleging status as a “tester,” denied the remainder of
the motion to strike, and denied the motion to reclassify the action as one for
limited jurisdiction court. Defendant answered on April 17, 2023. RULING: Denied.Defendant,
R.W. Selby & Co., Inc. moves to compel the inspection of the computer of Plaintiff
Luis Licea. While the motion was reserved and identified as one for initial
responses, the motion in fact seeks further responses to number one, which
seeks to arrange for a forensic examination of Plaintiff’s computer “as it
related to the website and his browsing history,” whereby the examiner “will
utilize forensic tools to create an evidentiary image of an electronic device
or other repository of evidence, then inspect, analyze, copy, photograph and/or
videotape Plaintiff’s ESI.” The
response consists entirely of objections: “vague and overbroad (both as to
scope and time), and disproportionate to the needs on the case considering
Plaintiff’s claims and Defendant’s alleged defenses. Cal. Civ. Proc. Code §
2031.060(a). Plaintiff additionally objects on the grounds that the Demand
violates Plaintiff’s constitutional rights to privacy, is meant to harass, and
is unduly burdensome. Plaintiff also objects on the grounds that the Demand
seeks information that is irrelevant and unlikely to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. Plaintiff also objects on the grounds that the Demand
violates the attorney-client and work product privileges.” The court electronic filing system shows no opposition or
reply filed at the time of the tentative ruling publication cutoff.  The responses were served by mail on January 16, 2024, and
the subject motion was filed 51 days later on March 7, 2024. [Declaration of
Rachelle Golden, Ex. F.] The motion is therefore untimely. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
1013, 2031.310, subd. (c).) The court must deny the motion on this basis. The
court declines to address the merits of the motion, including the validity of
the objections, and agreement to limit the scope of discovery. Trial remains scheduled for July 8, 2024. Defendant to give notice. 
 
 