  Case Number:  23VECV02457    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  W AMIR EDWARDS v.
ANTHONY HSIEH, et al.
 
DEFENDANTs’ demurrer to the
complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        October
26, 2023                              Trial
Date:       None Set
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV02457
 
Moving Party:            Defendants Anthony Hsieh and LoanDepot.com, LLC
Responding Party:     No
opposition. 
Meet and Confer:      Attempted. (Zuberi Decl.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 5, 2023, Plaintiff Amir Edwards
filed a complaint against Defendants Anthony Hsieh and LoanDepot.com, LLC for
Breach of Contract, Negligence, Fraud, and Common Counts. Plaintiff alleges
Defendants concealed the fact that they used Plaintiff’s Promissory Notes to
give to the seller and instead, kept “three times the amount of money required
to purchase the property” to themselves. Plaintiff further alleges Defendants
used Plaintiff’s Promissory Notes to clear title, which essentially purchased
property from the seller.  
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants Anthony Hsieh and
LoanDepot.com, LLC’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants request
the court take judicial notice of a Deed of Trust recorded February 22, 2022,
as Instrument Number 20220204890 in the Official Records of the County of Los
Angeles Recorder’s Office (RJN, Exh. A). The court GRANTS Defendant’s request
for judicial notice. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Misjoinder
 
Defendants
first demur to the complaint on the grounds there has been a misjoinder of
Defendant Hsieh. 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10(d) provides that a demurrer may be brought on grounds
of misjoinder of parties. (See CCP § 430.10(d).) Code of Civil Procedure
section 379 provides that all persons may be joined in one action as defendants
if there is any right asserted against them “arising out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences and if any
question of law or fact common to all these persons will arise in the action;
or [a] claim, right, or interest adverse to them in the property or controversy
which is the subject of the action.” (CCP § 379(a).) “[A] defendant may not
make allegations of defect or misjoinder of parties in the demurrer if the
pleadings do not disclose the existence of the matter relied on; such objection
must be taken by plea or answer.” (Harboring Villas Homeowners Association
v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 426, 429.)  
 
Defendants
argue the complaint contains no allegations whatsoever against Hsieh, who is
the former Chief Executive Officer of LoanDepot. Accordingly, without
allegations that Hsieh had personal involvement or stake in the Loan, Note, or
Deed of Trust, he is not a proper party to this action. In addition, Defendants
contend Plaintiff does not allege any facts that would meet the high burden for
imposing alter ego liability against Hsieh.
 
The court
agrees. The complaint fails to allege any facts against Defendant Hsieh,
including any alter ego allegations.  To invoke the alter ego doctrine,
the plaintiff must plead unity of interest and ownership and that an inequity
will result if the corporate entity is treated as the sole actor. (See Vasey
v. California Dance Co. (1977) 70 Cal.App.3d 742, 749.) Factors to consider
in applying the doctrine include the commingling of funds and other assets, the
holding out by one entity that it is liable for the debts of the other,
identical equitable ownership in the two entities, inadequate capitalization,
and disregard of corporate formalities. (Sonora Diamond Corp. v Superior
Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538-39.) 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Uncertainty
 
Defendants
also demur to the complaint on the grounds the complaint is uncertain. 
 
A demurrer
based on uncertainty only applies where the complaint is so bad that a
defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Though California courts take a liberal view
toward in artfully drawn pleadings, it remains essential a complaint set forth
the actionable facts with sufficient precision to inform the defendant of what
the plaintiff is complaining about and what remedies are being sought.  (Signal
Hill Aviation Co. v. Stroppe (1979) 96 Cal.App.3d 627, 636.) 
 
Defendants
argue Plaintiff’s complaint is uncertain on its face because (1) it remains
entirely unclear what role, if any, Hsieh played in the subject transaction and
(2) Defendants cannot decipher what the bases for Plaintiff’s claims are,
making it nearly impossible for Defendants to respond to the complaint. The
court agrees. As noted above, it is unclear what claims are brought against
Defendant Hsieh. Moreover, although Plaintiff has set out and labeled the
causes of action, it is unclear what the facts are and what is being alleged. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Breach of
Contract
 
Defendants
demur to the breach of contract cause of action on the grounds Plaintiff does
not set forth the terms of the agreement, what the breach of what agreement
was, or that Plaintiff suffered any injury. 
 
To recover
damages for a breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the existence of
the contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for
non-performance; (3) the defendant’s breach; and (4) the resulting damage to
the plaintiff. (Richman v. Hartley
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) The pleadings must specify that the
contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct. (CCP § 430.10(g).) Further,
“[a] written contract may be pleaded by its terms—set out verbatim in the
complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated
therein by reference—or by its legal effect. [Citation.] In order to plead a
contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the substance of its
relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of
the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal
conclusions.’  [Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489 [citing 4 Witkin, Cal. Proc. (4th ed. 1997)
Pleading, §§ 479-480, pp. 572-73].)
 
The court
agrees the breach of contract cause of action fails to state facts sufficient
to support a claim against Defendants. As noted above, Plaintiff must allege
either the contract by its terms or its legal effect. The written agreement is
not attached to the complaint nor are the terms alleged. Plaintiff also fails
to allege how Defendants breached the agreement. BC-4, regarding damages, is
blank. This is insufficient to support a claim for breach of contract. 
 
Accordingly,
the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action. 
 
Negligence
 
Defendants
demur to the second cause of action for negligence on the grounds there is no
legal duty owed to Plaintiff by Defendants in the context of this case and Plaintiff
does not even touch on the elements of a negligence cause of action. 
 
To plead a
cause of action for negligence, one must allege (1) a legal duty owed to
plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage
to plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006)
137 Cal. App. 4th 292, 318.) “In order to state a cause of action for
negligence, the complaint must allege facts sufficient to show a legal duty on
the part of the defendant to use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the
breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Bellah v.
Greenson (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 614, 619.)  In California, negligence
may be pleaded in general terms. (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d
399, 407-408.) 
 
The court
agrees the negligence of action fails to state facts sufficient to support a
claim against Defendants. Plaintiff’s negligence allegations include Plaintiff
was led to believe money from Defendants were going to the seller, rather than
Plaintiff’s Promissory Notes. As noted above, Plaintiff fails to allege the
existence of a duty between Plaintiff and Defendants and moreover, Plaintiff
fails to allege how Defendants breached that duty and was injured as a result
of that breach. 
 
Accordingly,
the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action. 
 
Fraud 
 
Defendants
demur to the third cause of action for fraud on the grounds the cause of action
is a rambling hodgepodge of generalized conclusory statements and is devoid of
the specificity required to state a fraud cause of action. 
 
The court
agrees. The elements of fraud are (1) misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of
falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance on the misrepresentation, (4)
justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damages. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) Fraud allegations “involve a
serious attack on character” and therefore are pleaded with specificity. (Hills
Trans. Co. v. Southwest Forest Industries, Inc. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702,
707.) General and conclusory allegations are insufficient. (Lazar, supra,
at p. 645.) The particularity requirement demands that a plaintiff plead facts
which “ ‘ “show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.” ’ ” (Ibid.) Further, when a plaintiff
asserts fraud against a corporation, the plaintiff must “allege the names of
the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority
to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or
written.” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th
153, 157, 2 Cal.Rptr.2d 861.) Less specificity in pleading fraud is required
“when ‘it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy....’ ” [Citations.] (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
allegations are insufficient as they are not alleged with the requisite
specificity. Plaintiff does not allege who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. Plaintiff also fails to allege how
Plaintiff was injured as a result of the alleged fraud. 
 
Accordingly,
the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action.
 
Common Counts
 
Defendants
demur to the fourth cause of action for common counts on the grounds Plaintiff
does not present a copy of, or any details regarding, the purported agreement
under which either of the Defendants agreed to be indebted to Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s prior allegations directly contradict the claim for account stated.

 
“The
essential elements of an account stated are: (1) previous transactions between
the parties establishing the relationship of debtor and creditor; (2) an agreement
between the parties, express or implied, on the amount due from the debtor to
the creditor; (3) a promise by the debtor, express or implied, to pay the amount
due.” (Zinn v. Fred R. Bright Co. (1969) 271 Cal.App.2d 597, 600.)  The elements of a cause of action for money
lent are (1) that the defendant is indebted to plaintiff in a certain sum; and
(2) for money lent, paid or expended to, or for, the defendant.  (Moya
v. Northrup (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 276, 280.) The¿elements¿of a cause of
action for¿money¿had¿and¿received¿are: (1) that the defendant received money
that was intended to be used for the benefit of the plaintiff; (2) that the
money was not used for the benefit of the plaintiff; and (3) that the defendant
has not given the money to the plaintiff. (Avidor v. Sutter’s Place,
Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th1439, 1454.) 
 
Here, based
on the entirety of the complaint, it is unclear what money is owed from
Defendants to Plaintiff. Moreover, as noted by Plaintiff, the allegations
contradict Plaintiff’s earlier allegations that he executed the Note to borrow
money from loanDepot. Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to
the fourth cause of action with Leave to amend. 