 Case Number:  24VECV00763    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Kourosh
  Izadpanahi,
 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Nahid Hosseimzadeh
  Dolkhani, 
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
          24VECV00763         107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: Demurrer
                        



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: Sustain with leave to amend; deny
both requests for judicial notice
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Kourosh Izadpanahi (“Plaintiff”) and defendant Nahid Hosseimzadeh
Dolkhani (“Defendant” and, together with Plaintiff, “Parties”) dissolved their
marriage in 2021. (Complaint p. 6.) The judgment of dissolution called for
equal custody of their minor child (Parties’ “Daughter”) with Defendant as the
custodial parent. (Ibid.) Despite this, Defendant prevented Plaintiff
from seeing his Daughter for months at a time and interfered with, disrupted,
or refused to bring their Daughter to court-ordered therapy. (Id. at pp.
6–8.) Defendant also refused to contribute to the costs of the court-ordered
therapy. (Id. at p. 8.)
 
On February 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleging two causes of action: (1) intentional infliction of emotional distress
and (2) domestic violence under Civil Code § 1708.6.
 
On April 10, 2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer (the “Demurrer”),
which Plaintiff opposed on May 14, 2024 (by filing the “Opposition”). Plaintiff
concurrently filed a request for judicial notice. Defendant did not timely
reply to the Opposition, and on May 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of no
reply to her Opposition.
 
II. PROCEDURAL
MATTERS
 

Timeliness of Filings

 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿430.40, subdivision (a), a demurrer to a complaint should be filed within 30
days after service of the complaint.  
¿¿¿ 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days
before they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least
nine court days before the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should
be filed at least five court days before the set hearing. Judges have
discretion as to whether to consider or strike an untimely demurrer or
pleading. (McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253,
281; Tuck v. Thuesen (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 193, 196 (disapproved on other
grounds by Neel v. Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971) 6
Cal.3d 176).)¿ 
 
Plaintiff filed a proof of service of the
Complaint that indicates that Defendant was served by personal service on March
8, 2024. Thirty days later was April 7, 2024. As the Demurrer was filed and
served on Plaintiff on April 10, 2024, it is untimely.
 
Sixteen court days before the hearing, which is
set for May 28, 2024 was May 3, 2024; nine days before was May 14, 2024; and
five days before was May 20, 2024. Thus, the Demurrer and the Opposition are
timely as against the hearing and no reply was timely filed.
 
Although the Demurrer is untimely, we note that
Plaintiff did not seek the entry of a default against Defendant in the time
between when Defendant’s response was due and when Defendant filed and served
the Demurrer, and we do not find that considering the Demurrer will
inappropriately prejudice Plaintiff. We therefore exercise our discretion to
consider the late-filed Demurrer.
 

The Meet and Confer Requirement

 
California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿430.41, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in good faith
before the filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally resolve the objections
raised in the demurrer. The demurring party is required to file and serve
with the demurrer a declaration either confirming that parties were unable to
resolve the issues raised by the demurrer despite having met and conferred or
that the opposing party failed to meet and confer with the demurring party in
good faith. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(3). 
 
The Demurrer does not include any declaration
attesting to Defendant’s meet and confer efforts and Plaintiff states that no
such efforts were made. (Opposition p. 5.) We remind Defendant of her
obligation to meet and confer in good faith with Plaintiff before the filing of
a demurrer.
 

Page Limits on Filings

 
“Except in a summary judgment or summary
adjudication motion, no opening or responding memorandum may exceed 15 pages…. No
reply or closing memorandum may exceed 10 pages. The page limit does not
include the caption page, the notice of motion and motion, exhibits,
declarations, attachments, the table of contents, the table of authorities, or
the proof of service.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1113(d).)
 
The Opposition is 16 pages in length and
therefore does not comply with Rule 3.1113(d), which limits opposing papers to demurrers
to ten pages. While we do not decline to consider any part of the Opposition on
these grounds, we remind Plaintiff of this rule.
 

Service of Notice

 
Opposition papers to a demurrer must be served on
the demurring party. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1005.) If a party is
represented by counsel in a limited scope, “papers in the case must be served
on both the attorney providing the limited scope representation and the client.”
(Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.36(b).)
 
Plaintiff attaches to the Opposition a proof of
service of the Opposition and his request for judicial notice that indicates
that they were served by either e-mail or mail to the attorney who is
representing Defendant in a limited scope. However, they were required to be
served on both Defendant’s limited-scope counsel and Defendant, and service of
the Opposition and Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice is therefore
deficient. Because a failure of service of opposing papers deprives the moving
party of a fair chance to respond, we therefore decline to consider the
Opposition and deny the request for judicial notice.
 
III. DEFENDANT’S
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
The Demurrer includes a request for judicial
notice pursuant to California Evidence Code sections 452 and 453 of the final
judgment in a prior action between Parties. (Demurrer p. 6.) Although the
Demurrer states that such final judgment is attached, the Demurrer does not
include any such attachment. (Ibid.)
 
Per California Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(l), “[a]ny request for judicial notice must be made in a separate document
listing the specific items for which notice is requested and must comply with
rule 3.1306(c).” California Rules of Court, rule 1306(c) reads, in relevant
part, “[a] party requesting judicial notice of material under Evidence Code
sections 452 or 453 must provide the court and each party with a copy of the
material.”
 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice does not
comply with these California Rules of Court. And, without the final judgment of
which Defendant seeks judicial notice to be taken submitted to the court, we
cannot determine what final judgment Defendant is referring to. Accordingly,
this court denies Defendant’s request for judicial notice.
 
IV. DISCUSSION
 
Defendant demurs to each cause of action in the Complaint on the grounds
that (1) this court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action
alleged in the Complaint under California Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10, subdivision (a), (2) there is another action pending between the Parties
on the same cause of action under California Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10, subdivision (c), and (3) the Complaint does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action under California Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.10, subdivision (e). (Notice of Demurrer p. 2.)
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the
evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains “[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting
the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard, a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if
it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los
Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.)  
 

Subject Matter Jurisdiction

 
Defendant demurs to each of the Complaint’s causes of action in part on the
grounds that this court has no jurisdiction of their subject. However, she does
not argue or discuss this contention any further or cite any authority that
would prohibit this court from hearing and ruling on causes of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress and domestic violence. 
 
We are not required to consider
arguments unsupported by meaningful discussion or legal authority, and we
decline to do so here. (Mansell v. Board of Education (1994) 30
Cal.App.4th 539, 545–46; In re S.C. (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 396, 408
[“When a point is asserted without¿argument¿and authority for the proposition,
it is deemed to be without foundation and requires no discussion by the
reviewing court,” internal quotation marks omitted.].)  
 
We therefore do not sustain the Demurrer on these grounds.
 

Unclean Hands

 
Defendant contends that the Complaint “states facts to show that it is
barred by the doctrine[] of unclean hands.” (Notice of Demurrer p. 2.)
 
“Generally, the equitable doctrine of unclean hands applies when a
plaintiff has acted unconscionably, in bad faith, or inequitably in the matter
in which the plaintiff seeks relief.” (Salas v. Sierra Chemical Co.
(2014) 59 Cal.4th 407, 432.) “Unclean hands applies when it would be
inequitable to provide the plaintiff any relief, and provides a complete
defense to both legal and equitable causes of action.” (Fladeboe v. American
Isuzu Motors Inc. (2007) 150 Cal.Aap.4th 42, 56.) When a demurrer is based
upon an affirmative defense such as unclean hands, “the affirmative defense must
clearly appear on the face of the complaint in order to support a demurrer. A
demurrer based on an affirmative defense cannot properly be sustained
where the action might be barred by the defense, but is
not necessarily barred.” (CrossTalk Productions, Inc. v.
Jacobson (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 631, 635, emphasis original.)
 
Defendant does not clarify and it is not apparent what conduct or acts of
Plaintiff in the matter for which he seeks relief through this action are so
unconscionable, in bad faith, or inequitable that the Complaint’s causes of
action should be barred by the doctrine of unclean hands. 
 
We therefore cannot sustain the Demurrer on these grounds.
 

Res Judicata
     and Collateral Estoppel

 
Defendant asserts that these causes of action are barred by res judicata
because a final judgment on the merits was issued in a prior action between
Parties. (Demurrer pp. 6–7.) For the same reason, she asserts that these causes
of action are barred by collateral estoppel. (Ibid.)
 
“Res judicata or claim preclusion precludes the relitigation of a cause of action that previously was adjudicated
in another proceeding between the same parties or parties in privity
with them. Res judicata applies if (1) the decision in the prior proceeding is
final and on the merits; (2) the present proceeding is on the same cause of
action as the prior proceeding; and (3) the parties in the present proceeding
or parties in privity with them were parties to the prior proceeding. Res
judicata bars the litigation not only of issues that were actually litigated
but also issues that could have been litigated.” (Federation of Hillside
& Canyon Assns. v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 126 Cal.App.4th 1180,
1202, internal citations omitted.)
 
“Under the doctrine of collateral estoppel or issue preclusion, when an
issue of ultimate fact has been determined by a valid and final judgment, that
issue cannot be relitigated between the same parties in a future lawsuit.” (California
Logistics, Inc. v. State of California (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 249.)
 
It is not clear what prior action was litigated between Parties or what
issues were litigated in any prior action between Parties. Although the
Demurrer states that a final judgment is attached, none are attached to the
Demurrer or otherwise submitted to this court. While a divorce proceeding
between Parties and an attorney fees order in family court are mentioned by the
Demurrer, it is not apparent from the information provided that these causes of
action are barred by those proceedings.
 
We are therefore unable to confirm that these causes of action are barred
by the doctrine of res judicata or by collateral estoppel. We are therefore unable
to sustain the Demurrer on either of these grounds.
 

Failure to
     State a Cause of Action—The First Cause of Action for Intentional
     Infliction of Emotional Distress

 
“The elements of a cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) the defendant engages
in¿extreme and outrageous conduct with the intent to cause, or with reckless
disregard for the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff
suffers extreme or severe emotional distress; and (3) the defendant's extreme
and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the plaintiff's
extreme or severe emotional distress. Outrageous conduct is conduct that is
intentional or reckless and so extreme as to exceed all bounds of decency in a
civilized community. The defendant's conduct must be directed to the plaintiff,
but malicious or evil purpose is not essential to liability. Whether conduct is
outrageous is usually a question of fact.” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank National
Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 203, citing Potter v. Firestone Tire
& Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001, internal citations omitted.)
“In order to avoid a¿demurrer, the plaintiff must allege with ‘great
specificity’ the acts which he or she believes are so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Vasquez v.
Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819,
832.)
 
In In re Marriage of Segal (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 602, 608–09, a
demurrer was properly sustained against a mother who brought a cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress against her former husband and
her child’s father based on allegations “essentially that husband has caused
wife severe emotional distress by alienating the parties' child against her.” (In
re Marriage of Segal, supra, at 604.) The court in In re Marriage
of Segal, supra, at 608 explained that their decision was guided by
“a public policy against awarding damages in loss of filial consortium
situations except in the most narrow instances of providing a remedy for
specific and measurable economic losses; but not in situations where the claim
involves intangible injuries to a parent-child relationship.” “The primary
right [plaintiff-mother] seeks to enforce is her right to visitation with her
child and a claim that [defendant-father] damaged her filial relationship with
her child by interfering with such visitations. [Plaintiff-mother], however,
failed to avail herself of the opportunities for relief in the family law court
and her damage action should not be allowed as an alternative remedy for such
claimed violations of her rights of visitation.” (In re Marriage of Segal,
supra, at 608.)
 
Like the plaintiff and mother in In re Marriage of Segal, the
primary right that Plaintiff seeks to enforce is his right to visitation with
his Daughter and Defendant’s cooperation with and payment contributions for the
court-ordered therapy with his Daughter. Following In re Marriage of Segal,
this is not an appropriate subject for a civil action for damages and is
properly subject to a demurrer.
 
Accordingly, this court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the first cause of
action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress.
 

Failure to
     State a Cause of Action—The Second Cause of Action for Domestic Violence
     under Civil Code § 1708.6

 
California Civil Code section 708.6, subdivision (a) reads, in relevant
part,
 
(a)   
A
person is liable for the tort of domestic violence if the plaintiff proves both
of the following elements:
 
(1)  
The
infliction of injury upon the plaintiff resulting from abuse, as defined in
subdivision (a) of Section 13700 of the Penal Code.
 
(2)  
The
abuse was committed by the defendant, a person having a relationship with the
plaintiff as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 13700 of the Penal Code.
 
California Penal Code section 13700, subdivision (a) defines “abuse” as “intentionally
or recklessly causing or attempting to cause bodily injury, or placing another
person in reasonable apprehension of imminent serious bodily injury to himself
or herself, or another.”
 
Plaintiff does not allege in the Complaint that Defendant inflicted any
injury upon him that was bodily injury or that was from reasonable apprehension
of imminent serious bodily injury to himself or anyone else. The Complaint
therefore does not allege all the elements of a cause of action for domestic
violence under California Civil Code section 708.6.
 
Accordingly, this court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the second cause of
action for domestic violence under Civil Code § 1708.6.
 

Leave to
     Amend

 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) “If there is
any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action,
it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v.
Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.) “If the plaintiff has
not had an opportunity to amend the complaint in response to the demurrer,
leave to amend is liberally allowed as a matter of fairness, unless the
complaint shows on its face that it is incapable of amendment.” (City of
Stockton v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 730, 747.) Courts generally
allow at least one time to amend a complaint, after sustaining a demurrer, even
without any request for leave to amend. (McDonald v. Superior Court
(1986) 180 Cal. App. 3d 297, 303.)¿ 
 
This being the first time a demurrer
is sustained against any part of the Complaint and believing that it is
possible for Plaintiff to amend the Complaint to plead additional facts, if
they exist, that could establish all the elements of the causes of action
against which Defendant’s Demurrer is now sustained, this court GRANTS
Plaintiff leave to amend the Complaint. 
 
 
Dated:  May 28,
2024                                                          _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                                                                                      Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court