 Case Number:  24VECV00997    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Kevin Hundert,
 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Sharone Barazani,
  et al.
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
   24VECV00997                107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
Compel
  Arbitration; Stay Action 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:
Grant in part; deny in part; stay proceedings
                                                                                                                                     
I. BACKGROUND
On May 27, 2021, plaintiff Kevin
Hundert (“Plaintiff”) entered a California Residential Purchase Agreement and
Joint Escrow Instruction (the “Agreement”) with defendant CA Homes Fund, Inc.
(“Seller”) whereby Plaintiff purchased a certain residential real property (the
“Property”). (Complaint ¶ 13.) Defendant Sharone Barazani (“Barazani” and,
together with Seller, “Moving Parties” and Moving Parties, together with
Plaintiff, “Parties”) acted as Seller’s listing agent and defendant Coldwell
Banker Real Estate, LLC (“Coldwell” and, together with Moving Parties,
“Defendants”) acted as Seller’s broker. (Ibid.)
 
After escrow closed on June 11,
2021, Plaintiff discovered that the Property contained construction defects
that Defendants either failed to disclose or intentionally concealed. (Id. at
¶¶ 30–31.)
 
On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff
initiated this action by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging six
causes of action: (1) negligence (failure to disclose), (2) negligent
misrepresentation, (3) breach of contract, (4) intentional fraud, (5)
negligence (construction defects), and (6) fraudulent business practices in
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq.
 
On May 6, 2024, Moving Parties
filed the instant motion to compel arbitration (the “Motion”). On May 16, 2024,
Plaintiff opposed the Motion, and four days later, on May 20, 2024, Moving
Parties replied to Plaintiff’s opposition.
 
II.
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California
law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on
such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v.
Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is
simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that contract. (Marcus
& Millichap Real Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68
Cal. App.4th 83, 88.) The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, the
party opposing the petition then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate that there should be no
enforcement of the agreement, and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to
reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western
Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413; Provencio v. WMA
Securities, Inc., 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.) “In determining whether
an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may
examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party
refusing arbitration.” (Weeks v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d
350, 353.) 
 
This court is empowered by California Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.2 to compel parties to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an
agreement to do so. “The court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists….” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿1281.2.) Thus, “Section 1281.2
requires a court to order arbitration if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate exists.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 836, 841.) 
 
California law incorporates many of the basic policy
objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a presumption in
favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971–72.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general
rule that arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance
that an arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the
asserted dispute.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) The party opposing arbitration bears the
burden of showing that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the
claims at issue. (EFund Capital Partners v. Pless (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th
1311, 1321.)
 
“[T]he decision as to whether a
contractual arbitration clause covers a particular dispute rests
substantially on whether the clause in question is ‘broad’ or ‘narrow.’” (Bono
v. David (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 1055, 1067.) “A ‘broad’ clause includes
those using language such as ‘any claim arising from or related
to this agreement’ or ‘arising in connection with the agreement.’” (Rice
v. Downs (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 175, 186, emphasis original.) “[C]ourts
have held such arbitration agreements sufficiently broad to include
torts, as well as contractual, liabilities so long as the tort claims ‘have
their roots in the relationship between the parties which was created by the
contract.’” (Ibid., citing Izzi v. Mesquite Country Club (1986)
186 Cal.App.3d 1309, 1315–16.) “But clauses requiring arbitration of
a claim, dispute, or controversy ‘arising from’ or ‘arising out of’
an agreement, i.e., excluding language such as ‘relating to this agreement’ or
‘in connection with this agreement,’ are generally considered to be more
limited in scope than would be, for example, a clause agreeing
to arbitrate ‘any controversy… arising out of or
relating to this agreement,’ which might thus cover
misconduct arising out of the agreement as well as
contractual issues. Several Ninth Circuit cases have held that agreements
requiring arbitration of ‘any dispute,’ ‘controversy,’ or ‘claim’
‘arising under’ or ‘arising out of’ the agreement are intended to
encompass only disputes relating to the interpretation and performance of the
agreement.” (Id. at 186–87, emphasis original, internal citations
omitted.)
 
“The general rule is that only a
party to an arbitration agreement may enforce it.” (Ronay Family Limited
Partnership v. Tweed (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 830, 837.) However, “the law
recognizes exceptions to the general rule and allows a nonparty to enforce an
arbitration agreement provided the nonparty has a sufficient ‘identity of
interest’ with a party to the agreement.” (Id. at 838.) “In particular,
an agent may enforce an arbitration agreement to which its principal is a
party.” (Ibid.; accord Nguyen v. Tran (2007) 57 Cal.App.4th 1032,
1036–37 [“Exceptions in which an arbitration agreement may be enforced by or
against nonsignatories include where a nonsignatory is a third party
beneficiary of the agreement and when a nonsignatory and one of the parties to
the agreement have a preexisting agency relationship that makes it equitable to
impose the duty to arbitrate on either of them.”].) In Nguyen v. Tran, supra,
at 1035, the real estate purchase agreement at issue contained an arbitration
clause which stated, “Buyer and Seller agree to mediate and arbitrate disputes
or claims involving either or both Brokers… provided either or both Brokers
shall have agreed to such mediation or arbitration prior to, or within a
reasonable time after, the dispute or claim is presented to Brokers. Any
election by either or both Brokers to participate in mediation or arbitration
shall not result in Brokers being deemed parties to the Agreement.” The court
in Nguyen v. Tran, supra, at 1038 found that the buyer’s brokers
could compel arbitration against the buyers because the brokers had consented
to arbitration and because “the purchase agreement lists [buyer’s] brokers as
the agents of buyers, who signed the purchase agreement.”
 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2 provides, in relevant part, 
 
The court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
 
…
 
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement is also a
party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party,
arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions and there
is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. For
purposes of this section, a pending court action or special proceeding includes
an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to arbitrate after the
petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or before the date of the
hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be applicable to an
agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional negligence of a health
care provider made pursuant to Section 1295. 
 
…
 
If the court determines that a
party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court
action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth under subdivision
(c), the court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and may
order intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action or special
proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all or only certain
issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding pending the
outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the
outcome of the court action or special proceeding.
 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.4 provides, in relevant part, “[i]f a court of competent
jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a
controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending
before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is
pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the
action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order
to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.”
 
“In accordance with choice-of-law
principles, the parties may limit the trial court's authority to stay or deny
arbitration under the CAA by adopting the more restrictive procedural
provisions of the FAA.” (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
“Absent such an express designation, however, the FAA's procedural provisions
do not apply in state court.” (Id. at 174.) In Valencia v. Smyth,
supra, at 159, the arbitration clause at issue was contained in an
earlier iteration of the same standard form residential purchase agreement
published by the California Association of Realtors as the instant Agreement.
The arbitration clause in Valencia v. Smyth specified that although any
arbitration was to be conducted in accordance with the CAA, “[i]nterpretation
of this agreement to arbitrate shall be governed by the [FAA].” (Id. at
159.) The court in Valencia v. Smyth found that the parties to the
agreement had not expressly adopted the FAA’s procedural provisions and
that California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c), which
permits a court to stay or deny arbitration in circumstances that could result
in conflicting rulings on common issues, was therefore properly applied to the
case. (Id. at 175–79.)
 
III.
DISCUSSION
 
Moving
Parties seek an order compelling arbitration of all of Plaintiff’s claims and
staying the action pending the outcome of arbitration. (Notice of Motion p. 2.) 
 
Parties
agree that the Agreement contains an arbitration clause. (Motion pp. 5–6; Opposition
p. 3.) They disagree as to whether that arbitration clause applies to the causes
of action brought by the Complaint. (Motion pp. 7–8; Opposition p. 2.)
 
Clause
22 (Dispute Resolution), subclause B (Arbitration of Disputes) of
the Agreement provides,
 
The Parties agree that any dispute
or claim in Law or equity arising between them out of this Agreement or any
resulting transaction, which is not settled through mediation, shall be decided
by neutral, binding arbitration. The Parties also agree to arbitrate any
disputes or claims with Broker(s), who, in writing, agree to such arbitration
prior to, or within a reasonable time after, the dispute or claim is presented
to the Broker. The arbitrator shall be a retired judge or justice, or an
attorney with at least 5 years of residential real estate Law experience,
unless the parties mutually agree to a different arbitrator. The Parties shall
have the right to discovery in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure
§ 1283.05. In all other respects, the arbitration shall be conducted in
accordance with Title 9 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Judgment upon
the award of the arbitrator(s) may be entered into any court having
jurisdiction. Enforcement of this agreement to arbitrate shall be governed by the
Federal Arbitration Act. Exclusions from this arbitration agreement are
specified in paragraph 22C.
 
(Complaint Exh. B; Ross Decl. Exh.
A.) Thus, although any arbitration conducted pursuant to the Agreement’s
arbitration clause is to be done in accordance with the California Arbitration
Act (“CAA”), enforcement of the arbitration clause, including a motion to
compel arbitration, is to be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”).
(See Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th
337, 346 [“[W]hen an agreement provides that its ‘enforcement’ shall be
governed by the FAA, the FAA governs a party's motion
to compel arbitration.”].)
 
Plaintiff and Seller have each
initialed below Clause 22(B). Above the space where Plaintiff and Seller each
initial below Clause 22(B), the Agreement reads,
 
“NOTICE: BY INITIALING IN THE SPACE
BELOW YOU ARE AGREEING TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE ARISING OUT OF THE MATTERS INCLUDED
IN THE ‘ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES’ PROVISION DECIDED BY NEUTRAL ARBITRATION AS
PROVIDED BY CALIFORNIA LAW AND YOU ARE GIVING UP ANY RIGHTS YOU MIGHT POSSESS
TO HAVE THE DISPUTE LITIGATED IN A COURT OR JURY TRIAL. BY INITIALING IN THE
SPACE BELOW YOU ARE GIVING UP YOUR JUDICIAL RIGHTS TO DISCOVERY AND APPEAL,
UNLESS THOSE RIGHTS ARE SPECIFICALLY INCLUDED IN THE ‘ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES’
PROVISION. IF YOU REFUSE TO SUBMIT TO ARBITRATION AFTER AGREEING TO THIS
PROVISION, YOU MAY BE COMPELLED TO ARBITRATE UNDER THE AUTHHORITY OF CALIFORNIA
CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE. YOUR AGREEMENT TO THIS APBITRATION PROVISION IS
VOLUNTARY.”
 
“WE HAVE READ ANY UNDERSTAND THE
FOREGOING AND AGREE TO SUBMIT DISPUTES ARISING OUT OF THE MATTERS INCLUDED IN
THE ‘ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES’ PROVISION TO NEUTRAL ARBITRATION.”
 
(Complaint Exh. B; Ross Decl. Exh.
A.)
 
Clause
22, subclause C (Additional Mediation and Arbitration Terms) of the
Agreement excludes from mediation and arbitration a foreclosure action, an
unlawful detainer action, and probate, small claims, and bankruptcy matters. (Complaint Exh. B; Ross Decl. Exh.
A.) Thus, because none of these excluded categories of actions describe the
instant action, the instant action is not excluded from the Agreement’s
arbitration clause by Clause 22(C).
 
Plaintiff argues that “Barazani is
not a signatory to the [] Agreement and cannot as a matter of law, compel
arbitration.” (Opposition p. 2.)
 
Barazani is not a signatory, and
therefore not a party, to the Agreement. The Agreement also states expressly
that “Real Estate Brokers are not parties to the Agreement between Buyer and
Seller.” (Complaint Exh. B; Ross Decl. Exh. A.) However, she is listed in the
Agreement as “Seller’s Agent” under a section which begins, “CONFIRMATION: The
following agency relationships are confirmed for this transaction.” (Ibid.)
Also in the Agreement, in a section titled “REAL ESTATE BROKERS,” Barazani
signs as Seller’s broker. (Ibid.) Thus, Barazani acted in the execution
of the Agreement as an agent of Seller, who was a signatory, and therefore a
party, to the Agreement. Like the brokers in Nguyen v. Tran, supra,
57 Cal.App.4th 1032 at 1036–38, although expressly a non-party, as an agent of
Seller, a party, she may enforce the arbitration agreement contained in the
Agreement against a party to the Agreement, such as Plaintiff. Additionally,
the arbitration agreement on its face, “[t]he Parties also agree to arbitrate
any disputes or claims with Broker(s), who, in writing, agree to such
arbitration prior to, or within a reasonable time after, the dispute or claim
is presented to the Broker,” which permits a consenting broker, such as
Barazani, to enforce the arbitration agreement.
 
The Agreement’s arbitration clause
mandates arbitration for “any dispute or claim in Law or equity arising between
them out of this Agreement or any resulting transaction.” (Complaint Exh. B;
Ross Decl. Exh. A.) It lacks the language of a “broad” arbitration clause such
as “arising from or related to this agreement” or “arising in
connection with the agreement,” and rather, it limits its scope to only those
disputes or claims “arising… out of this Agreement….” Following Rice v.
Downs, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th 175 at 186, the Agreement’s
arbitration clause may therefore be described as a “narrow” arbitration clause.

 
Moving Parties urge this court to
read the Agreement’s arbitration clause as “sufficiently broad to include all
claims alleged in [the] [C]omplaint” because “the alleged disputes have their ‘roots’
in the underlying transaction contemplated by the [Agreement].” (Motion
pp. 7–8.) However, we observe that the case they quote in support of this
argument, Berman v. Dean Witter & Co. (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 999,
1003, 1005, describes an arbitration clause that includes language not included
in the Agreement: “arising out of or relating to this contract.” (Id.
at p. 8, emphasis added.) And, the same is true of the two cases they cite for
the proposition that “[a]ll that need be shown is that the alleged disputes
have their ‘roots’ in the underlying transaction contemplated by the parties'
agreement”: Izzi v. Mesquite Country Club, supra, 186 Cal.App.3d
1309 at 1315–16 and Bas Material Handling Inc. v. Crown Controls Corp.
(1983) 137 Cal.App.3d 99, 105. The instant case may be distinguished from these
three cases by the key omission of the words “or relating to,” which, following
Rice v. Downs, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th 175 at 186, significantly
limits the scope of the phrase “any dispute or claim in Law or equity arising
between them.”
 
Moving Parties emphasize the
breadth of the language “any controversy or dispute,” which is similar to the
language of the Agreement’s arbitration clause, “any dispute or claim in Law or
equity.” (Motion p. 7.) And while “[s]everal courts have held that a phrase
such as ‘any dispute’ or ‘any controversy’ potentially encompasses tort claims,”
“that alone is not determinative” because “[t]he parties did not simply agree
to arbitrate ‘any controversy,’” but rather, “‘[a]ny controversy’ is
necessarily modified by ‘arising out of this Agreement.’” (Rice v. Downs,
supra, 248 Cal.App.4th 175 at 187.)
 
As a “narrow” arbitration clause,
the Agreement’s arbitration clause therefore does not apply broadly to any
matter with “roots” in the Agreement but rather, “encompass[es] only disputes
relating to the interpretation and performance of the [A]greement.” Of the six
causes of action brought by the Complaint, only the third cause of action for
breach of contract relates to the interpretation and performance of the
Agreement. Thus, the only cause of action that must be arbitrated under the
Agreement is the third cause of action for breach of contract. 
 
The Complaint’s third case of
action shares common, contested issues of fact and law with the Complaint’s
other causes of action. Additionally, one defendant, Coldwell, was not a party
to the Agreement and has not yet appeared in this action or consented to
arbitration, and therefore cannot be compelled to arbitrate by another
non-party to the Agreement such as Barazani. (Nguyen v. Tran, supra,
57 Cal.App.4th 1032 at 1038.) Under either California Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, subdivision (c) or California Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.4, the remaining causes of action may be stayed pending the outcome of
arbitration on the third cause of action. Plaintiff contends that “[i]f the
Court determines that there is an enforceable arbitration agreement, then the [FAA]
apply and the Court is prohibited from staying the arbitration under FAA.”
(Complaint p. 5.) However, following Valencia v. Smyth, supra,
185 Cal.App.4th 153 at 157–59, which involved a very similar arbitration
agreement in an earlier version of the Agreement, an express election of the
FAA to govern interpretation or enforcement of the arbitration clause does not
impose FAA procedural rules and does not prevent a court from staying a
proceeding pending the outcome of arbitration under California Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c).
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS the
Motion as to only the third cause of action for breach of contract, DENIES the
Motion as to the remaining five causes of action, and STAYS all proceedings on
the remaining causes of action pending the outcome of arbitration.
 
 
Dated:  May 28,
2024                                                          _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                                                                                           Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court