  Case Number:  21STCV02421    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



FREDY VERY
  CORONA,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
EXQUISITE APPAREL CORP., et
  al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 21STCV02421 




Hearing Date:


December 5, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
AMENDED MOTION
  FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT AND APPROVAL OF PRIVATE ATTORNEYS
  GENERAL ACT REPRESENTATIVE ACTION SETTLEMENT



            
Background
On January 20, 2021,
Plaintiff Fredy Vera Corona (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Exquisite Apparel Corp. (“Exquisite Apparel”) and Affluent Staffing, LLC. On
March 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Representative
Action Complaint, which contains a single cause of action for violation of the
Private Attorneys General Act of 2004.
Plaintiff indicates that
Plaintiff and Exquisite Apparel have agreed to settle the instant action as to
Exquisite Apparel only. (Alami Decl., ¶¶ 7, 31, Ex. 1.) 
Plaintiff previously
moved for
an order for a determination of good faith settlement, and for an order
approving the Private Attorneys General Act of 2004 (“PAGA”) settlement. The
motion was unopposed. On August 1, 2024, the Court issued an order denying
Plaintiff’s motion for approval of PAGA settlement, without prejudice. The
Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for determination of good faith
settlement.  
Plaintiff now moves again for an order for a
determination of good faith settlement, and for an order approving the PAGA
settlement. The motion is unopposed.
On
October 15, 2024, the Court issued a minute order continuing the hearing on the
instant motion to November 4, 2024. The hearing was thereafter continued to
December 5, 2024. (See October 30, 2024 Minute Order.) On October 31,
2024, Plaintiff filed a “Supplemental
Brief in Support of Amended Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
and Approval of Private Attorneys General Act Representative Action Settlement”
(the “Supplemental Brief”). On December 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of
New Authority regarding the issue of the definition of “aggrieved employees.”
Request for Judicial Notice 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibits
A and B.  
Discussion
A.    Motion for
Approval of PAGA Settlement 
A superior court must
“review and approve any settlement of any civil action filed pursuant to this
part.” (Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (s)(2).) 
The Court notes that
though there is no statutory or common law standard for approval of a PAGA
settlement, the standard used for approval of class action settlements is
instructive. “[A] presumption of fairness exists where: (1)
the settlement is reached through arm’s-length bargaining; (2) investigation
and discovery are sufficient to allow counsel and the court to act
intelligently; (3) counsel is experienced in similar litigation; and (4) the
percentage of objectors is small.” (Dunk v. Ford Motor Co. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 1794, 1802.) The last factor, small percentage of objectors, is
inapplicable to PAGA claims. (See Arias v. Superior Court (2009) 46 Cal.4th 969, 984-985  [rejecting the argument that representative
actions under PAGA violate the due process rights of “nonparty aggrieved
employees who are not given notice of, and an opportunity to be heard”].)
Additional factors that are useful to consider include the strength of a
plaintiff’s case, the risk, expense, complexity and likely duration of further
litigation, the amount offered in settlement, the extent of discovery
completed, and the experience and views of counsel. (See Kullar v. Foot Locker Retail, Inc. (2008)
168 Cal.App.4th 116, 128.)
The
Court is persuaded by the points raised by Plaintiff in the Supplemental Brief
and the Notice of New Authority. No further changes to the definition of “aggrieved
employees” is required. 
In the Supplemental Brief, Plaintiff cites to Roos v. Honeywell Internat.,
Inc. (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th
1472 (disapproved on other grounds as stated in Hernandez v. Restoration Hardware, Inc. (2018) 4 Cal.5th 260) in support of Plaintiff’s counsel’s request for attorney’s fees. In Roos, the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he three objectors contend that the trial court abused
its discretion in awarding attorney fees because the award amounted to 37.5
percent of the settlement funds. They contend that an award of fees amounting
to such a high percentage of the settlement funds is impermissible under
certain federal authority, which they urge us to adopt. They also argue that
the court abused its discretion in awarding fees because it inadequately
reviewed class counsel’s billing records. We are not persuaded by either
argument.” (Id. at p. 1488.) In that case, as in this one, the lodestar far
exceeded the fees requested. The Court finds Roos persuasive and
supportive of Plaintiff’s position on attorney fees. Based thereon, the Court
finds that the fees requested by Plaintiff’s counsel are reasonable.   
Finally,
paragraph 5 of the proposed order references a “Release of claims by the LWDA,
Plaintiff, and all Aggrieved Employees Against Defendant Exquisite Only…” It is
unclear why the LWDA is included in this heading, because Plaintiff’s Amended
Settlement Agreement only contains releases by Plaintiff and by “Aggrieved
Employees.” (See Alami Decl., ¶ 31, Ex. 1, ¶ 5.) In the supplemental
brief, Plaintiff notes that “a PAGA claim is an enforcement action between the
LWDA and the employer, with the PAGA plaintiff acting on
behalf of the government.” (Kim v. Reins International California, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 73, 86.) But the
subject Amended Settlement Agreement does not appear to contain any release of
claims by the LWDA. Plaintiff has indicated that it will remove the reference
to the release of the LWDA from the proposed order. 
Based on the foregoing,
and except as to the reference to the LWDA, it appears that the defects
identified in the Court’s August 1, 2024 Order have been corrected in the
Amended Settlement Agreement and new proposed order. 
B.    Motion for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement
“[Code
of Civil Procedure] Section 877.6 was enacted by
the Legislature in 1980 to establish a statutory procedure for determining if a
settlement by an alleged joint tortfeasor has been entered into in good faith
and to provide a bar to claims of other alleged joint tortfeasors for equitable
contribution or partial or comparative indemnity when good faith is shown.” (Irm Corp. v. Carlson (1986)
179 Cal.App.3d 94, 104.)
Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in
relevant part, that, on noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an action in which it
is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors.” (Id., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).) “The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).)
“A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(c).)  
In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499, the
California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts
are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under section 877.6: “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’
total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability, the amount paid in
settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial. Other relevant considerations include the financial
conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the
existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of nonsettling defendants.” The evaluation of whether a settlement
was made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of information
available at the time of settlement.” (Ibid.)  
Significantly, when the good faith nature of a
settlement is uncontested, the Court need not consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt factors. (City of Grand
Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) “[W]hen no
one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith,
accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is
sufficient.” (Ibid.)
In support of the
motion, Plaintiff submits the declaration of his counsel. Plaintiff’s counsel
sets forth a brief background of the case. (Alami Decl., ¶¶
4-5.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n June 5, 2024, the Parties
participated in an all-day mediation with Michael D. Young, Esq. Affluent
refused to mediate and is a corporation that is no longer represented by
counsel. The Parties were able to reach a resolution, which led to this
Agreement to settle the Action as to Exquisite only…” (Alami Decl., ¶
7.) “Prior to attending mediation, the Parties
engaged in substantial discovery, including but not limited to providing and
evaluating employment policies, employee handbooks, Plaintiff’s personnel file,
Plaintiff’s time records, Plaintiff’s wage statements, and time and payroll
records for approximately all 283 joint employees.” (Alami Decl., ¶ 8.) 
Plaintiff’s
counsel asserts that “Plaintiff is entitled to a determination that the
settlement with Defendant Exquisite in the sum of $450,000 is made in good
faith, in that: (1) Plaintiff will receive an enhancement award in the amount
of $20,000 upon approval for his services as the PAGA representative and
general release of all claims. Further, the total settlement amount is
proportionate given Defendant Exquisite’s alleged liability as a joint employer
(not a direct employer) of Plaintiff and other Aggrieved Employees; (2) the
amount owed by the Settlement is $450,000; (3) the allocation to Plaintiff, the
Aggrieved Employees, and the State of California will be based on the terms
outlined in the Settlement, i.e., 75% of the net recovery will be paid to the
LWDA and the remaining 25% will be paid to Plaintiff and the Aggrieved
Employees based on the proportionate share of pay periods; (4) Defendant
Exquisite will pay less in the Settlement than it would if it were found liable
after trial, if, Plaintiff prevailed on all counts and successfully proved that
Exquisite was a joint employer; (5) the Settlement amount is reasonable due to
the financial hardship Defendant will suffer if litigation were to continue and
liability was proven at trial since Exquisite could face potential bankruptcy
should the Court award the maximum civil penalties, attorneys’ fees, and costs
at trial; and (6) there is no existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious
conduct aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling Defendant, Affluent
Staffing, LLC.” (Alami Decl., ¶ 11.) 
The
Court finds that the unopposed motion describes the background
of this case, details the nature of the proposed settlement, and provides
sufficient reasoning as to why the settlement was reached in good faith. All
indications are that the settlement was reached as a result of arm’s length
negotiations between the settling parties. 
            Conclusion
            Based on the foregoing, the Court grants
Plaintiff’s amended motion for approval of PAGA settlement. The Court will sign
the proposed order and strike the reference to the release by the LWDA. 
            The Court grants Plaintiff’s amended
motion for determination of good faith settlement. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this
ruling.
 
DATED:  December 5, 2024                          ________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court