 Case Number:  24STCP00257    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March
14, 2024                                  TRIAL
DATE:  N/A
                                                           
CASE:                         Grandma Investments, LTD., et al. v. RT Features U.S., LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCP00257
 





















 
MOTION
TO FILE PORTIONS OF PETITION TO CONFIRM 
CONTRACTUAL
ARBITRATION UNDER SEAL 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioners
Grandma Investments, LTD, et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On January 24, 2024, Petitioners, Grandma Investments, Ltd.,
Aloha Finance, Ltd., Bolt Ventures Ltd., FCA Capital Ltd., and Rocio Trading
Corporation, filed a Petition to Confirm Contractual Arbitration Award against Respondent,
RT Features U.S., LLC (“RT Features”).   The Petition is redacted.
 
            On January
25, 2024, Petitioners filed this Motion to Seal to File Portions of Petition to
Confirm Arbitration Award Under Seal. 
 
            The Motion
is unopposed. 
            
            As a
procedural matter, the court notes that there is no proof of service of this
Motion on RT Features.  The court will
continue the matter to allow Petitioners to file proof of service of this
Motion.
  
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A
motion or application to file under seal must be accompanied by a memorandum
and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing. (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).)  “The court
may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts
that establish:
 
(1) There exists
an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;

(2) The overriding
interest supports sealing the record; 
(3) A substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; 
(4) The proposed
sealing is narrowly tailored; and 
(5) No less
restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. 
 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).) 
 
Pursuant
to Rule 2.550(e), “[a]n order sealing the record must: (A) Specifically state
the facts that support the findings; and (B) Direct the sealing of only those
documents and pages, or, if reasonably practicable, portions of those documents
and pages, that contain the material that needs to be placed under seal. All
other portions of each document or page must be included in the public file.”
“Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be
open.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c).)

 
“A
request to seal a document must be filed publicly and separately from the
object of the request.  It must be
supported by a factual declaration or affidavit explaining the particular needs
of the case.” (In re Marriage of Lechowick (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1406,
1416.) “[A]t a minimum that the party seeking to seal documents, or maintain
them under seal, must come forward with a specific enumeration of the facts
sought to be withheld and specific reasons for withholding them.”  (H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 879, 894.)
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
On December 4, 2023, The Honorable Marc Marmaro (Ret.), as
arbitrator in the underlying arbitration proceedings, issued a Final Award and
issued an order modifying the Final Award on January 8, 2024.  Petitioners now move for an order to seal
certain portions of its Petition to Confirm Contractual Arbitration Award and
to lodge certain records under seal.  In
support, Petitioners point to a September 3, 2021 protective order signed by Judge
Marmaro which provides, in relevant part, “[a]ll aspects of [the] Arbitration,
including but not limited to any testimony, all documents, and the culminating
Decision and Award, are, at minimum, designated ‘Confidential.’”  (Sadat Decl., ¶ 3; Petition, Attachment
10(g), ¶ 1(c).)  In observance of
Petitioners’ obligation under the protective order, they have filed a partially
redacted Petition and seek to file under seal certain exhibits in support of
its Petition. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the court finds that there exists an
overriding interest in the confidentiality of the foregoing documents relating
to the contractual arbitration award, that the overriding interest supports
sealing the record, and that a substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed.  
 
Moreover, it is undisputed that the information is subject
to a protective order entered in this matter, which supports the conclusion
that the documents should be sealed. (See, e.g., Overstock.com, Inc. v.
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 484 [“As a practical
matter, this has meant documents subject to a protective order often remain
outside public purview on a ‘good cause’ showing akin to that which supported
issuance of the protective order in the first place.”] [citing Phillips v. General
Motors Corp. (9th Cir. 2002) 307 F.3d 1206, 1213 [“When a court grants a
protective order for information produced during discovery, it already has
determined that ‘good cause’ exists to protect this information from being
disclosed to the public by balancing the needs for discovery against the need
for confidentiality.”]].) Additionally, the “enforcement of binding contractual
obligations not to disclose” can form the basis of an order to seal. (NBC
Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1207
fn. 46.) The court further finds that the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored
to the documents subject to the protective order, and that no less restrictive
means exists to achieve the overriding interest.
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
 
            Based on
the lack of proof of service, the motion to seal is CONTINUED to April 26, 2024
at 9:00 AM.  Petitioner is to file proof
of service within five court days of this Order. 
 
            Moving
party to give notice.  
                                                                                                            
DATED: March 14, 2024
 




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 