  Case Number:  21STCV32611    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  25 HEARING DATE:    Mon., December 9, 2024                                JUDGE /DEPT:        Mkrtchyan/25
CASE NAME:           AAA
T.L.C. Healthcare, Inc. v. Glick, et al.  COMP.
FILED:        09-02-21
CASE NUMBER:     21STCV32611                                    
           TRIAL DATE:          01-07-25                                                          

                                                

 
PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS AND MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
MOVING PARTY:   Defendants
Joan Glick Emery and Laurie Glick (Motion for Sanctions)
                                    Plaintiff AAA T.L.C. Healthcare, Inc. (Motion
for Protective Order)
 
RESP. PARTY:         Plaintiff
AAA T.L.C. Healthcare, Inc. (Motion for Sanctions)
                                    Defendants Joan Glick Emery and Laurie
Glick (Motion for Protective Order)
 
MOTION FOR
SANCTIONS; MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER

(CCP §§ 128.7; 454)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:                                                                        
 
Defendants Joan Glick
Emery and Laurie Glick’s Motion for Sanctions is DENIED.  Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 
Plaintiff AAA T.L.C.
Healthcare, Inc.’s Motion for Protective Order is DENIED.  Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS SERVICE:  
 
[X] Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X] Correct Address
(CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X] 16/21 Court
Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK 
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed
on November 22, 2024                          [   ]
Late                      [   ] None
REPLY:                     Filed
on December 3, 2024                            [X] Late                      [   ] None
 
 
 
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER SERVICE:  
 
[  ] Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC,
rule 3.1300)                      NO
[  ] Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                       NO 
[  ] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c,
1005(b))                        NO 
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed
on November 22, 2024                          [   ]
Late                      [   ] None
REPLY:                     Filed
on December 2, 2024                            [   ]
Late                      [   ] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background

 
On September 2, 2021, AAA T.L.C.
Health Care, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Arthur Glick
(“Arthur”), Doris Glick (“Doris”), Laurie Glick (“Laurie”), and Joan Glick
Emery (“Joan”) (collectively “Defendants”), alleging causes of action for: (1)
breach of contract, (2) goods and services rendered, (3) account stated, (4)
open book account, (5) unjust enrichment, and (6) interference with contractual
relations. The complaint arises from an alleged breach of contract to provide
home care services for Defendant Laurie’s parents, Defendant Arthur and
Defendant Doris. 
 
On November 1, 2021, Defendant Laurie
filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff, Priscilla Roque Manzaneres, and DOES
1 through 20. On April 20, 2023, Defendant Laurie filed an amended
cross-complaint against Plaintiff, Priscilla Roque Manzaneres, and DOES 1
through 20, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) breach of contract,
(2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and (3)
unlawful and unfair business practices.
 
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion for Protective Order that Defendant’s Demand for a Bill of
Particulars Be Quashed (the “Protective Order Motion”). On November 22, 2024, Laurie
and Joan filed an Opposition. On December 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Reply.
 
On November 1, 2024, Laurie and Joan
filed the instant Motion for Sanctions (the “Sanctions Motion”) and Request for
Judicial Notice. On November 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Opposition. On
December 3, 2024, Laurie and Joan filed a tardy Reply.
 
II.                
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
In support of the Motion for
Sanctions, Laurie and Joan request that the Court take judicial notice of two-minute
orders in the present action – namely, the November 7, 2023 and November 21,
2023 minute orders. 
 
Having reviewed the moving papers, the
Court GRANTS Laurie and Joan’s request, pursuant to California Evidence Code
section 452, subdivision (c).
 
III.             
Legal
Standard & Discussion
 
A.   
Motion for Sanctions
 
Laurie and Joan
move for terminating and monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure
section 128 on the grounds that Plaintiff’s “remaining claims are not warranted
under existing law and have no evidentiary support” since Laurie and Joan
tendered payment to Plaintiff; Plaintiff failed to disclose any evidence of
attorney’s fees in discovery and disclosures under Code of Civil Procedure
section 96; Plaintiff is not entitled to attorneys’ fees as damages under black
letter law; and Plaintiff continues to prosecute meritless claims.  (Motion, pp. 6-10.) Plaintiff then requests
monetary sanctions in the amount of $7,230.50, reflecting fees and costs
incurred by Laurie and Joan “since tendering the full amount claimed by
Plaintiff under the Complaint, which should have resulted in Plaintiff’s
dismissal of his remaining claims.” (Motion, pp. 11-12.) 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7 states that:
 
“(b) By
presenting to the court, whether by signing, filing, submitting, or later
advocating, a pleading, petition, written notice of motion, or other similar
paper, an attorney or unrepresented party is certifying that to the best of the
person’s knowledge, information, and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable
under the circumstances, all of the following conditions are met:
 
(1) It is
not being presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to
cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
(2) The
claims, defenses, and other legal contentions therein are warranted by existing
law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal
of existing law or the establishment of new law.
(3) The
allegations and other factual contentions have evidentiary support or, if
specifically so Identified, are likely to have evidentiary support after a
reasonable opportunity for further investigation or discovery.
(4) The
denials of factual contentions are warranted on the evidence or, if
specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of information or
belief.
 
(c) If,
after notice and a reasonable opportunity to respond, the court determines that
subdivision (b) has been violated, the court may, subject to the conditions
stated below, impose an appropriate sanction upon the attorneys, law firms, or
parties that have violated subdivision (b) or are responsible for the
violation. In determining what sanctions, if any, should be ordered, the court
shall consider whether a party seeking sanctions has exercised due diligence.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7,
subds. (b), (c).)
In addition, section 128.7 contains a “safe harbor” provision specifying the
motion for sanctions may not be filed “unless, within 21 days after service of
the motion, ... the challenged paper, claim, defense, contention, allegation,
or denial is not withdrawn or appropriately corrected.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 128.7, subd. (c)(1).)  
 
In Opposition,
Plaintiff contends terminating sanctions are excessively harsh and unwarranted,
especially as no prior sanctions have been issued, and the Motion is
“frivolous, meritless, and harassing” and an attempt to “subvert the court and
the jury.” (Opp., pp. 7-8.) Plaintiff contends its disclosures pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 96 were proper and code compliant. (Opp., p. 8, Exh.
C.) Further, Plaintiff states it properly pled its claim for attorneys’ fees in
the Complaint and, moreover, Laurie and Joan never addressed the issue of
attorneys’ fees and other costs of suit during the duration of discovery, or this
protracted litigation. (Opp., pp. 9-10.) Finally, Plaintiff highlights that
while Laurie and Joan tendered a check in the amount of $17,026.59 on September
11, 2024, Plaintiff did not accept the tender and the offered payment does not
moot Plaintiff’s claims. (Opp., p. 11.)
 
In Reply, Laurie
and Joan allege that Plaintiff seeks fees not alleged in the operative Complaint.
(Reply, p. 2.) Laurie and Joan argue that Plaintiff’s
request for attorney fees and insufficient funds charges as damages, rather
than just costs, warrants sanctions.  
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes
Laurie and Joan’s Reply was one day late. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005.) However,
the Court exercises its discretion to consider the merits of the untimely brief.


            The Court finds sanctions
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 are unwarranted. Plaintiff’s
request for attorney’s fees is reasonable and, at most, a singular instance of
improper pleading. The Court need not fully rule on the merits of the attorney
fee claim as such an action in isolation does not justify sanctions under Code
of Civil Procedure section 128.7. Indeed, there is no evidence this request was
made for an improper purpose, as a frivolous contention, without evidentiary
support, or made based on a lack of information or belief. Moreover, Laurie and
Joan had ample opportunity to address this issue prior to this Motion or
through alternative means and did not, which is indicative of a lack of due
diligence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd, (c).) 
 
To the extent Laurie and Joan argue Plaintiff’s
refusal of their tendered check and continued prosecution of his claims is
sanctionable conduct, the Court disagrees. Laurie and Joan made an offer of
settlement to Plaintiff, and Plaintiff refused in lieu of proceeding to trial. (Motion,
Joan Decl., Exh. C.) Such conduct is Plaintiff’s right – parties are not
required to accept settlement offers.
 
For the foregoing reasons, Laurie and
Joan’s Motion for Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
B.     Motion for Protective Order
 
Plaintiff moves for a protective order
quashing Laurie and Joan’s Demand for a Bill of Particulars (“Demand”). 
 
“It is not necessary for a party to
set forth in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged, but he must
deliver to the adverse party, within ten days after a demand thereof in
writing, a copy of the account, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof.
The court or judge thereof may order a further account when the one delivered
is too general, or is defective in any particular.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 454.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges that the Demand is
improper, fraught with ill-intended gamesmanship, and, to the extent the
Complaint contains ambiguities, such specifics can be clarified through modern
discovery procedures rather than the Demand. (Motion, pp. 4-5, 6-7.) Plaintiff
further contends the Demand is untimely as the “proper time for seeking this
clarification is through the discovery process, and not two weeks before the
scheduled trial date.” (Motion, p. 6.) Moreover, Plaintiff states the
information Laurie and Joan seek through the Demand is largely already in their
possession through the Complaint and discovery process. (Motion, p. 6.) Additionally,
Plaintiff alleges the Demand is void for vagueness, and Laurie and Joan’s counsel
should be subject to sanctions. (Motion, pp. 7-8.) Finally, Plaintiff relies on
Augerais v. Naglee (1887) 74 Cal.60 to make its arguments.
 
In Opposition, Laurie and Joan state there
is no legal authority providing a basis for the Protective Order Motion, and
Plaintiff has no grounds to refuse to respond to the Demand. (Opp., pp. 2, 6.) Laurie
and Joan assert that if Plaintiff has already provided the accounting request
in the Complaint or discovery, then Plaintiff could just respond to the Demand with
those documents. (Opp., pp. 2-3.) If Plaintiff is not required to respond to
the Demand, then Laurie and Joan request Plaintiff to be precluded from
introducing at trial damages not specified in the Complaint or discovery
responses. (Opp., pp. 3, 7.) Laurie and Joan assert Plaintiff should be
required to respond to the Demand because Plaintiff told Laurie and Joan that
the amount they tendered in an attempt to avoid trial was insufficient. (Opp.,
pp. 4-5.) Laurie and Joan state Plaintiff’s Protective Order Motion is
“entirely made up” and dismiss Plaintiff’s contention that their motivation
behind the Demand pertains to the instant Protective Order Motion. (Opp., pp.
5-6.) Finally, Laurie and Joan distinguish the instant matter from Augerais,
supra, 74 Cal.60.
 
In Reply, Plaintiff refutes Laurie and
Joan’s claim that their motives for bringing the Demand are irrelevant to the
Protective Order Motion by pointing to language regarding motive in Code of
Civil Procedure section 128.7, which is a statute about sanctions. (Reply, pp.
1-2.) Plaintiff states Joan and Laurie mischaracterize Augerais, supra,
74 Cal.60 and contends that Joan and Laurie’s failure to present legal
authority in contravention of Plaintiff’s claims indicates Plaintiff’s
arguments are meritorious. (Reply, pp. 2-4.)
 
Analysis 
 
Here, Plaintiff sets forth no legal
authority demonstrating Defendants’ demand for a bill of particulars is
untimely or authorizing the Court to grant Plaintiff’s request for a protective
order quashing Defendants’ demand for a bill of particulars.
 
Additionally, Plaintiff alleges Defendants’
demand is “void for vagueness” because “defendant” is used instead of
“defendants” on the caption of the demand. (Motion, p. 7, emphasis
added.) The Court construes this singular instance as a typographical error
rather than a consistent error rendering the demand void. (Motion, Exh. A.)
 
Accordingly, the
Court DENIES the Protective Order Motion.
 
Finally,
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7
is misplaced. Plaintiff must raise
such a claim in a separate motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (c)(1).)
Thus, this request is DENIED.
 
IV.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons,
Defendants Joan Glick Emery and Laurie Glick’s Motion for Sanctions is DENIED.  Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 
Plaintiff
AAA T.L.C. Healthcare, Inc.’s Motion for Protective Order is DENIED.  Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED. Moving
party is ordered to give notice. 
 
 