 Case Number:  23STLC01817    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  25 HEARING DATE:    Mon., December 9, 2024                                JUDGE /DEPT:        Mkrtchyan/25
CASE NAME:           Powelson
v. City of Long Beach                    COMPL.
FILED:      03-20-23 
CASE NUMBER:     23STLC01817                                    
           

NOTICE:                   OK                                                                  TRIAL DATE:          01-13-25
                                                                                                            

 
PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 
MOVING PARTY:   Defendant
City of Long Beach 
RESP. PARTY:         None 
 
MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 438, et seq.)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:                                                                        
 
Defendant City of Long Beach’s Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Plaintiff’
First Amended Complaint is ordered to be filed within 30 days of this Court’s order.  

 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 
_______________________________________________________________________
 
SERVICE: 

 
[X] Proof of Service Timely
Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X] Correct Address (CCP §§
1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed
(CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK 
 
OPPOSITION:          None filed as of December
4, 2024                [   ] Late                      [X]
None
REPLY:                     None filed as
of December 4, 2024                [   ] Late                      [X] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background

 
On March 20, 2023, Plaintiff Garth
Powelson (“Plaintiff”), proceeding pro per, filed an action against Defendant City
of Long Beach (“Defendant”), alleging a single cause of action for Breach of
Contract. (Compl., p. 1.)
 
On May 25, 2023, Defendant filed an
Answer.
 
On September 20, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings (the “Motion”). 
 
On October 28, 2024, the Motion was
called for a hearing and only Defendant’s counsel appeared. The Court found
Defendant failed to file a meet and confer declaration. Accordingly, the Court
continued the hearing on the Motion to allow Defendant to satisfy the meet and
confer requirement. (10/28/24 Order.)
 
On November 13, 2024, Defendant filed
a supplemental pleading and two supplemental declarations in support of the
Motion. 
 
To date, no Opposition has been filed.
 
II.                
Legal
Standard
 
A defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings if
either of the following grounds exist: “The court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint,” or “[t]he complaint
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that
defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438.)
 
The standard for ruling on a motion
for judgment on the pleadings is “ ‘essentially the same as that applicable to
a general demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with
matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.’ ”  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 316, 321, citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998)
60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216; Barker v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 224;
Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. )d).)  
 
“ ‘Matters which are subject to
mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part of the complaint and may be
considered without notice to the parties. [Citation.] Matters which are subject
to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice of motion, the
supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise permits.’ ” (Bezirdjian,
supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at p. 321.) “ ‘Judgment on the pleadings does not
depend upon a resolution of questions of witness credibility or evidentiary
conflicts. In fact, judgment on the pleadings must be denied where there
are material factual issues that require evidentiary resolution.’ ” (Id.,
at pp. 321-322.) 
 
III.             
Discussion
 
A.    Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a
motion for judgment on the pleadings, “the moving party shall meet and confer
in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings for the
purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the claims
to be raised in the motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
439, subd. (a).) The moving party must file and serve with the motion for
judgement on the pleadings a declaration stating either “[t]he means by which
the moving party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading … and
that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the claims,” or that “the
party who filed the pleading subject to the motion for judgment on the
pleadings failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the moving party
or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 439,
subd. (a)(3).) 
 
The Motion is now accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 439,
subdivision (a). (11/13/24 Peters Decl.; 11/13/24 Supp. Peters Decl.) According
to the declarations, Defendant’s counsel repeatedly emailed and called Plaintiff,
who is proceeding pro se, from October 28, 2024 to November 12, 2024 in
attempts to meet and confer via phone. (11/13/24 Peters Decl., ¶¶ 1-18.) 
 
On November 13, 2024, after filing
Defendant’s Supplemental Pleading in support of the Motion, Defendant’s counsel
received a call from Plaintiff on an unknown number. (11/13/24 Supp. Peters
Decl., ¶ 1.) The parties discussed the contents of the Motion and the Motion’s
continuance to December 9, 2024; however, Plaintiff disagreed with Defendant
and “stated he believed the Complaint had pled a cause of action.” (11/13/24 Supp.
Peters Decl., ¶ 1.)
 
Thus, the Court finds the meet and
confer requirement satisfied.
 
B.     Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings 
 
Allegations in the Complaint
 
Plaintiff contends he had agreed to
purchase a “RAWSON Sailboat, 30’, Sloop Rig” (the “Rawson boat”) from James
Devalle (“Devalle”). (Compl., p. 1.) Plaintiff paid $600.00 down and agreed to
pay the remaining balance within 30 days or a reasonable time to receive the
title. (Compl., p. 1.) On October 4, 2022, Plaintiff paid the balance to
Devalle, and title of the Rawson boat was transferred to Plaintiff. (Compl., p.
1, Exh. A.) 
 
Prior to Plaintiff’s purchase, the
Rawson boat was impounded at Shoreline Marina because Devalle violated a
three-hour time limit at the temporary docks. (Compl., p. 1, Exh. B.) However,
Devalle declared he paid for this tow and impound fee. (Compl., p. 1, Exh. C.)
Plaintiff was unaware of this tow and impound upon purchase. (Compl., p. 1.)
 
After the boat had been towed and on
or around September 23, 2022, Plaintiff heard about the prior towing and
impound of the Rawson boat. (Compl., p. 1.) Plaintiff continued working on the Rawson
boat. However, Plaintiff then heard the Rawson boat had been “Donated” to the
Shoreline Marina. (Compl., p. 1.)
 
Plaintiff met with Eric Skelly,
Assistant Harbormaster (“Skelly”). (Compl., p. 1.) Plaintiff informed Skelly of
his situation with the Rawson boat. (Compl., pp. 1-2.) Skelly then explained to
Plaintiff that to retrieve the Rawson boat, Plaintiff needed the title in his
name and a mooring/dock to bring the boat to. (Compl., p. 2.)
 
Plaintiff purchased the Rawson boat
and reserved a mooring in San Diego Harbor. (Compl., p. 2.) On October 4, 2022,
after receiving title to the Rawson boat, Plaintiff returned to Skelly, who
produced a “ ‘post-it’ sticker as an invoice for $1,611,” reflecting a $600 fee
for the tow, impound, and fees incurred since September 23, 2022. (Compl., pp. 2-3.)
 
Plaintiff contends Skelly did not
provide a quote of $1,611 when they met prior to October 2022; rather,
Plaintiff states Skelly just told Plaintiff “it would be, ‘a couple hundred
dollars. For towing, and storage.’ ” (Compl., p. 3.) Plaintiff argues the
charges from September 23, 2022 to October 4, 2022 is “between the Shoreline,
the Life Guards who cited then towed this boat, and with Eric Kelly,” and thus
have nothing to do with Plaintiff. (Compl., p. 3.) Plaintiff further argues
that Skelly double billed the $600 because Devalle already paid $600 for the
first tow and impound. (Compl., p. 3.)
 
Plaintiff requests the Court should
award him “the boat [he] paid for, worked on, and obtained mooring for in San
Diego.” (Compl., p. 3.)
 
Moving Party Position
 
Defendant moves for judgment on the
pleadings on the grounds Plaintiff failed to plead a prima facie case for
breach of contract and the Defendant is immune from liability under Government
Code, sections 818.8 and 822.2. (Motion, p. 2.) As to the breach of contract
claim, Defendant contends Plaintiff has failed to plead the existence of a
contract between Plaintiff and Defendant, or any employee of Defendant.
(Motion, p. 4.) Indeed, Defendant states that the only contract pled in the
Complaint is one between Plaintiff and Devalle regarding Plaintiff’s purchase
of the Rawson boat. (Motion, p. 5.) 
 
Contrary to Plaintiff’s portrayal,
Defendant alleges Skelly’s statements to Plaintiff did not create a contract
because: (1) there was an absence of consideration; (2) Plaintiff fails to
allege his performance or excuse for nonperformance under the alleged contract as,
even if there was a contract for Plaintiff to pay outstanding fees to Skelly in
exchange for the Rawson boat, Plaintiff has not paid the fees and thus failed
in performance of his obligations; and (3) Plaintiff fails to allege how
Defendant breached the contract since Defendant merely followed the Long Beach Municipal
Code – “[s]ince the boat was re-impounded prior to Plaintiff’s purchase,
Plaintiff was obligated to pay all costs incurred in moving, keeping, and
storing the sailboat, even if such costs were incurred prior to his ownership
of the sailboat. Plaintiff cannot cite to any authority to the contrary City
merely enforced its Marina rules and regulations. This conduct does not and
cannot amount to any actionable contract breach.” (Motion, pp. 4-6.) 
 
Additionally, Defendant argues it is
immune from liability under Government Code sections 818.8 and 822.2 in the
event Plaintiff’s Complaint is construed to plead a misrepresentation, false
promise, or fraud claim on behalf of Skelly. (Motion, pp. 6-7.) Further,
Defendant contends the Complaint does not sufficiently allege that Skelly acted
with corruption or malice so as to avoid Government Code section 822.2
immunity. (Motion, p. 7.) 
 
Analysis  
 
A cause of action for breach of
contract must plead “(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse
for non-performance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.” (Acoustics, Inc. v. Trepte Constr. Co. (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d
887, 913.) A written contract can be pled by alleging its making and attaching
a copy to the complaint or by alleging the making and the substance of the
relevant terms. (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty
Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.) The terms of an “oral contract
may be pleaded generally as to its effect, because it is rarely possible to
allege the exact words.” (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 635,
640.) Finally, an implied-in-fact contract can be alleged based on the
promisor’s conduct. (Gomez v. Lincare, Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 508,
525.)  “ ‘A cause of action for breach of implied contract has the same
elements as does a cause of action for breach of contract, except that the
promise is not expressed in words but is implied from the promisor's conduct.’ ”
(Ibid.)
 
Government Code section 818.8 states
that “[a] public entity is not liable for an injury caused by misrepresentation
by an employee of the public entity, whether or not such misrepresentation be
negligent or intentional.” 
 
Government Code section 822.2 states
that “[a] public employee acting in the scope of his employment is not liable
for an injury caused by his misrepresentation, whether or not such
misrepresentation be negligent or intentional, unless he is guilty of actual
fraud, corruption or actual malice.”
 
Here, Defendant moves for judgment on
the pleadings on the grounds the Complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a breach of contract or misrepresentation cause of action. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438.) The Court agrees. 
 
For the first element of a breach of
contract claim – the existence of a contract – the Complaint alleges some kind
of agreement between Devalle and Plaintiff; however, no facts are alleged
regarding the relevant terms of an agreement or services provided by Defendant.
Thus, Plaintiff fails to plead either a written or oral contract between
Plaintiff and Defendant. At most, the Complaint could be construed to allege an
implied-in-fact contract based on Skelly’s conduct of promising a reduced
amount in storage fees in exchange for Plaintiff obtaining title to the Rawson
boat and mooring. (Gomez, supra, 173 Cal.App.4th at p. 525.) 
 
Nonetheless, Plaintiff also fails to
plead breach. Plaintiff does not plead how Defendant breached the alleged
agreement – while Plaintiff pleads Skelly told Plaintiff “it would be, ‘a
couple hundred dollars. For towing, and storage’ ” (Compl., p. 3) and then
later increased the amount of fees, Plaintiff does not plead Skelly indicated
the initial estimate would be a fixed cost not subject to increase as
days (and storage fees) passed. Plaintiff pleads he did not obtain title until
around 11 days after the initial conversation with Skelly, which is additional
days of storage of the Rawson boat. (Compl., pp. 1-3.) Thus, Plaintiff fails to
plead Defendant breached in this aspect of the agreement as Plaintiff pleads
that Defendant satisfied its end of the alleged agreement – Defendant offered
to give Plaintiff the Rawson boat in exchange for Plaintiff’s payment of towing
and storage fees. As to Plaintiff’s double-billing claim regarding the $600
impound and towing fees, Plaintiff does not plead facts demonstrating Plaintiff’s
immunity from costs for the second impound and towing fee separate and apart
from the first towing and impound fee paid by Devalle. Thus, Plaintiff fails to
plead a breach by Defendant in this regard as well.
 
Finally, to the extent Plaintiff’s
Complaint may be construed to allege a claim of misrepresentation as to the
towing and storage fees, the Court finds Defendant is immune from such a claim.
(Gov. Code, §§ 818.8, 822.2.) 
 
Accordingly, the
Motion is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the breach of contract cause of
action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
438, subds. (h), (i).)  
 
IV.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
Defendant City of Long
Beach’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Plaintiff’ First Amended Complaint is ordered
to be filed within 30 days of this Court’s order.  
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 