 Case Number:  24STLC06743    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  25 HEARING DATE:    Mon., December 9, 2024                                JUDGE /DEPT:        Mkrtchyan/25
CASE NAME:           Robertson’s
Ready Mix, Ltd. v.                     COMP.
FILED:        09-18-24
O’Neill, et
al.  
CASE NUMBER:     24STLC06743                                    
           TRIAL DATE:          03-18-26

NOTICE:                   OK                                                                  
                                                                                    

 
PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS
 
MOVING PARTY:   Defendant
Robert O’Neill
RESP. PARTY:         Plaintiff Robertson’s Ready Mix, Ltd.
 
MOTION TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 405.20, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Robert O’Neill’s Motion
to Expunge Lis Pendens and Request for Attorneys’ Fees and Costs are DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for Attorney’s
Fees and Costs is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $2,325.  
 
_______________________________________________________________________
 
SERVICE:  
 
[X] Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X] Correct Address
(CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X] 16/21 Court
Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK 
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed
on November 22, 2024                                      [  ] Late           [   ] None
REPLY:                     Filed
on November 26, 2024                                      [  ]
Late           [   ] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background

 
On September 18, 2024, Plaintiff Robertson’s
Ready Mix, Ltd. (“Plaintiff”) initiated this action against Defendants Robert
D. O’Neill (“Robert”) and Meghan O’Neill (“Meghan”) (“Defendants”) and Does 1-50
alleging causes of action for Breach of Contract, Quantum Meruit, Common Count
– Account Stated, Common Count – Open Book, and To Enforce Mechanic’s Lien.
(Compl., p. 1.) 
 
On September 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a Notice of Pendency of Action, stating an action to foreclose and enforce a
mechanic’s lien had commenced. (9/23/24 Notice of Pendency of Action.)
 
On October 17, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens (the “Motion”). 
 
On November 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an Opposition.
 
On November 26, 2024, Defendant filed
a Reply.
 
II.                
Legal
Standard & Discussion
 
Moving Party Position
 
Defendant moves for an order expunging
the Notice of Pendency of Action (“lis pendens”) recorded against the real
property located at 1330 8th Street, Manhattan Beach, California 90206 (the
“Property”). Defendant asserts the lis pendens was improperly filed and is not
supported by a valid real property claim. Specifically, Defendant states the
lis pendens must be expunged because no valid contract exists between Plaintiff
and Defendant – any “work performed was unauthorized, and no agreement was
reached for payment.” Defendant contends Plaintiff’s claim relies on an alleged
oral agreement involving $1,188.08, which exceeds the threshold for an oral
contract under Business and Professions Code section 7159 and is invalid under
Civil Code section 1624, which requires certain contracts – including those for
real property improvements exceeding $500 – to be in writing.
 
Next, Defendant argues Plaintiff
failed to meet the requirements for a mechanic’s lien because Plaintiff failed
to “provide a written contract or an invoice for the services means that the
mechanics’ lien and the lis pendens filed in connection with it are invalid.” 
 
Thus, Defendant argues the lis pendens
should be expunged under Code of Civil Procedure sections 405.30 and 405.31. Defendant
also requests an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs. 
 
Opposition
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff contends the
Motion is procedurally defective as it conflates the dates of the recordation
of the mechanic’s lien on June 26, 2024 with the recordation of the lis pendens
on September 23, 2024. (Opp., p. 4.) Next, Plaintiff argues the mechanic’s lien
is a real property claim, and Defendant’s claims regarding Business and
Professions Code section 7159 and Civil Code section 1624 are inapplicable.
(Opp., pp. 4-7.) In any event, Plaintiff argues the agreement was “in fact
memorialized in writing” and the statute of frauds is inapplicable as a
defense. (Opp., p. 7.) Regardless, Plaintiff argues the mechanic’s lien claim
does not depend on the validity of Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim because
the mechanic’s lien claim arises from the California constitution. Thus,
Plaintiff “has established a probable validity of prevailing on its claims.”
(Opp., p. 7.) 
 
Finally, Plaintiff contends Defendant
is not entitled to reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs because either
Plaintiff is the prevailing party or, in the event Defendant prevails,
Defendant is not represented by counsel and thus attorneys’ fees are not
available to Defendant. (Opp., p. 8.) Instead, Plaintiff requests attorneys’
fees in the amount of $4,375.00. (Opp., pp. 8-9.) 
 
Reply
 
            In
Reply, Defendant reiterates that Plaintiff’s lis pendens and mechanic’s lien
are procedurally and substantively defective. (Reply, p. 1.) Defendant argues
the mechanic’s lien was recorded multiple days past the statutory deadline,
which invalidates the lien; Plaintiff failed to serve proper notice on all
property owners, which renders the lien void; and Defendant paid the lien
amount of $1,188.08, which extinguished the lien. (Reply, pp. 1-6.)
 
            Additionally,
Defendant contends Plaintiff’s counsel “has made demonstrably false statements
in her declaration that mislead the Court and undermine [Defendant]’s
credibility.” (Reply, pp. 6-7.) Defendant contends these “misrepresentations
are serious violations of her ethical obligations and warrant sanctions under
California Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7, enhanced damages, and
referral for a perjury investigation.” (Reply, p. 7.) Defendant alleges Plaintiff’s
counsel mischaracterizes the mechanic’s lien filing date, makes false claims
regarding payment status, and misrepresents Plaintiff’s collection efforts.
(Reply, pp. 7-8.)
 
Analysis
 
“At any time after notice of pendency
of action has been recorded, any party, or any nonparty with an interest in the
real property affected thereby, may apply to the court in which the action is
pending to expunge the notice.… Evidence or declarations may be filed with the
motion to expunge the notice.… The claimant shall have the burden of proof
under Sections 405.31 and 405.32.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.30.) The “claimant”
is the “party to an action who asserts a real property claim and records a
notice of the pendency of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.1.) The court
shall order the notice expunged if (1) the court “finds that the claimant has
not established by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the
real property claim,” or (2) the Court “finds that the pleading on which the
notice is based does not contain a real property claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 405.31-405.32.)
The Court shall not order an undertaking to be given as a condition of
expunging the notice where the Court finds the pleading does not contain a real
property claim or the claimant has not established the probable validity of the
real property claim. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 405.31-405.32.)
 
“ ‘Real property claim’ means the
cause or causes of action in a pleading which would, if meritorious, affect (a)
title to, or the right to possession of, specific real property or (b) the use
of an easement identified in the pleading, other than an easement obtained
pursuant to statute by any regulated public utility.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
405.4.)
 
Civil Code section 8416 states that “[a]
claim of mechanics lien shall be a written statement, signed and verified by
the claimant, containing all of the following:
 
(1) A statement of the claimant’s
demand after deducting all just credits and offsets.
(2) The name of the owner or
reputed owner, if known.
(3) A general statement of the
kind of work furnished by the claimant.
(4) The name of the person by
whom the claimant was employed or to whom the claimant furnished work.
(5) A description of the site
sufficient for identification.
(6) The claimant’s address.
(7) A proof of service affidavit
completed and signed by the person serving a copy of the claim of mechanics
lien pursuant to subdivision (c). The affidavit shall show the date, place, and
manner of service, and facts showing that the service was made in accordance
with this section. The affidavit shall show the name and address of the owner
or reputed owner upon whom the copy of the claim of mechanics lien was served
pursuant to paragraphs (1) or (2) of subdivision (c), and the title or capacity
in which the person or entity was served.
(8) [A certain] statement,
printed in at least 10-point boldface type. The letters of the last sentence
shall be printed in uppercase type, excepting the Internet Web site address of
the Contractors’ State License Board, which shall be printed in lowercase type.”

 
            (Civ.
Code, § 8416, subd. (a).)
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes Defendant
appears to mistakenly refer to the mechanic’s lien recorded on June 26, 2024 as
the lis pendens filed on September 23, 2024. The Court construes the Motion to
pertain to the lis pendens and addresses the merits accordingly. 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
established that the Complaint on which the lis pendens is based contains a
real property claim of a mechanic’s lien. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 405.31-405.32) As
such, the Court need not address the breach of contract claim. 
 
Further, the Court also finds
Plaintiff has established by a preponderance of the evidence the probable
validity of the claim regarding the mechanic’s lien.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 405.31-405.32) Plaintiff submits
the written statement of the mechanics’ lien which appears in substantial
conformance with the statutory requirements. (Civ. Code, § 8416, subd. (a);
Opp., Exh. 1.) Defendant’s challenges in the Reply regarding timeliness,
notice, and payment of the lien are either unsupported, misconstrued, or
contradicted by Plaintiff’s evidence. (Opp., Exh. 1, 4, 8; Lee Decl.)
 
Finally, Defendant’s remaining
arguments are not pertinent or applicable to the instant Motion. The Court
declines to address these arguments at this time. 
 
Additionally, Defendant requests
sanctions against Plaintiff’s in-house legal counsel, Janice Lee, pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7. (Reply, p. 8.) However, Defendant fails
to raise this claim in a separate motion as is statutorily required. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 128.7, subd. (c)(1).) Thus, this request is DENIED.
 
Attorneys’ Fees
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 405.38
provides that, “[t]he court shall direct that the party prevailing on [a motion
to expunge lis pendens] be awarded the reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of
making or opposing the motion unless the court finds that the other party acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of attorney’s fees and costs unjust.”

            Here, Plaintiff is the
prevailing party and is thus entitled to reasonable attorney fees and costs. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 405.38.) Plaintiff requests attorney fees and costs of $4,375,
reflecting fees for two attorneys who bill at different hourly rates. (Brunner
Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.) Plaintiff states the attorneys incurred costs of seven hours at
$425.00 an hour and four hours at $350.00 an hour to draft the Opposition and
supporting declarations, review the Reply brief, and attend the Motion hearing.
(Brunner Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.) 
 
            Given
the brevity of the Reply brief and that Plaintiff erroneously duplicated 1.5
hours in the fees and costs calculation, Plaintiff’s request is GRANTED in the
reduced amount of $2,325.
 
III.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant Robert
O’Neill’s Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens and Request for Attorneys’ Fees
and Costs are DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for Attorney’s
Fees and Costs is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $2,325.  
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 
 
 
 