 Case Number:  24SMCV01349    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  I The court has reviewed the demurrer and motion to
strike.  The court believes that the
answer was filed in bad faith and therefore the motion to strike is
GRANTED.  The demurrer is (for that
reason alone) MOOT.  This goes not only
to the affirmative defenses, but the answer itself.  The complaint is verified, and thus the
answer cannot be by general denial and must be signed under penalty of perjury
(here, the verification was by Christian Toxboe).  Reviewing the specific allegations, many are
obviously not in good faith.  For
example, plaintiff alleges that Christian Toxboe lives in LA County and is a
managing member of Toxboe Group, LLC.  
Toxboe Group’s answer, verified by Christian Toxboe, states that it
lacks information sufficient to admit or deny. 
The complaint alleges that Toxboe Group, LLC is a California LLC with a
particular place of business and that it claims some right, lien, or interest
in property.  Toxboe Group lacks
information as to that as well.  In fact,
Toxboe lacks sufficient information as to every single one of plaintiff’s
allegations.  That is just not
credible.  As to the affirmative
defenses, there are 39 of them.  They
include some that are plainly ill-pled (33 AD for statute of limitations), some
that plainly are not affirmative defenses at all (34 AD, lack of consideration
(given that consideration for a contract is part of the plaintiff’s affirmative
case), or are pretty obviously just cut out from the form book.
 
Defendant (and frankly, all defendants) ought to have the
affirmative defenses pass through the brain before committing them to
paper.  Many, such as various equitable
defenses, require that a factual predicate be alleged.  Many of the defenses are not affirmative
defenses.  While it is true that most
plaintiffs elect that the race is not worth the candle when it comes to
demurring to an answer, this one is about as bad as the court has seen.
 
Defendant has 2 court days to file a verified answer that
conforms with the law.  The court warns
the defense that another failure will result in default (as the court will
conclude that it was a tactical choice by the client) or an order sustaining
parts of the demurrer without leave to amend. 
If it is worth doing, it is worth thinking about it beforehand.  The time to file is deliberately short.