 Case Number:  24TRCV00955    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    December 30, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV00955
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Larry
Turner v. Elite Group Enterprise, LLC, et al.
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Larry Turner   
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Elite Group Enterprise, LLC; David Joseph Tapia (No
Opposition) 
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                            Not Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Plaintiff’s Motion for
Leave to File Second Amended Complaint 
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) DENIED, without prejudice.  There is no supporting declaration to demonstrate
compliance with Rule of Court 3.1324,
 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
            On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff, Larry Turner (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendant, Elite Group Enterprises and EMA Risk
Services. On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
alleging the following causes of action: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence; (2)
General Negligence; and (3) Intentional Tort. 
                                                                                 
            Now, Plaintiff files a Motion for Leave to File a Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) on the grounds that since the filing of the FAC, Plaintiff’s
counsel states to have uncovered crucial mistakes in the FAC that service of
summons and complaint to both Defendants would be incomplete. Plaintiff also
claims to be moving on the grounds Plaintiff seeks to amend the pleading to add
causes of action and legal theories based on uncovered evidence. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On November 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Motion for Leave to Amend and file Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). To date,
no opposition brief has been filed. 
 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 Leave to amend is permitted
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. The
policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so
strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . ..
[citation].  A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and
probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v.
Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also
comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that
would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
B.    Discussion 
 
Plaintiff
states that he seeks to amend the pleading as follows: (1) add Does 1 to 20;
(2) Correct mistake on item number 5, a. Defendant Elite Group Enterprises, LLC
to (5) Other: a limited liability company; (3) Correct mistake on item number
5, b. remove EMA Risk Services, and remove (5) other: Insurance Company; (4)
Add item number 6, a. 1 to 10, inclusive, and b. 11 to 20, inclusive; (5)
Correct mistake on item number 14, a. (2) remove punitive damages; (6) Add item
number 15, and MV-2 (b-f); and GN-1; (7) Add attachments One (1) Cause of
Action-Motor Vehicle and Two (2) Cause of Action-General Negligence to
Complaint that were not previously attached to the original complaint.
 
Plaintiff
explains that since filing the FAC, he has uncovered crucial mistakes in the
FAC that service of summons and complaint to both Defendants would be
incomplete. Further, Plaintiff has attempted personal service of the original
summons and complaint on Defendant, David Joseph Tapia, but has not been
successful. Plaintiff also seeks to amend the complaint to add causes of action
and legal theories based on the above evidence. Plaintiff confirms that
Defendants will not be prejudiced by the granting of this motion, and that the
amendments are not barred by the statute of limitations. 
 
            The court DENIES this motion on the
grounds that Plaintiff has failed to comply with California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324. Although Plaintiff has included specifications by reference to
pages and lines the allegations that would be deleted and added as well as providing
a copy of the proposed and numbered amendment, Plaintiff has failed to include a
declaration stating the effect, necessity, and propriety of the amendments,
date of discovery, and reason for delay. The Court acknowledges that the Notice
attached to the Plaintiff’s moving papers includes, in the caption, that the
moving papers include a Declaration of Catalina L. Gracia, however, there is no
such declaration included. As such, the Court DENIES the motion without
prejudice for failure to comply with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File his Second Amended
Complaint is DENIED, without prejudice. 
 
             
 
 
 
 
 