 Case Number:  23TRCV02318    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 December 30, 2024¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV02318
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Cynthia Booze, individually and as
Successor-in-Interest to decedent Gordy Nnamdi Aniako v. One Imperial Plaza LP,
et al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Attorneys for Plaintiff,
Cynthia Booze 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendants Super Center Concepts, One Imperial Plaza LP, a
California Corporation, Superior WHSE. Grocers Inc., a California corporation,
The Right Choice Home Remodeling, Inc., a California 
 
TRIAL DATE:                       
Not Set.  
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Application
for Kimberly Lauren Wald to appear Counsel Pro Hac Vice 

 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENY without prejudice
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Factual¿ 
 
This motion arises out of the original filing of a
complaint on July 18, 2023 by Plaintiff, Cynthia Booze, individually and as
successor-in-interest to decedent, Gordy Nnamdi Aniako (“Plaintiff”) against
Defendants, One Imperial Plaza LP, a California corporation, Superior WHSE
Grocers Inc., a California corporation, The Right Choice Home Remodeling, Inc.,
a California corporation, and DOES 1 through 50. The complaint alleges causes
of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Wrongful Death; (3) Respondeat Superior Liability;
and (4) Negligent Hiring and Retention. Plaintiff’s complaint is based on an
incident taking place on January 26, 2023 when Decedent, Gordy Nnamdi Aniako
(“Decedent”) allegedly suffered traumatic and fatal injuries while lawfully on
the premises of Superior Grocers when he encountered Angel Alexander Ramos
(“Assailant”) who shot Decedent three times in the parking lot of the store.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 16-18.) Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that at all relevant
times, both Defendants, One Imperial Plaza LP and Superior Grocers owned,
operated, maintained, managed, and/or controlled the subject premises.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 19-20.) 
 
On December 18, 2023, Superior Center Concepts Inc.
dba Superior Grocers (“SCC”)  filed a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants, One Imperial Plaza LP, The Right
Choice Home Remodeling, Inc., Angel Alexander Ramos, and MOES 1 through 50.
Subsequently, on April 11, 2024, SCC filed a Doe Amendment identifying 12 “0”
27 Protective Services, Inc. as MOE 2. The cross-complaint alleges causes of
action for: (1) Equitable Indemnity; (2) Express Indemnity; (3) Breach of Contract;
(4) Contribution; and (5) Declaratory Relief. Cross-Defendant, 12 0 27
Protective Services, Inc. (“Protective Services”) entered into a Security Guard
Services Contract with SCC in March 29, 2018 under which SCC purchased security
guard protection services for its properties. 
 
Now, Attorneys for Plaintiff, Cynthia
Booze files a Motion for Order Allowing Out-of-State Attorney, Kimberly Lauren
Wald, to appear pro hac vice. 
 
B. Procedural 
 
On November 22, 2024,
Attorneys for Plaintiff, Cynthia Booze, submitted an Application for Kimberly Lauren Wald, to appear pro hac
vice. Super Center Concepts filed an opposition on
December 27, 2024, asserting that they were never served with the moving papers
and indicating in a declaration of counsel that the moving party’s declaration
falsely stated that all defendants were on board with the pro haec
application.  No reply has been
filed.  
 
¿II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard
 
To be
eligible for admission pro hac vice, the applicant must be admitted to
practice before a U.S. court or the highest court of any state or territory,
must not be a California resident, must be associated with a member of the
California bar, must have noticed the California State Bar in San Francisco at
least 21 calendar days before the hearing, and must have paid $50.00 to the
State Bar. Further, pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 the moving
papers must state: (1) The applicant's residence and office address; (2) The
courts to which he has been admitted to practice and the dates of such
admission; (3) That the applicant is a member in good standing in those courts;
(4) That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;
(5) The title of the court and cause in which he has filed an application to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years,
the date of such application and whether or not it was granted; and (6) The
name, address and telephone number of the active member of the State Bar of
California who is attorney of record.
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
On review
of the moving papers, the Court finds that Attorneys for Plaintiff have
sufficiently shown that Kimberly Lauren Wald is in good standing in the State
of Florida and Nevada, both of which she has been admitted to practice law in.
(Declaration of Kimberly Lauren Wald (“Wald Decl.”), ¶¶ 5-6.) Wald has
also included the dates of admission. (Wald Decl., ¶ 5.) Wald states
that she has never been denied admission to the courts of any state or to any
federal court. (Wald Decl., ¶ 8.) The moving papers indicate that Wald is associated with an
attorney of record who is a member of the California Bar. (Wald Decl., ¶ 5; Declaration of David
Demurjian (“Demurjian Decl.”), ¶ 4.) Further, Wald has noticed the California
State Bar. (Demurjian Decl., ¶ 3.) Wald has also provided both her office
address, and resident address. (Wald Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) The only requirements missing from this
application is whether Plaintiff’s attorneys have paid the $50 fee to the
California Bar and Wald’s dates of admission as to the U.S. Courts she
maintains admission to.
 
However,
counsel for Super Center Concepts submitted a late-field declaration the Friday
before the Monday hearing indicating he and another defendant were never served
with the moving papers and that the moving party’s declaration falsely states
that after conferring with all counsel no party opposed the pro haec
admission.  Because of these disputed
factual issues and the indication that fewer than all parties were served with
the motion, the Court’s tentative is to deny the application without prejudice
to it being re-filed after proper service on all parties and after
clarification of the disputed factual issue of a full meet and confer with all
counsel before the motion is re-filed and updated.. 
 
 
 
 