  Case Number:  22TRCV01219    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    December 30, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      22TRCV01219
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Jane Doe #1, et al.
v. Defendant Doe School District, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant,
Palos Verdes Peninsula Unified School District
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiffs,
Jane Doe 1, Jane Doe 2, Jane Doe 3, Jane Doe 4, and Jane Doe 5. 
¿¿ ¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       January 27, 2025
¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) District’s Motion for
Leave to File First Amended Cross-Complaint 
                                                (2) Ex Parte Application
to Continue trial
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) DENIED.
                                                (2) Discuss, since
Plaintiff has not had time to file a response to the ex parte application filed
on December 27
 
¿¿ 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On November 14, 2022,
Plaintiffs, Jane Doe 1, Jane Doe 2,
Jane Doe 3, Jane Doe 4, and Jane Doe 5 (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a
complaint against Defendants, Defendant Doe School District (“Defendant”), and
Defendant DOES 2 through 100. On April 11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”). On July 18, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent
Supervision/Failure to Warn; and (3) Negligent Retention/Hiring.  
 
            Now, Defendant, Palos Verdes Peninsula Unified School
District (“District”) files a Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint (“XC”)
on the following grounds: (1) “facts have come to light that establish good
cause for the District seeking leave to file its XC adding Beverly Wilshire
Travel as ROES 1; (2) the District will be severely prejudiced if not permitted
to file this XC at this time; and (3) granting leave to file this XC will serve
the interests of justice. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On December 4, 2024, District filed a
Motion for Leave to Amend and file XC.  On
December 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition motion. On December 20, 2024,
District filed a reply brief.  
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
  Code of Civil Procedure
section 428.50 provides: 
 
“(a) A party
shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint
or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer
to the complaint or cross-complaint. 
 
(b) Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial. 
 
(c)¿A party shall obtain leave
of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed¿within¿the time¿specified in
subdivision (a)¿or¿(b).¿ Leave may be granted in the interest of justice
at any time during the course of the action.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 428.50.)  
 
“A party who
fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this article,
whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause,
may apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a
cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the
action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon
such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to
file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead
the cause acted in good faith.  This subdivision shall be liberally
construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.)
(Emphasis added.) 
 
The Court of
Appeals has explained: “The legislative mandate is clear. A policy of liberal
construction of section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is
imposed on the trial¿court. A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time
during the course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving
party is demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as
oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient
grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.” (Silver Organizations
Ltd. v. Frank¿(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98–99.) “‘‘Bad faith,’ is defined as ‘[t]he opposite of ‘good faith,’ generally
implying or involving actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or
deceive another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some
contractual obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake . . ., but by some
interested or sinister motive[,] . . . not simply bad judgment or negligence,
but rather . . . the conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or
moral obliquity; . . . it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating
with furtive design or ill will.  [Citation.]’  [Citations.]’ 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at 100.) 
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also
comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that
would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
B.    Discussion 
 
District
files this Motion for Leave to File Amended Cross-Complaint on the grounds that
it states that Gary Poe’s declaration on December 2, 2024, confirmed the
involvement of an entity known as Beverly Wilshire Travel. (Declaration of
Harry W. Harrison (“Harrison Decl.”), ¶ 5, Exhibit C.) Thus, District seeks to
name Beverly Wilshire Travel as Roe 1 in its already existing cross-complaint
as it reasonably believes that Beverly Wilshire Travel may properly bear
liability for the events giving rise to this lawsuit and any damages allegedly
sustained by Plaintiff. District argues that granting its motion is in the
interest of justice and judicial economy so that a single jury can be able to
fully evaluate and render a verdict on liability and damages. In making its
arguments, District relies on Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990)
217 Cal.App.3d 94 (“Silver Organizations”).
In Silver Organizations, the
Court of Appeals explained that “The legislative mandate is clear. A policy of
liberal construction of section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action
is imposed on the trial court. A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time
during the course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving
party is demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as
oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient
grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.” (Silver
Organizations Ltd. v. Frank¿(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98–99.) “‘‘Bad
faith,’ is defined as ‘[t]he opposite of ‘good faith,’ generally implying or
involving actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive
another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual
obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake . . ., but by some interested or
sinister motive[,] . . . not simply bad judgment or negligence, but rather . .
. the conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral
obliquity; . . . it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating with
furtive design or ill will.  [Citation.]’  [Citations.]’ 
[Citation.]”  (Ibid. at 100.) 
In Silver Organizations, the
plaintiffs had brought an action on a promissory note against defendants, who
postponed retaining an attorney while they attempted to settle the action. (Silver
Organizations, supra, ) 217 Cal.App.3d at 94.) After settlement
negotiations proved unsuccessful, the case was set for trial. (Ibid.)
The defendants quickly sought counsel, but that representation was belatedly
denied due to an asserted conflict of interest issue. (Id. at 101.)
Promptly, defendants pursued other legal representation for trial, finding an
attorney to represent them who successfully moved for a slight trial
continuance (43 days). (Ibid.) During that time, the attorney pursued
investigation and formal discovery, including the deposition of one of the plaintiffs.
(Id. at 98.) In doing so, the attorney not only discovered additional
grounds for defending his clients, but also found grounds to file a
cross-complaint which was expeditiously filed, and subsequently denied. (Id.
at 101.) The Court of Appeals found that the trial court erred in its denial,
stating that because  “the trial court
[did] not provide[] a reason for its denial of a motion to file a compulsory
cross-compliant,” they implied its denial was based on a finding that the
moving party has not acted in good faith. (Id. at 100.) However, the
Court of Appeals review of the entire record “failed to reveal [to them],
directly or inferentially, any substantial evidence of bad faith by the
appellants.” (Ibid.) The First District Court found that “[l]ooking at
the entire period between the filing of the complaint and the denial of the
section 426.50 motion, a time frame of less than six months, we [found] noting
in appellants’ words or conduct remotely suggesting dishonest purpose, moral
obliquity, sinister motive, furtive design or ill will.” (Ibid.) The
Court acknowledged that while it could have been “argued that appellants,
acting as their own counsel, may have been guilty of neglect, inadvertence or
oversight, thereby causing delay, section 426.50 expressly disallows denial of
amotion based on these grounds. There must be bad faith and this record fails
to demonstrate that element.” (Id. at 101.) 
Here, this Court finds District’s
reliance on Silver Organizations unavailing. Although unpublished, the
Court turns the Parties’ attention to the First District Court’s subsequent
2014 decision of U.S. Bank National Association v. Singh (2014 WL
5796367) (“Singh”). There, the very Court of Appeal that decided Silver
Organization, distinguished Singh when finding that, despite a trial
court’s failure to “make express findings on the issue” of whether there had
been a showing of bad faith, “substantial evidence support[ed] an implied
finding that the [defendants] filed the cross-compliant in bad faith and for
the improper purpose of delaying…” (p. 4.) The First District Court of Appeals
stated that “[t]he cross-complaint was filed only days after the Singhs asked
the court to continue the hearing on U.S. Bank’s motion for summary judgment
and only weeks before the scheduled trial date. The Singhs concede[d] that the
proposed cross-complaint [was] based, at least partially, on facts that
occurred before U.S. Bank filed this action, and the Singhs were aware of these
facts months before they filed their motion for leave. Indeed, many of the
legal theories set forth in the Singhs’ proposed cross-complaint were also
asserted in the answer the Singhs filed 18 months earlier…While these facts may
support inferences other than bad faith, such as inadvertence and neglect, on
substantial-evidence review we must defer to inferences favoring the trial
court’s ruling.” (p. 5.) 
Similarly to Singh, this
Court finds that substantial evidence supports an implied finding that District
is acting in bad faith. First, the Court recognizes that this is not the first
time District is filing a motion for leave to file cross-complaint. As noted in
the opposition brief, the trial date was initially set for September 24, 2024,
but on July 17, 2024, District filed an ex parte application to continue trial,
citing “new evidence” regarding World Horizons Institute, a party it claimed
helped plan the Europe Trip and was indispensable to the case. In fact,
District’s ex parte motion states, “evidence recently obtained through
preparation for the deposition of District’s person most qualified (held on
June 21, 2024) led to the discovery of a potentially indispensable party,
namely World Horizons Institute, the travel agency responsible for conducting
the Europe Trips at issue in this case.” (Ex Parte Application, p. 6.) In
footnote 1 of the ex parte application, District stated that “[t]his information
was not readily available previously because Plaintiffs have all alleged in
pleadings, responded in discovery and testified in their respective depositions
that the Europe Trip was sponsored by Rolling Hills High School.”  (Ex Parte Application, p. 6, n.1.) This Court
continued the trial based on District’s contentions. Despite this, Plaintiffs
argue that District has not conducted any discovery regarding World Horizons
Institute. 
If the District was reviewing
evidence during the preparation for the deposition of their person most qualified
on June 21, 2024, the Court wonders why District would not also review Volume
II of Poe’s deposition taken September 28, 2023. In that deposition, Poe confirmed
that when he arranged the trips between 1978 and 1989, that he used Beverly
Wilshire Travel. (Declaration of Jennifer R. Liakos (“Liakos Decl.”), ¶ 4,
Exhibit 3, p. 215:17-23.) The Court is unable to review the rest of the
deposition transcripts as they are not included, but the following question
posed to Poe appears to be even more information regarding Beverly Wilshire
Travel, which would align with the information District claims they just
received from Poe’s December 2, 2024 declaration. Certainly, the deposition
testimony from September 28, 2023, “confirms [Beverly Wilshire Travel’s]
involvement during the pertinent time period,” the stated reason District has
for just now seeking to add them in as ROE 1. (Harrison Decl., ¶ 5.) Thus,
based on this reasoning alone, as stated in the moving declaration, the Court
does not find good cause to grant District leave to amend as the declaration
confirms nothing that was not already known about Beverly Wilshire Travel over
a year prior. District even concedes, in the 5th paragraph of Harrison’s
declaration, that Beverly Wilshire Travel has been previously referenced during
the course of litigation. 
Plaintiffs’ opposition brief also
highlights the other times Beverly Wilshire Travel have been referenced in this
litigation. On April 17, 2024, Jane Doe 2 produced a copy of the 1983 Europe
Trip Itinerary and Travel Plan in her Responses to the District’s Request for
Production of Documents as JD2_0014-JD2_0039. (Liakos Decl., ¶ 6, Exhibit 4.) Additionally,
Stephanie Simon, a third-party witness who attended the 1983 Europe Trip
referenced the same Beverly Hills travel document in her September 2024
deposition, and it was attached as an exhibit. (Liakos Decl., ¶¶ 9-10, Exhibits
7-8.) Plaintiffs confirm that District’s attorneys even asked questions of both
Garry Poe and Stephanie Simon about Beverly Wilshire Travel’s involvement in
planning the trip. Thus, District’s answer including an affirmative defense for
indemnity, ROEing in a separate travel agency, not conducting any discovery on
that travel agency, and attempting to ROE in a separate travel agency a day
before the motion for summary judgment hearing, and with trial next month militate
against yet another trial continuance when the identity of Beverly Wilshire
Travel was known throughout litigation. 
            Lastly,
this Court holds that this motion can be denied on procedural grounds as well.
Harrison’s declaration was required to specify the
effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and
reasons for delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a),
(b).) Here, while District claims to have “confirmed” something from Poe’s
December 2, 2024 declaration, the Harrison Declaration fails to state the date
of discovery and reason for delay. Confirmation of an already known fact is not
discovery of that fact. 