  Case Number:  23AHCV00916    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF IVY ZIHAN GENG’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
PLAINTIFF’S REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE; AWARDING PLAINTIFF’S
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IN THE REDUCED AMOUNT OF $935.00.  
                         
I.         
INTRODUCTION
            In this
defamation action, Plaintiff Ivy Zihan Geng (“Plaintiff”) alleges that in pro
per Defendant Wansong Hou aka Ella Wansong Hou aka Ella Tsai (“Defendant”)
spread false rumors and defamatory statements about Plaintiff’s sex life. Plaintiff
alleges that in June and July of 2022, Defendant published these rumors by
phone and through WeChat to Geng’s family, friends and friends’ companies in
China. Plaintiff alleges she suffered injuries to her personal reputation and
business because of these statements. The Complaint, filed on April 25, 2023, contains
six causes of action for: (1) libel per se, (2) slander per se, (3) false
light, (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (5) injunctive relief
and (6) declaratory relief.
 
            On December
12, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, ordering Defendant to
provide code-compliant, verified responses, without objections within 10 days
of December 12, 2023. (12/12/23 Notice of Ruling.) Defendant served responses
on December 15, 2023, which Plaintiff argues are non-compliant on several
grounds. (Motion, p. 2; Decl. of David Yu, ¶ 4, Exh. 1.)
            Before the
Court is a Motion to Compel Further Discovery Requests for Production of
Documents, filed by Plaintiff on February 5, 2024, concurrently filed with a
separate statement, a request for judicial notice, and the Declarations of
David Yu and Caixing Ma. Plaintiff requests $1,360 in sanctions against
Defendant. As of July 17, 2024, no opposition has been filed. The hearing was
initially scheduled for April 25, 2024, and continued to July 19, 2024. (Min.
Order, 4/5/24.) A trial date is scheduled for April 22, 2025.
            The Court is unaware of any subsequent further meet and confer efforts
that may have occurred since the motion was filed. Having reviewed the
moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court makes the following rulings.
            
                         
I.         
ANALYSIS
A.   
Judicial Notice
Taking judicial notice of a
document is not the same as accepting the truth of its contents or accepting a
particular interpretation of its meaning. (Fremont Indem. Co. v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113-14.) That means that “when
judicial notice is taken of a document…the truthfulness and proper
interpretation of the document are disputable.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 569.
Plaintiff requests judicial notice
of the Notice of Ruling re: Plaintiff Ivy Zihan Geng’s Three Motions to Compel.
(Request for Judicial Notice, p.2, Exh. A; Evidence Code § 452(d)). The Court
notes that judicial notice of its own records related to this case is
unnecessary and redundant. Nonetheless, Defendant’s request is GRANTED. 
 
B.   
Motion to Compel Further Production of Documents
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, parties may move for a further
response to requests for production of documents where a statement of
compliance with the demand is incomplete, a representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or where an objection is without
merit or too general.¿¿ 
Notice of
the motions must be given within 45 days of service of the verified response,
otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further
response.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)¿ The motion must also be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (b).)¿¿¿ 
Finally,
Cal. Rule of Court 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving
further discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request,
the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling
further responses.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(3).)¿¿¿
The
motion was timely filed as it was filed on February 5, 2024, 55 days after the
Court granted an order issuing Defendant to serve responses to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set One. On January 22, 2020, Plaintiff’s
counsel, David Yu served a meet and confer letter to Defendant’s counsel
regarding the non-code-compliant responses and set a response deadline of
January 29, 2023, which Defendant failed to meet. (Motion, p. 2; Yu Decl., ¶ 5,
Exh. 2.) The parties continued to engage in correspondence and were unable to
agree on a mutual extension time to serve code-compliant supplemental
responses. (Motion, p. 3; Yu Decl., ¶¶ 3-5, Exh. 3.) 
The meet and confer requirement is
fulfilled. The motion is procedurally sound as it is also accompanied by a
separate statement and supporting declaration.
Plaintiff bring this motion to
compel Defendants to provide further responses to Request for Production of
Documents. It is undisputed that Plaintiff seek production of communication
records of the incident in connection with these discovery requests. Defendant’s
responses of “NO” or “NO SUCH THING” to all 35 Requests for Production of
Documents are improper and sanctionable. (Motion, p. 4, Separate Statement.)
Specifically, the Court finds that
Defendant’s lack of direct facts in its supplemental responses to Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, is delaying discovery by failing to address
the key questions in determining the outcome of the case.
            The
Court agrees that Plaintiff is entitled to supplemental responses 45 days after
receipt of the provided responses. Thus, Defendant must comply in providing
code compliant responses to the foregoing requests without further delay or
prejudice to Plaintiff. Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion
compelling Defendant to produce the requested documents.
 
C.   
Sanctions

Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to
impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) 
If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.   
With
regard to a motion to compel further responses to requests for production,
Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.310, subdivision (h) provides that
sanctions shall be awarded against any party, person or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further responses, unless
the Court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of sanctions
unjust. 
Plaintiff asks the court to impose
a monetary sanction of $1,460.00 on Defendant for Defendant’s failure to provide
the requested documents. (Motion, p. 6.) Plaintiff’s counsel, David Yu, Esq., a
California-licensed associate attorney at Ardent Law Group, P.C., states that $875.00
was incurred in preparing this motion based on his $350.00 hourly billing rate,
as applied to 2.5 hours to prepare this motion and the $60.00 filing fee. (Yu
Decl., ¶ 10.) The Court finds the time expended and the hourly rate to be
reasonable.  Plaintiff’s counsel
anticipated an additional 1.5 hours in preparing a reply and another filing fee.
(Yu Decl., ¶¶ 11-12.) Considering the motion is unopposed, Plaintiff has not incurred
these additional expenses. 
Plaintiff was justified in bringing
this motion. Defendant failed to successfully oppose the motions and sanctions
are therefore mandatory. The Court agrees that Defendant’s responses are legally
deficient in numerous ways. (Yu Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 1.)  Given that the motion is unopposed, the court awards
$935.00 for the costs incurred in preparing the motion.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER          Defendant is ordered to provide further responses to Plaintiff's Request for the Production of Documents, Set One, within thirty days of today date.      Defendant is further ordered to pay sanctions of $935.00 to Plaintiff within 30 days of today’s date.      Moving party to give notice.  

          
Dated:  July 19, 2024                                     
JARED D. MOSESJUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
