  Case Number:  20CHCV00648    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 1/14/25                                               
TRIAL DATE: 6/23/25
Case #20CHCV00648
 
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Motion filed on 10/24/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Patricia Alvarado
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Ridgeview Saugus Homeowners
Association
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order granting
summary adjudication in favor of Plaintiff
Patricia Alvarado (Plaintiff) and against Defendant Ridgeview Saugus Homeowners
Association (the HOA) on the following issues of duty: 
 
Issue
of Duty No. 1: The HOA owes a duty to enforce its CC&Rs (the
Declaration of Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions first recorded on April
20, 1989 as Instrument Number 89- 621251 in the Official Records of the Los
Angeles County Recorder’s Office). 
 
Issue
of Duty No. 2: The HOA owes a duty to enforce its operating rules. 
 
Issue
of Duty No. 3: The HOA owes a duty to enforce its Rules Enforcement
Policy. 
 
Issue
of Duty No. 4: The HOA owes a duty to prepare a Rules and Violation
Report in the event of a violation of its governing documents. 
 
Issue
of Duty No. 5: The HOA owes a duty to determine whether there is a
tangible violation of its governing documents. 
 
Issue
of Duty No. 6: The HOA owes a duty to send a violation letter stating
the violation and date needed to cure said violation after determining there is
a tangible violation of its governing documents. 
 
Issue
of Duty No. 7: The HOA owes a duty to hold a homeowner hearing after
determining there is a tangible violation of its governing documents. 
 
Issue
of Duty No. 8: The HOA owes a duty to, upon expiration of the cure
date, send a second notice and impose a $40.00 fine if no cure has been
undertaken. 
 
Issue
of Duty No. 9: The HOA owes a duty to, upon expiration of the cure
date, send a third notice and impose an $80.00 fine if no cure has been
undertaken. 
 
Issue
of Duty No. 10: The HOA owes a duty to double the fines each month
after the third notice, up to $1,500.00, if no cure has been undertaken. 
 
Issue
of Duty No. 11: The HOA owes a duty to initiate legal action to collect
unpaid fines.

 

RULING: The motion is denied.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of disputes between
neighbors.  Plaintiffs Alex Alvarado and
Patricia Alvarado (the Alvarados) and Defendants Michael Meadows and Althea
Meadows (the Meadows) own and/or live at neighboring properties in a common
interest development managed by Defendant Ridgeview Saugus Homeowners
Association (the HOA) and governed by a Declaration of Covenants, Conditions
and Restrictions (CC&Rs).  Plaintiff
Patricia Alvarado (Plaintiff) has sued the HOA for failure to enforce its
“Governing Documents” with regard to various conduct allegedly committed by the
Meadows.  (See First Amended
Complaint ¶¶16-17 and 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th,
10th, 12th, 14th, 16th causes of
action therein).  The operative First
Amended Complaint defines the “HOA’s Governing Documents” as “the HOA’s Bylaws,
CC&Rs, Rules and Regulations, and Architectural Guidelines.”  (See First Amended Complaint ¶14).
 
On 11/9/22, the Alvarados filed and served a motion
seeking an order granting summary adjudication in favor of the Alvarados and
against the HOA on the following Issue of Duty No.1: The HOA owed and continues
to owe the Alvarados a duty to fairly enforce the governing documents.  The Alvarados also sought summary
adjudication of each of the HOA’s affirmative defenses (1st – 12th
affirmative defenses).  On 2/17/23, the
Court denied the motion.  (See
2/17/23 Minute Order, pp.6-10).
 
On 10/24/24, Plaintiff Patricia Alvarado filed and served
the instant motion for summary adjudication which seeks an order granting
summary adjudication in favor of Plaintiff Patricia Alvarado (Plaintiff) and
against Defendant Ridgeview Saugus Homeowners Association (HOA)  on the following issues of duty: 
 
Issue of Duty No. 1: The HOA owes a duty to
enforce its CC&Rs (the Declaration of Covenants, Conditions, and
Restrictions first recorded on April 20, 1989 as Instrument Number 89- 621251
in the Official Records of the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office). 
 
Issue of Duty No. 2: The HOA owes a duty to
enforce its operating rules. 
 
Issue of Duty No. 3: The HOA owes a duty to
enforce its Rules Enforcement Policy. 
 
Issue of Duty No. 4: The HOA owes a duty to
prepare a Rules and Violation Report in the event of a violation of its
governing documents. 
 
Issue of Duty No. 5: The HOA owes a duty to
determine whether there is a tangible violation of its governing documents. 
 
Issue of Duty No. 6: The HOA owes a duty to
send a violation letter stating the violation and date needed to cure said
violation after determining there is a tangible violation of its governing
documents. 
 
Issue of Duty No. 7: The HOA owes a duty to
hold a homeowner hearing after determining there is a tangible violation of its
governing documents. 
 
Issue of Duty No. 8: The HOA owes a duty
to, upon expiration of the cure date, send a second notice and impose a $40.00
fine if no cure has been undertaken. 
 
Issue of Duty No. 9: The HOA owes a duty
to, upon expiration of the cure date, send a third notice and impose an $80.00
fine if no cure has been undertaken. 
 
Issue of Duty No. 10: The HOA owes a duty
to double the fines each month after the third notice, up to $1,500.00, if no
cure has been undertaken. 
 
Issue of Duty No. 11: The HOA owes a duty
to initiate legal action to collect unpaid fines.
  
The HOA has opposed the motion and Plaintiff has filed a
reply to the opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff’s and the HOA’s Requests for Judicial Notice
are granted. 
 
The Court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s objections to
the Daniel Nordberg declaration pursuant to CCP 437c(q).  The Court did not rely on the opinion of Mr.
Norberg in making its ruling on this motion.   
 
CCP 437c(f)(1) provides: 
 
(1) A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more
issues of duty, if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that
there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as
to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as
specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an
issue of duty.
 
(emphasis added)
 
The HOA argues that the motion is procedurally defective
because Plaintiff failed to bring the instant motion on the ground that any of
the duties sought to be adjudicated are owed specifically to Plaintiff as
required by CCP 437c(f)(1).  (See
Opposition, p.7:5-p.8:11).  In response
to this argument, Plaintiff contends that “the summary judgment statute itself
doesn’t require every civil plaintiff to list ‘to the plaintiff’ after every
single issue of duty.”  (See
Reply, p.9:23-24).  The authority
Plaintiff cites in support of her argument is Civil Code 3532 which provides
that “[t]he law neither does nor requires idle acts.”  However, specifying to whom the duties
Plaintiff seeks to have adjudicated are owed is not an idle act.  As noted in the opposition, Plaintiff claims
that the HOA failed to enforce its Governing Documents against the Meadows.  As such, it is not clear if each of the
duties Plaintiff seeks to have adjudicated are purportedly owed to Plaintiff,
to all of the HOA members, or to the Meadows. 
Without Plaintiff providing clear and proper notice of same, the Court
cannot assume that Plaintiff intended to have issues of duty owed to her
summarily adjudicated.   
 
Even if Plaintiff had properly indicated that she sought
to have issues of duty specifically owed to her adjudicated, the motion fails, minimally
as to Issues 3-11. 
 
Plaintiff has failed to establish that the HOA’s Rules
Enforcement Policy removes any discretion that is afforded to the HOA under
California law and/or the CC&Rs.  Civil
Code 4205, within the Davis-Stirling Common Interest Development Act, provides:

 
“(a) To the extent of any conflict between the governing documents
and the law, the law shall prevail.
(b) To the extent of any conflict between the articles of
incorporation and the declaration, the declaration shall
prevail.
(c) To the extent of any conflict between the bylaws and the
articles of incorporation or declaration, the articles of incorporation or
declaration shall prevail.
(d) To the extent of any conflict between the operating rules and
the bylaws, articles of incorporation, or declaration, the bylaws, articles of
incorporation, or declaration shall prevail.”
  
The HOA’s Rules Enforcement Policy, contained within the
Rules and Regulations, are operating rules. 
Civil Code 4340(a).  Therefore, to
the extent that a conflict exists with regard to mandatory or discretionary
obligations, California law and the HOA’s CC&Rs prevail.  Plaintiff’s assertion that the Rules
Enforcement Policy does not provide the HOA with discretion as to how it
enforces its rules contradicts the law and the HOA’s CC&Rs.
 
The discretionary language in the CC&Rs takes
precedence over the mandatory language relied on by Plaintiff in the Rules
Enforcement Policy.  The CC&Rs
provide that the HOA has the “right” to enforce its CC&Rs and the “right”
to prevent violations.  (CC&Rs
Article XVII, Section 1 - Plaintiff’s RJN, Ex.2 and HOA’s RJN, Ex.1).  The CC&Rs also provide that that when
initiating disciplinary proceedings against members, the HOA is to act in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the CC&Rs.  (Id., Article VI, Section 3(g)).  Further, the CC&Rs provide that when
enforcing its Governing Documents, the HOA “may” take actions such as imposing
a reasonable reimbursement assessment and/or suspending voting privileges.  (Id., Article III, Section 14). 
 
California statutory law gives homeowner associations,
such as the HOA, discretion with regard to enforcing their Governing Documents.  See Civil Code 4805; Civil Code 5975.  Similarly, case law allows for such
discretion.  The Rule of Judicial
Deference allows homeowner associations the discretion to decide how to enforce
their governing documents.  See Nahrstedt
(1994) 8 C4th 361, 374; Lamden (1999) 21 C4th 249, 259.  Courts will defer to a board’s management
decisions when the board: (1) undertakes a reasonable investigation, (2) acts
in good faith and with regard for the best interest of the community
association and its members, and (3) makes a decision that is within the scope
of its authority under the relevant statutes, covenants and restrictions.  Lamden, supra at 265.  It has further been held that homeowner
associations are not required to enforce the prohibitions of their governing
documents when it would be economically imprudent to do so and when the
violation is not affecting more than one owner. 
See Haley (2007) 153 CA4th 863, 873-874.  
 
Here, the HOA’s CC&Rs give the HOA the right, not the
obligation, to enforce the provisions of the CC&Rs, including whether or
not to file lawsuits against owners for violating their provisions.  In exercising the discretion granted to it
under the CC&Rs and California law, the HOA may weigh various factors
(i.e., the severity of the violation, anticipated costs of litigation, the
likely outcome) when deciding whether or not to pursue litigation with regard
to a particular violation.  See Beehan
(1977) 70 CA3d 858, 866-867.
 
The cases relied on by Plaintiff do not establish as a
matter of law that the HOA lacked discretion with regard to the enforcement of
its Governing Documents in relation to the facts in this case.  See Ekstrom (2008) 168 CA4th
1111, 1123; Cohen (1983) 142 CA3d 642, 650, 654; Rancho Santa Fe (2004)
115 CA4th 28.    
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied in its entirety.  
 
The Court notes that in violation of CRC 3.1110(f)(4)
both Plaintiff and the HOA have failed to electronically bookmark the exhibits
submitted in support of their papers. 
Counsel for the parties are warned that failure to comply with this rule
may result in matters being continued so that papers can be re-filed in
compliance, papers not being considered and/or the imposition of
sanctions.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 