 Case Number:  22CHCV01321    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 1/14/25                                                                      
TRIAL DATE: 10/27/25
Case #22CHCV01321
 
MOTION TO
COMPEL COMPLIANCE 
 
Motion filed on 10/3/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Oliva Morena Posada 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
compelling Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. to produce documents
consistent with its responses to requests for production of documents.    Additionally, Plaintiff requests an order
imposing sanctions against Honda and its counsel of record, Clark
Hill LLP, in the amount of $2,130.00.

 
RULING: The motion is moot, in part, and granted,
in part.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiff Olivia Morena Posada
aka Olivia M. Posada’s (Plaintiff) lease/purchase of a 2022 Honda CR-V (the
Vehicle).  Plaintiff contends that the
Vehicle is defective and Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (Honda) has
been unable to service or repair the Vehicle to conform to the applicable
express warranties after a reasonable number of opportunities.  Plaintiff further contends that despite the
foregoing, Honda has failed to promptly replace/repurchase the Vehicle as
required under the Song-Beverly Act.    
 
As a result, on 12/7/22, Plaintiff filed this action
against Honda for: (1) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express
Warranty and (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied
Warranty.  Honda filed an answer to the
complaint on 1/3/23.  
 
On 3/14/23, Plaintiff propounded Requests for Production
of Documents, Set 1, on Honda.  (Lupinek Decl.,
Ex.A).  On 4/25/23, Honda served
responses to the requests.  (Id.,
Ex.B).  On 5/8/24, the Court granted Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to various document requests, including Request
45.  (See 5/8/24 Minute
Order).  On 6/10/24, Honda served further
responses to the various document requests, including to Request 45.  (Id., Ex.F).  In further response to Request 45, Honda stated:

 
“The requested production will be
allowed in whole and AHM will produce Customer Retention and Resolution System
Reports and Tech Line Contact Reports (redacted to protect the privacy of third
parties), that identify complaints by owners of 2022 Honda CR-V vehicles in
California regarding the complaints for which the SUBJECT VEHICLE was presented
to an authorized Honda repair facility for warranty repair, based on the
following search terms: “brake system warning light on,” “driver assist warning
lights on,” “brake system warning light on,” “ACC warning light on,” and
“adaptive cruise control warning light on.” These documents contain information
that is private, confidential, commercially sensitive, proprietary, and/or
trade secret, and will be produced pursuant to the protective order in this
case.” 
 
Id.
 
Despite indicating that responsive documents would be
produced, Honda did not produce any such documents.  (Lupinek Decl.).  On 9/25/24, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet
and confer letter to Honda’s counsel indicating that a motion would be filed if
the responsive documents were not received by 10/2/24.  (Id., Ex.G).  On 9/25/24, Honda’s counsel’s office
acknowledged receipt of the meet and confer letter and indicated that they
would respond by 10/2/24.  (Id.,
Ex.H).  No further response/documents
were received on 10/2/24.  (Lupinek
Decl.).
 
Therefore, on 10/3/24, Plaintiff filed and served the
instant motion which seeks an order compelling Defendant American Honda Motor
Co., Inc. to produce documents consistent with its responses to requests for
production of documents.   Additionally,
Plaintiff requests an order imposing sanctions against Honda and its counsel of
record, Clark Hill LLP, in the amount of $2,130.00.  Honda has opposed the motion.  Plaintiff has not filed a reply to the
opposition.
 
At the 1/9/25 hearing on Honda’s ex parte application to
continue trial and related dates, the Court noted that the opposition to the
instant motion indicates that the motion is moot and no reply had been
filed.  (See 1/9/25 Minute
Order).  In response, Plaintiff’s counsel
indicated that Plaintiff may want to argue the motion as to sanctions.  Id. 
The Court ordered Plaintiff’s counsel to notify the court by 4:30 p.m.
that day (1/9/25) to confirm whether the hearing on the instant motion should
be taken off calendar or is to proceed.  Id.  Plaintiff’s counsel failed to contact the Court
as ordered.
 
ANALYSIS
 
As noted above, the opposition indicates that the motion
is moot because on 10/4/24, Honda served an amended further response to Request
45 which states that no documents resulted from Honda’s search and no
responsive documents have ever existed. 
(Hom Decl., Ex.3).  
 
Honda contends that Plaintiff has not established any
prejudice from the timing of Honda’s amended further response to Request 45
and, therefore, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions should be denied.  
 
Since Plaintiff has failed to file a reply in response to
Honda’s claim that its amended further response to Request 45 renders the
motion moot, the Court finds that the request to compel compliance is moot.
 
However, the Court finds that due to Honda’s first
further response to the request indicating that responsive documents would be
produced, Honda’s failure to produce such documents, and Honda’s failure to
respond to Plaintiff’s meet and confer letter as agreed, Plaintiff was forced
to incur fees and costs related to the filing of this motion.
 
As such, the Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled to
recover reasonable attorney fees and costs related to this motion as sanctions
against Honda and its former counsel, Clark Hill LLP.  See CCP 2031.320(c).  The Court finds that reasonable fees and
costs amount to $1,185.00 (2 hours to prepare the motion + ½ hour to prepare
for and attend the hearing multiplied by $450/hour + $60 filing fee).  (See Lupinek Decl. ¶¶14-15).  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The request to compel compliance is moot.  The request for sanctions against Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. and its former counsel, Clark Hill LLP is
granted in the reduced amount of $1,185.00. 
Sanctions are payable within 30 days. 

 
 
 