  Case Number:  23PSCV03693    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  David
Thomas Torres v. Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc., et al. 
Defendant
Guillermo Antonio Orozco’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Guillermo Antonio Orozco’s motion to
strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
The Court STRIKES Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages, specifically
on page 3 of 3 of the Judicial Counsel Complaint, paragraph 14.a.(2). 
Defendant Orozco is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling
within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a personal injury action. On November 29, 2023, plaintiff David
Thomas Torres (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Consumer
Portfolio Services, Inc., Guillermo Antonio Orozco (Orozco), and Does 1 to 15, alleging
causes of action for motor vehicle and general negligence. 
On April 18, 2024, Defendant Orozco moved to strike portions of
the complaint. The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
            “Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions
specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.) 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            “Any request for judicial notice must be made in a
separate document listing the specific items for which notice is requested and
must comply with rule 3.1306(c).” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113, subd. (l).)
“A party requesting judicial notice of material under Evidence Code sections
452 or 453 must provide the court and each party with a copy of the material.
If the material is part of a file in the court in which the matter is being
heard, the party must: (1) Specify in writing the part of the court file sought
to be judicially noticed; and (2) Either make
arrangements with the clerk to have the file in the courtroom at the time of
the hearing or confirm with the clerk that the file is
electronically accessible to the court.” (Id., rule 3.1306, subd.
(c).) 
            Defendant Orozco made a general request for the Court to
take judicial notice of various documents in its file. (Notice, 2:2-4.) To the
extent Orozco is requesting the Court to take judicial notice of the complaint,
the Court will do so. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) However, the Court
takes judicial notice of the complaint only as to the existence, content, and
authenticity of public records and other specified documents, it does not take
judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those
documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.) 
The Court also notes, however, that Orozco’s request
for judicial notice was not made in a separate document per rule 3.1113,
subdivision (l), of the California Rules of Court, nor did Orozco provide
copies of the documents sought to be judicially noticed per rule 3.1306,
subdivision (c), of the California Rules of Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rules
3.1113, subd. (l), 3.1306, subd. (c).) The Court admonishes Orozco to comply
with the requirements of the California Rules of Court going forward. 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section
435.5, subdivision (a), Defendant Orozco was required to meet and confer in
person or by telephone before bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 435.5, subd. (a).) Orozco provided no declaration indicating whether Orozco
attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff. (See Id., § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)
Nevertheless, the Court may not deny a motion to strike for failure to adequately
meet and confer. (Id., § 435.5,
subd. (a)(4).) 
Punitive Damages 
A claim for punitive damages is subject to a motion to strike when
the allegations fail to rise to the level of malice, oppression, or fraud
necessary under Civil Code section 3294. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central
California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.) 
Orozco moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages on
the grounds that the complaint fails to allege specific facts by clear and
convincing evidence that Orozco acted with malice, oppression, or fraud. Orozco
contends carelessness, characterized as negligence or recklessness, is not
sufficient to support an award of punitive damages. Orozco contends that the
complaint does not allege facts indicating that Orozco intentionally caused the
underlying accident in this case, and that merely alleging that Orozco fled the
scene of the accident is not the proximate cause of Plaintiff’s injuries or sufficient
for punitive damages. 
The
Court also notes that Plaintiff did not oppose the motion, which the Court
construes as a tacit admission that Defendant Orozco’s arguments are
meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition,
Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant Orozco negligently struck Plaintiff’s
vehicle with his vehicle on October 29, 2022. (Compl., Second Cause of Action,
GN-1.) 
The Court finds insufficient facts have been alleged to pray for
punitive damages. In essence, Plaintiff is seeking punitive damages from
Defendant Orozco for his failure to properly operate an automobile. There is no
allegation in the complaint showing Defendant Orozco intended to cause
Plaintiff's injuries or that Defendant Orozco consciously disregarded
Plaintiff's safety. The Complaint alleges “Defendant’s conscious decision to
flee the scene of an accident, which resulted in serious and life-threatening
injuries for Plaintiff due to the magnitude of the crash, constitutes
despicable conduct and was done with a willful and knowing disregard of the
right and safety of others.” (Id.) However, Plaintiff's summary
allegation tracking the language of Civil Code section 3294 is insufficient and
the causing of negligent harm through operating an automobile does not suffice
as a prima facie case for punitive damages. 
Moreover, merely fleeing the scene of an accident does not warrant
the imposition of punitive damages because the act of fleeing is not the basis
for the claims alleged in the complaint. (See Brooks v. E.J. Willig Truck
Transp. Co. (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, 679 (fleeing the scene of an accident act
is not a separately actionable tort unless the act of fleeing causes additional
damages above and beyond those caused by the accident.).) The complaint does
not allege facts showing that Plaintiff suffered any additional harm by
Defendant Orozco's failure to stop after the accident. Therefore, there is no
basis to award punitive damages based upon such conduct. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Guillermo Antonio Orozco’s motion to
strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
The Court STRIKES Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages, specifically
on page 3 of 3 of the Judicial Counsel Complaint, paragraph 14.a.(2). 
Defendant Orozco is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling
within five calendar days of this order.