  Case Number:  21STCV16677    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 11/13/24
Case #21STCV16677
 
MOTION TO QUASH
SERVICE OF SUMMONS
 
Motion filed on 4/2/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Chatsworth Gardens Apartments,
LLC (specially appearing)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Stephanie Hernandez; Aurora Gonzalez; Diamond Ayala, a minor, by and through her Guardian Ad
Litem Stephanie Hernandez;
Mia Ayala, a minor, by and through her Guardian Ad Litem Stephanie Hernandez
and Ezra Cardenas, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem Stephanie
Hernandez
NOTICE: ok

 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order quashing service of
summons.
 
RULING: The motion is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiffs Stephanie Hernandez;
Aurora Gonzalez; Diamond Ayala, a minor, by and through her Guardian Ad Litem
Stephanie Hernandez; Mia Ayala, a minor, by and through her Guardian Ad Litem
Stephanie Hernandez and Ezra Cardenas’, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad
Litem Stephanie Hernandez (collectively, Plaintiffs) tenancy in an apartment
complex owned, managed and/or operated by Defendant Chatsworth Gardens
Apartments, LLC (Chatsworth Gardens). 
Plaintiffs claim that the apartment was infested with bed bugs and that
they suffered personal injuries as a result. 

 
On 5/4/21, Plaintiffs filed this action against various defendants,
including Chatsworth Gardens. On 4/2/24, Chatsworth Gardens filed and served
the instant motion seeking an order quashing service of summons.  Plaintiffs have not opposed or otherwise
responded to the motion.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
A defendant may move to quash service of summons on the
ground that the court lacks jurisdiction over the defendant.  See CCP 418.10(a)(1).
 
Chatsworth Gardens contends that Plaintiffs have failed
to complete service of the summons and complaint on it and the summons which
was improperly served is defective.  The
proofs of service filed with the Court indicate that the summons and complaint
were purportedly served on Chatsworth Gardens by leaving copies of the
documents with Cynthia Garcia and Jennifer Garcia.  (Kanter Decl.); (See Proofs of Service
filed 3/3/23).  Chatsworth Gardens
indicates that Cynthia Garcia is not an employee of Chatsworth Gardens, is not
authorized to accept service on behalf of Chatsworth Gardens and was not served
with the summons and complaint.  (See
Kanter Decl.; Cynthia Garcia Decl.).  Defendant
indicates that Jennifer Garcia was a manager, but not authorized to accept
service on behalf of Chatsworth Gardens. 
(Kanter Decl.; Jennifer Garcia Decl.). 
Defendant contends that on or about 1/9/23, Jennifer Garcia found a
summons, only, on the floor in front of her unit.  (Kanter Decl.; Jennifer Garcia Decl.).
 
Chatsworth Gardens argues that the summons which was
improperly left in front of Jennifer Garcia’s unit and not accompanied by the
complaint is defective because it listed the courthouse address as 111 N. Hill
St., Los Angeles, CA 90012.  This case
was originally pending in the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
In response to this motion, Plaintiffs have failed to
meet their burden of establishing the court has jurisdiction over Chatsworth
Gardens based on the purported service.  See
Summers (2006) 140 CA4th 403, 413.     
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. 

 