 Case Number:  22BBCV00585    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Panos
  paul simonian,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
mercury
  insurance company, 
                        Defendant. 


 
  Case No.: 
  22BBCV00585
 
  Hearing Date:  November 3, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to appoint appraisal umpire



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Panos Paul Simonian
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that Defendant Mercury Insurance Company (“Defendant”) failed
to satisfy its contractual obligations as it relates to Plaintiff’s claims for
damages and to follow the proper procedures under the insurance policy provided
by Defendant to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff
alleges that on September 18, 2021, Plaintiff’s vehicle was insured by the
policy at the time of loss and that Plaintiff timely made a claim for
damages.  Plaintiff alleges that on
September 21, 2021, Defendant created an estimate, which the parties did not
dispute in amount or extent of damages, but at some point, Defendant refused to
pay for the repair of the damages.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
November 18, 2022, alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; and
(2) bad faith. 
B.    
Relevant
Background and Motion on Calendar 
On December 21, 2022, Defendant filed a
motion to compel Plaintiff to submit his vehicle, which is subject to this
action, for appraisal, pursuant to Condition 2 of his insurance policy.  On March 27, 2023, the Court granted
Defendant’s motion and ordered the parties to move forward to choose an umpire
and complete the process contemplated by the policy.  
On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion
for the Court to appoint a neutral appraisal umpire proposed by Plaintiff
pursuant to Condition 2 of the insurance policy.  
On October 23, 2023, Defendant filed an
opposition brief.
On October 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
reply brief.  
LEGAL STANDARD
“It is well settled that ‘[a]n
agreement to conduct an appraisal contained in a policy of insurance
constitutes an “agreement” within the meaning of [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1280, subdivision (a), and therefore is considered to be an arbitration
agreement subject to the statutory contractual arbitration law.
[Citation.]’”  (Lambert
v. Carneghi (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1120, 1129.)  “The sole statutory regulation within the scheme concerning
the selection of arbitrators is Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.6, which
provides that courts must enforce the method of selecting arbitrators set forth
in the agreement.”  (Khorsand v. Liberty Mutual Fire Ins. Co. (2018) 20
Cal.App.5th 1028, 1037; see also id. at 1036 [“[W]e conclude the term ‘arbitrator’
encompasses all the members of the appraisal panel.”].)  
CCP § 1281.6 states: 
If the arbitration agreement provides a method
of appointing an arbitrator, that method shall be followed. If the arbitration
agreement does not provide a method for appointing
an arbitrator, the parties to the agreement who seek arbitration and against
whom arbitration is sought may agree on a method of appointing an arbitrator
and that method shall be followed. In the
absence of an agreed method, or if the agreed method fails or for any reason
cannot be followed, or when an arbitrator appointed fails to act and his or her
successor has not been appointed, the court, on petition of a party to
the arbitration agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.
When a petition is
made to the court to appoint a neutral arbitrator, the court shall nominate
five persons from lists of persons supplied jointly by the parties to the
arbitration or obtained from a governmental agency concerned with arbitration
or private disinterested association concerned with arbitration. The parties to
the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may
within five days of receipt of notice of the nominees from the court jointly
select the arbitrator whether or not the arbitrator is among the nominees. If
the parties fail to select an arbitrator within the five-day period, the court
shall appoint the arbitrator from the nominees.
(CCP § 1281.6.) 

DISCUSSION

Plaintiff moves
for the appointment of an appraisal umpire. 
Plaintiff argues that the parties have met and conferred but failed to
find a mutually agreeable umpire.  
Plaintiff’s
counsel, Mari Kiridjian, provides a copy of the insurance policy at issue. (Kiridjian
Decl., Ex. C.)  Under “Part III –
PHYSICAL DAMAGE – CONDITIONS,” Condition 2 states: 
2.
 Appraisal--Coverages D, E and L: If the
named insured (or his chosen repair facility) and the company fail to agree as
to the amount, cause, or extent of the loss, each shall on the written demand
of either, select a practicing and qualified motor vehicle repair appraiser. The
appraisers shall first select an umpire, and failing for fifteen (15) days to
agree upon such umpire, then, on request by the named insured or the company,
such umpire shall be selected by a judge of a court of record in the county and
state in which such appraisal is pending. The appraisers shall then
appraise the loss at reasonable time and place, stating separately the actual
cash value at the time of loss, or as requested, the amount, cause, or extent
of the loss, and failing to agree shall submit their differences to the umpire.
An award in writing of any two shall determine the amount of the loss and shall
be binding on all parties concerned. 
The company shall not be held liable for any loss or damages
unless the company has had reasonable opportunity to inspect the damaged
vehicle prior to the commencement of repairs, and in the event of disagreement,
a reasonable opportunity to initiate appraisal proceedings. 
The named insured and the company shall each pay their chosen
appraiser and shall bear equally the other expenses of the appraisal and
umpire, unless the award is equal to or greater than the last demand made by
the named insured, in which case the company shall pay all reasonable costs of
appraisal, but the company will not be responsible for attorney fees.
The company shall not be held to have waived any of its rights by
any act relating to appraisal.
(Insurance Policy at p.10 [emphasis added].)  
            The
policy is cursory on the procedure in the event the parties fail to appoint an
appraisal umpire.  If the parties fail to
select an umpire after 15 days, then Plaintiff or Defendant may petition to
Court to select an umpire.  As the policy
does not include any further procedure regarding how an appraisal umpire will
be picked, the Court will rely on the procedure delineated in CCP §
1281.6.  
Plaintiff
proposes the following umpires:
·        
Daryl
Johnson – He is a certified independent
Automotive Appraiser/Mediator. He has served as a former Staff Appraiser for
USAA and State Farm Insurance Sub-Contractor for RVEST Appraisal Inc. 2001 to
2022.  (Mot. at p.3; Ex. D.) 
·        
Lance S.
Coren – He is a Multiple Certified International Master Automotive Appraiser,
Consultant and qualified/registered automotive ADR Neutral.  (Mot. at p.4; Ex. E.) 
·        
Maxwell
Janisch - He is an Automotive Value &
Damage Appraiser of Memorabilia & Personal Property Appraisals involving
Value/Damage Dispute Arbitrator/Umpire Automotive Expert Witness Services from
2010-2018. He is the Named Appraiser for Harley-Davidson Insurance Company.
(Mot. at p.4; Ex. F.) 
·        
Todd
Kennaday – He has experience as an expert witness in over 100 small claims and
Superior Court cases involving claims and automotive repair procedures. He has
extensive experience with the California Department of Insurance guidelines and
requirements. Mr. Kennaday holds licensing as a California Department of
Insurance Public Adjuster, California Department of Insurance Fair Claims
Settlement Practices, Texas Department of Insurance Adjuster’s license and
Certification by the Bureau of Automotive Repairs. (Mot. at p.4; Ex. G.)  
Prior
to Plaintiff filing the motion, Defendant proposed the following proposed
umpires:
·        
Dennis
Mitosinka from www.bestautoappraiser.com 
·        
John
Crabb of Material Damage App.
·        
Steve
Bock of Bock & Associates
·        
Gary A. Halpin
of AMCC Appraiser (Rynerson Decl., Ex. 6)
·        
Alan
Taylor of Alan Taylor Company 
(Mot. at p.5; Rynerson Decl., Ex. 5.)  
            Plaintiff
requests that the Court appoint an appraiser from Plaintiff’s list because
Defendant’s proposed appraisers are not qualified appraisers.  In opposition, Defendant requests that the
Court disregard each parties’ list of proposed umpires and create its own list
of umpires for the parties’ consideration. 

            As stated above, the Court will
employ the procedure outlined in CCP § 1281.6. 
Each party is ordered to provide a list of 5 proposed umpires each.  From these two lists, the Court will nominate
5 umpires that it deems qualified to serve as the appraisal umpire in this
action.  The parties will have 5 days to
jointly select an appraiser.  If the parties
fail to select an appraiser from the list, the Court shall appoint an
arbitrator from the list of nominees.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
            Plaintiff Panos Paul Simonian’s
motion to appoint an appraisal umpire is granted such that the Court will
follow the procedure of CCP § 1281.6 to appoint an appraisal umpire.  
Plaintiff and Defendant shall each file
with the Court and serve a list of 5 proposed neutral appraisal umpires, their
list of qualifications, and their hourly rates by November 9, 2023 by the end
of the business day.
            The Court sets a Status Conference
re: the Court’s List of Five Nominees from the Parties’ Lists of Proposed
Appraisal Umpires for November 21, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.  From these two lists, the Court shall
nominate 5 persons from the lists.  
In light of the holidays, the Court will
set a Status Conference re: Appointment of the Appraisal Umpire for December 5,
2023 at 8:30 a.m.  Prior to the December
5, 2023 Status Conference, the parties shall meet and confer to determine if
they can agree upon an appraisal umpire. 
If the parties agree upon an umpire, they shall inform the Court by filing
a joint stipulation/brief informing the Court that a mutually agreeable umpire
was found.  If such a document is filed
prior to the hearing, the Status Conference will be taken off-calendar.  If the parties fail to nominate an appraiser,
the Court shall appoint an umpire from the list of nominees at the December 5,
2023 Status Conference.   
Defendant shall provide notice of this
order. 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
