 Case Number:  23BBCV00340    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Michele A.
  Santopietro, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
sandra d.
  Santopietro, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV00340
 
Hearing
  Date:  November 3, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer  



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Michele
Santopietro (“Plaintiff,” a self-represented litigant) alleges that on June 27,
2007, she and her mother purchased property located at 554 E. San Jose Ave.,
#204 in Burbank for $510,000 and the grant deed asserted the property was
granted to “Sandra D. Santopietro, a widow and Michele A. Santopietro, a single
woman as Joint Tenants” (“First Deed”). 
On October 8,
2008, a second grant deed (“Second Deed”) was executed, whereby Plaintiff’s
interest in the property was transferred to her mother as a bona fide gift, but
she alleges that she had no knowledge of the fraudulent transfer of title and
did not agree to relinquish her interest. 
Plaintiff alleges she lived at the property for 14-15 years without
knowledge of the transfer and made mortgage payments.  Plaintiff alleges that in May 2022, her
mother changed the locks to the property to prevent her from entering and
thereafter learned of the fraudulent transfer. 
On June 3, 2022, Plaintiff alleges she discovered that the property was
listed for sale.  On June 15, 2022, she
alleges she went to the property to collect her mail and she encountered Defendant
Michael McDonald of Compass (real estate agent), who threatened her.  She also encountered Defendant Mary Anne Been
(another real estate agent) who informed her mother to block her phone
number.  
On September 16,
2022, a third grant deed (“Third Deed”) was entered, whereby Plaintiff’s mother
sold the property to Defendants Juvelyn Palomique and Stephen Harrison for
$780,000.  She alleges that McDonald and
Been, by and through compass, and Defendant Robert Reffkin facilitated the sale
of the property.   
Plaintiff
alleges that she has attempted to approach the property to obtain her mail, but
has been denied access.  She alleges that
the sale was wrongful. 
The complaint,
filed February 10, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) quiet title; and (2)
fraud.  
B.     Demurrer
on Calendar 
On
August 18, 2023, Defendant Sandra D. Santopietro filed a demurrer to the
complaint.  
The
Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant Sandra
D. Santopietro (“Defendant Santopietro”) demurs to the 1st and 2nd
causes of action on the grounds that they fail to allege sufficient facts and
are uncertain.  
A.   
2nd cause of action for Fraud 
To allege a cause of action for fraud, the
requisite elements are: (1) a representation,
usually of fact, which is false; (2) knowledge of its falsity; (3) intent to defraud; (4) justifiable reliance upon the misrepresentation;
and (5) damage resulting from that justifiable reliance.  (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal. App. 3d 59, 72-73.)  This cause of action is a tort of
deceit and the facts constituting each element must be alleged with
particularity; the claim cannot be saved by referring to the policy favoring
liberal construction of pleadings.  (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Since the claim must be pleaded with
particularity, the cause of action based on misrepresentations must allege
facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
misrepresentations were tendered.  (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)
Defendant Santopietro demurs to the 2nd
cause of action, arguing that Plaintiff has alleged this cause of action
generally against all Defendants without distinction, such that it is
uncertain.  For example, in the 2nd
cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants, and each of them,
intentionally suppressed and concealed certain material facts that they had a
duty to disclose to Plaintiff. 
Defendants, and each of them, engaged in this illegal and fraudulent
conduct to deprive Plaintiff of her property rights and to profit from
Plaintiff’s loss.  (Compl., ¶43.)  
While some allegations in the complaint
are generalized against all Defendants, Plaintiff alleges some facts
specifically against Defendant Santopietro in paragraph 44 of the
complaint.  In paragraph 44(a), Plaintiff
alleges that on October 8, 2008, Defendant Santopietro fraudulently transferred
Plaintiff’s interest in the property to herself in the Second Deed as a
“bonafide gift” without Plaintiff’s knowledge.[1]  As there are some specific facts made against
Defendant Santopietro in addition to the generalized allegations, the Court
will overrule the demurrer to the 2nd cause of action as this is the
only basis upon which Defendant Santopietro demurred.  
B.    
1st cause of action for Quiet Title 
CCP § 761.020 states that a quiet title
complaint shall be verified and include the following: “(a) A description of
the property that is the subject of the action. In the case of tangible
personal property, the description shall include its usual location. In the
case of real property, the description shall include both its legal description
and its street address or common designation, if any. [¶] (b) The title of the
plaintiff as to which a determination under this chapter is sought and the
basis of the title. If the title is based upon adverse possession, the
complaint shall allege the specific facts constituting the adverse possession.
[¶] (c) The adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against which a determination
is sought. [¶] (d) The date as of which the determination is sought. If the
determination is sought as of a date other than the date the complaint is
filed, the complaint shall include a statement of the reasons why a
determination as of that date is sought. [¶] (e) A prayer for the determination
of the title of the plain     tiff against
the adverse claims.”  (CCP §
761.020.)  
In the 1st cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges that she and Defendant Santopietro were the joint title
holders of the property in the First Deed, but that the Second Deed
fraudulently stated that Plaintiff transferred her interest in the property to Defendant
Santopietro as a “bonafide gift.” 
(Compl., ¶¶32-33.)  Plaintiff
alleges that in May 2022, Defendant Santopietro changed the locks on the
property, threw away her mail, and then listed the property for sale on June 3,
2022.  (Id., ¶¶35-36.)  Plaintiff alleges that on September 16, 2022,
the Third Deed was executed, wherein Defendant Santopietro sold the property to
Palomique and Harrison.  (Id.,
¶37.)  Plaintiff alleges that she did not
transfer her interest in the property to Defendant Santopietro, did not consent
to selling the home, and that Defendants each had actual knowledge of the
fraudulent transfer in 2008 (at the time of the Second Deed).  (Id., ¶38.)  Plaintiff believes that Defendants worked in
concert to effectuate the illegal and fraudulent sale of the property to
deprive her of her property right and interest and profit upon the sale of the
property, such that she seeks a determination of title against the adverse
claims.  (Id., ¶¶39-40.)  
Defendant Santopietro argues that
Plaintiff’s quiet title claim fails because she has not alleged facts showing
that Defendant Santopietro currently has an adverse claim to Plaintiff’s claim
of title to the property because Exhibit C to the complaint shows in the Third
Deed that Palomique and Harrison are now the owners of the property.  Thus, Defendant Santopietro argues that the 1st
cause of action cannot be alleged against her. 

However, Plaintiff
is arguing that the transfer of title was performed by fraudulent means and
that she was not aware of the fraudulent transfer until the recent sale.  The Court of Appeal in
Liberty National Enterprises, L.P. v. Chicago Title Ins. Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 62, 81 stated: 
To be sure, the general rule is that the holder of equitable title cannot
maintain a quiet title action against the holder of legal title. (Warren v.
Merrill (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 96, 113, 49 Cal.Rptr.3d 122.) But an
exception exists “when legal title has been acquired through fraud.” (Id.
at p. 114, 49 Cal.Rptr.3d 122.) In that case, available “remedies include
quieting title in the defrauded equitable title holder's name and making the
legal title holder the constructive trustee of the property for the benefit of
the defrauded equitable titleholder.” (Ibid.)
(Liberty National Enterprises, supra, 217 Cal.App.4th at 81.) 
            While
the Court recognizes that neither Plaintiff nor Defendant Santopietro are the
current titleholders of the property, as the property was sold to Juvelyn
Palomique and Stephen Harrison, there may still be grounds to determine whether
the property was fraudulently transferred and concealed by Defendant
Santopietro in 2008 and whether Palomique and Harrison are in fact bona fide
purchasers or whether they were aware and had notice of the purportedly
fraudulent Second Deed.  While a quiet
title action might not necessarily be appropriate against Defendant Santopietro,
as Defendant Santopietro is no longer a title holder to the property, Plaintiff
is also alleging a theory under conspiracy against Defendant Santopietro
regarding her purported fraudulent transfer of the property. 
CONCLUSION:

            The Court will sustain the demurrer
with leave to amend as to the 1st causes of action for quiet title
against Defendant Santopietro.  Plaintiff
should re-allege this cause of action, perhaps under a different cause of
action other than quiet title, against Defendant Santopietro.  Plaintiff appears to be seeking a
determination of the title of the property from the First Deed to the Third
Deed and whether Plaintiff would be entitled to proceeds from the sale of the
property.  Plaintiff may be able to
allege a different cause of action against Defendant Santopietro or include the
allegations of the quiet title cause of action in the fraud cause of action,
but quiet title is not an appropriate cause of action against Defendant
Santopietro. 
Defendant Sandra
D. Santopietro’s demurrer to complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend
as to the 1st cause of action and overruled as to the 2nd
cause of action.  
Defendant shall give notice of this
order.  
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 


