 Case Number:  22BBCV00666    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
fadi
  khalil,
  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
general motors
  LLC,
  
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 
  22BBCV00666
 
  Hearing Date: November 3, 2023
 
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel further responses
 



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Fadi Khalil (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on October 7, 2020, he purchased a 2020 GMC Sierra.  The action arises out of the warranty and
repair obligations of Defendant General Motors, LLC (“Defendant”) in connection
with the vehicle Plaintiff purchased and for which Defendant issued a written
warranty.  The warranty was not issued by
the selling dealership.  Plaintiff
alleges that the vehicle was delivered to Plaintiff with serious defects and
nonconformities to warranty, including suspension, engine, electrical, and
emission system defects.  
The complaint, filed on September 20,
2022, alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach
of express warranty; (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of implied
warranty; and (3) violation of Song-Beverly Act § 1793.2. 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On June 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion
to compel Defendant’s further responses to Requests for Production of Documents,
set one (“RPD”).[1] 
On October 23, 2023, Defendant filed
opposition papers.  On October 27, 2023,
Defendant filed the memorandum of points and authorities in support of the
opposition.  
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s
further responses to RPD Nos. 1-3, 5, 8-9, 11-12, and 16-37.  (The notice of motion states that Plaintiff is
seeking a further response to RPD No. 4 and does not include No. 5, but the
separate statement omits No. 4 and includes No. 5.)  
RPD Nos. 1-2 ask for all
documents that Defendant identified in its responses to Plaintiff’s (1) SROG
and (2) FROG.  Defendant objected that
the RPDs were duplicative but responded, without waiving objections, that it
would comply by producing non-privileged documents.  Plaintiff argues that this is not a code
compliant response, while Defendant argues that it has already produced
responsive documents and producing more would be unnecessary.  However, based on Defendant’s response to the
actual RPDs states that only non-privileged documents will be produced.  If there are documents that have not been
produced on the basis of privilege, a privilege log should be provided.  (CCP § 2031.240.)  In addition, based on Defendant’s provided
response to the RPDs and its arguments in opposition, it is unclear whether a full
production of documents has been made or documents have been withheld.  As such, a further response shall be
ordered.  However, the Court will limit
the production of documents and/or the production of a privilege log to
documents that pertain specifically to Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s vehicle, and 2020
GMC Sierra vehicles.  The motion is
granted as to RPD Nos. 1-2. 
RPD No. 3 asks for all
documents which evidence, support, refer, or relate to each of the affirmative
defenses as set forth in Defendant’s answer. 
Defendant objected that the RPD was vague, lacked specificity, was
overbroad and unduly burdensome, and sought information protected by the
attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine.  Defendant responded, without waiving
objections, that it would comply in part and produce the Vehicle Product
Brochure, the Service Request Activity Reports, New Vehicle Limited Warranty,
Global Warranty History Report, and incidentally obtained repair orders, Repair
Order Details, and the Owner’s Manual applicable to the subject vehicle.  Based on Defendant’s objections and
responses, it is unknown whether Defendant has produced all documents as
requested by the RPD.  Defendants make
objections based on privilege, but a privilege log has not been produced to determine
whether the documents are in fact privileged. 
Further, the documents sought would be relevant to the action as the
documents relate to Defendant’s affirmative defenses in its answer.  The Court will order a further response as to
RPD No. 3.  If Defendant lacks any
further documents and/or a full production of documents has been made, then it
should state so clearly in its further response. 
RPD No. 5 asks for all documents
which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any inspection of the subject
vehicle.  Defendant objected that the RPD
was vague, was overbroad and unduly burdensome, and could potentially seek
information beyond the issues in this lawsuit (like state-mandated vehicle
inspection stickers and related documents). 
Defendant objected to the production of any presale examination, test,
or inspection without the entry of a protective order.  Defendant responded, without waiving
objections, that it would comply in part and produce the Service Request
Activity Reports and Global Warranty History Report applicable to the subject
vehicle.  The RPD is limited to documents
related to the inspection of Plaintiff’s subject vehicle and documents before
and after the sale of the vehicle would be relevant to this action to determine
whether Defendant was aware of any issues with the vehicle.  The Court will order a further response to
RPD No. 5 subject to the parties entering a protective order.  The parties should meet and confer to enter a
protective order to designate confidential documents.  
            RPD No. 8 asks for all
documents evidence,
describe, refer, or relate to repairs or service performed on the subject
vehicle at any time and by any person, including, but not limited to, service
request documents, repair orders, invoices, labor receipts, parts order forms,
computer printouts, parts receipts, canceled checks, billing statements, and
printout of the warranty repair history for the subject vehicle.  Defendant objected that the RPD was vague,
overbroad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant; sought documents outside its
control; presumed that Defendant serviced or repaired the subject vehicle after
it left its custody or control; sought confidential and trade secret
information; and sought information protected by the attorney-client privilege
and work product doctrine.  Without
waiving objections, Defendant responded that the subject vehicle was serviced
and repaired by an authorized repair agency but not by Defendant, and that it
will produce any incidentally obtained repair orders, the Global Warranty
History Report, and any Service
Request Activity Reports applicable to the subject vehicle.  The documents sought in this RPD are relevant
to the action as it pertains solely to the subject vehicle.  It is unclear how the attorney-client
privilege or work product doctrine would apply for transactions that occurred
between Plaintiff, Defendant, and/or Defendant’s authorized repair
facility.  Further, to the extent there
are confidentiality issues, the Court orders the parties to meet and confer
about entering a protective order.  The
Court grants the motion as to RPD No. 8 subject to a protective order.  
            RPD No. 9 asks for all
documents which evidence, refer, or relate to Plaintiff’s request for refund of
the price Plaintiff paid for the subject vehicle.  Defendant responded that it has no record of
Plaintiff making a pre-suit repurchase request regarding the subject vehicle,
such that no documents will be produced. 
Defendant’s response is sufficient as it was never in possession of such
a document and no such document existed (at least as represented by Defendant).
As such, the motion is denied as to RPD No. 9. 
            RPD No. 11 asks for all
documents which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any contact between
Defendant and Plaintiff.  RPD No. 12
asks for all documents which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to any
contact with any person (other than defense counsel), and relating or referring
to Plaintiff or the subject vehicle.  Defendant
objected that the RPD were vague, overbroad, unduly burdensome, and irrelevant;
the documents were equally available to Plaintiff; sought confidential and
trade secret information; and sought information protected by the
attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine.  Without waiting objections, Defendant stated
it would comply in part by producing the Global Warranty History Report, the
Service Request Activity Report(s), and any incidentally obtained repair orders
applicable to the subject vehicle.  For
the same reasons discussed above, the Court will order a further response to
Nos. 11-12 subject to a protective order. 
Further, if documents are privileged by the attorney-client privilege and work
product doctrine or deemed a trade secret, Defendant should provide a privilege
log to that effect.  
            Defendant
objected to RPD Nos. 16-33 and 36 in the same manner and thus they will be
considered together.  
·        
RPD No. 16 asks for
any document related in any way to determining whether repairs should be
covered by Defendant’s warranty.  
·        
RPD No. 17 asks for
all of Defendant’s warranty claims policy and procedure manuals from 2010 to
the present.  
·        
RPD No. 18 asks for
all documents which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to its rules,
policies, or procedures since 2010 concerning the issuance of refunds to buyers
or providing replacement vehicles to buyers in California under the Act.  
·        
RPD No. 19 asks for
all documents which evidence, describe, refer, or relate to its rules,
policies, or procedures used by Defendant for handling complaints by consumers
regarding vehicle it manufactured or distributed.  
·        
RPD No. 20 asks for
all documents issued by Defendant or on its behalf which evidence, describe,
refer, or relate to its rules, policies, procedures, and/or instructions which
its employees and authorized agents should follow after a decision has been
made by Defendant to authorize either a refund of the purchase price or a
replacement vehicle to its customer.   
·        
RPD No. 21 asks for
all documents issued by Defendant or on its behalf which evidence or describe
policies, procedures, and/or instructions since 2010 that its employees and
agents should follow when evaluating a customer request for their money back or
a replacement of a motor vehicle manufactured or distributed by Defendant. 
·        
RPD No. 22 asks for
all documents evidencing and/or describing its training materials related to its
policy regarding how to calculate a repurchase. 
·        
RPD No. 23 asks for
all documents referencing, evidencing, and/or relating to its policies,
procedures, or guidelines for determining whether a vehicle is eligible for a
vehicle repurchase.  
·        
RPD No. 24 asks for
all documents referencing, evidencing, and/or relating to its training material
related to its policy to encourage customers to give Defendant another
opportunity to repair their vehicles.  
·        
RPD No. 25 asks for
all documents referencing, evidencing, and/or relating to its policy defining
what constitutes a repair to determine eligibility for repurchase or
replacement in California. 
·        
RPD No. 26 asks for
all documents issued by Defendant or on its behalf which evidence or describe
policies, procedures and/or instructions since 2010 which it authorized repair
facilities should follow regarding customer requests for a refund of the price
paid for a vehicle or a replacement vehicle. 

·        
RPD Nos. 27-29 ask for
all documents which evidence or describe: (27) its Lemon Law Escalation Process;
(28) its call center escalation process; and (29) any predictive model used to
determine if one its vehicles is a candidate for escalation.  
·        
RPD No. 30 asks for
all documents any consultant provided Defendant from 2010 to present that are
related in any way to the Act.  
·        
RPD No. 31 asks for
all documents evidencing any policies, procedures, or guidelines provided by
Defendant to any agency regarding what constitutes a substantial nonconformity
under the Act from 2010 to present.  
·        
RPD No. 32 asks for
all documents evidencing or describing statistics for the number of repurchases
and replacements Defendant has made in California in response to consumers’
personal requests (i.e., a consumer request without an attorney) from 2010 to
present.  
·        
RPD No. 33 asks for
all documents which evidence or describe the numbers of owners 2020 GMC Sierra vehicles
who have complained of any of the conditions, defects, or nonconformities for
which Plaintiff presented the subject vehicle to Defendant or its authorized
repair facility for repair.
·        
RPD No. 36 asks for
all documents which describe or discuss above-average repair rates to 2020 GMC
Sierra vehicles. 
Defendant
objected that the RPDs were vague, overly broad, unduly burdensome, and
irrelevant; sought confidential and trade secret information; and sought
information protected by the attorney-client privilege and work product
doctrine.  Defendant responded that no
documents would be produced.  As currently
drafted, Plaintiff’s RPDs can potentially seek all documents for an indefinite
amount of time for any type of vehicle every manufactured or distributed by
Defendant.  The RPDs as worded by Plaintiff
are overbroad in scope and would, in part, seek irrelevant information that is
beyond the scope of this action.  While
some RPDs (like Nos. 17 and 18) have time limitations from 2010 to the present,
the time limitation seeks over 13 years of documents without scope to the type
of vehicle at issue.  Thus, the Court
will narrow the scope of the RPDs such that Defendant need only produce
documents regarding the 2020
GMC Sierra from 2 years prior to purchase to the present that constitute the rules, policies, procedures, training
manuals, instructions, etc. used by Defendant and its employees/agents/repair
facilities/etc. in the State of California. 
In addition, customer complaints, requests for repurchase/repair, etc.
shall be similarly limited to repurchase complaints regarding the 2020 GMC
Sierra in California.  The Court will
also order the parties to meet and confer to enter into a protective order to
protect the confidentiality of Defendant’s training manuals, procedures,
complaint resolution procedures, and the like.  The motion is granted as to RPD Nos. 16-33 and
36 subject to these limitations.  
RPD No. 34 seeks all documents which evidence, refer, or relate to all TSBs
which have been issued for 2020 GMC Sierra vehicles, including, but not limited
to, complete copies of all such TSBs that involve any part, component,
subcomponent, system, assembly, or sub-assembly for which the subject vehicle
was subject to one or more repair attempts as reflected in Plaintiff’s Warranty
Claim Records, or in the repair orders produced during discovery in this case. Defendant
objected that the RPD was vague, overly broad, unduly burdensome, and
irrelevant; sought confidential and trade secret information; and sought
information protected by the attorney-client privilege and work product
doctrine.  Without waiving objections,
Defendant stated it would comply in part and produce a list of TSBs for
vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle and after the
list has been produced and upon Plaintiff’s request, Defendant will search and
produce copies of a reasonable number of TSBs that Plaintiff has identified as
relevant to the conditions alleged in the complaint.  The Court finds that Defendant GMC’s approach
to this element of the production was reasonable, and therefore denies the
motion as to this request. 
RPD No. 35 asks for all documents which evidence, refer, or relate to all Recalls
which have been issued for 2020 GMC Sierra vehicles that involve any part,
component, sub-component, system, assembly, or sub-assembly for which the
subject vehicle was subject to one or more repair attempts as reflected in Defendant’s
Warranty Claim Records or in the repair orders produced during discovery in
this case.  Defendant objected in a
similar manner as above and responded that it would comply in part by producing
copies of bulletins for every field action, including any recalls, it issued
for the subject vehicle as identified in the Global Warranty History Report
(screenshot provided).  The screenshot is
regarding Plaintiff’s subject vehicle which states that there is no current
record of required field actions. 
However, it is unclear if this applies only to Plaintiff’s specific
vehicle that he purchased or whether this applies to all 2020 GMC Sierra
vehicles.  Defendant should be more
specific in its response.  If no recalls
have been made with respect to the 2020 GMC Sierra, then it should clearly
state this in a further response.  The
motion is granted as to RPD No. 35.  
RPD No. 37 asks for all documents which evidence/describe sales brochures,
literature, or any other promotional materials provided/distributed by
Defendant regarding vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject
vehicle.  Defendant objected in a similar
manner as above, and responded that it would comply in part by producing the
Vehicle Product Brochure applicable to the subject vehicle.  The Court overrules the objections as the
documents sought only seek promotional material regarding the 2020 GMC
Sierra.  Defendant states that production
will only be in part with the brochure, but Defendant has not shown how any of
the publicly distributed promotional material would be irrelevant, protected by
privilege, overbroad, etc.  The request
will be interpreted to request documents distributed to consumers, and with
that limitation, the documents should be produced in full.  The motion is granted as to RPD No. 37.  
Plaintiff did not request sanctions. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Plaintiff Fadi Khalil’s motion to compel
Defendant’s further responses to the RPD is granted as to RPD Nos. 1-3, 5, 8, 11-12,
16-33, 35-37;
and denied
as to Nos. 9 and 34.  As stated more
fully in the Court’s written order, the parties are ordered to meet and confer
about entering into a protective order. 
Defendant is ordered to provide further responses to the discovery
requests within 20 days of entering the protective order.Plaintiff shall provide notice of this
order
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
 


