 Case Number:  21BBCV00536    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
yegishe
  torosyan,
  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
adil a. barakat, et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
Case
  No.: 21BBCV00536
 
  Hearing Date:  November 3, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motions to compel further responses 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff
Yegishe Torosyan (“Plaintiff”) alleges that Plaintiff leased the premises at
11722 Saticoy St., Unit 16, North Hollywood, CA 91605 from Defendants Adil A.
Barakat, The Barakat Trust, and Adil A. Barakat as trustee of The Barakat Trust
(“Defendants”).  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants own, operate, manage, and maintain the property.  Plaintiff alleges that the property has
uninhabitable conditions, such as a broken and hazardous heater, peeling paint,
damaged walls and floors, cracked ceilings, lack of hot water, and presence of
mold in violation of the Civil Code and the Health and Safety Code.  (FAC, ¶2.) 

The first
amended complaint (“FAC”), filed November 2, 2021, alleges causes of action
for: (1) private nuisance; (2) breach of the warranty of habitability; (3)
negligence; (4) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (5) breach
of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment; (6) IIED; (7) violation of Civil
Code, § 1942.4; and (8) constructive eviction. 
B.    
Motions on Calendar
On October 11,
2023, Plaintiff filed 2 motions to compel Defendant’s further responses to: (1)
Special Interrogatories, set two (“SROG”); and (2) Requests for Production of
Documents, set two (“RPD”). 
On October 23,
2023, Defendant filed opposition briefs. 

On October 26,
2023, Plaintiff reply briefs. 
DISCUSSION
A.    Opposition

In the
opposition briefs, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s motions were filed without
sufficient notice under CCP § 1005(b), served electronically only (without
written consent to electronic service), and that Defendant’s responses are
fully code-compliant.  
Plaintiff served
the motions by electronic service on October 11, 2023.  If electronic service were allowed, the
motions would not have been timely served, as they would have had to at least
been served 16 days, plus 2 days for electronic service, before the hearing.  The October 11, 2023 service date was only 17
days in advance.  Further, Defendant
argues that there was no agreement for electronic service between the parties
such that electronic service was improper. 
In reply, Plaintiff argues that electronic service is permitted under
CRC Emergency Rule 12, which became effective on April 17, 2020.
Whether or not
electronic service was proper, it appears that Defendant did in fact receive
the motion papers and was able to timely file opposition briefs.  However, the opposition papers are brief in
their arguments and do not contain substantive arguments (except short sections
that there is no good cause to grant the motions) and no separate statement was
provided with the opposition papers. 
Nevertheless,
the Court will consider the merits of the motions.  If Defendant feels the need to file more
substantive opposition papers or a separate statement, Defendant may make oral arguments
at the hearing and the Court will consider if a continuance for further
briefing is necessary.  
The Court will
consider Plaintiff’s untimely service of the motion papers, as well as
Plaintiff’s improper service by electronic means, when considering the issue of
sanctions.  
B.     SROG
            Plaintiff
moves to compel Defendant Barakat’s further responses to SROG Nos. 26-27,
29-30, 32-33, 35-36, 38-39, 41-42, 44-45, 47-48, 50-51, 53-54, 56-57, and
59-60.  
            SROG
Nos. 26-27 ask if Defendant contends that she ever repaired the bathroom
faucet at the subject premises, (26) to identify any and all documents that
evidence and/or support her contention and (27) to identify who repaired the
bathroom faucet at the subject premises. 
For No. 26, Defendant directed Plaintiff to the repair requests with
technician notes. For No. 27, Defendant identified Josue Delgado.  Plaintiff argues that a further response is
warranted because Defendant’s response is not code compliant with CCP §
2030.230 and failed to respond to the SROGs as required.
            CCP
§ 2030.230 states: “If the answer to an interrogatory would
necessitate the preparation or the making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or
summary of or from the documents of the party to whom the interrogatory is
directed, and if the burden or expense of preparing or making it would be
substantially the same for the party propounding the interrogatory as for the
responding party, it is a sufficient answer to that interrogatory
to refer to this section and to specify the writings from which the answer may
be derived or ascertained. This specification
shall be in sufficient detail to permit the propounding party to locate and to
identify, as readily as the responding party can, the documents from which the
answer may be ascertained. The responding party shall then afford to the
propounding party a reasonable opportunity to examine, audit, or inspect these
documents and to make copies, compilations, abstracts, or summaries of them.”   While
Defendant argues that it has produced the document identified in response to
No. 26, the response is technically not code-compliant because it fails to
sufficiently identify the document (such as by providing the title of the
document or a Bates stamped page number). 
Further, in the preface of the SROG requests, Plaintiff defines
“IDENTIFY” as the contact information in connection with a person and for
detailed information when referencing documents (such as the contact
information of the person who prepared/signed the document, the name of the
person if was directed to, the type of document, etc.).  Further responses should be provided to SROG
Nos. 26-27. 
            The remaining SROGs take on a
similar pattern: 
·        
SROG
Nos. 29-30 ask if Defendant
contends that she ever repaired the kitchen sink at the subject property, to
identify: (29) to identify any and all
documents that evidence and/or support her contention and (30) to identify who
repaired the kitchen sink at the subject premises.  
·        
SROG Nos. 32-33 ask Defendant
contends that she ever repaired the ceiling at the subject property, to
identify: (32) to identify any and all
documents that evidence and/or support her contention and (33) to identify who
repaired the ceiling at the subject premises. 

·        
SROG Nos. 35-36 ask Defendant
contends that she ever repaired the bathroom sink at the subject property, to
identify: (35) to identify any and all
documents that evidence and/or support her contention and (33) to identify who
repaired the bathroom sink at the subject premises.  
·        
SROG Nos. 38-39 ask Defendant
contends that she ever repaired the leaking shower/bathtub faucet at the
subject property, to identify: (38) to
identify any and all documents that evidence and/or support her contention and
(39) to identify who repaired the leaking shower/bathtub faucet at
the subject premises.  
·        
SROG Nos. 41-42 ask Defendant
contends that she ever repaired any power outlets at the subject property, to
identify: (38) to identify any and all
documents that evidence and/or support her contention and (39) to identify who
repaired t any power outlets
at the subject premises.  
·        
SROG Nos. 44-45 ask Defendant
contends that she ever repaired the lack of hot water at the subject property,
to identify: (44) to identify any and all
documents that evidence and/or support her contention and (45) to identify who
repaired the lack of hot water
at the subject premises.  
·        
SROG Nos. 47-48 ask Defendant
contends that she ever addressed the presence of mold at the subject property,
to identify: (47) to identify any and all
documents that evidence and/or support her contention and (48) to identify who addressed
the presence of mold at the subject premises.  
·        
SROG Nos. 50-51 ask Defendant
contends that she ever addressed the presence of termites at the subject
property, to identify: (50) to identify any
and all documents that evidence and/or support her contention and (51) to
identify who addressed the
presence of termites at the subject
premises.  
·        
SROG Nos. 53-54 ask Defendant
contends that she ever repaired the water damage at the subject property, to
identify: (53) to identify any and all
documents that evidence and/or support her contention and (3354 to identify who
repaired the water damage at the subject premises.  
·        
SROG Nos. 56-57 ask Defendant
contends that she ever repaired the floor wood panels at the subject property,
to identify: (56) to identify any and all
documents that evidence and/or support her contention and (57) to identify who
repaired the floor wood panels at the subject premises.  
·        
SROG Nos. 59-60 ask Defendant
contends that she ever repaired any heating appliance at the subject property, to identify: (59) to identify any and all documents that evidence and/or
support her contention and (60) to identify who repaired any heating appliance at
the subject premises.  
Defendant responded in essentially the same manner as
Nos. 26-27, by identifying the repair requests with technician
notes and Josue Delgado.  For the same
reasons discussed above regarding Nos. 26-27, the motion is granted as to SROG
Nos. 29-30, 32-33, 35-36, 38-39, 41-42, 44-45, 47-48, 50-51, 53-54, 56-57, and
59-60.  
The Court
declines to award sanctions to Plaintiff in light of the issues above regarding
Plaintiff’s service of the motion papers on Defendant.  Defendant’s request for sanctions is denied.     
C.     RPD
Plaintiff moves
to compel Defendant Barakat’s further responses to RPD No. 32.  
RPD No. 32
asks for any and all documents identified in Plaintiff’s SROG, set two, to
Defendant.  Defendant responded that
after a reasonable search and diligent effort, she is producing all documents
responsive to the request in her possession, custody, or control.  
Plaintiff seeks
a further response because Defendant’s response/production failed to comply
with CCP § 2031.280(a)’s requirement that the document be identified with
specific request numbers to which the documents respond.  Defendant should provide a further response
that identifies which documents (or Bates stamped pages) refer to RPD No.
32.  The motion is granted as to RPD No.
32.  
The Court
declines to award sanctions to Plaintiff in light of the issues above regarding
Plaintiff’s service of the motion papers on Defendant.  Defendant’s request for sanctions is denied.   
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Plaintiff Yegishe Torosyan’s motion
to compel Defendant Nuha Barakat, individually and as a trustee of The Barakat
Trust’s further responses to SROG Nos. 26-27, 29-30, 32-33, 35-36, 38-39,
41-42, 44-45, 47-48, 50-51, 53-54, 56-57, and 59-60 is granted.  
Plaintiff
Yegishe Torosyan’s motion to compel Defendant Nuha Barakat, individually and as
a trustee of The Barakat Trust’s further responses to RPD No. 32 is
granted.  
Defendant is
ordered to provide further responses within 20 days of notice of this order.
No sanctions
shall be awarded.  
Plaintiff shall provide
notice of this order.
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
 