 Case Number:  22BBCV00622    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
6824 ben
  avenue, llc,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
aiten levy, et al.,    
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22BBCV00622
 
Hearing
  Date:  November 3, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to dismiss 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff 6824
Ben Avenue, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this unlawful detainer complaint against
Defendants Aiten Levy and Ingeborg Levy (“Defendants”) on August 30, 2022.  Plaintiff alleges that it is the owner of the
property located at 6824 Ben Avenue, Apt. #2, North Hollywood, CA 91605.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants entered
into a month-to-month, written tenancy agreement with Plaintiff on December 27,
2018.  On July 27, 2022, Plaintiff served
on Defendants a 3-day notice to pay rent or quit.  Plaintiff seeks possession of the premises,
costs incurred in the proceeding, past due rent of $10,600, reasonable
attorney’s fees, forfeiture of the agreement, and damages at the rate of $88.33
per day from August 1, 2022.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On June 12,
2023, Defendant Aitan Levy (erroneously sued as “Aiten” Levy”) filed a motion
to dismiss pursuant to the Federal Rule of Civil Procedure, Rule 12(b)(1).  
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Aitan Levy moves to dismiss this action, arguing that, in cooperation with
Plaintiff, he moved out of the subject premises on May 10, 2023.  Thus, he argues that the Court lacks subject
matter jurisdiction to hear this claim under the FRCP Rule 12(b)(1).[1]  Defendant argues that possession is no longer
at issue pursuant to Civil Code, § 1952.3.
            A
motion pursuant to FRCP 12(b)(1) is improper. 
The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure do not apply here.  As such, the motion to dismiss will not be
granted pursuant to federal rules.
            Next, Civil Code, § 1952.3(a)
states:
(a) Except as provided in subdivisions (b)
and (c), if the lessor brings an unlawful detainer proceeding and possession
of the property is no longer in issue because possession of the property has
been delivered to the lessor before trial or, if there is no trial, before
judgment is entered, the case becomes
an ordinary civil action in which:
(1) The lessor may obtain any relief to
which he is entitled, including, where applicable, relief authorized by Section
1951.2; but, if the lessor seeks to recover
damages described in paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 1951.2 or any other damages not recoverable in
the unlawful detainer proceeding, the lessor
shall first amend the complaint pursuant to Section 472 or 473 of the
Code of Civil Procedure so that possession of the property is no longer in
issue and to state a claim for such damages and shall serve a copy of the
amended complaint on the defendant in the same manner as a copy of a summons
and original complaint is served.
(2) The defendant may, by appropriate
pleadings or amendments to pleadings, seek any affirmative relief, and assert
all defenses, to which he is entitled, whether or not the lessor has amended
the complaint; but subdivision (a) of Section 426.30 of the Code of Civil
Procedure does not apply unless, after delivering possession of the property to
the lessor, the defendant (i) files a cross-complaint or (ii) files an answer
or an amended answer in response to an amended complaint filed pursuant to
paragraph (1).
(Civ. Code, § 1952.3(a) [emphasis added].)
            Although
Defendant may have vacated the property such that possession is no longer at
issue, this action may be converted to an ordinary civil suit to determine the
issue of damages.  As such, the motion
will not be granted based on Civil Code, § 1952.3. (To the extent this was
intended to be a demurrer, the Court overrules the demurrer on the same
basis.)  
            Finally,
Defendant argues that the Court should not grant Plaintiff leave to amend
because amending the complaint 9 months after the commencement of the lawsuit
would inconvenience the Court.  Leave to
amend is not at issue as the Court denies Defendant’s motion to dismiss.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Defendant Aitan
Levy’s motion
to dismiss is denied.  
Defendant shall give notice of this
order.  
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software is
dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
 


