 Case Number:  22BBCV00741    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
brian whitaker,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
jasjit k. bisla, et al.,        
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22BBCV00741
 
Hearing
  Date:  November 3, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to set aside the dismissal 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Brian
Whitaker filed the complaint for damages and injunctive relief for violation of
the Unruh Civil Rights Act and California Disabled Persons Act on October 11,
2022.  Plaintiff alleges that he is a
California resident with physical disabilities. 
He alleges that Defendants Jasjit K. Bisla and Satinder S. Bisla are
individuals and trustees of the Bisla Family Trust, under trust instrument
dated October 6, 2004 and that they own real property located at 120 E. Palm
Ave., Los Angeles, CA.  Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant Pinkberry, Inc. (“Pinkberry”) is located at this address.  Plaintiff alleges that he went to Pinkberry
on August 25, 2022 and he observed the following non-compliant conditions: (1) dining
surfaces with not enough toe clearance under the outdoor dining surfaces; and (2)
the plumbing under the sink in the restroom was not wrapped to protect against
burning contact.  
B.    
Relevant Background and Motion on
Calendar 
On November 17,
2022, the dismissal without prejudice of Defendants Jasjit K. Bisla and
Satinder S. Bisla was entered by the clerk. 

On May 26, 2023,
the default of Pinkberry was entered.  On
June 29, 2023, the Court signed the Order on Stipulation to set aside
Pinkberry’s default.  
On August 14,
2023, the clerk entered the dismissal without prejudice of the entire action of
all parties and all causes of action.  
On October 4,
2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to set aside the dismissal.  The Court is not in receipt of an opposition
brief.  On October 26, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a reply and notice of non-receipt of an opposition brief.  
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
moves to set aside the default pursuant to CCP § 473(b).  
            Plaintiff
provides the declaration of his counsel, Naomi Butler, in support of the
motion.  Ms. Butler states that there was
a Case Management Conference on August 14, 2023 and Meggie Davenport from the
Center for Disability Access appeared on behalf of Plaintiff and was shocked to
find that a request for dismissal had been filed in this instant matter and
that the Court informed her that the request for dismissal had been filed that
same morning.  (Butler Decl., ¶9.)   Ms.
Davenport then contacted Ms. Butler on August 17, 2023, stating that Ms. Butler
had filed a dismissal.  (Id., ¶10.)  Ms. Butler states that she investigated this
claim, did not recall ever working on this case or filing a dismissal, and her
team also affirmed that they had not filed the dismissal.  (Id., ¶11.)  Ms. Butler called Department B and affirmed
that it was her signature, but that she had not signed the document nor sent it
for filing.  (Id., ¶12.)  Ms. Butler states that, upon inspection, the
Request for Dismissal was not typed in the font she typically uses, did not
have the traditional case name of her file (and instead stated Pinkberry’s
name), and her signature was off-center. 
(Id., ¶13.)  Ms. Butler
states that her filing team went into their Greenfiling folder to determine if
they had filed the document, but they determined that the last document filed
by her office via Greenfiling was a Case Management Statement on July 25,
2023.  (Id., ¶¶14-15, Exs. A-B.)  She also confirmed with OneLegal and ASAP
Legal to ensure that the Request for Dismissal was not filed by a different
service company.  (Id., ¶¶16-17,
Exs. C-D.)  In addition to confirming
that the filing team and no service company had filed the Request for
Dismissal, she also checked her desktop and laptop to confirm that the Request
for Dismissal was not filled out and signed by her.  (Id., ¶18.)  Ms. Butler states that she contacted defense
counsel, Manuel Eli Gonzalez, to ask if he had filed the Request for Dismissal
and Mr. Gonzalez confirmed that he had filed it, believing that Plaintiff’s
counsel wanted him to file; he then represented (differently) that Plaintiff’s
counsel had faxed it to him; and then he admitted that he believed that
Plaintiff’s counsel would not notice if he filed it due to high volume of Plaintiff’s
cases.  (Id., ¶19.)[1]  Ms. Butler states that she had previously
served on defense counsel a Request for Dismissal in a different case (Whitaker
v. Kamran Naimi), which appeared blank except for her signature, and that
the Whitaker/Naimi Request for Dismissal appears to be essentially the
same (with the same Greenfiling watermark no. 8092761.1.c on the top left
corner of the page) as the Request for Dismissal filed in this action, but manipulated
by defense counsel to make it appear that it was for this action.  (Id., ¶21, Exs. E-F.)  Ms. Butler states that she drafted a
stipulation to set aside the dismissal, but defense counsel did not sign the
stipulation.  (Id., ¶22.)
            Based
on the declaration of Ms. Butler, the Court finds there is substantive merit to
the motion.  Further, the motion was
timely brought within 6 months of the dismissal and the motion is
unopposed.  As the motion in not opposed,
defense counsel has not explained why they filed the Request for Dismissal on
behalf of Plaintiff without authorization. 
The motion to vacate the dismissal is granted.   
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Plaintiff Brian
Whitaker’s motion to set aside the dismissal is granted. The Court sets an
order to show cause for December 12, 2023 at 8:30 a.m. in Department B of the
above entitled 
Court.  Defense Attorney Manuel Eli
Gonzalez should show cause why he should not be sanctioned in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 for filing the dismissal in this case, apparently without
authorization. The Court is deeply concerned about this event, which threatened
the integrity of the Court’s electronic file.  
 
Plaintiff shall give notice
of this order.  
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software is
dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.

 
 


