 Case Number:  20STCV31521    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
jasper
  rose,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
raymond
  g. tatevossian, et
  al.,
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.: 
  20STCV31521
 
  Hearing Date:  November 3, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to STRIKE



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Jasper Rose (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that in 2013 to 2019, he was being treated for back pain by Defendant
Raymond G. Tatevossian, M.D., stemming from a degenerative compression of the
thorax spinal discs in his back. 
Plaintiff alleges that Dr. Tatevossian prescribed opioids to lessen the
pain and represented that Plaintiff could get off the pain medication if he
utilized a neurostimulator, and that the neurostimulator from Defendant Nevro
Corporation (“Nevro”) was safe and approved by the FDA.  On September 17, 2017, based on the
representations of Dr. Tatevossian and Defendant Greg Khouganian, M.D.,
Plaintiff went forward with surgery to surgically implant into his back the
Nevro neurostimulator model NIPG1500 (serial no. 47909).  From September 17, 2017 to December 2019, Dr.
Tatevossian and Dr. Khouganian stated that the intensity of the device signal
had to be adjusted and that the reason the device did not work was because the
programming of the device had changed.  Plaintiff
alleges that unbeknownst to him, Defendants had negligently or wrongfully
implanted the device in the thorax area of his back instead of the upper
buttock and that Nevro was aware that the device was not giving the desired
result.  
The action was commenced on August 18,
2020.  The fifth amended complaint (“5AC”),
filed July 19, 2023, against
Defendants Raymond G. Tatevossian, Greg Khouganian, and Nevro Corporation for:
(1) misrepresentation against Nevro and (2) failure to obtain informed consent
against Dr. Khouganian.  
On October 30,
2023, Plaintiff dismissed with prejudice Nevro from the complaint.  Each party is to bear their own fees and
costs.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On August 18,
2023, Dr. Khouganian filed a motion to strike portions of the 5AC.  On September 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief.  On October 5, 2023,
Dr. Khouganian filed a reply brief.
On October 10,
2023, Nevro filed a motion to strike portions of the 5AC, which was scheduled
to be heard on November 3, 2023.  The
Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief to this motion to strike.  However, in light of the dismissal of Nevro,
the motion to strike will be taken off-calendar.  
DISCUSSION 
            Dr.
Khouganian moves to strike from the 5AC: (1) the “New Facts Relevant To All
Counts” in paragraphs 8-24; (2) the new “misrepresentation” 1st
cause of action against Dr. Khouganian only at paragraphs 40-41; (3) the new
allegations for misrepresentation, concealment, and conspiracy in the 2nd
cause of action in paragraphs 60, 62, and 63; and (4) the new punitive damages
demand in the prayer as to the 1st cause of action only as against
Dr. Khouganian only. 
            With respect to the “New Facts,” Dr.
Khouganian moves to strike paragraphs 8-24, arguing that the Court already
entered an order striking these same allegations in its April 14, 2023 Court
Order as paragraphs 9-28 in the 4AC.  Indeed,
the Court’s April 14, 2023 written order struck the allegations in the 4AC without
leave to amend: 
Next, Dr. Khouganian moves to strike the allegations
in paragraphs 9-28, which include allegations regarding the background of the
neurostimulator (¶¶9-17: FDA regulation of medical devices, how the HF10
NPIG1500 neurostimulator is supposed to work, tests prior to implantation, the
components of the neurostimulator, implantation set up), the nature of
Plaintiff’s complaint (¶¶18-19), doctor as fiduciary to a patient (¶20), false
claims by Plaintiff’s doctors and Nevro (¶¶21-22), and delayed discovery (¶¶23-28).  As stated in its December 9 2022 order on the
demurrer to the TAC, the Court only granted limited leave to amend as to the
lack of informed consent cause of action to the extent Plaintiff intended to
allege a medical battery claim. Plaintiff’s additions go beyond this order.  Further, on March 24, 2023, the Court denied
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file the fifth amended complaint, which was
filed while Dr. Khouganian’s demurrer to the 4AC had already been filed and
scheduled.  The Court found that Plaintiff’s
proposed amendments were not modest and that the 5AC included 5 new pages of allegations,
which are the allegations cited above in paragraphs 9-28 of the 4AC.  It may be that some of the allegations of the
4AC have reworded the background facts of the TAC, but at this point, Plaintiff
and his counsel have clouded the record by amending the pleading beyond the
Court’s order and without asking the Court for leave to amend prior to making
those changes, and demonstrating good cause for such late amendments.  Thus, the motion to strike these allegations
is granted.  As noted above, Plaintiff
has not opposed the motion to strike and thereby has not justified these
additions or shown whether the additions were proper.  As such, the motion to strike is granted
without leave to amend. 
(4/14/23 Order re Demurrer to 4AC at
p.7.)  The Court already denied Plaintiff
leave to amend and granted without leave to amend Dr. Khouganian’s motion to
strike these allegations in the 4AC.  As
such, the motion to strike will again be granted as to paragraphs 8-24 in the
5AC.  
            The
1st cause of action is alleged against Nevro only.  (See 5AC at p.8, line 20.)  While paragraphs 40 and 41 mention the
“treating Doctor(s)” and Dr. Khouganian, the allegations can be construed as
background facts regarding what happened during Plaintiff’s doctor visits.  The Court declines to strike the 1st
cause of action or paragraphs 40-41 as the 1st cause of action is
not alleged against Dr. Khouganian. 
Plaintiff also acknowledges that the 1st cause of action is
not alleged against Dr. Khouganian in the opposition brief (as well as in the
5AC).  Accordingly, the motion to strike
the request for punitive damages in connection with the 1st cause of
action only is denied as moot as the 1st cause of action is not
alleged against Dr. Khouganian. 
            Finally,
with respect to the new allegations for misrepresentation, concealment, and
conspiracy in the 2nd cause of action in paragraphs 60, 62, and 63,
Plaintiff agrees to strike portions of paragraph 60 (the second half of
paragraph 60 starting at “Inadequate facts and mis-leading misrepresentations
were made…” to the end of the paragraph) and 62 (“intentionally concealed” to
“concealed”).  In the reply brief, Dr. Khouganian
argues that Plaintiff did not obtain leave to amend the 5AC to add facts in the
2nd cause of action, including that “[i]nadequate facts and
mis-leading representations were made to Plaintiff” thereby “misleading
Plaintiff” and allowing him to rely on previously presented “false
information.” (5AC, ¶60, p. 17, lines 18-19, 23-24.)  He also moves to strike allegations that Dr.
Khouganian “concealed material information,” “conspired” to keep the true facts
from Plaintiff, and “concealed the facts.” 
(Id., ¶¶62-63, p. 18, lines 6-7, 9-10, and 20.)  
            As
Plaintiff has agreed to strike paragraph 60 on page 17, lines 18-25, the motion
to strike is granted without leave to amend as to paragraph 60 (page 17, lines
18-25).  
            The
Court previously overruled Dr. Khouganian’s demurrer to the Plaintiff’s failure
to obtain informed consent cause of action in the 4AC, but stated that it may
proceed as a medical malpractice cause of action only and struck without leave
to amend the heading to the extent that Plaintiff was trying to allege a
medical battery claim.  (4/13/23 Order at
p.6.)  The cause of action is therefore
only a claim for medical malpractice and not for an intentional tort.  In addition, the claims for concealment of
information and conspiracy with Dr. Tatevossian exceed the scope of the Court’s
order allowing amendment.  Further, there
is now no cause of action for fraud alleged in the complaint against Dr.
Khouganian.  (The Court notes that in the
4AC, Plaintiff alleged a claim for negligent misrepresentation and failure to
obtain informed consent against Dr. Khouganian, but Plaintiff removed that
cause of action when filing the 5AC.)  As
such, the Court grants the motion to strike these allegations in paragraphs 62
and 63 without leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant
Dr. Greg S. Khouganian’s motion to strike portions of the Fifth Amended
Complaint is granted in part without leave to amend as to paragraphs 8-24,
paragraph 60 (page 17, lines 18-25), paragraph 62, and paragraph 63 (at page
18, lines 19-22).  The motion to strike
is denied as moot as to the allegations in the 1st cause of action
and the request for punitive damages in the prayer for damages as the 1st
cause of action was not alleged against Dr. Khouganian.  Defendant shall provide notice of this order.

To
the extent that Defendant Nevro Corporation’s motion to strike is still on
calendar, the Court takes the motion to strike off-calendar in light of the
dismissal of Defendant Nevro Corporation entered on October 30, 2023.  
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
 