 Case Number:  21STCV25682    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
rashyn r.
  reynolds,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
hillsides and
  dr. kimberly charlton,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  21STCV25682
 
Hearing
  Date:  November 3, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer and/or in the alternative, motion to dismiss
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Rashyn
R. Reynolds (“Plaintiff”) filed the second amended complaint (“SAC”) on
February 2, 2023.  The SAC is a
handwritten document.  It alleges a single
cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress (labeled as the
third cause of action).
Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant Hillsides had responsibilities to report Plaintiff’s services,
which was required by Defendant’s own contracts with the Department of Mental
Health (“DMH”) when Plaintiff’s case opened with the Department of Children and
Family Services (“DCFS”).  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant intentionally provided misrepresentations through
fraudulent letters regarding her services. 
She alleges she suffered severe or emotional distress, such as anxiety,
stress, psychological abuse and aggression, which has caused her lack of sleep,
crying, inability to participate in support groups due to triggers from
Defendant, decreased self-worth, and delays to reunification.    
B.     Demurrer
on Calendar 
On
September 14, 2023, Hillsides filed a demurrer to the SAC.  In the alternative, Hillsides moves to
dismiss Plaintiff’s SAC.  
On October 25,
2023, Hillsides filed a notice of non-opposition to the demurrer, stating that
it was not in receipt of an opposition brief from Plaintiff. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Hillsides
requests judicial notice of: (1) the Notice of Ruling filed on June 26, 2023;
and (2) Plaintiff’s SAC filed on February 2, 2023.  The request is granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).)  DISCUSSION
            Hillsides
demurs to the IIED cause of action alleged in the SAC, arguing that Plaintiff
fails to allege sufficient facts and the SAC is incomprehensible.  In the alternative, Hillsides moves to
dismiss the action, arguing that Plaintiff did not appear to the Case
Management Conference on July 3, 2023 and, if Plaintiff does not appear to the
November 7, 2023 CMC, the Court should dismiss the matter for failure to
prosecute pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1342.  
The elements of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the
defendant’s intention of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff suffered severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (4) the plaintiff’s injuries were actually and
proximately caused by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.  (Vasquez
v. Franklin Mgmt. Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819,
832.)  In order to avoid a demurrer, the
plaintiff must allege with great specificity, the acts which she believes are
so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.  (Id.) 
Conduct to be outrageous must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.  (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.)  In addition, the outrageous conduct must be
of a nature which is especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental
distress of a very serious kind.  (Id.) 
“Although emotional distress may consist of any highly unpleasant mental
reaction such as fright, grief, shame, humiliation, embarrassment, anger,
chagrin, disappointment or worry [citation], to make out a claim, the plaintiff
must prove that emotional distress was severe and not trivial or
transient.”  (Wong
v. Tai Jing (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1376.)  Such
distress must be “of such substantial quality or enduring quality that no
reasonable person in civilized society should be expected to endure
it.”  (Potter v.
Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1004.)
Plaintiff alleges that the outrageous
conduct by Defendant was that it was required to report Plaintiff’s services to
the DMH in connection with a case opened with DCSC and that Defendants made
material misrepresentations in fraudulent letters.  Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant’s
conduct caused DCFS and the courts to revert from unmonitored to monitored
visitations based on the fraudulent letters and that Defendant intentionally
delayed parenting classes and refused to communicate real services rendered.  
The SAC lacks sufficient facts to show
that an IIED claim is adequately pled.  Hillsides
argues that it did what it was required to do by providing professional
assessments and that its conduct does not amount to extreme and outrageous
conduct; however, some of Hillsides’ arguments are extrinsic to the facts of
the SAC.  Nevertheless, there are still
issues with the SAC.  SAC is lacking in
supporting facts showing how Hillsides engaged in outrageous conduct and what
representations were fraudulent.  Plaintiff alleges
that letters were written to the court and DCFS, but what was stated in the letters
(or at least a description) is not provided. 
IIED must be pled with specificity and the SAC fails to rise to this
level.  As such, the SAC lacks facts
supporting a showing that Defendants’ conduct was extreme and outrageous. 
The demurrer to the sole cause of action
for IIED is sustained with leave to amend. This will be Plaintiff’s last
attempt to amend the complaint.  In the
forthcoming third amended complaint, Plaintiff should not incorporate
allegations from prior pleadings into the latest iteration of the complaint and
the third amended complaint should include all the relevant allegations and be
complete in and of itself. 
With respect to the request to dismiss the
SAC, the Court denies the request at this time. 
Hillsides moves to dismiss the action,
arguing that if Plaintiff does not appear to the November 7, 2023 CMC, the
Court should dismiss the matter for failure to prosecute pursuant to CRC Rule
3.1342.  The November 7, 2023 CMC has not
yet occurred.  As such, the Court
declines to dismiss this action prematurely.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Defendant Hillsides’ demurrer to the intentional
infliction of emotional distress cause of action in the second amended
complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.  This will be Plaintiff’s last opportunity to
amend the complaint. 
Defendant shall give notice of this
order.  
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 

 