 Case Number:  22BBCV01029    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
illya kode, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
justin adam scarbrough, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case
  No.:  22BBCV01029
 
  Hearing Date: November 3, 2023
 
  [TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to quash; demurrer
 



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Illya Kode (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on October 22, 2020,
Plaintiff was involved in a motor vehicle accident with Defendant Justin Adam
Scarbrough (“Defendant”) in Studio City. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant negligently operated his vehicle so as
to collide with Plaintiff’s person.  
The complaint, filed November 18, 2022, alleges causes of action for:
(1) motor vehicle; and (2) general negligence. 
B.    
Motions on Calendar 
On September 8, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to quash service of the
summons and complaint.  Concurrently,
Defendant filed a demurrer to the complaint. 
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrer. 
The Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief to the motion to
quash.   On October 27, 2023, Defendant filed a notice
of non-opposition to the motion to quash. 

On October 27, 2023, Defendant filed a reply brief in support of the
demurrer to the complaint.  
LEGAL STANDARD
            CCP
§ 418.10 states in relevant part:
(a) A defendant, on or before the last day
of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for
good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes:
(1) To quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her.
… 
(e) A
defendant or cross-defendant may make a motion [to quash] under this section
and
simultaneously answer, demur, or move to strike the complaint or
cross-complaint.
(CCP § 418.10(a), (e).)  
DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE
            Defendant moves to
quash the service of the summons and complaint, arguing that Defendant was not
validly served with process.  
            According to the proof
of service filed on April 27, 2023, Defendant was served by substituted service
on April 24, 2023 at 5:10 p.m. by serving Marquez Martinez (occupant/roommate)
at his home located at 2019 Lake Shore Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90035.  The documents were thereafter mailed on April
25, 2023.  Service was effectuated by
Daniel James Cadena, a registered California process server.  Mr. Cadena includes his declaration showing
his attempts to personally serve Defendant at his home address over several
dates and times. 
            Defendant states that he
formerly lived at 2019 Lake Shore Avenue, but he has not lived there since
September 2021.  (Def.’s Decl., ¶¶3-4.)  He states that Marquez Martinez was his
landlord and not his roommate.  (Id.,
¶3.)  He states that he resides on Laveta
Terrace, where he has resided since October 1, 2021 when he moved out of the
Lake Shore Avenue property.  (Id.,
¶5.)  
            According to Defendant’s
declaration, he no longer lived at the Lake Shore Avenue property at the time
service was effectuated in April 2023. 
In October 2021, he had moved to a different location.  Based on Mr. Cadena’s declaration of due
diligence, it appears that service was attempted only at the Lake Shore Avenue
property and there was no search for any other address for where Defendant may
have resided and service was not attempted at the Laveta Terrace address.
            Plaintiff has not
opposed the motion to quash service to refute Defendant’s arguments regarding
proper service. 
            As such, the motion to
quash service of the summons and complaint is granted.   
DISCUSSION RE DEMURRER 
In light of the ruling on the motion to
quash, Defendant’s demurrer is taken off-calendar.  
Plaintiff should take the proper steps to
effectuate service on Defendant at his new address or determine whether defense
counsel is willing to accept service on Defendant’s behalf.  Defendant may refile the demurrer once proper
service has been effectuated. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant Justin Adam Scarbrough’s motion to quash service of the summons and
complaint is granted. 
 In
light of the ruling on the motion to quash, the demurrer is taken off-calendar.

Defendant shall provide notice of their respective order. 
Warning regarding electronic appearances:  All
software for remote or electronic appearances is subject to malfunction based
on system weakness and human error, which can originate from any of the
multiple parties participating each morning. The seamless operation of the
Court’s electronic appearance software is dependent on numerous inconstant and
fluctuating factors that may impact whether you, or other counsel or the Court
itself can be heard in a particular case. Not all these factors are within the
control of the courtroom staff. For example, at times, the system traps
participants in electronic purgatories where they cannot be heard and where the
courtroom staff is not aware of their presence. If you call the courtroom,
please be respectful of the fact that a court hearing is going on, and that the
courtroom staff is doing their best to use an imperfect system. If it is
truly important to you to be heard, please show up to the courtroom in the
normal way. Parking is free or reasonable in Burbank.
 
