  Case Number:  20BBCV00444    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
robin
  kim, as
  sole trustee of the MCINTOSH TRUST, a revocable living trust, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
yonatan rabin, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case No.:  20BBCV00444
 
  Hearing Date: November 3, 2023 (cont. from September
  29, 2023)
 
[TENTATIVE] ORder RE: 
motion for order awarding costs of proof (CCP §
  2033.420)
 
 
 



 
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Robin Kim (“Plaintiff” or “Kim”),
as sole trustee of the McIntosh Trust (“Trust” or “MT”), commenced this action
against Defendants Yonatan Rabin and Liat Rabin and the company they owned and
operated, Defendant Sapphire Development & Construction, Inc. (“SDC”).[1]  Plaintiff alleges that the Trust owns real
property located at 926 Hilldale Ave., West Hollywood, CA 90069.  In 2016, the Trust, through its trustor Betty
Jo Kim McIntosh and trustee Plaintiff, pursued the prospect of developing the
property into residences for purposes of maximizing its value and ultimately
selling the residences.  The Trust alleged
that it engaged the Rabins, SDC, and Defendant Joseph Bernstein to handle all
aspects of the project.  Plaintiff alleged
that Defendants preyed on the Trust’s confidence in them and misrepresented
their qualifications to perform the work. 
 
The complaint, filed July 17, 2020,
alleges causes of action for: (1) intentional misrepresentation/fraudulent
inducement; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) negligence; (4) unfair competition;
(5) unjust enrichment; and (6) accounting. 
B.    
Relevant Background
The matter went to trial on July 5, 2023. Just
prior to the empanelment of the jury, Plaintiff Kim dismissed the 5th
cause of action for unjust enrichment with prejudice. The 1st
(fraud) and 3rd (negligence) causes of action were tried to the
jury, while the Court considered the 4th (unfair competition) and 6th
(accounting) causes of action based upon the evidence presented. The Court
dismissed the fraud cause of action against Liat Rabin at the close of
Plaintiff’s case. 
On July 19, 2023, the jury returned a
defense verdict on the 1st and 3rd causes of action as
against all Defendants. The Court stated that based on the findings of the
jury, with which the Court concurred, there was no basis upon which to grant
relief under the 4th and 6th causes of action, and that judgement
should therefore be entered for the defense. Judgment was entered on July 31,
2023. 
On August 3, 2023, the Court issued a
Statement of Decision regarding the 6th cause of action for accounting.
C.    
Motion on Calendar 
In its memorandum of costs (filed August
9, 2023), Defendants seek: 
·        
Item 1. Filing and Motion Fees - $1,963.02
·        
Item 2. Jury Fees - $1,066.55
·        
Item 4. Deposition Costs - $8,516.58
·        
Item 8. Witness Fees – $2,070.00
·        
Item 11. Court Reporter Fees as Established
by Statute - $20,911.50
·        
Item 12. Models, Enlargements, and
Photocopies of Exhibits - $1,971.00
·        
Item 14. Fees for Electronic Filing or
Service - $640.99
·        
TOTAL: $37,139.64
On August 15, 2023, Defendants filed a
motion for an award of attorney’s fees in the amount of $205,788, plus costs in
the amount of $52,175 (less costs included but awarded as costs to Defendants
as the prevailing parties).  
On September 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
On September 21, 2023, Defendants filed a
reply brief. 
The matter came for hearing initially on
September 29, 2023.  The Court ordered
Defendants to file a supplemental declaration of counsel and a supplemental
memorandum of points and authorities addressing why defense counsel is entitled
to attorney’s fees incurred other than at trial by October 16, 2023.  Plaintiff was ordered to file a responsive
supplemental declaration and supplemental memorandum of points and authorities
by October 20, 2023.  The Court stated a
reply may be submitted if necessary.
On October 11, 2023, Defendants filed a
supplemental memorandum of points and authorities. 
On October 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
supplemental declaration of Solomon E. Gressen. 

On October 25, 2023, Defendants file a
reply to Plaintiff’s supplemental papers. 

LEGAL
STANDARD
CCP § 2033.420
states: 
(a) If a party
fails to admit the genuineness of any document or the truth of any matter when
requested to do so under this chapter, and if the party requesting that
admission thereafter proves the genuineness of that document or the truth of
that matter, the party requesting the admission
may move the court for an order requiring the party to whom the
request was directed to pay the reasonable expenses incurred in making that
proof, including reasonable attorney's fees.
(b) The court shall make this order unless it
finds any of the following:
(1)
An objection to the request was sustained or a response to it was waived under
Section 2033.290.
(2)
The admission sought was of no substantial importance.
(3)
The party failing to make the admission had reasonable ground to believe that
that party would prevail on the matter.
(4)
There was other good reason for the failure to admit.
(CCP § 2033.420.) 

“One need not be a
prevailing party to be entitled to sanctions under this statute.”  (Smith v. Circle P Ranch Co. (1978)
87 Cal.App.3d 267, 274–275.) 
“[W]here it becomes clear from evidence introduced by either
party at trial that the party who denied for lack of information or belief had
access to the information at the time requests for admissions were propounded,
sanctions are justified because that party has a duty to
investigate ….”  (Bloxham
v. Saldinger (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 729, 752.)  “[S]ince
requests for admissions are not limited to matters within personal knowledge of the responding party, that party has a duty to make a
reasonable investigation of the facts before answering items which do not fall
within his personal knowledge.”  (Id. at 751-52.) 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants move for fees and costs
against Plaintiff pursuant to CCP § 2033.420, arguing that they requested that
Plaintiff admit certain facts in the Requests for Admissions (“RFA”), but
Plaintiff failed to admit them.  
            The Court notes that in the
opposition brief, Plaintiff only disputes the reasonableness of fees, but does
not dispute that Defendants are entitled to fees and costs for his failure to
admit certain RFAs.  
            The Court has reviewed the motion,
opposition, and reply papers.  The fees
sought by Defendants appear to include all fees incurred by defense counsel
after the date of the denials of the RFAs without any apportionment for the
time and effort to prove these specific matters at trial.  Motions pursuant to CCP § 2033.420 should be
limited to fees that would compensate the “reasonable expenses incurred in
making that proof, including reasonable attorney's fees”—the Court declines
to award all fees incurred after the denials of the RFAs were received.  
            The Court allowed the parties to
file supplemental papers to discuss whether fees should be limited to only fees
and costs incurred at trial.  
Defendants argue
that fees and costs other than incurred at trial are proper, relying on Garcia
v. Hyster Co. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 724, Barnett v. Penske Truck Leasing
Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 494, and Association for Los Angeles Deputy
Sheriffs v. Macias (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 1007.
·        
In Garcia, the trial court awarded
Hyster its attorney’s fees, costs, and other expenses associated with the trial
of the case and proving that RFA Nos. 1-15, all incurred after June 30, 1992,
the date Hyster propounded its RFAs against Travelers (the
plaintiff-in-intervention).  (Garcia,
supra, 28 Cal.App.4th at 736.)  The Court
of Appeal found that the trial court had relied on conclusory statements of
counsel, which failed to set out the hourly rates and time spent on the case,
such that the trial court abused its discretion in awarding Hyster everything
it asked for.  (Id. at 737.) The
Court of Appeal revered such that fees and costs should be determined from at
most the date of filing of the complaint in intervention (and not the
complaint) and to consider which fees and costs related to the issues covered
in the RFAs.  (Id. at 737-738.)  
·        
In Barnett, the Court of Appeal
determined that sanctions pursuant to CCP § 2033(o) were available to a party
that prevailed on a motion for summary judgment.  The Barnett Court discussed the Garcia
case, finding that it did not support a position that sanctions may be awarded
only after trial.  The Court of Appeal
reasoned that allow sanctions in this situation was appropriate because the
primary purpose of RFAs is to expediate trial and sanctions under section
2033(o) reimbursed a party proving the truth of an RFA and parties that
successfully moved for summary judgment should not be penalized for avoiding
trial by denying costs of proof.  (Barnett,
supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at 499.)  
·        
In Macias, the Association served
on defendants 28 RFAs, 14 of which Defendants denied.  After judgment was entered in favor of the
Association, it sought to recover costs to prove the truth of the matters
defendants failed to admit.  The
Association submitted costs and time entries billed from March 20, 2015 (the
date of Macias’ final responses) to October 31, 2018 (the last billing before
the court’s November 13, 2018 statement of decision.  (Macias, supra, 63 Cal.App.5th at
1026.  The trial court denied the motion
for lack of jurisdiction, that some of defendants’ denials were not unequivocal
denials, and that defendants had reasonable ground that they would prevail on 2
issues.  The Court of Appeal reversed on
all 3 grounds, finding that the trial court was required under CCP § 2033.420
to award the Association “its reasonable expenses incurred in proving matters
defendants failed to admit without reasonable grounds to do so.”  (Id. at 1031.)  The Court of Appeal stated: “On remand, the trial court has the
discretion to determine whether defendants had reasonable grounds for failing
to admit any specific request for admission not otherwise disposed of in this
opinion. And the court has the discretion to determine the amount of reasonable
expenses, to receive further evidence should it choose to do so, and to exclude
any claimed expenses to the extent they relate to issues outside the scope of
the requests for admission. What it cannot do is deny costs of proof that are
mandated by statute.”  (Id.)  
In the supplemental opposition brief,
Plaintiff provides the declaration of his counsel, Solomon E. Gresen.  Mr. Gresen argues that the Court allowed
Defendants to file an evidentiary declaration sufficient to “prove” a fact at
issue but Defendants instead filed a supplemental memorandum of points and
authorities without any evidentiary value. 
(Gresen Suppl. Decl., ¶9.)  He
requests that if the Court considers Defendants’ memorandum of points and
authorities, that Plaintiff be given an additional week to file a 4-page reply
brief.  (Id.)  
In the supplemental reply brief,
Defendants argue that they provided authority showing they are entitled to fees
beyond those incurred at trial and thus their supplemental papers properly
addressed the Court’s initial order.  
The Court allowed Defendants to file a
supplemental declaration and supplemental memorandum of point sand authorities
to address the issue of why defense counsel is entitled to attorney’s fees for hours
incurred other than trial.  Plaintiff was
given the opportunity to respond by filing a responsive supplemental
declaration and a responsive supplemental memorandum of points and
authorities.  Thus, there is nothing
improper about Defendants’ supplemental memorandum of points and
authorities.  Further, the Court already
continued the hearing on this motion in part due to Plaintiff’s counsel’s
representations at the September 29, 2023 hearing that he did not realize that
Defendants’ motion was based on CCP § 2033.420. 
(Although Plaintiff had opposed this motion, the opposition was devoid
of any arguments related to the RFAs.)  Thus,
the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for further briefing on the RFA issue because
Plaintiff has already had two opportunities to address the merits of this
motion but failed to properly do so.  
However, Defendants have not provided a
supplemental declaration of Mr. Shapero detailing “the costs and fees of
appearance at trial only,” as requested by the Court.  Instead, Defendants appear to be arguing that
they should be entitled to the entirety of the fees that they requested.  (According to Mr. Shapero’s supplemental
declaration, he is decreasing the costs/fees sought from $205,516 to
$199,687.)  On the other hand, Plaintiff
argues that Defendants should only be entitled to recover $8,100 in attorney’s
fees for the 2 hours deposition and 16-hour cross-examination (at $450/hour) to
prove that the RFAs were incomplete. 
(Gresen Suppl. Decl., ¶15.)  
While Defendants have provided some case
law showing that attorney’s fees incurred beyond the time of trial can be
recoverable, these cases do not provide a blanket proposition that the Court
should award all fees from the date of denial of the RFAs; rather, in most of
the cited cases, the Court of Appeal remanded to the trial court the issue of
ascertaining and calculating fees.  Similarly,
this Court has discretion to ascertain what amount of fees is reasonable and
what amount of time was spent to prove the RFAs based on its observations of
counsels’ conduct and the trial proceedings. 

The parties have presented adversarial
viewpoints and allocations.  Defendants
seek $199,687 in “reasonable” attorney’s fees, while Plaintiff argues that only
$8,100 should be recoverable.  CCP §
2033.420 is not intended to be an attorney’s fees provision for all reasonable
fees incurred in the action, but rather as a sanction for a party’s failure to
reasonably investigate the facts.  Section
2033.420 is intended to recompense counsel in part for the time spent to prove
specific RFAs that were denied by the responding party Plaintiff.  While arguably any action taken during this
case from the RFA responses could be construed as time spent to prove the truth
of the RFAs, the Court does not read the section so broadly.  Instead, the Court will only award fees for
the approximate amount of time spent by defense counsel to prove the
genuineness of a document or truth of the matter in an RFA. 
            Based on the Court’s observations at
trial and the time spent by the parties, the Court finds that awarding $60,000
in attorney’s fees and costs to Defendants and their counsel is
reasonable.  (See Mot., Ex. D [Billing
Invoice #487, #493].)  In making this
determination, the Court takes into account the broad range of issues covered
in the RFA, but considers the totality of the issues presented at trial and
what portions were meant to counteract and overcome any bad faith denials by
Plaintiff. Moreover, the Court’s examination of the papers indicates that
approximately $21,000 in fees were spent as the result of counsel’s attendance
at trial. Doubling this amount, and allowing for preparation of briefs,
witnesses and exhibits during pre-trial proceedings, and the extra costs the
Court finds attorney’s fees of $50,000 to be approximately reasonable as the
extra cost of proving those matters that should have been admitted.  While many of the RFAs should have ultimately
been admitted, the Court does not find that Plaintiff necessarily denied them
all without a reasonable basis of belief nor has Defendants proved this.    
            As such, the motion for attorney’s
fees and additional costs is granted in the total amount of $50,000.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’ motion
for attorney’s fees and costs is granted in the amount of $50,000, pursuant to
CCP § 2033.420.  
Defendants shall
provide notice of this order. 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 


