 Case Number:  22STCV23445    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the
Alternative, Summary Adjudication of Issues
 
Moving Party: State
Farm General Insurance Company
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Scott Jacobs and Lauren Jacobs   
 
 
The Motion is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On July 20, 2022, Plaintiffs Scott
Jacobs and Lauren Jacobs filed their Complaint against Defendant State Farm
General Insurance Company for breach of contract and breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
        On September 13, 2022, Defendant filed
its Answer to the Complaint. 
 
        On August 24, 2023, Defendant filed its
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication of
Issues. In support of its Motion, Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Table of
Contents of Evidence and Exhibits; (2) Separate Statement; and (3) Proposed
Order. 
 
        On October 26, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
their Opposition to the Motion. In support of their Opposition, Plaintiffs
concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Jaclyn D. Conover; (2) Compendium of
Evidence; (3) Response to Defendant’s Separate Statement; and (4) Proposed
Order. 
 
        On November 3, 2023, Defendant filed its
Reply regarding the Motion. In support of its Reply, Defendant concurrently
filed: (1) Response to Plaintiffs’ Additional Material Facts; (2) Objections to
Evidence Submitted in Opposition; and (3) Proposed Order. 
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Evidentiary Objections
 
Defendant filed evidentiary objections to
Plaintiffs’ evidence. The following are the Court’s rulings on these
objections. 
 




Objection


 


 




1


 


OVERRULED




2


 


OVERRULED




3


 


OVERRULED




4


 


OVERRULED




5


 


OVERRULED




6


 


OVERRULED




7


 


OVERRULED




8


 


OVERRULED




9


 


OVERRULED




10


 


OVERRULED




 
II.       Legal Standard
 
“A party may
move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding if it is contended that
the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or
proceeding. The motion may be made at any time after 60 days have elapsed since
the general appearance in the action or proceeding of each party against whom
the motion is directed or at any earlier time after the general appearance that
the court, with or without notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (1)(a).)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law. That is because of the general principle that a party who seeks
a court’s action in his favor bears the burden of persuasion thereon. There is
a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850, citation omitted.) 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of
his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.” (Aguilar, supra, at p. 850; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474, [applying the summary judgment standards in Aguilar
to motions for summary adjudication].) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues. Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the
issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839, citation omitted.) 
 
“The trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a fact
finder to determine whose version is more likely true. Nor may the trial court
grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Binder,
supra, at p. 840, citations omitted; see also Weiss v. People ex rel.
Dep’t of Transp. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
 
“On a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no
discretion to exercise. If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Super. Ct. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320, citation omitted.) 
 
III.    
Discussion
 
A.      The Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant moves the Court to grant
summary judgment, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication as to the issues
in this matter. (Motion, p. 16:8–9.) 
 
Defendant argues that it did not breach
the policy contract because: (1) the policy excludes losses caused by wear,
tear, deterioration, inherent vice, latent defect, and/or defects in design,
materials, and workmanship; and (2) losses caused by a slow leakage of water
over time are excluded from coverage under the policy. (Motion, pp. 9:22,
10:12–13, 12:13–14.) Thus, Defendant cannot be liable for breach of contract on
a bad faith cause of action. (Id. at p. 15:23–25.)
 
        Plaintiffs disagree,
arguing: (1) that the wear, tear, deterioration, inherent vice, latent defect,
and/or defects in design, materials, and workmanship exclusion does not
preclude coverage for Plaintiffs’ loss; (2) that the continuous seepage of
water exclusion does not preclude coverage for this loss; and (3) that
Defendant acted in bad faith by wrongfully denying coverage for Plaintiffs’
claims. (Opposition, pp. 7:19–21, 9:3–4, 11:3–4.)
 
        Defendant reiterates
its arguments in its Reply. 
 
B.      The Policy and its Exclusions 
 
The Insurance Policy at issue is long and
complex, with provisions for what Defendant will and will not cover under the
Insurance Policy. 
 
As it relates to dwellings, this
provision discusses what the Insurance Policy covers:
 
“We will pay for accidental direct
physical loss to the property described in Coverage A, unless the loss is
excluded or limited in Section I – Losses Not Insured or otherwise excluded or
limited in this policy. However, loss does not include and we will not pay for,
any diminution in value.” (Defendant’s Table of Contents, Exh. 4, p. 12 [actual
page 51 of 308], emphases omitted.)
 
        The provisions
continue on the following pages, which includes the following coverage
provision:
 
12.   Abrupt and accidental discharge or overflow of
water, steam, or sewage from within a plumbing, heating, air conditioning, or
automatic fire protective sprinkler system, or from within a household
appliance. 
 
This
peril does not include loss:
 
a.         
to
the system or appliance from which the water, steam, or sewage escaped; or
 
b.       Caused by or resulting from:
 
(1)       freezing;
 
(2)       water or sewage from outside the residence premises plumbing system
that enters through sewers or drains, or water that enters into and overflows
from within a sump pump, sump pump well, or any other system designed to remove
subsurface water that is drained from the foundation area; or
 
(3)       the pressure from or presence of tree, shrub, or plant roots.
 
13. 
 Abrupt and accidental tearing asunder,
cracking, burning, or bulging of a steam or hot water hearing system, an air
conditioning system, an automatic fire protective sprinkler system, or an
appliance for hearing water. 
 
        This
peril does not include loss caused by or resulting from freezing. 
 
(Defendant’s Table of Contents, Exh. 4, p. 14 [actual page 53 of
308], emphases omitted.)
 
        The Insurance Policy
also includes provisions on what is not covered.
 
1.         
We
will not pay for any loss to the property described in Coverage A that is
caused by one or more of the items below, regardless of whether the loss occurs
abruptly or gradually, involves isolated or widespread damage, arises from
natural or external forces, or occurs as a result of any combination of these:
 
. . . 
 
f.      wear,
tear, decay, marring, scratching, deterioration, inherent vice, latent defect,
or mechanical breakdown;
 
. . . 
 
3.         
We
will not pay for, under any part of this policy, any loss that is caused by one
or more of the items below, regardless of whether the loss occurs abruptly or
gradually, involves isolated or widespread damage, occurs on or off the
residence premises, arises from natural or external forces, or occurs as a
result of any combination of these:
 
. . . 
 
c.       Water, meaning:
 
(1)       flood;
 
(2)       surface water. This does not include water solely caused by the release
of water from a swimming pool, spigot, sprinkler system, hose, or hydrant;
 
(3)       waves (including tidal wave, tsunami, and seiche);
 
(4)       tides or tidal water;
 
(5)       overflow of any body of water (including any release, escape, or
rising of any body of water, or any water held, contained, controlled, or
diverted by a dam, levee, dike, or any type of water containment, diversion, or
flood control device);
 
(6)       spray or surge from any of the items c.(1) through c.(5) described
above, all whether driven by wind or not;
 
(7)       water or sewage from outside the residence premises plumbing system
that enters through sewers or drains, or water or sewage that enters into and
overflows from within a sump pump, sump pump well, or any other system designed
to remove subsurface water that is drained from the foundation area;
 
(8)       water or sewage below the surface of the ground, including water or
sewage that exerts pressure on, or seeps or leaks through a building structure,
sidewalk, driveway, swimming pool, or other structure;
 
(9)       seepage or leakage of water, steam, or sewage that occurs or
develops over a period of time:
 
(a)       and is:
 
(i)               
continuous;
 
(ii)              
repeating
 
(iii)             
gradual;
 
(iv)            
intermittent;
 
(v)              
slow;
or
 
(vi)            
trickling;
and
 
(b)       from a:
 
(i)               
heating,
air conditioning, or automatic fire protective sprinkler system;
 
(ii)              
household
appliance; or
 
(iii)             
plumbing
system, including from, within or around any shower stall, shower bath, tub
installation, or other plumbing fixture, including their walls, ceilings, or
floors.
 
We also will not pay for losses arising
from condensation or the presence of humidity moisture, or vapor that occurs or
develops over a period of time; or
 
(10)    material carried or otherwise moved by any of the water or sewage,
as described in items c.(1) through c.(9) above.
 
However, we will pay for any accidental
direct physical loss by fire, explosion, or theft resulting from water,
providing the resulting loss is itself a loss insured.
 
(Defendant’s Table of Contents, Exh. 4, pp. 15–17 [actual pages 54
through 56 of 308], emphases omitted.)
 
C.      Discussion
 
According to Defendant, Plaintiff
suffered water damages after “a pipe leading to the refrigerator valve box was
broken”, “there was mold behind the refrigerator”, and “the refrigerator water
line was never connected to the valve.” (Motion, p. 6:2, 6:6, 6:10–12,
6:15–16.) 
 
While “accidental direct physical loss to
the property described” is covered by the Insurance Policy, Defendant argues
that these damages are not covered because: (1) “[t]he failure in the plumbing
line feeding the icemaker box was the result of wear, tear, deterioration,
inherent vice, latent defect, and/or a defect in design, materials or
workmanship”; and (2) “[t]he water damage at Plaintiffs’ property was the
result of a slow leakage of water from the plumbing line feeding the icemaker
box that occurred over a period of time.” (Motion, p. 6:23–27; Defendant’s
Table of Contents, Exh. 4, pp. 12, 15–17.)
 
        According to Plaintiffs,
they “suffered a sudden water loss when a pressurized PVC pipe inside the wall
completely served at the L-joint approximately one month after they moved into
their new home. . . . Without any further investigation as to the cause of loss
or rate and flow of water, [Defendant] revoked coverage and denied Plaintiffs’
claim based on the continuous or repeated seepage and leakage exclusion.”
(Opposition, p. 1:2–5, 1:13–14; Defendant’s Table of Contents, Exh. 4, p. 17.)
 
        It appears to the
Court that Defendant’s claim that “[t]he facts are undisputed”, is incorrect. 
 
Defendant cites various pieces of
evidence  – including emails from the
mitigation company, plumbing reports from different companies, and various
declarations – to claim that there was an ongoing leak due to a defect, which
would omit these damages from policy coverage, 
Plaintiffs cite various pieces of evidence – including various
depositions and declarations – to claim that there was a spontaneous severing
of a pipe without evidence of a defect, which would mean these damages are
covered by the Insurance Policy. (See, for example, Separate Statement, Item
16; see also Response to Separate Statement, Item 16.)
 
        There are numerous triable
issues of material fact, including the cause of the water damage and whether
Defendant acted in bad faith. Neither summary judgment nor summary adjudication
are appropriate. 
 
IV.     
Conclusion
 
The Motion is DENIED. 
 