 Case Number:  23SMCV02764    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Tensor Law P.C., et.al v.
Gerald I. Gillock, et. al



Case No.:                    23SMCV02764


Complaint Filed:                   6-13-23




Hearing Date:            1-16-24


Discovery C/O:                     N/A




Calendar No.:            8


Discover Motion C/O:          N/A




POS:                           OK


Trial Date:                             Not Set



SUBJECT:                 SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE
PLAINTIFFS’ SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT PERSUANT TO CCP § 425.16 (ANTI-SLAPP)
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants Gerald I. Gillock
and Gerald I. Gillock Associates 
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiffs Tensor Law
P.C. and Aaron G. Filler 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
            Defendants
Gerald I. Gillock and Gerald I. Gillock Associates SLAPP Motion is GRANTED in
full as to the 10th Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty of
Confidentiality, and the 11th Cause of Action for Attempted Extortion.

 
            Defendants Gerald
I. Gillock and Gerald I. Gillock Associates Objections to Plaintiffs’ Evidence
Opposing Special Motion to Strike are SUSTAINED.
 
            Defendants Kevin
V. DeSantis, James A. McFaul, Doug Gillie, and Dunn DeSantis Walt &
Kendrick LLPs’ RJN is GRANTED as to the existence of the documents requested.
The Court does not take judicial notice of the truth of the facts stated in the
requested documents.
 
I.     
      Anti-SLAPP
Analysis
 
            “Litigation
of an anti-SLAPP motion involves a two-step process. First, the moving defendant
bears the burden of establishing that the challenged allegations or claims
arise from protected activity in which the defendant has engaged.  Second,
for each claim that does arise from protected activity, the plaintiff must show
the claim has “at least ‘minimal merit.  If the plaintiff cannot make this
showing, the court will strike the claim.” (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health
System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009.)
 
a.    
10th Cause of Action for Breach of
Fiduciary Duty of Confidentiality  
 
                                                   
i.     1st
Step of Analysis – Defendants’ Burden
 
            “[C]ourts
are to consider the elements of the challenged claim and what actions by the
defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis for
liability.  The defendant’s burden is to identify what acts each
challenged claim rests on and to show how those acts are protected under a
statutorily defined category of protected activity.”  (Bonni,
supra, 11 Cal.5th at 1009.) 
 
            “The
moving defendant must show that the challenged claim or claims arise from the
defendant's constitutionally protected free speech or petition rights.  A
defendant need only make a prima facie showing at this stage.”  (Ojjeh
v. Brown (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 1027, 1035–1036.)  A defendant has the
“burden of identifying all allegations of protected activity” on the first
prong of SLAPP. (Bel Air Internet, LLC v. Morales (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
924, 936-937.)  Defendant only meets this burden by demonstrating that the
act underlying the plaintiff’s cause of action “fits one of the categories
spelled out in section 425.16, subdivision (e).”  (Sprengel v. Zbylut
(2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 140, 150.)   
 
            Defendants
Gerald I. Gillock and Gerald I. Gillock Associates (“Gillock Defendants”) show
Plaintiffs’ Breach of Duty of Confidentiality claim is based on the Gillock
Defendants attaching the Arbitration Award to a declaration filed in their
successful Anti-SLAPP motion within the separate Iulianelli Superior Court Case
No. 23SMCV00356 (the “Underlying Iulianelli Action”). (Motion, p. 10.)  The Gillock Defendants show the filing of the
motion in the underlying Iulianelli Action is based on protected activity under
CCP §425.16(e)(2) because the “declaration was a written statement made in
connection with an issue under consideration by a judicial body.” (Id.). 
CCP §425.16(e)(2) protects communications “made in connection with an issue
under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or
any other official proceeding authorized by law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16,
subdiv., (e)(2).)
 
            Plaintiffs
Tensor Law P.C. and Aaron G. Filler (“Filler”) argues their claim is based on
the Gillock Defendants decision to file the arbitration award, instead of
actually filing the award. Filler reliance on Jenni Rivera Enter., LLC v.
World Entmt. Holdings, Inc. (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 766, 781 is
misplaced.  Jenni Rivera did not
involve claims against attorneys, nor does it support the Plaintiff’s alleged
position that “a knowing and intentional breach of fiduciary duty by an
attorney when it involves a breach of attorney-client privilege and legally
required confidentiality for arbitration privilege is unlikely to sustain an
Anti-SLAPP action.” (See SAC, ¶ 185.) The Court finds that Filler’s framing of
the cause of action as a decision to breach, versus actually breaching the duty,
does not plead around the protected litigation activity at issue in this case. 
 
            The
Gillock Defendants satisfy their burden on the first step for the Anti-SLAPP
motion.  The Gillock Defendants establish that Filler’s 10th
cause of action for breach of duty of confidentiality arises from protected
conduct under CCP §425.16(e)(2).  The burden therefore shifts to Filler to
establish the probable validity of Filler’s claim. 
 
                                                 
ii.     2nd
Step of Analysis ­–Plaintiff’s Burden
 
            Once
defendant demonstrates that a cause of action arises from protected conduct,
the plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient
and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a
favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.  (See Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82,
88-89.)  “Precisely because the statute (1) permits early intervention in
lawsuits alleging unmeritorious causes of action that implicate free speech
concerns, and (2) limits opportunity to conduct discovery, the plaintiff's
burden of establishing a probability of prevailing is not high: We do not weigh
credibility, nor do we evaluate the weight of the evidence. Instead, we accept
as true all evidence favorable to the plaintiff and assess the defendant's
evidence only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff's submission as a matter
of law.  Only a cause of action that lacks ‘even minimal merit'
constitutes SLAPP.”  (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Gradient Analytics, Inc. (2007)
151 Cal.App.4th 688, 699.) 
 
            “The
second prong of the statute deals with whether the plaintiff has “demonstrated
a probability of prevailing on the claim.  Under section 425.16,
subdivision (b)(2), the superior court, in making these determinations,
considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the
facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’ For purposes of an
anti-SLAPP motion, the court considers the pleadings and evidence submitted by
both sides, but does not weigh credibility or compare the weight of the
evidence. Rather, the court's responsibility is to accept as true the evidence
favorable to the plaintiff.  A plaintiff need only establish that his or
her claim has minimal merit to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP.  With
these descriptions in mind, we will not strike a cause of action under the
anti-SLAPP statute unless it lacks even minimal merit.”  (Ralphs
Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 261.)
 
            The
“probability of prevailing” is tested by the same standard governing a motion
for summary judgment, nonsuit, or directed verdict.  Thus, in opposing a
SLAPP motion, it is plaintiff's burden to make a prima facie showing of facts
that would support a judgment in plaintiff's favor.  (Crossroads
Investors, L.P. v. Federal National Mortgage Assn. (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th
757, 785; Taus v. Loftus (2007) 40 Cal.4th 683, 714 [a
“summary-judgment-like procedure”].)     
 
            Here,
Filler makes no prima facie showing of facts that would support a judgment in
Filler’s favor the breach of fiduciary duty. 
Filler’s apparent argument that the attached arbitration award in the
Underlying Iulianelli Action did not have binding effect and therefore could
not be admissible, or used for any valid litigation purpose, does not defeat
the broadly interpretated litigation privilege. (See Klem v. Access Ins. Co.
(2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 595, 613 [The litigation privilege “is broadly applied[,]
and doubts are resolved in its favor.”]; Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39
Cal.4th 299, 322 [The litigation privilege is an “‘absolute privilege,’ and it
bars all tort causes of action except a claim of malicious prosecution.”]; Feldman
v. 1100 Park Lane Associates (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1467, 1490 [“[I]t is
now well established that the litigation privilege applies without regard to
motives, morals, ethics or intent. The litigation privilege is simply a test of
connectedness or logical relationship to litigation. [Citation.]”].)
 
            More
important, Filler provides no authority to show the Gillock Defendants owe
Filler a fiduciary duty other than citing to the LACBA Fee arbitration rules
which do not create the legal standard that legal adversaries owe each other
fiduciary duties. Filler cites LACBA Rule 44(d) which does not concern
confidentiality issues and does not create a fiduciary duty to an adversarial
party. (See SAC, ¶ 171, (LACBA Rule 44(d).) “The key factor in the existence of
a fiduciary relationship lies in control by a person over the property of
another. (Vai v. Bank of America National Trust & Savings Ass'n
(1961) 56 Cal.2d 329, 338.) “[B]efore a person can be charged with a fiduciary
obligation, he must either knowingly undertake to act on behalf and for the
benefit of another, or must enter into a relationship which imposes that
undertaking as a matter of law.” (City of Hope Nat’l Med. Ctr. v. Genentech,
Inc. (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375, 386.) Here, Filler does not make any prima
facie showing that the Gillock Defendants had control over the Filler’s
property, nor knowingly undertook to act on Fillers’ behalf, thus Filler cannot
show a probability of success that the Gillock Defendants ever owed Filler any
fiduciary duty.
 
            Because Filler
fails to make a satisfactory prima facie showing of a probability of success on
the merits he fails to meet the plaintiff’s burden for the second step of the
Anti-SLAPP analysis. The Court GRANTS the Gillock Defendants Special Motion To
Strike Filler’s 10th Cause of Action for Breach of the Fiduciary
Duty of Confidentiality Pursuant To CCP § 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP). 
 
 
b.    
11th COA for Attempted Extortion
 
                                                   
i.     1st
Step of Analysis – Defendants’ Burden
 
            Here,
Defendants identify their protected behavior as communications the Gillock
Defendants allegedly made to Filler in relation to the Zuckerman v. Regents matter,
the Zuckerman fee arbitration, and the Plaintiff’s possible challenge to the
Arbitration award. (Motion, p. 14:24–26; Gillock Decl., ¶¶ 9-14.) The Gillock
defendants show these text communications arise out of “written or oral statement[s]
made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law,” and thus arises from protected activity. (C.C.P., §
425.16(e)(2), (b)(1).; see also Bergstein v. Stroock & Stroock &
Lavan LLP (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 793, 811 [granting Anti-SLAPP on because
all conduct considered “litigation activities”]; Optional Capital, Inc. v. Akin Gump Strauss, Hauer & Feld LLP
(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 95, 113-115 [attorneys’ alleged assisting with
misappropriation of settlement funds protected activity because it arose out of
representation of client in the underlying litigation that led to settlement]
 
            Filler’s
reliance on Flatley v. Mauro (the “Flatley Exception”), to argue
the Gillock Defendants extortion threats were illegal and thus cannot be a
subject of an Anti-SLAPP filing, is misplaced.  (See Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th
299, 316 [“[W]here either the defendant concedes the illegality of its conduct
or the illegality is conclusively shown by the evidence, the [Anti-SLAPP] motion
must be denied.”].) Here, the Gillock Defendants have not conceded to the
illegality of the alleged extortion conduct, nor can the communications at
issue conclusively constitute criminal extortion as a matter of law. Furthermore,
the text communications at issue do not contain express threats to report or
file a complaint against Filler to the State Bar of California, nor to have any
action initiated against Filler whatsoever. (Gillock Decl., ¶ 15; see also Malin
v. Singer (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1283, 1298 [Flatley exception did not
apply where defendant’s “demand letter did not expressly threaten to disclose
[plaintiff’s] alleged wrongdoing to a prosecuting agency or the public at
large.”].) The Court finds this communication more similar to the protected
communications in Malin. (See Malin, supra, 217
Cal.App.4th at p. 1298.) Since the Gillock Defendants have not conceded to the
illegal conduct, nor is the conduct illegal by conclusive evidence, nor did the
text message expressly threaten to disclose Filler’s alleged wrongdoings to a specific
agency or the general public, the conduct does not fall within the Flatley illegality exception. 
 
            The
Gillock Defendants satisfy their burden on the first step for the Anti-SLAPP
motion.  The Gillock Defendants establish that Filler’s 11th
cause of action for attempted extortion arises from protected conduct under CCP
§425.16(e)(2).  The burden therefore shifts to Plaintiff to establish the
probable validity of Plaintiff’s claim. 
 
                                                 
ii.     2nd
Step of Analysis ­–Plaintiff’s Burden
 
            The
Gillock Defendants argue that Filler cannot meet their burden of establishing a
probability of success on their Attempted Extortion claim because “1) the
litigation privilege precludes this claim, 2) there is no civil cause of action
for attempted extortion, and 3) the Gillock Defendants did not engage in any
extortionate conduct.” (Reply, p. 8:13–15.)
 
            Regarding
the litigation privilege, the privilege “applies to any communication (1) made
in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other
participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation;
and (4) that have some connection or logical relation to the action.” (Silberg
v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 212.) Here, the Gillock Defendants
correctl argue that “[f]irst any text messages that Gillock sent Filler
concerning Zuckerman v. Regents or the Fee Arbitration were communications ‘made
in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings.’ Second, Gillock was a
participant in both Zuckerman v. Regents and the Zuckerman Fee
Arbitration. And the third and fourth elements are met because
any text messages between Gillock and Filler relating to Zuckerman v.
Regents, the Zuckerman Fee Arbitration, and/or the Arbitration Award
concerned settlement negotiations and attempts to resolve the fee dispute. (Motion,
p. 15:16–25; see Home Ins. Co. v. Zurich Ins. Co. (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th
17, 24 [“[t]he statement meets the third and fourth criteria as it was made to
induce settlement”]; see also Mancini & Associates v. Schwetz (2019)
39 Cal.App.5th 656, 661 [“the [litigation] privilege also applies to statements
made during settlement negotiations”].) The Court agrees with the Gillock
Defendants and finds that all the elements of the privilege are met, mainly
that the text communications at issue were in furtherance of a settlement.
 
            Thus,
the Court finds that Filler cannot meet their burden of establishing a
probability of success on their Attempted Extortion because that the litigation
privilege under CCP § 425.16(e)(2) effectively bars Filler’s claim. The Court GRANTS
the Gillock Defendants Special Motion To Strike Filler 11th Cause of
Action for Attempted Extortion Pursuant To CCP § 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP). 


 