 Case Number:  23STCV21713    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



FRANCES REYNOLDS 
  
        
  vs.
 
ROSS DRESS FOR LESS, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV21713   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 20, 2024




 
            Defendant’s
motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
            On
9/8/2023, Plaintiff Frances Reynolds (Plaintiff) filed suit against Ross Dress
for Less, Inc., Ross Stores, Inc., and Luis Ruiz (collectively, Defendants),
alleging: (1) defamation per se; (2) defamation per quod; (3) violation of the
Unruh Act; (4) violation of the Ralph Act; (5) violation of the Bane Act; (6)
assault; (7) negligence; and (8) intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
            Now,
Defendants move to strike portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Motions to strike are used to reach
defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such
as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See Code Civ Proc., §§
435-437.)  A motion to strike can be made to strike irrelevant, false or
improper matter inserted in any pleading or to strike any pleading or part
thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule or order of the court.  (CCP § 436.) 
 
Discussion
 
            Defendants
move to strike all of Plaintiff’s allegations related to its claim for punitive
damages. 
 
The adequacy of a claim for punitive
damages is properly tested by a motion to strike. (Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) Civil Code section 3294,
subdivision (a) authorizes the recovery of punitive damages where the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or
implied. Malice means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
 
“In order to survive a motion to strike
an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998)
67 Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual
assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with
oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal. App.
4th 1033, 1042.)
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed to allege
sufficient facts that could show malice, oppression, or fraud. 
 
However, Defendants have not challenged the sufficiency of
Plaintiff’s allegations to state a claim. 
Given that Plaintiff alleges conduct ranging from defamation, violations
of the Unruh, Bane, and Ralph Acts, and intentional infliction of emotional
distress, Plaintiff has alleged facts which could show that defendant acted with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to strike is denied. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative
as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517. 
 
 