 Case Number:  22STCV20384    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JENNIFER MONTZINGO 
 
        
  vs.
 
AI AI LEUNG, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV20384  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: February 20, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication of the
seventh cause of action is DENIED.
 
On 6/22/2022, Plaintiff Jennifer Montzingo (Plaintiff)
filed suit against Ai Ai Leung, Patrick Lau, and AP Development, LTD
(collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1) housing discrimination; (2) violation
of Unruh Civil Rights Act; (3) general negligence; (4) negligent infliction of
emotional distress; (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (6)
violation of privacy; (7) unlawful entry into dwelling; (8) unlawful
termination of utility by landlord; (9) unlawful obstruction of access to
property; and (10) breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment.  
 
            On 12/08/2023, Plaintiff moved for
summary adjudication of her seventh cause of action. 
 
Discussion
 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that she is entitled to summary adjudication of her claim for unlawful
entry into dwelling. 
 
      Civil Code section 1954 provides:
 
 A
landlord may enter the dwelling unit only in the following cases:

(1) In case of emergency.
(2) To make necessary or agreed repairs,
decorations, alterations or improvements, supply necessary or agreed services,
or exhibit the dwelling unit to prospective or actual purchasers, mortgagees,
tenants, workers, or contractors or to make an inspection pursuant to
subdivision (f) of Section 1950.5.
(3) When the tenant has abandoned or surrendered the
premises.
(4) Pursuant to court order.
                  …
 
(b) Except in cases of
emergency or when the tenant has abandoned or surrendered the premises, entry
may not be made during other than normal business hours unless the tenant
consents to an entry during other than normal business hours at the time of
entry.
 
(c) The landlord may not abuse the right of access
or use it to harass the tenant.
 
(d) (1) Except as provided in
subdivision (e), or as provided in paragraph (2) or (3), the landlord shall
give the tenant reasonable notice in writing of his or her intent to enter and
enter only during normal business hours. The notice shall include the date,
approximate time, and purpose of the entry. The notice may be personally
delivered to the tenant, left with someone of a suitable age and discretion at
the premises, or, left on, near, or under the usual entry door of the premises
in a manner in which a reasonable person would discover the notice. Twenty-four
hours shall be presumed to be reasonable notice in absence of evidence to the
contrary. The notice may be mailed to the tenant. Mailing of the notice at
least six days prior to an intended entry is presumed reasonable notice in the
absence of evidence to the contrary.
 
(3) The tenant and the landlord may
agree orally to an entry to make agreed repairs or supply agreed services. The
agreement shall include the date and approximate time of the entry, which shall
be within one week of the agreement. In this case, the landlord is not required
to provide the tenant a written notice.
 
As used in Civil Code section 1954, “normal business
hours” means objectively reasonable hours under the facts and circumstances of
the case, keeping in mind the right of tenants to quiet enjoyment and the right
of landlords to sell their property (Dromy v. Lukovsky (2013) 219 CA4th
278, 286.) 
 
In support, Plaintiff submitted evidence that:
 
-        
Plaintiff occupied a rental property
owned by Defendant from 1/3/2020-9/30/2020. (SS ¶¶ 1.)
 
-        
Plaintiff rented one bedroom at the
Property. The Property contained three other bedrooms, one of which was already
rented out to another tenant when Plaintiff moved in, and the other two
bedrooms of which were held out to the public to be available for rent. (SS ¶
4.) 
 
-        
Plaintiff paid rent ($1,900 for the
months of January, February and March 2020), but became unable to pay rent
beginning in April 2020. (SS ¶ 7.)
 
-        
Over the course of Plaintiff’s occupancy,
she shared the Property with two other housemates who each rented their own
separate rooms from Defendant Leung. Plaintiff was never on a lease agreement
as a co-tenant with any other housemates, as each tenant had their own
agreement at different rental rates per room. (Ibid.) 
 
-        
Defendant Leung entered the property
twenty-six times in violation of Civil Code section 1954. (SS ¶¶ 12-48.) 
 
-        
Plaintiff repeatedly advised Defendant
of Plaintiff’s right to receive reasonable notice of Defendant’s intention to
enter during normal business hours. (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that Defendant Leung repeatedly
violated Civil Code section 1954. Accordingly, the burden shifts to Defendants
to disclose a triable issue of material fact. 
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s “dwelling” within the meaning of
Civil Code section 1954 was only her room, and does not cover the scope of the
common areas of the house. 
 
The Court
rejects this interpretation of section 1954 for several reasons. First, the
only legal support provided by Defendant in support is Chun v. Del Cid
(2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 806, 81. However, that cases did not in any way address
section 1954. Rather, that case addressed whether a single-family residence
fell within the single-family dwelling exemption to the Rent Stabilization
Ordinance of the City of Los Angeles (L.A. Mun. Code, §151.00 et seq.) 
 
Moreover, the
language of Civil Code section
1954 itself indicates that applies to the entirety of the subject property: “a
structure or part of a structure used as a home, residence, or
sleeping by one person who maintains a household or by two or more persons
who maintain a common household” (Civ. Code §§ 1940; 1954, emphasis added).
Defendant has not offered any persuasive argument as to why Plaintiff’s home or
residence would be limited to the place where she slept, and would not include
spaces such as a kitchen or bathroom. Under Defendant’s interpretation, a
landlord would not need to notify a tenant if
they intended to enter to repair the kitchen or the bathroom at any time and
for any duration of time, but would have to give advanced notice if they
intended to enter Plaintiff’s bedroom. 
 
Having concluded that Section 1954 applied to the entire
Rental Property, the only question remaining is whether or not there is a
triable issue of fact as to whether or not Defendants’ entries to the property
were lawful. 
 
      The Court
concludes that there are triable issues as this claim. Defendants submitted
evidence that certain repairs were requested by Plaintiff herself. For example,
Defendants submitted evidence that:
 
LAU and LEUNG
were asked by Plaintiff to fix the locks and front door keypad. (UMF No. 12).
Plaintiff asked them to change the refrigerator filter. (UMF No. 14). Plaintiff
needed help accessing the shared WiFI. (UMF No. 18). Plaintiff requested that LEUNG
intervene with a dispute over Ramin Rouhani. (UMF No. 19).
 
            (Opp.,
14: 14-17.) 
 
            Defendants
also submitted evidence that on certain instances other tenants consented to
their entry, or expressly requested their presence. (SS ¶¶ 31, 33, 35, and 36.)
 
            Given that no notice of entry is
required under Section 1954 where a tenant is present and consents to the
entry, or where there has been an oral agreement to make repairs, there are
triable issues as to whether or not the alleged 26 unlawful entries were all in
violation of section 1954. Moreover, given that the quantity of unlawful
entries is relevant to Plaintiff’s prayer of punitive damages and emotional
distress damages, such triable issues prevent adjudication here.
 
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion for summary adjudication of the seventh cause of action is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 