 Case Number:  23STCV12503    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ABRAHAM ASSIL 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
VOLKSWAGEN GROUP
  OF AMERICA  
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV12503
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 14, 2023



 
Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED IN PART, DENIED IN PART. As such, the Court declines to award
sanctions at this time.
 
            On
6/02/2023, Plaintiff Abraham Assil (Plaintiff) filed suit against Volkswagen
Group of America, Inc., alleging violations of the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
            On
10/5/2023, Plaintiff moved to compel further responses from Defendant to his
Requests for Production (RFPs). 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant should be compelled to provide further responses to RFP
Nos. 1-32.  
 
             After review of the relevant discovery, the
Court finds some of Plaintiff’s requests to be overly broad in scope. For
example, Plaintiff requests all documents of customer complaints for
substantially similar complaints for all other 2019 Volkswagen Beetle vehicles.
However, the Court also finds certain objections by Defendant to be unfounded.
In addition to all requested materials related to Plaintiff’s car itself:
 
1.     
Defendant shall produce the “Warranty
Policy and Procedure Manual” published by Defendant and provided to its
authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the period of
purchase to present.
 
2.     
Defendant shall produce any internal analysis
or investigation regarding defects concerning the transmission defect in
vehicles for the same year, make, and model of the subject vehicle.
 
3.     
 Defendant shall produce any customer
complaints relating to defects that are similar to the alleged defects claimed
by plaintiff in vehicles within California for the same year, make, and model
of the subject vehicle, for the period of purchase to present.
 
4.     
 Defendant shall produce all documents
evidencing policies and procedures used to evaluate customer requests for
repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for the period
of purchase to present.
 
5.     
 Technical Service Bulletins and Recall Notices
for vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the
subject vehicle. 
 
6.     
  All other requests for further
production are DENIED.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion is granted in part, denied in part. As such, the
Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 