 Case Number:  21STCV21454    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.’s motion to continue trial is GRANTED. Background  On June 8, 2021, Plaintiff Dominque Johnston (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant John Fitzgerald Gomillion and Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”) alleging causes of action for motor vehicle and negligence, arising out of a vehicle collision in which Plaintiff sustained injuries.On September 27, 2023, Uber filed this motion to continue trial.On October 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to Uber’s motion to continue trial.  Uber filed a reply on October 16.  Plaintiff filed a sur-rely on October 17.Trial is currently set for January 2, 2024.Legal StandardCalifornia Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored, the trial date may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation): (1) unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or other excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party depriving the new party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and preparing for trial; (3) “excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case” preventing it from being ready for trial. (Id., Rule 3.1332(c).) Other relevant considerations may include: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; [¶] (2) Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The length of the continuance requested; [¶] (4) The availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶] (7) The court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.” (Id., Rule 3.1332(d).) Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 allows a court to grant leave to complete discovery proceedings. In doing so, a court shall consider matters relevant to the leave requested, including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity of the discovery, (2) the diligence in seeking the discovery or discovery motion, (3) the likelihood of interference with the trial calendar or prejudice to a party, and (4) the length of time that has elapsed between previous trial dates. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.050.)Preliminary IssuePlaintiff filed a sur-reply, which is not authorized by any rule or prior court order.  The Court will, however, exercise its discretion to consider the sur-reply, in part because it addresses factual developments that occurred after Plaintiff file her opposition.  (The Court will not consider, in making its ruling, Plaintiff’s statements about what did or did not occur and what position either party took during in the mediation on October 9, other than that the mediation occurred and the parties did not settle.)DiscussionUber moves for a 90-day continuance from the trial date set on January 2, 2024, and requests that all discovery and motion cut-off dates be based upon the new trial date. Uber argues good cause exists because Plaintiff only recently alleged new injuries and treatment claims, and Uber needs more time to conduct further discovery and prepare for trial.The Court finds there is good cause to continue the trial as Plaintiff only recently sent several new medical reports to Defendant alleging new injuries.  While the Court recognizes that Plaintiff was initially diagnosed with a concussion and mild traumatic brain disorder, on November 26, 2019, Plaintiff reported to Providence St. Joseph Medical Center that her previous concussion symptoms had resolved.  (Villano Decl., ¶ 8.)  There were no further complaints or mentions of cognitive issues, sensory abnormalities or sensitivity, blurry vision, tinnitus, balance issues, or emotional or personality changes in any of her medical records.  (Id., ¶ 9.)  Additionally, the October 2022 deposition only asserted that she was initially diagnosed with a concussion and sought treatment at the concussion clinic of providence St. Joseph’s.   (Sur-reply, Exh. B, pg. 5, 6-11; pg. 6, 21-25.)  Further, Plaintiff’s verified response to the Form Interrogatories on February 7, 2022, indicated she sought neurological treatment during April 5, 2021, to April 27, 2021.   (Sur-reply, Exh. A, pg. 13.)  It was only on July 3, 2023, that Plaintiff sent Uber new medical reports from testing done in April and May of 2023 indicating Plaintiff presented with new medical claims.  Finally, it does not appear that any party would be unfairly prejudiced by the short trial continuance requested. The Court notes that it is not ascribing any wrongful intent or conduct to Plaintiff; rather, recent developments in Plaintiff’s condition and treatment warrant further discovery and a brief continuance of trial. Accordingly, for good cause shown, the motion is GRANTED. Conclusion The Court GRANTS Uber’s motion to continue trial.  Trial is continued to early April 2024.  The Final Status Conference and all discovery deadlines are reset based on the new trial date. Moving party is ordered to give notice.  