  Case Number:  18STCV08570    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




anthony aiello

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
sommer ray beaty

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


18STCV08570




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


September
   20, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to compel further
  responses to form interrogatories and special interrogatories
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Sommer Ray Beaty
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories and Special
Interrogatories
The court considered the moving papers filed in connection with this
motion.  
The court did not consider the “Declaration of Michael P. Green re:
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories,” filed by counsel for
plaintiffs Anthony Aiello and Anthony’s Worldwide Productions, LLC on September
18, 2024, because it was not filed at least nine court days before the hearing
on this motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1005, subd. (b).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant Sommer Ray Beaty (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order
(1) compelling plaintiffs Anthony Aiello (“Aiello”) and Anthony’s Worldwide
Productions, LLC (“Anthony’s Worldwide”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) to serve
further responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, numbers 8.2, subdivision
(c), 8.3-8.5, and 12.1, subdivision (a); (2) compelling Plaintiffs to serve
further responses to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories, numbers 1-3, 10-12,
and 30; and (3) awarding monetary sanctions in favor of Defendant and against
Plaintiffs in the amount of $3,400.
The court finds that Defendant has not shown that she served
Plaintiffs with (1) the moving papers filed in connection with this motion, and
(2) notice of the advanced hearing date on this motion. 
First, Defendant did not file a proof of service of the moving papers on
Plaintiffs “no later than five court days before the time appointed for the
hearing.”[1]  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1300, subd. (c).)  Instead, Defendant filed a proof of service of
the motion on September 19, 2024, i.e., one court day before the hearing.
Second, the proof of service of the moving papers on Plaintiffs filed
by Defendant on September 19, 2024 is defective and therefore invalid.  Specifically, the proof of service states
that the moving papers were served on counsel for Plaintiffs “by internet /
electronic mail[,]” but does not state the email address on which the papers
were served.  (Sep. 19, 2024 Proof of
Service, pp. 2:6-25, 3:1-3.)  Thus, the
proof of service is incomplete and does not establish that Defendant served
Plaintiffs with this motion.
Third, the proof of service of the notice of ruling providing
Plaintiffs with notice that the court granted Defendant’s ex parte application
to advance the hearing on this motion is similarly defective and therefore
invalid.  Specifically, the proof of
service of the notice of ruling states that it was served on counsel for
Plaintiffs by email, but it does not state the email address on which the
notice was served.  (Sep. 10, 2024 Notice
of Ruling, p. 3:6-21.)  Thus, the proof
of service is incomplete and does not establish that Defendant gave Plaintiffs
notice of the new hearing date on this motion.
The court notes that trial is scheduled to begin in this action on
October 30, 2024.  The court is unable to
continue the hearing on this motion to a date before the discovery motion
cutoff date passes.  The court therefore
denies Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiffs’ further responses to
Defendant’s discovery. 
 
ORDER
            The court denies defendant Sommer Ray
Beaty’s motion to compel further responses to form interrogatories and special
interrogatories.
            The court orders defendant Sommer
Ray Beaty to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  September 20, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


