

 
SERVICE: 

 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          None filed as of March 25, 2024                    [   ] Late          [X] None 
REPLY:                     None filed as of March 29, 2024                    [   ] Late          [X] None 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 07, 2023, Plaintiff Timothy
Watts (“Plaintiff”) brought two causes of actions against Defendant Transworld
System Inc. (“Defendant”), under the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices
Act and the California Unfair Competition Law. 
 
On August 18, 2023, Defendant filed
its answer. 
 
 On February 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant Motion for Leave to file First Amended Complaint. 
 
No opposition has been filed. 
   
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff prays
for the Court to issue an order allowing him to file his proposed First Amended
Complaint(“FAC”) attached to the declaration of his counsel. Plaintiff asserts
that the purpose of the amendment is to include recent factual developments
significant to Plaintiff’s case. Plaintiff specifically seeks to add American
Express Corporation as a defendant given that despite Plaintiff’s clear
revocation of consent for direct contact and the provision of attorney contact
information for all communications related to the alleged debt, American
Express Corporation directly contacted Plaintiff on May 1, 2023. Plaintiff
argues that the amendment is critical to ensuring that American Express Corporation’s
role as the original creditor is accurately represented and so that Plaintiff
can seek redress for all grievances related to the Rosenthal Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act violations in a single, comprehensive lawsuit. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
             No opposition has been filed.
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal
Standard
Leave to amend is permitted under
the Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. The
policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so
strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . .. [citation]. 
A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice
to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a
pleading must also comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth
explicitly what allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating
what new evidence was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment
was not made earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed
and numbered amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the
allegations that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying
the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and
reasons for delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).)
 
II.        Discussion 
 
Plaintiff seeks leave to file an amended complaint to include
recent factual developments significant to Plaintiff’s case.
 
 Plaintiff provides a copy of the proposed
First Amended Complaint with a supporting declaration stating the reason why Plaintiff
seeks leave to amend. (Judith K. Robenzadeh Decl. ¶2; Ex. A p. 2.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that she reached out to Defense counsel
in an effort to resolve this matter amicably and efficiently. (Id. ¶ 2.)
Despite counsel’s attempt to communicate and negotiate a stipulation for
amending the complaint, Defense counsel did not respond, nor did they indicate
any willingness to agree to the proposed stipulation to amend the complaint. (Id.
¶ 3.) Counsel declares that given the lack of response or indication from the
Defendant’s counsel that they would agree to the proposed stipulation, it
became necessary for plaintiff to file the instant motion to ensure all
relevant parties are accurately represented and held accountable. (Id. ¶
4.) 
 
Plaintiff additionally argues in his moving papers that the
amended complaint will ensure that the case reflects the full scope of the
actionable conduct and all parties responsible. (Mot. p. 4:6-7.)
 
However, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has not sufficiently satisfied the requirements under CRC rule
3.1324. Here, while the Motion includes a copy of the proposed amended
complaint as well as a declaration specifying
the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery, and
reasons for delay, Plaintiff does not provide the Court with specifications, by
reference to pages and lines, of the allegations that would be deleted and
added to the proposed First Amended Complaint. This specification can be
provided in the form of a supporting chart that references the page and line of
what is being changed. 
 
Thus, the Court CONTINUES the hearing on Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to Amend. 
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Plaintiff Timothy Watts’s Motion for Leave to file First Amended
Complaint is CONTINUED TO MAY 9, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. in Department 25 of the
SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE. 
 
At least 16 court days before the
next scheduled hearing, Petitioner must file and serve supplemental papers providing
specifications, by reference to pages and
lines, of the allegations that would be deleted and added to the proposed First
Amended Complaint. Failure to do so will result
in the Motion being placed off calendar or denied.
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice