  Case Number:  23SMCV03279    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here on demurrer and an application to
continue the trial.  The court begins
with the demurrer (because if the demurrer is sustained, the application
becomes moot).
 
The demurrer asserts that plaintiff, the person appointed by
the Probate Court as trustee, is suing Sheets claiming that Sheets improperly
took money from an account held by the decedent at Citibank but lacks the
authority to do so.  Defendant’s argument
is that the probate papers are devoid of any declaration for a pour-over trust,
and therefore the Citibank account is not a part of the trust (thereby meaning
that the trustee has no standing to sue). 
Further, Sheets is challenging Flores’ appointment by way of appealing
the Probate Court order so appointing her. 
In opposition, Flores points out that there is a general assignment, and
has attached it.  The general assignment
includes, by its express terms, all certificates of deposit and money market
accounts, and thus encompasses the Citibank funds.  Because of that, these funds are a part of
the trust even without a pour-over provision in the will.  The Probate Code also has a procedure that
governs claims for assets like this one. 
That is sufficient to establish standing for purposes of defeating the
demurrer.  The court is aware that Sheets
is challenging Flores’ appointment, but the Probate Court order remains in
force until such time as it is overturned or stayed by the Court of
Appeal.  Thus, the fact that there is an
appeal pending does not warrant sustaining the demurrer.  The demurrer is therefore OVERRULED.  Sheets has 5 court days to answer.
 
The request to continue this short cause bench trial is that
one of Citibank’s witnesses (the branch manager) is out of town on the day the
matter is currently set for trial.  (The
trial had been set for August 19, 2024, but it was moved to September 20, 2024,
in part to allow the court to hear the demurrer.)  While the witness might well be available by
video conference, the court does not think it is that important in a short cause
bench trial.  The court will allow the
witness to testify remotely, but it will be defendant’s burden to ensure that
the witness has available all documents that she might be asked to look at
during her testimony.  The motion to
continue is DENIED.  The court reminds
the parties that, although there is no FSC, the court expects the trial to take
less than a day.  On the day of trial,
the parties should make sure to provide three sets of exhibit binders and an
exhibit list.  One set is for the court,
one for the clerk, and the other for the witnesses.  The court assumes that the parties have
already exchanged the exhibits, but if not, they should do so immediately. 
 
Once again, the court strongly urges the parties to settle
this matter.  There is not a lot of money
at stake here, and a settlement has the advantage of letting all parties put
this in the rear view mirror with certainty.