 Case Number:  24PSCV00568    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Scott  DeSmet, Conservator of the Person and Estate of Gregory L. DeSmet Sr and  Trustee of the Gregory L. DeSmet Trust v. Vicki Brown aka Vicki Brown-Desmet,  et al.  Defendant  DPI Labs, Inc.’s Motion to Quash Subpoena to Citizens Business Bank Account  Ending in 0993  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES Defendant DPI Labs, Inc.’s motion to quash  subpoena to Citizens Business Bank Account ending in 0993.  The Court further DENIES the parties’ requests for monetary  sanctions.               Moving Parties are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a business dispute. On February 23, 2024, plaintiff Scott  DeSmet, Conservator of the Person and Estate of Gregory L. DeSmet Sr and Trustee  of the Gregory L. DeSmet Trust (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants  Vicki Brown aka Vicki Brown-DeSmet (Vicki), Victoria Marie Brown aka Victoria  Marie Brown-DeSmet,[1] Gregory L. DeSmet Jr. (Greg Jr.), Al Snow (Snow), DPI Labs, Inc. (DPI Labs),  DeSmet Property Investments, LLC (DeSmet Property), Sowing Seeds for Life  (Sowing Seeds), Hillsborough Accounting Services (collectively, Defendants),  and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for fraud and conspiracy to  commit fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, and financial elder abuse and  conspiracy to commit financial elder abuse.  On July 11, 2024, following the Court’s sustaining of the demurrer  to the complaint, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC)  against the same Defendants for fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud, two  counts of breach of fiduciary duty, and financial elder abuse and conspiracy to  commit financial elder abuse.  On December 4, 2024, Defendant DPI Labs moved to quash a subpoena  for production of business records served on Citizens Business Bank. On January  3, 2025, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On January 9, 2025, DPI Labs replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD  “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the  production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other  things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of  a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in  subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and  an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,  modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as  the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court  may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from  unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the  right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)  OBJECTIONS              The Court OVERRULES DPI Lab’s  objections, as the Court does not rely on the matters to which DPI Labs objects  in reaching its decision herein.  REQUEST  FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE              The Court DENIES DPI Labs’ request  for judicial notice. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) Generally, new evidence on  reply is not permitted unless  it fills in gaps in the evidence created by the opposing party’s opposition and  is not raising new substantive issues for the first time; otherwise, a further  hearing would be required to permit the opposing party to respond. (Jay v.  Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537-1538.) The document requested  for judicial notice does not respond to any issues raised in Plaintiff’s  opposition, nor is it relevant to this motion.  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES              The Court notes that DPI Labs failed  to redact the bank account number from the subpoena when filing this motion.  (Sallus Decl., Ex. A; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 1.201, subd. (a)(2) [“If  financial account numbers are required in a pleading or other paper filed in  the public file, only the last four digits of these numbers may be used”].) The  Court cautions DPI Labs to be more cautious and cognizant of this going  forward.              The Court further notes that DPI  Labs’ reply papers raise new substantive arguments for the first time, such as  the subpoena being propounded in Plaintiff’s individual capacity or the  confidentiality of the information sought. (Reply, 2:19-3:3, 5:15-6:14.) This  is not permitted on reply. (Jay  v. Mahaffey, supra, 218 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1537-1538.) Thus, the Court  declines to consider these new substantive arguments.  DISCUSSION              Summary of Arguments              DPI Labs contends Plaintiff’s  subpoena for production of documents served on October 31, 2024, is oppressive  and demands irrelevant information. DPI Labs contends that the subpoena seeks  production of documents outside the applicable statutes of limitations for  Plaintiff’s claims and therefore seeks irrelevant documents that will not lead  to admissible evidence, and is merely an attempt to harass Defendants. DPI Labs  then contends the subpoena is overbroad, unintelligible, and unparticularized,  but instead take a shotgun approach to seeking records from financial  institutions. DPI Labs contends the list of items in the subpoena does not  particularize the requests because Plaintiff expressly affirms the list is  non-exhaustive. DPI Labs further contends the subpoena cannot be modified to  cure its defects, as it is simply too overbroad and burdensome.              In opposition, Plaintiff contends  DPI Lab’s objection that the subpoena is oppressive is without merit and  asserted intentionally in bad faith to cause delay and spoilage of records held  by Citizens Business Bank. Plaintiff contends it cannot be oppressive for  Plaintiff as a 45% shareholder of DPI Labs to seek its banking records, and  that DPI Labs has proffered no evidence demonstrating undue burden to support  their objection of oppression. Plaintiff then contends Code of Civil Procedure  section 2017.010 dictates the scope of discovery, not an unproven statute of  limitations defense. Plaintiff contends this action contains allegations of  fraud, embezzlement, breach of fiduciary duty and elder abuse based in part on  alleged misappropriation of corporate funds and that the records sought are  directly relevant to each cause of action. Plaintiff contends the time period  is reasonable because it is common knowledge that financial institutions only  keep seven years’ worth of records. Plaintiff contends the statute of limitations  does not limit Plaintiff’s right to discovery of the documents requested, and  there is no authority to that effect. Plaintiff also contends that the delayed  discovery rule applies to Plaintiff’s claims based on the conservatee’s lack of  cognition and the Defendants actively concealing their fraud. Plaintiff further  contends the documents sought are reasonably particularized, as they list  specific types of financial documents and also provide a catch-all for those  documents that may exist but cannot be specifically identified.              Analysis              The Court finds DPI Labs’ motion unavailing. The Court  does not find the demands set forth in the subpoena oppressive or demanding  irrelevant information. Plaintiff correctly contends that the statute of  limitations does not limit the Plaintiff’s right to discovery of the documents  requested, especially for an affirmative defense that has not yet been proven,  nor has DPI Labs cited any authority that supports this contention. Whether the  documents requested provide a basis for a cause of action is not the same as  whether they are relevant or admissible for purposes of discovery. Evidence  sought in discovery does not necessarily need to be admissible; it only needs  to be relevant and reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible  evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)  Moreover, evidence falling outside the statute of  limitations is not necessarily inadmissible. An affirmative defense by  definition is a defense asserted after the initial cause of action has been  stated. (See The Bank of New York Mellon v. Preciado (2013) 224  Cal.App.4th Supp. 1, 8 [“An affirmative defense is an allegation  of new matter  in the answer that is not responsive  to an essential allegation  in the complaint”].) If the requested documents  show Plaintiff’s claims are time-barred, then it stands to reason that DPI Labs  would want to be able to rely on those documents to assert that affirmative  defense. Either way, if some of the documents requested evidence potential  liability outside of the applicable statutes of limitations, that does not mean  Plaintiff is not entitled to discover them. Additionally, Plaintiff correctly  contends that DPI Labs has not presented any evidence indicating the amount of undue  burden that complying with these demands would require. (See West Pico  Furniture Co. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.)              The Court further agrees with Plaintiff that the demands  set forth in the subpoena are reasonably particularized. (Code Civ. Proc., §  2020.410, subd. (a).) The “[a]ny and all” language in the subpoena, while broad  in and of itself, is limited thereafter by reference to a single account number  and specific types of documents listed, such as account statements, cancelled  checks, deposit receipts, withdrawal slips, and wire transfer receipts, among  other things. (Sallus Decl., Ex. A.) Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES  the motion.              The Court further DENIES DPI Labs’ request for monetary  sanctions, finding that Plaintiff did not engage in misuse of the discovery  process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) The Court also DENIES  Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions, finding that DPI Labs acted with  substantial justification in bringing the motion. (Ibid.)  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES Defendant DPI Labs, Inc.’s motion to quash  subpoena to Citizens Business Bank Account ending in 0993.  The Court further DENIES the parties’ requests for monetary  sanctions.               Moving Parties are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     