

 
I. BACKGROUND
Plaintiff filed its Complaint on August 24, 2023.
Defendants filed their Answer and Cross-Complaint against MAVERICK on October
11, 2023. Trial is currently set for May 19, 2025.
 
On or about April 1, 2021, Bayren
entered into a business arrangement with Goat Payments Alliance that was owned
and operated by Reuven Rory Cypers (“Goat”), where Goat provided Bayren with a
bankcard service. (Defendant’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
“DSSUMF” 46, 48.) Goat advertised that “it increases profitability by reducing
transaction processing fees, eliminating hidden charges, and educating its
clients on how to qualify for the lowest interchange rates.” (DSSUMF 47) 
 
On May 10, 2021, Plaintiff Maverick
and Defendant Bayren 16 Inc. dba Mbenzgram (“Mbenzgram”) executed a written
agreement entitled “Merchant Account Application and Agreement” (the
“Agreement”) with Maverick where Maverick agreed to provide credit and debit
card payment processing services to Mbenzgram. Pursuant to the Agreement,
Mbenzgram was obligated to pay processing fees (including transaction and
authorization fees), service fees, and be responsible for chargebacks
assessments and any other amounts related to Mbenzgram’s use of the services.
[1] (Plaintiffs’
Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts “PSSUMF” No. 1.) 
 
Defendant Yasmin Armouti (“Armouti”
and together with Mbenzgram the “Defendants”) executed and delivered to
Maverick a written Personal Guarantee (the “Personal Guarantee”) where he
unconditionally guaranteed payment and performance obligations under the
Agreement. (PSSUMF No. 2.) Maverick remains the holder of the Agreement and
Personal Guarantee and has performed all the obligations which it was required
to perform under the Agreement and Personal Guarantee. (PSSUMF No. 3.) It is
disputed whether Defendant was given monthly statements. (DSSUMF No. 3.)
 
Pursuant to the terms of the
Agreement and Personal Guarantee, Defendants were obligated to pay Maverick for
charges Mbenzgram incurred, including processing fees (including transaction
and authorization fees), service fees, and for chargebacks, assessments and
other amounts incurred in connection with processing activity of Mbenzgram.
(PSSUMF No. 4.)
 
Mbenzgram breached the Agreement
and Armouti breached the Personal Guarantee when each failed to repay Maverick
for a series of chargebacks and other fees and charges that were due under the
Agreement and Personal Guarantee. (PSSUMF No. 6.)
 
On April 17, 2024, Moving Party
filed the instant motion for summary judgment (the “Motion”), which Defendants
or Cross-Complainants opposed (by filing the “Opposition”) on July 2, 2024. On
July 17, 2024, Moving Party filed a reply. 
 
On July 23, 2024, the Court
continued the hearing to September 26, 2024, due to its unavailability. 
 
II.
PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

Timeliness
     of Filings

 
A motion for summary judgment “may be made
at any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the
action or proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at
any earlier time after the general appearance that the court, with or without
notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿437c,
subd. (a).) “Notice of the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all
other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time appointed for
hearing” with additional days depending on how the notice is served. (Ibid.)
“The motion shall be heard no later than 30 days before the date of trial,
unless the court for good cause orders otherwise.” (Ibid.) “An
opposition to the motion shall be served and filed not less than 14 days
preceding the noticed or continued date of hearing, unless the court for good
cause orders otherwise” and “[a] reply to the opposition shall be served and
filed by the moving party not less than five days preceding the noticed or
continued date of hearing, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise. (Id.
at subd. (b).)¿Supporting documents to filings
should be filed by the same deadlines. (See, e.g., id. at subd.
(b)(2)–(b)(3).) 
¿ 
“A trial court has
broad¿discretion¿under¿rule 3.1300(d) of the California Rules of Court¿to
refuse to consider papers served and filed beyond the deadline without a prior
court order finding good cause for late submission.” (Bozzi v. Nordstrom,
Inc. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 755, 765.) Similarly, courts have wide latitude
to grant continuances.¿ 
 
Here, the
Opposition was filed on July 2, 2024, which is about 22 days before the hearing.
Therefore, the Opposition was timely. 
 

The
     Separate Statement

 
California
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(1) requires that a motion
for summary judgment “be supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions,
answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice
shall or may be taken. The supporting papers shall include a separate statement
setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the moving party
contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by
a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿437c, subd.
(b)(1).)
 
California
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(3) requires that
opposition papers to a motion for summary judgment “include a separate
statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving
party to be undisputed, indicating¿if¿the opposing party agrees or disagrees
that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth plainly and
concisely any other material facts¿the opposing party contends are disputed.
Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be
followed by a reference to the supporting evidence. Failure to comply with this
requirement of a separate statement may constitute a sufficient ground, in the
court's discretion, for granting the motion.” (§¿437c, subd. (b)(3).)
 
The
separate statement “provides a convenient and expeditious vehicle permitting
the trial court to hone in on the truly disputed facts.” (Nazir v. United
Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 251–252.) In United
Community Church v. Garcin (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 327, 337, the
court set forth the “Golden Rule” as follows: “all material facts must be
set forth in the separate statement… if it is not set forth in the
separate statement, it does not exist.”
 
Here,
both parties submitted their separate statements. 
 

Judicial
     Notice 

 
Plaintiff requests that the Court
take judicial notice of the following pursuant to Evidence Code §§452(d) and
453: 
 

Complaint filed in this action
     by Plaintiff MAVERICK BANKCARD, INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION on August
     24, 2023, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit D to the Table of
     Exhibits filed concurrently herewith. 

 

Answer to the Complaint filed
     in this action on October 10, 2023, by Defendants BAYREN 16 INC. DBA
     MBENZGRAM and YASMIN ARMOUTI, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit E to
     the Table of Exhibits filed concurrently herewith. 

 

Cross-Complaint filed in this
     action on October 11, 2023, by Defendants BAYREN 16 INC. DBA MBENZGRAM and
     YASMIN ARMOUTI, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit F to the Table of
     Exhibits filed concurrently herewith. 4. Answer to Cross-Complaint filed
     in this action by Plaintiff MAVERICK BANKCARD, INC., A CALIFORNIA
     CORPORATION on November 27, 2023, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit G
     to the Table of Exhibits filed concurrently herewith.

 
The Court takes judicial notice of
the above documents, but not of the matters stated therein. 
 
Defendant requests the Court take
judicial notice of the following document pursuant to Evidence Code sections
452(d)(1) and 453:
 

Criminal conviction of Rory
     Cypers in the Los Angeles County Superior Court, case number 15-cv-07359.

 
The Court takes judicial notice of
the document, but not of the matters stated therein. 
 
III.
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“A party may move for summary judgment
in¿an¿action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or
that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§¿437c, subd. (a)(1).) The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party can
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if not, to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure §¿437c,
subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿“A triable issue of material fact exists where ‘the
evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in
favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable
standard of proof.’” (California Medical Assn. v. Aetna Health of California
Inc. (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 660, 665, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co., supra at 850.)  
¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the moving party must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to negate an essential element or to establish a defense.
(Code Civ. Proc, § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) A cause of action “cannot be established”
if the undisputed facts presented by defendant prove the contrary of
plaintiff's allegations¿as a matter of law. (Brantley v. Pisaro (1996)
42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1597.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once the moving party has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿ 
 
IV.
DISCUSSION
 
Moving Party contends that Defendants
cannot defend against its claim for a breach of contract in the Complaint.
Moving Party further contends that there are no triable issues of material fact
for Defendant’s Cross-Complaint. In opposition, Responding Party argues that
triable issues of material fact exist because Defendants did not voluntarily enter
into a legal contract with the Plaintiff and thus has a valid defense. Further,
Responding Party argues that Ms. Armouti never agreed or intended to be
personally liable for Bayren’s financial obligations or business dealings. In
reply, Moving Party argues that Defendants’ opposition failed to provide any
evidence supporting the motion and only made conclusory arguments. 
 
Plaintiff’s Breach of Contract Cause
of Action
Plaintiff has met its burden for
the following reasons below. 
 
In order to establish a breach of
contract, the plaintiff must show (1) the execution of a valid contract; (2)
plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant's breach;
and (4) resulting damage to plaintiff. (Acoustics, Inc. v. Trepte
Construction Co. (1971) 14 Cal. App. 3d 887, 913, 92 Cal. Rptr. 723.)
 
In support of the Motion, Moving Party
submits the Merchant Account Application and Agreement and Personal Guarantee
(“Agreement”) to show that there was an execution of a valid contract. (Table
of Exhibits, Exh. A.) Moving Party also submits Benjamin Griefer, Maverick’s
Chief Operating Officer’s declaration where he states, “Maverick remains the
holder of the Agreement and Personal Guarantee and has performed all the
obligations which it was required to perform under the Agreement and Personal
Guarantee.” (Griefer Decl. ¶ 5.) Moreover, Mr. Griefer states “[p]ursuant to
the terms of the Agreement and Personal Guarantee, Defendants were obligated to
pay Maverick for charges Mbenzgram incurred, including processing fees
(including transaction and authorization fees), service fees, and for
chargebacks, assessments and other amounts incurred in connection with
processing activity of Mbenzgram.” (Id. at ¶ 6.) Mr. Griefer states
“Mbenzgram breached the Agreement and ARMOUTI breached the Personal Guarantee
when each failed to repay MAVERICK for a series of chargebacks and other fees
and charges that were due under the Agreement and Personal Guarantee.” (Id.
at ¶ 8.) As a result of Mbenzgram’s breach of the Agreement and Armouti’s
breach of the Personal Guarantee, Maverick incurred damages in the amount of
$1,432,520.24.” (Id. at ¶ 9; Exh. C.) Therefore, Moving Party has met
its burden. The burden now shifts to Defendants. 
 
In support of the Opposition, Defendants
submitted the declaration of Yasmin Armouti, as an individual and
representative of Bayren, where she states “Goat required Bayren to sign a
“Merchant Agreement and Personal Guarantee”. . . The language was very
confusing and legally technical.” (Armouti Decl. ¶ 5.) Yasmin Armouti further
states “I am informed and believe that Bayren never voluntarily entered into a
contract with the Plaintiff.” (Armouti Decl. ¶ 7.) Armouti further states“[a]t
no time was I part of the purchase or loan agreement, nor did I have any duties
or responsibilities related to the agreement.” (Id. at ¶ 6.) 
 
The Court notes that Defendants
only sole evidence, the declaration of Yasmin Armouti as an individual and as a
representative of Bayren is insufficient to satisfy its burden. 
 
Thus, the Court GRANTS the Motion
for Summary Judgment as to this cause of action for the Complaint. 
 
Cross-Complainants’ First Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract 
 
In order to establish a breach of
contract, the plaintiff must show (1) the execution of a valid contract; (2)
plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant's breach;
and (4) resulting damage to plaintiff. (Acoustics, Inc. v. Trepte
Construction Co. (1971) 14 Cal. App. 3d 887, 913, 92 Cal. Rptr. 723.)
 
For the same reasons mentioned
above, summary judgment is appropriate for this cause of action as to the
Cross-Complaint. 
 
Thus, the Court GRANTS Summary
Judgment as to this cause of action for the Cross-Complaint. 
 
Cross-Complainants’ Second Cause of
Action for Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
To state a claim for the breach of
the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, the plaintiff must allege “that
the conduct of the defendant. . . demonstrates a failure or refusal to
discharge contractual responsibilities, prompted not by an honest mistake, bad
judgment or negligence but rather by a conscious and deliberate act, which
unfairly frustrates the agreed common purposes and disappoints the reasonable
expectations of the other party thereby depriving that party of the benefits of
the agreement.” (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc.
(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.) To decide if this has occurred, the
court looks at the “contractual purposes and reasonably justified expectations
of the parties.” (Ibid.) 
 
For the same reasons mentioned
above, summary judgment is appropriate for this cause of action as to the
Cross-Complaint. 
 
Thus, the Court GRANTS summary judgment.

 
Cross-Complainants’ Third Cause of
Action for Negligence 
 
Cross-Complainants allege in their
Cross-Complaint that Moving Party was negligent when it failed to update
Cross-Complainants regularly and had a duty to disclose the owner of Goat,
Reuven Rory Cypers’ criminal history. 
 
“The elements for negligence cause
of action are duty, breach, causation and damages.” (County of Santa Clara
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292,
318.)¿ “Ordinarily, negligence may be alleged in general terms, without
specific facts showing how the injury occurred, but there are limits to the
generality with which a plaintiff is permitted to state his cause of action,
and the plaintiff must indicate the acts or omissions which are said to have
been negligently performed.  He may not recover upon the bare statement
that the defendant’s negligence has caused him injury.”  (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 527 [Internal quotations and ellipses
omitted].)  “However, there is no requirement that plaintiff identify and
allege the precise moment of the injury or the exact nature of the wrongful
act.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [internal brackets
omitted].) 
In support of its
Motion, Moving Party provides the declaration of Benjamin Griefer who is its
Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Griefer states “MAVERICK remains the holder of the Agreement and
Personal Guarantee and has performed all the obligations which it was required
to perform under the Agreement and Personal Guarantee.”
(Griefer Decl. ¶ 5.) Mr. Griefer further states, “MBENZGRAM breached the
Agreement and ARMOUTI breached the Personal Guarantee when each failed to repay
MAVERICK for a series of chargebacks and other fees and charges that were due
under the Agreement and Personal Guarantee.” (Griefer Decl. ¶ 8.) In support of
these statements, Plaintiff provided 
exhibits which include the Merchant Account Application and Agreement
and Personal Guarantee (the “Agreement), Merchant Statements and the Account
Ledger. (Exhibits A-C.) On its face, the Agreement shows that the parties
entered into an agreement on May 10, 2021. (Exhibit A.)
 
Therefore, Moving Party met its
burden showing that there were no triable issues of material facts. The burden
shifts to Defendants. 
 
In Opposition, Defendants submit Yasmin
Armouti’s declarations where she states, “I am informed and believe that the
Plaintiff engaged in unlawful practices by demanding and accepting revenue of
more than 1.4 million dollars from Bayren’s credit card transactions without
instituting industry standards and safeguards regarding the chargebacks or
auditing the reserve accounts.” (Armouti Decl. ¶ 27.) Defendants also insinuate
that Reuven Rory Caper’s criminal conviction shows that an unlawful business
practice also took place. However, Defendants fail to provide any evidence to
support these statements and are purely speculative and conclusory. Therefore,
Defendants failed to show triable issues of material facts. 
 
Thus, the Court GRANTS summary judgment.
 
Cross-Complaint - Fourth Cause of
Action Unfair Business Practices
 
Cross-Complainants alleges in their
Cross-Complaint that Maverick engaged in unlawful and unfair business practices
by “demanding and accepting revenue in excess of $1.4M from Cross-Complainants
credit card transactions without instituting any industry standard safeguards.”
(Mot. at p. 12.)
 
“Business and Professions Code
section 17200 et seq. prohibits unlawful, unfair, and fraudulent business
practices. It applies to any business practice forbidden by law, as well as
those that are unfair even though not expressly prohibited by statute.” (Hooked
Media Group, Inc. v. Apple Inc. (2020) 55 Cal. App. 5th 323, 336.)
 
For the same reasons mentioned
above, the Court grants summary judgment. 
 
Accordingly, this Court
GRANTS the Motion for Summary Judgment for the Complaint and Cross-Complaint. 
 
 
Dated:              September 26, 2024                                              _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                              Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court


