  Case Number:  21STCV16321    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  73 01/06/2025
Dept. 73 
Hon.
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
MARCHEL GABRIELLE AUGUSTE v. THOMAS WESLEY PENTZ (21STCV16321) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Marchel Gabrielle Auguste (Pro Per) 
Counsel for Defendant/moving
party:  Bryan Freedman; Brian Turnauer; Tamar Yeghiayan 
 
MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE (filed 1/12/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
Thomas Wesley Pentz’s Motion to
Consolidate is GRANTED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On April 30,
2021, Plaintiff Thomas Wesley Pentz (“Pentz”) filed a Complaint (the “Pentz
Lawsuit”) against Defendant Marchel Gabrielle Auguste, aka Shelly Auguste
(“Auguste”). On September 16, 2021, Pentz filed a First Amended Complaint for
(1) Stalking; (2) Trespass; and (3) Distribution of Private Materials (Revenge
Pornography) Civ. Code section 1708.85.
 
Pentz
alleges, among other things, in his Complaint that Auguste stalked Pentz
online, showed up at his residence uninvited and repeatedly sent sexually explicit
photographs and videos of Pentz to his friends and family. 
 
On June 25,
2021, Marchel Gabrielle Auguste filed a Complaint (the “Auguste Lawsuit”)
against Thomas Wesley Pentz. In Auguste’s First Amended Complaint filed on
August 10, 2022, she alleges causes of action for (1) Sexual Battery; (2)
Gender Violence; (3) Violation of the Ralph Civil Rights Act; (4) Violation of
the Tom Bane Civil Rights Act; (5) Action Based on Civil Code § 1708.85; (6)
Intentional Intrusion Into Private Affairs; (7) Battery; (8) Assault; (9)
Defamation; (10) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (11)
Fraud.  
  
Auguste has
sued alleging, among other things, the following: (i) Pentz communicated with
her when she was a minor; (ii) groomed her; (iii) gave her an STD; (iv)
ejaculated inside her; (v) raped her; (vi) defamed her and (vii) committed
revenge porn against her. Auguste alleges that all the aforementioned acts
caused her severe emotional distress.
 
On August 1,
2021, Pentz filed a Notice of Related Case. On September
14, 2021, the Court ruled the Pentz Lawsuit 21STCV16321 and the Auguste Lawsuit
21STCV23647 were related within the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule
3.300(a). 21STCV16321, the Pentz Lawsuit, is the lead case.  
 
On January
12, 2024, Pentz filed a Motion to Consolidate, arguing: 
·                
The Pentz Lawsuit alleges causes of
action against Plaintiff for Stalking, Trespass, and Distribution of Private
Materials.  The trespass and stalking claims arise out of Auguste’s
uninvited and unannounced appearance at Pentz’s residence and her distribution
of numerous unsolicited harassing and sexually explicit messages, videos, and
photographs to various people. Pentz is planning to amend the Pentz Lawsuit to
add a cause of action for defamation.  
·                
Rather than filing a cross-complaint,
Auguste filed a separate civil action, the Auguste Lawsuit. The August Lawsuit
arises out of the same brief relationship between the parties. 
·                
The two actions share common questions
of law and fact: two individuals who had a brief consensual relationship where
issues arose out of the relationship involving photos, videos, harassing,
etc.  
 
No
opposition was filed.
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.                 
Legal Standard for Motion to
Consolidate 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 1048 states: “When actions involving a common question of law or fact
are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or
all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.”¿“A consolidation of actions does not
affect the rights of the parties. The purpose of consolidation is merely to
promote trial convenience and economy by avoiding duplication of procedure,
particularly in the proof of issues common to both actions.”¿(Wouldridge v.
Burns (1968) 265 Cal.App.2d 82, 86.) 
Under Los
Angeles Superior Court Local Rule 3.3(g), cases must be related into the same
department prior to consolidation. Local Rule 3.3(g) provides the following:¿ 
¿ 
(g) Consolidation of Cases.¿¿ 
¿ 
(1) Cases may not be consolidated
unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate two or more
cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different
departments, have been related into a single department, or if the cases were
already assigned to that department.¿¿ 
¿ 
(2) Upon consolidation of cases, the
first filed case will be the lead case, unless otherwise ordered by the court.
After consolidation, all future papers to be filed in the consolidated case
must be filed only in the case designated as the lead case.¿¿ 
¿ 
(3) Before consolidation of a limited
case with an unlimited case, the limited case must be reclassified as an
unlimited case and the reclassification fee paid.¿ 
¿ 
Cases are
related if they: “(1) Involve the same parties and are based on the same or
similar claims; (2) Arise from the same or substantially identical
transactions, incidents, or events requiring the determination of the same or
substantially identical questions of law or fact; (3) Involve claims against,
title to, possession of, or damages to the same property; or (4) are likely for
other reasons to require substantial duplication of judicial resources if heard
by different judges.”¿ CRC, rule 3.300(a)(1)-(4).¿¿ 
 
B.                 
Consolidation 
 
Procedurally,
the Auguste Lawsuit and Pentz Lawsuits are both in Department 73. A Notice of
Related Cases was filed on August 1, 2021. The Court ruled the two cases were
related on September 14, 2021 and indicated the Pentz Lawsuit was the lead
case.  
 
Substantively,
Pentz argues that the two cases arises out of the same facts and involved
common questions of law and fact. Both the Pentz and Auguste lawsuits arise out
of the brief consensual sexual relationship between the parties. From that
relationship, the various act of harassment, stalking, trespass, revenge
pornography, and the like, are all related. The issues are overlapping in that
some of Auguste’s affirmative claims are relevant to Pentz’s defenses as well
as his own affirmative claims. Additionally, the two lawsuits involve the same
parties, same third-party witnesses, same underlying discovery, and the same
counsel of record for reach party.  
  
If the Court
were not to consolidate the two cases, the Court would have to hear testimony
from the same parties and the same third-party witnesses regarding the same or
substantially similar events. While the claims may possibly focus on different
dates, the underlying cases themselves are substantially similar. Both arise
out of a sexual relationship gone wrong. Both will involve discovery of
messages, social media postings, and the like regarding the same or
substantially similar matters. Further, it is reasonable that some of the facts
presented by each party in their affirmative claims may be relevant to defenses
or the other’s affirmative claims. The Court notes that no
opposition was filed.
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds the two cases to be consolidated for all purposes. 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
Thomas Wesley Pentz’s Motion to
Consolidate is GRANTED. 