  Case Number:  24STCV02374    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


June 14, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV02374




MOTIONS


Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant St. George Affordable Housing Limited
  Partnership and SRHT Property Management Company




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs Carlos Padilla and Carlos Valdez



 
MOTION
Carlos Padilla and
Carlos Valdez (“Plaintiffs”) sued St. George Affordable Housing Limited
Partnership and SRHT Property Management Company (“Defendants”) for habitability
violations.  Defendants move to strike
portions of the complaint.  Plaintiffs
oppose the motion.  
ANALYSIS
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(b).)  On a motion to strike, the court may: (1)
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading;
or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the
court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42
Cal.2d 767, 782.)
Defendant moves to
strike the punitive damages allegations in Plaintiffs’ complaint.  Plaintiffs have not alleged facts to support
a claim for punitive damages.  In ruling
on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read allegations of a pleading
subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and
assume their truth.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To state a
prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements
set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721 (College Hospital) .)  Section 3294 requires a plaintiff to allege the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “‘Malice’ is defined in the statute as
conduct ‘intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff,’ or ‘despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.’”  (College
Hospital, 8
Cal.4th at p. 725.)  “The mere allegation an intentional tort was
committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  Not only must there be circumstances of
oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.”  (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166, internal citations and footnote omitted.)  
Plaintiffs allege various
habitability violations existed in their rental units, including inadequate
water protection, internal water leaks that resulted in mold and dampness,
vermin infestation, heating and ventilation problems, electrical wiring issues,
inadequate security, and physical damage to amenities.  They assert Defendants failed to remedy these
conditions  (Complaint, ¶¶ 20-29) and Defendants’
“conduct . . . was willful, wanton, intentional, despicable, malicious, and
initiated with malice and with the intent to knowingly take advantage of,
oppress, and injure Plaintiffs.  Defendants
at all times acted with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights of
safety of Plaintiffs and the building’s other tenants.  Defendants were at all times aware that there
was a high probability that their intentional and/or negligent failure to
repair and maintain the Subject Property would injure Plaintiffs and cause them
personal injury, emotional distress and property damage.”  (Id., ¶ 54.)  Plaintiffs do not allege specific facts to
support these conclusions.  
Further, Plaintiffs
allege Defendants are corporate entities. 
“[T]he imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is based upon
its own fault.  It is not imposed
vicariously by virtue of the fault of others.” (City Products Corp. v. Globe
Indemnity Co. (1979) 88 Cal. App. 3d 31, 36.) “Corporations are legal
entities which do not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent
to injure or deceive.  An award of
punitive damages against a corporation therefore must rest on the malice of the
corporation’s employees.  ¶  But the law does not impute every employee’s
malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate leaders: the ‘officer[s],
director[s], or managing agent[s].’ [Citation]” (Cruz v. HomeBase (2000)
83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167.)  Plaintiffs do
not allege which of Defendants’ officers, directors, or managing agents acted
with oppression, fraud, or malice that would justify a punitive damages award.  
Accordingly, the court
strikes the prayer for punitive damages from Plaintiff's complaint but provides Plaintiffs an opportunity
to amend the complaint.CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’ motion
to strike the prayer for punitive damages asserted against them is granted with the court granting Plaintiffs  leave to file an amended complaint within 10 days of the
issuance of this order.
Defendants are
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 