 Case Number:  23STCV00719    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  11 Case Number: 23STCV00719
 
People
of the State of California vs Eli Lilly and Company, et al
Tentative
Ruling Re: Manufacturer Defendants’ Demurrer

(CCP
§632; CRC 3.1590)
 
Dated:  June 18, 2024
                                                   
          (1)     This decision
is the Court’s Tentative Ruling regarding the Manufacturer Defendants’ Demurrer
to the Original Complaint.


          (2)     Plaintiff, the
People of the State of California, by and through Rob Bonta, Attorney General
of the State of California, filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) against three
manufacturers (Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Sanofi) (the "Manufacturer
Defendants") and three pharmacy companies (CVS Caremark, Express Scripts
and OptumRX (the "PBM Defendants" or "PBMs") and a holding
company (CVS Health Corporation) alleging a price gouging conspiracy to
artificially inflate the price of insulin. The Complaint contains two causes of
action: (1) violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, the
Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”); and (2) unjust enrichment.
(3)     The California Attorney General alleges that Manufacturer
Defendants have significantly increased the list prices of insulin over the
last two decades. These increases allegedly have far outpaced inflation and are
not justified by improvements to the drug or manufacturing costs.  Plaintiff alleges that the insulin market is
deceptive because insulin Manufacturer Defendants provide significant secret
rebates to pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs). These rebates are reportedly as
high as 70% of the list price of insulin.
(4)    The Complaint alleges that while the public
is aware of general insulin rebating practices, the actual terms of the rebates
are unknown to the public. The Complaint alleges that PBMs create obstacles
that prevent payers from knowing the amount of rebates PBMs are securing and
from being able to audit the rebate information.
(5)       The
Complaint further alleges the Manufacturer Defendants made misleading
statements that support their efforts to profit from their pricing conduct. For
example, the manufacturers claim that the net price of insulin was decreasing,
but these statements obscure the allegation that list price competition has
been undercut, resulting in alleged larger out-of-pocket costs for many
consumers.
(6)     Plaintiff alleges that PBMs act as intermediaries in the
pharmaceutical payment system. They negotiate with manufacturers on behalf of insurers
to determine which drugs are included in formularies (lists of covered drugs)
and at what cost. The Attorney General alleges that the PBM market is dominated
by three entities – CVS Caremark, Express Scripts, and OptumRx – giving them
significant negotiating power. Allegedly, PBMs leverage their market power to
secure substantial rebates from manufacturers in exchange for favorable
formulary placement for their drugs. 
(7)     The Attorney General contends the system creates an incentive
for manufacturers to increase list prices to offset the rebates paid to PBMs.
 The
Complaint alleges that insulin affordability is a significant concern,
particularly for uninsured or underinsured individuals who are exposed to the
full list price without the benefit of rebates. The California Attorney
General's lawsuit alleges that the current pricing practices in the insulin
market harm consumers by artificially inflating prices.
(8)     The Manufacturer Defendants argue that a safe harbor protects
the alleged conduct because federal and state law expressly permit or require
the conduct in question. Specifically, the Manufacturer Defendants argue that
federal law contemplates and sometimes requires rebates from manufacturers and
the publication of list prices that do not include rebates. The Defendants
argue that state law allows manufacturers to make voluntary pricing decisions,
including price increases, and expresses an intent to permit PBMs to negotiate
discounts and rebates.
(9)     The Manufacturer Defendants argue
the Attorney General’s claims are barred
by the statute of limitations, as the complaint and judicially noticeable
materials demonstrate the Attorney General’s awareness of the pricing system in
question years before the statute of limitations cutoff.
          (10)   The issues
before the Court in the demurrer are the following:
 
          (a)     Whether
the applicable statute of limitations bars the alleged causes of action?


          (b)     Whether
any equitable exceptions toll any applicable statute of
limitations defense at the pleading stage?


          (c)      Whether
the UCL's safe harbor provision protects the
Manufacturer Defendants from liability as a matter of law?


          (d)     Whether
price inflation as alleged in the Complaint constitutes an unfair business
practice under the UCL?


          (e)      Whether
allegations of "secret rebates" and inflated list prices as alleged
in the Complaint constitute unfair conduct under the UCL?


          (f)      Whether
the Complaint sufficiently alleges reliance on misleading statements from the Manufacturer
Defendants to state a claim under the UCL?


          (g)     Whether
the Complaint states a claim for unjust enrichment?
 
I.       RELEVANT FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
A.    The Complaint


(11)   At its core, this is a price-gouging
case.  The Complaint alleges:


“1. Millions of
Californians suffer from diabetes. For many diagnosed with this condition,
access to insulin to regulate their blood sugar levels is a matter of life and
death. Yet, the excessive price of insulin undermines their access to this
century-old, life-sustaining drug. 
 
“2.
Inexplicably, list prices for insulin have risen several hundred percent over
the last two decades. Today, California diabetics who require insulin to
survive and who are exposed to insulin’s full price, such as uninsured
consumers and consumers with high deductible insurance plans, pay thousands of
dollars per year for insulin. 
 
“3. The
excessive price of insulin disproportionately harms low-income communities who
must choose between paying for insulin or everyday necessities, such as housing
and food. To stretch dollars and insulin supplies, many Californians have
turned to the dangerous practice of rationing insulin or skipping doses despite
the severe risks of loss of sight, limbs, or death. These harms are further
compounded for Black, Hispanic, and low-income communities in California as
they are more likely to be diagnosed with diabetes and to be uninsured or
underinsured. 
 
“4. The United
States insulin market is an oligopoly. The defendants include three insulin
manufacturers (Manufacturer Defendants)—Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, and Sanofi—who
make nearly all of the insulin sold in the United States. 
 
“5. Also named
as defendants are the three pharmacy benefit managers (PBM Defendants) that
dominate the PBM market—CVS Caremark, Express Scripts, and OptumRx. PBMs are
entities that administer prescription drug programs, which are a part of the
essential benefits that health insurance plans must cover. One aspect of the
PBM’s role is determining the prescription drugs a given health insurance plan
covers (known as a formulary). Another aspect of the PBM’s role is negotiating
confidential contracts that provide for post-sale discounts (rebates) that a
drug manufacturer will provide to the PBM, not the consumer, if a consumer
fills a prescription for the manufacturer’s drug.
 
“6. The conduct
at issue in this Complaint has two main components. First, the Manufacturer
Defendants aggressively raise the list price of insulin in lockstep with each
other to artificial levels. The inflated and artificial insulin price increases
have significantly exceeded inflation and are not justified by advances in the
efficacy of the drugs or the cost of manufacturing. Insulin costs less than $10
a month to manufacture and its development costs have long been recouped. 
 
“7. Second, PBM
Defendants obtain significant secret rebates, which are a percentage of the
inflated and artificial list price, from the Manufacturer Defendants in
exchange for favorable placement on the PBM’s standard formularies. This
rebating strategy incentivizes the Manufacturer Defendants to raise their list
prices high and higher. The result is that the PBM Defendants’ standard
formularies promote the Manufacturer Defendants’ high list-price insulin
products over lower list-price insulins in California and nationwide. 
 
“8. The
Manufacturer Defendants participate in this conduct because being listed on a
PBM Defendant’s standard national formulary is a financial boon. Like the
insulin market in the United States, the PBM market in the United States is
also oligopolistic. The PBM Defendants capture over 75% of the market. Being
included on a PBM Defendant’s standard national formulary drives higher sales
volume and revenue. 
 
“9. The PBM
Defendants participate in this conduct because their revenue is related to the
size of the secret rebates they negotiate. Larger list prices support larger
secret rebates because rebates are calculated as a percentage of the list
price. Also, the PBM Defendants have a perverse incentive for ever-growing list
prices. The PBM Defendants claim they can extract higher rebates due to their
market power. If drug list prices grow, demand for their rebate negotiation
services increases. 
 
“10. In
addition to participating in conduct raising list prices, Defendants made
misrepresentations about insulin prices and their actions in relation to
insulin prices. 
 
“11. By
increasing the list price of insulin, Defendants harm diabetic Californians who
require insulin. They are exposed to insulin’s unaffordable list price and do
not benefit from the secret rebates.
 
“12. Defendants
are liable for the harms caused by their conduct under theories that protect
consumers and competition. Defendants’ conduct harms diabetic Californians who
require insulin without a sufficient counterweighing benefit to them.
Additionally, Defendants’ conduct runs against several principles of honesty
and fair dealing with competitors and consumers, including (a) prohibition on
false discounts and prohibition on misleading statements made in furtherance of
the false discounts, (b) prohibition on members of oligopolies abusing their
market power in order to raise their product prices to unconscionable levels,
(c) prohibition on middlemen in product distribution chains with large market
share leveraging their market power to obtain secret rebates from manufacturers
that are not granted to their smaller middlemen competitors, and (d)
prohibition on members of oligopolies adopting practices that facilitate the
coordination of price increases. 
(Complaint,
¶¶ 1-12.)”
 
B.    Allegations Regarding Insulin Pricing Dynamics
          (12)   Manufacturer Defendants are
pharmaceutical companies that research, develop, manufacture, and sell
prescription drugs, including analog insulin. Compl. ¶¶ 77, 83-86, 90, 191. Manufacturer
Defendants do not sell insulin directly to patients. Id. ¶¶ 101, 103. Rather,
they sell their medications to wholesalers at a publicly reported list price
known as the Wholesale Acquisition Cost (“WAC”). Id. ¶¶ 101, 103, 104. Federal
law sets forth how manufacturers must calculate the WAC price. According to
Title 42 of the United States Code, which is excerpted in the complaint at
paragraph 104, “[t]he term ‘wholesale acquisition cost’ means, with respect to
a drug or biological, the manufacturer’s list price for the drug or biological
to wholesalers or direct purchasers in the United States, not including prompt
pay or other discounts, rebates or reductions in price . . . .” 42 U.S.C. §
1395w-3a(c)(6)(B) (emphasis added). Once set, these “undiscounted list
price[s]” are published in publicly available “databases administered by
third-party entities.” Compl. ¶ 104. After purchasing insulin from the Manufacturer
Defendants at the WAC price, wholesalers resell the medications to pharmacies,
which in turn sell them to consumers. Id. ¶¶ 101, 103, 105-06. 
(13)   The payment system for prescription
medications is complex. The price a consumer ultimately pays for a given
medication depends on a variety of factors, such as the terms of the consumer’s
health plan, the consumer’s insurance status, and negotiations between PBMs and
pharmacies. Id. ¶¶ 106, 109-10, 112. This price may also be impacted by
different affordability programs that each Manufacturer Defendants offers. Id.
¶¶ 190, 193. 
 
(14)   Although PBMs are not involved in the
physical distribution of pharmaceutical drugs, they are at the center of the
pharmaceutical payment chain. Id. ¶¶ 101, 113, 118, 123-24. PBMs contract with
insurers and other payors to provide prescription drug benefits. Id. ¶ 113. An
important part of these services is the creation of nationwide lists known as
formularies, which dictate the prescription drugs that insurance plans will
cover and the terms of that coverage (including the cost-sharing terms
governing what members pay). Id. ¶¶ 5, 119-22. Maintaining access to these
formularies is essential for Manufacturer Defendants. Because insured consumers
are far more likely to purchase a drug if it is covered by insurance,
“exclusion from a [PBM’s] standard formulary can significantly impact”
patients’ access to Manufacturers’ medicines. Id. ¶ 122. Accordingly, Manufacturer
Defendants compete for formulary access to ensure that patients have affordable
access to their insulins. Id. ¶¶ 151-55, 158. 
 
(15)   The importance of formularies gives PBMs
enormous leverage over drug prices. Id. ¶¶ 8- 9, 114-27, 151-62, 165. Indeed,
the complaint alleges that the three PBM defendants represent over 250 million
covered lives in the U.S. (as of 2019), reflecting around 74% of the U.S.
population. Id. ¶ 116. PBMs use that leverage to negotiate discounts and
rebates from manufacturers. Id. ¶¶ 5, 8, 9, 122. Because Manufacturer
Defendants face a “risk of backlash from PBMs” if they refuse the PBMs’ rebate
demands, id. ¶¶ 148-50, 152-54, 165, 175, PBMs have been able to “extract
higher rebates due to their market power.” Id. ¶¶ 5, 8, 9, 122; see also Ex. 1,
Cal. Sen. Comm. on Bus., Prof. & Econ. Dev., Background Paper (2017), at 3,
bit.ly/3LNEUTL (“PBMs generally develop a standard, national formulary” that
“incentivizes drug manufacturers to negotiate with PBMs to attain preferred
status”).  The Complaint alleges that the
Manufacturer Defendants were forced to increase the list prices of insulins in
order to pay the “ever growing rebates” demanded by the PBMs “in exchange for
formulary access.” Compl. ¶¶ 151, 165.
 
(16)   The Complaint alleges Defendants engaged, and
continue to engage, in unlawful, unfair, and fraudulent acts and practices in
violation of the UCL, Business and Professions Code § 17200, by artificially
raising the price of analog insulin (insulin). In addition to asserting a claim
under the UCL, the Attorney General asserts a claim for unjust enrichment. 
 
(17)   The Attorney General alleges Manufacturer
Defendants conspired to repeatedly raise the list price of insulin, in
lockstep, to artificially high levels as facilitated by the rebate practices of
the PBMs described below. (Compl., ¶¶ 6-9, 129-167.) For example, the
Manufacturer Defendants raised their insulin prices by over 600% in the past
twenty years. (Id. at ¶ 129.) The Manufacturer Defendants publish these
inflated prices in databases administered by third-party entities. (Id. at ¶
104.) 
 
(18)   The Complaint alleges the Manufacturer Defendants
provided substantial secret rebates— eventually representing over 70% of the
list price in some instances—to the PBMs. (Id. at ¶¶ 7, 147-158.) The Attorney
General alleges the Manufacturer Defendants provide secret rebate payments to
the PBMs because access to the PBMs’ market share from off-the-shelf, standard
formularies they provide to, e.g., their commercial health insurance clients drive
higher sales volume and revenue for the Manufacturer Defendants. (Id. at ¶¶ 8,
119-122.) 
The Complaint
seeks restitution, civil penalties, injunctive relief, and disgorgement, among
other relief.

 
C.   
The Manufacturer Defendants’
Arguments Regarding the Statute of Limitations
(19)        The Manufacturer Defendants argue that the lawsuit is barred
by the statute of limitations. The manufacturers assert that the Attorney
General’s claims are subject to either a three or four-year statute of
limitations. This means that the Attorney General generally must file his
lawsuit within three or four years of the date the alleged wrongdoing occurred.
(20)        Both the UCL and unjust enrichment claims center on the idea
that insulin prices were “inflated”—and consumers were thereby harmed—because
the list prices that the Manufacturer Defendants charge wholesalers for
diabetes medications did not reflect the rebates that Manufacturers later pay
to the PBM Defendants after consumers fill prescriptions. Compl. ¶¶ 149-51,
155, 173, 207, 230. Manufacturer Defendants argue Plaintiff knew that the
Manufacturer Defendants provide rebates to PBMs to obtain formulary access for
their insulin products, and that federal law requires that the Manufacturers’
list prices exclude those rebates, for at least six years before filing their
complaint.
(21)        The four-year limit applies to claims made under the UCL, as
stated in the California Business and Professions Code. (Cal. Bus. & Prof.
Code. § 17208.) The statute of limitations for unjust enrichment claims depends
on the underlying wrong. When the underlying wrong is fraud, a three-year
statute of limitations applies. Because the complaint was filed on January 12,
2023, the People need to demonstrate that the UCL claim and the unjust
enrichment claim accrued no earlier than January 12, 2019, and January 12,
2020, respectively.
(22)        Manufacturer Defendants point to several events to support
their claim that the statute of limitations bars the Attorney General’s action.
The Manufacturer Defendants argue that the Attorney General’s claims are
untimely because the Attorney General knew about the alleged misconduct at
least six years before filing the Complaint. They base this argument on the
fact that the California Attorney General initiated a civil investigation into
insulin pricing nearly six years prior to filing the Complaint. Furthermore,
the Minnesota Attorney General conducted a simultaneous investigation and filed
a lawsuit in 2018 based on similar allegations. The Manufacturer Defendants
also highlight that other lawsuits raising overlapping claims and making
similar factual allegations were filed as early as February 2017.
D.  
The Manufacturer
Defendants’ Arguments Regarding the UCL Claim
(23)        The Manufacturer Defendants assert that the Plaintiff's UCL
claim, even if not time-barred, is insufficiently substantiated. They argue that their conduct, including rebate
payments and list price reporting, is explicitly authorized by both federal and
state law, thereby falling under the UCL's safe harbor provisions of the UCL.
The Manufacturer Defendants highlight that federal law mandates reporting
requirements without factoring in rebates. They contend that California law
explicitly allows manufacturers to determine drug prices, including increases,
and permits the PBM's to negotiate discounts in rebates. They contend the Attorney
General's argument regarding "artificially inflated" list prices due
to not reflecting rebates cannot satisfy the unfair prong of the UCL considering
the safe harbor provisions.
(24)        The Manufacturer Defendants contend that the Attorney General
fails to demonstrate any specific misrepresentations connected to insulin list
prices or a rebate within the Complaint. They assert the Complaint lacks
allegations of a duty to disclose that would support a fraudulent omission
claim. The Complaint lacks any factual allegations of misrepresentations by the
Manufacturer Defendants regarding the existence, amount, or purpose of rebates
offered to PBMs. They contend there is no "secrecy" or collusion
surrounding pharmaceutical rebates, as Manufacturer Defendants have openly disclosed
the payment of rebates, acknowledging their increasing prevalence overtime. The
Attorney General's reliance on the omissions theory is flawed, as there was no
duty for Manufacturer Defendants to disclose the existence, amount, or purpose
of rebates.  Thus, they contend the
fraudulent prong of the UCL is unsubstantiated.
(25)        The Attorney General argues that the Manufacturer Defendants
violated the UCL's unlawful prong by violating the California Consumer Legal
Remedies Act (CLRA). They claim that the Manufacturer Defendants made false and
misleading statements about price reductions for insulin, specifically citing
CLRA § 1770(a)(13). 
(26)            The Manufacturer Defendants contend that the Attorney
General's assertion of a CLRA violation is unfounded because the complaint
lacks any factual basis for misleading statements about insulin prices and
rebates. They emphasize that: (1) the Complaint itself confirms that Manufacturer
Defendants have accurately disclosed their justifiable increases to insulin
list prices; and (2) the Complaint reliance on CLRA subsection (a)(13), which
prohibits false statements regarding price reductions, is misplaced because the
complaint lacks such allegations.
E.    The
Manufacturer Defendants’ Arguments Regarding Unjust Enrichment
(27)        The Manufacturer Defendants argue
against the Complaint's unjust enrichment claim, deeming it redundant alongside
the UCL claim. They highlight that unjust enrichment does not constitute an
independent cause of action under California law. They contend the claim is
rooted in the same conduct as the UCL claim, rendering it unnecessary. They
further allege the Attorney General cannot demonstrate a superior equitable
right to any alleged benefits, a requirement for establishing an unjust
enrichment claim. Thus, the Manufacturer Defendants argue that dispute falls
under the purview of existing contracts, which supersedes a quasi-contract
remedy.

II.      DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Standard of Review
(28)        When considering demurrers, courts read
the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584,
591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable
possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
     
B.   
The Statute of Limitations Defense
1.       Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”


     (29)        Manufacturer
Defendants seek judicial notice of legislative records (exhibits 1, 2, 9, 10,
11, 12, and 13), news articles (exhibits 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24,
25, 26, and 29), reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) (exhibits 14, 15, 16, 17, and 27), and court records (exhibits 18, 20,
and 28).
 
     (30)        The
Court finds that the RJN should be denied because the documents lack
authentication and verification.  (See
Yaphe Decl., ¶¶ 1-30 [failing to establish personal knowledge and foundation].)
Even if the Court were inclined to grant the RJN, the Court could only grant it
in part.  Judicial notice would be
appropriate, at most, as to the existence of the legislative records, SEC
reports, and court records, not the truth of their contents.  The Court would still need to deny the RJN as
to the news articles.
 
2.       Applicable
Statutes of Limitations
 
     (31)        A four-year limitations period applies to the UCL (see Stern, Business and Professions Code
Section 17200 Practice (The Rutter Group March 2023 Update) ¶ 5:290), and either a three-year limitations period or a
four-year limitations period applies to unjust enrichment.  (See Federal
Deposit Ins. Corp. v. Dintino (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 333, 347
[finding a three-year limitations period applicable to fraud-based unjust
enrichment]; see also Opposition, p. 33 [arguing that Code of Civil Procedure
section 343’s four-limitations period should apply because the People’s claim
is equity-based].)
 
     (32)        Manufacturer Defendants contend the
demurrer should be sustained because both causes of action accrued more than
four years before the Attorney General filed his complaint. 
(See Demurrer, pp. 1-2, 9-11 [claiming Plaintiff knew about the alleged
misconduct at least six years before the filing date].)
 
     (33)        The
Attorney General
claims the allegations satisfy equitable exceptions, namely, the last-overt-act
rule, the continuing-violation doctrine, and the continuous-accrual
doctrine.  (See Opposition, pp. 28-33.)
Manufacturer Defendants assert that the equitable exceptions do not apply.  (See Demurrer, pp. 11-14; see also Reply, pp.
1-5.) The Court disagrees with Manufacturer Defendants’ first point.  To show accrual and the People’s purported
knowledge, Manufacturer Defendants cite the RJN exhibits.  (See id. at pp. 4-9, 11.)  As noted above, the RJN is denied.  The exhibits cannot be used to meet the
Manufacturer Defendants’ burden.  
 
 



3.       The
“Last Overt Act” Doctrine
 
     (34)        The
next issue is twofold.  Do the
allegations show untimeliness independent of the RJN exhibits?  If so, do the equitable exceptions apply?


     (35)        The
Court starts with the last-overt-act rule. 
The Rutter Guide describes it this way:
“A civil conspiracy is not a separate
cause of action. Rather, it is a ground for holding persons liable for a
tortious act committed by another: “The effect of charging . . . conspiratorial
conduct is to implicate all . . . who agree to the plan to commit the wrong as
well as those who actually carry it out.” [Citation.]
 
The statute of limitations on an action
for conspiracy to defraud (or other intentional tort) does not begin to run
until the “last overt act” pursuant to the conspiracy has been completed … even
if this occurs more than 3 years after the fraud was discovered: “So long as a
person continues to commit wrongful acts in furtherance of a conspiracy to harm
another, he can neither claim unfair prejudice at the filing of a claim against
him nor disturbance of any justifiable repose built upon the passage of time.”
[Citations.]
 
(Banke & Segal, Cal. Practice Guide: Civ. Procedure Before
Trial Statutes of Limitations (The Rutter Group February 2024 Update) ¶ 4:1230
[quoting Wyatt v. Union Mortgage Co. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 773], emphasis in
original.)  
 
     (36)        The Attorney
General claims the rule governs because the Complaint
alleges an ongoing conspiracy and continuing overcharges.  (See Opposition, p. 29.)  
Manufacturer Defendants claim the Complaint fails to identify a
specific overcharge within the last four years, the People failed to exercise
reasonable diligence, and the Complaint does not allege a conspiracy.  (See Reply, pp. 2-4.)  
 
     (37)        On
one hand, the demurrer arguably should be overruled.  While “the date of the commission of the last
overt act in pursuance of the conspiracy” typically must be alleged (Wyatt,
supra, 24 Cal.3d at 789; see also Maheu v. CBS, Inc. (1988) 201
Cal.App.3d 662, 673-674), there is no last overt act when the purported
overcharges are ongoing and/or new.  (See
People ex rel. Kennedy v. Beaumont Investment, Ltd. (2003) 111
Cal.App.4th 102, 137 [“Each month's collection of excess rent constitutes an
overt act in furtherance of that conspiracy. [Citation.] Defendants were still
collecting unlawful rent right up through the trial of the People ex rel.
Kennedy case. Thus, when the trial court issued its statement of decision,
defendants had not yet committed the last overt act of their conspiracy and the
statute of limitations had not yet accrued.”]; see also, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 62
[alleging that the purported conspiracy “continues to the present”], 206
[alleging that “Defendants’ conduct has harmed, and is continuing to harm, the
People through insulin’s inflated and artificial list price”], 208 [alleging
that “uninsured patients have paid increasingly higher insulin prices for years
on end and continue to do so”], 228 [alleging that Defendants “continue to
engage in acts or practices that are unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent”].)  Moreover, the conspiracy allegations suffice
to meet the notice standard.  (See, e.g,
Complaint, ¶¶ 4-9, 62, 133-143, 147-176.) 
The efficient approach is to flesh out the facts of the alleged conspiracy
via discovery rather than to hold multiple demurrer rounds.  These reasons support the Plaintiff’s
position.
 
     (38)        Conversely,
the demurrer arguably should be sustained. 
In reviewing the Complaint, the Court did not see an explicit allegation
that identifies an explicit overcharge that occurred on a date within the last
four years.  This reason supports
Manufacturer Defendants’ position.
 
    (39)         On
balance, the Court favors sustaining the demurrer because the Attorney
General’s own chart undermines his position. 
The chart appears in paragraph 130 of the Complaint.  The Attorney General cites it to demonstrate
that prices rose through 2022 (see Opposition, p. 32), but, instead, it shows
prices flatlining since 2018.  (See
Complaint, ¶ 130.)  The Attorney General
needs to provide amended allegations to address this discrepancy.
 
    (40)         As
a matter of guidance, Manufacturer Defendants’ assertion regarding diligence is
unavailing.  The argument relies on the
RJN exhibits, which cannot be considered, especially as to the truth of the
contents.
 
     (41)        Manufacturer
Defendants’ reliance on Gabelli v. SEC (2013) 586 U.S. 442 also
fails.  (See Reply, pp. 3-4.)  Gabelli is distinguishable; it
concerns the discovery rule, not the last-over-act rule.
 
4.       The
Continuing Violation Doctrine
 
     (42)        The
Court turns to the continuing-violation doctrine.  It “aggregates a series of wrongs or injuries
for purposes of the statute of limitations, treating the limitations period as
accruing for all of them upon commission or sufferance of the last of
them.”  (Willis v. City of Carlsbad
(2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 1104, 1124; see also Aryeh v. Canon Business
Solutions, Inc. (2013) 55 Cal.4th 1185, 1192.)  It “allows liability for unlawful . . .
conduct occurring outside the statute of limitations if it is sufficiently
connected to unlawful conduct within the limitations period.”  (Willis, supra, 48 Cal.App.5th at
1124.)  “For the . . . doctrine to apply,
a plaintiff must show the defendant engaged in ‘a pattern of reasonably
frequent and similar acts [that] may, in a given case, justify treating the
acts as an indivisible course of conduct actionable in its entirety,
notwithstanding that the conduct occurred partially outside and partially
inside the limitations period.’”  (Ibid.)
 
     (43)        The
Attorney General contends the Court should find the doctrine applicable since
the complaint “allege[s] a continuing pattern and course of conduct as the Manufacturer Defendants consistently and
incrementally raised prices just as the PBMs demanded increasingly greater
rebate percentages.”  (Opposition, p.
30.) The Attorney General also argues
that the continuing violation doctrine applies because the Manufacturer Defendants’ frequent and similar acts
of increasing prices in tandem with PBM demands for increased rebates
constitute an ongoing pattern of conduct. 
The Attorney General maintains that the continuing-violation doctrine
applies regardless of the Plaintiff’s knowledge of the wrongful conduct before
the limitations period, citing Haddad v. Merck & Co., Inc, (C.D.Cal.
Dec. 9, 2022) 2022 WL 18397392, at *5) a case
concerning failure to warn, to demonstrate its application in similar contexts.


     (44)        [DC1] The Attorney General explained that in Haddad,
the court determined that the doctrine applied to a pharmaceutical case where
the manufacturer failed to adequately warn of risks associated with a drug. The
Attorney Geneal also noted that the defendants in Haddad, unlike those
in cases where the courts declined to apply the doctrine, engaged in recurring
wrongful acts, such as ongoing sales and overcharges, within the statutory
period.
 
     (45)        Manufacturer
Defendants claim the doctrine is inapplicable because the Plaintiff fails to
allege that the “price increases and price reporting are a series of otherwise
nonactionable small harms that became actionable over time.”  (Reply, p. 5; see also Demurrer, pp. 13-14.)
They further claim the Plaintiff fails to allege
that Manufacturer Defendants “raised prices” during or after 2019.  (Reply, p. 5.)
 
     (46)        The
analysis is the same as the last-overt-act-rule analysis.  The Court sustains the demurrer with leave to
amend to show price increases during the limitations period.
5.       The
Continuous Accrual Doctrine
 
     (47)        Last
up is the continuous-accrual doctrine. “Where the wrong complained of is
continual or recurring, the cause of action is subject to continuous accrual
for statute of limitations purposes, i.e., a cause of action accrues each time
a wrongful act occurs, triggering a new limitations period.”  (Banke & Segal, supra, at ¶ 3:70.5,
emphasis in original.)  “[E]ach new
breach of such an obligation provides all the elements of a claim – wrongdoing,
harm, and causation.”  (Ibid.,
emphasis in original.)  


     (48)        “[U]nder
the theory of continuous accrual, a series of wrongs or injuries may be viewed
as each triggering its own limitations period, such that a suit for relief may
be partially time-barred as to older events but timely as to those within the
applicable limitations period.”  (Luke
v. Sonoma County (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 301, 306; see also Aryeh,
supra, 55 Cal.4th at 1199 [“Generally speaking, continuous accrual applies
whenever there is a continuing or recurring obligation: ‘When an obligation or
liability arises on a recurring basis, a cause of action accrues each time a
wrongful act occurs, triggering a new limitations period.’”].) The Plaintiff argues
that the doctrine applies because Manufacturer Defendants’ alleged conduct
“causes ongoing, recurring injury by imposing repeated overcharges.”  (Opposition, p. 31.)

     (49)        In
Aryeh, the California Supreme Court determined the application of the
statute of limitations to claims filed under the UCL. (Supra, 55 Cal.4th
1185.) The Supreme Court found that each violation of the UCL triggers a new
statute of limitations. The court determined this by considering the nature of
the obligation breached, rather than how the claim is labeled. In this
particular case, the defendant was obligated to not impose unfair charges in
their monthly bills to the plaintiff. This duty, by its very nature, was
continuous and prone to repeated breaches. As a result, the Court concluded
that each alleged breach should be viewed as starting a new statute of
limitations period. The Aryeh ruling enables the plaintiff to pursue
recovery for charges that fall within the four years before the lawsuit was
filed. The Court also determined that equitable exceptions are relevant when
establishing if a claim was filed on time. (Supra, 55 Cal.4th at
1192-1195.) The Court found it contradictory to believe that while equity
influences available remedies under the UCL, equitable exceptions are
irrelevant when determining the timeliness of a claim. (Ibid.)
 
     (50)        Manufacturer
Defendants assert that the Attorney General fails to allege a “continuing or
recurring obligation[.]” (Reply, p. 4; see also Demurrer, pp. 12-13.)  They contend the obligation to comply with
federal or state law does not qualify as the required obligation.  (See Reply, pp. 4-5; see also Demurrer, pp.
12-13.)  The Manufacturer Defendants contend
that the Attorney General’s reliance on Aryeh is misplaced. They argue
that general compliance with the law, such as the UCL, does not constitute a
"continuing obligation". The Manufacturer Defendants argue that
courts have routinely rejected attempts to characterize compliance with the law
as an ongoing obligation. 
 
     (51)        The
analysis is the same as the last-overt-act-rule analysis.  The demurrer is sustained with leave amend.
 
C.   
The UCL Claims


1.                
The Safe Harbor Provisions
     (52)        The
concept of a “safe harbor” acts as a shield against liability under the UCL
when a specific law permits the conduct in question. This means that if the
California legislature has explicitly allowed certain actions, courts cannot
deem those specific actions unfair under the UCL. “If the Legislature has
permitted certain conduct or considered a situation and concluded no action
should lie, courts may not override that determination.”  (Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012)
202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1379 [quoting Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los
Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 182].)  “When specific legislation provides a ‘safe
harbor,’ plaintiffs may not use the general unfair competition law to assault
that harbor.”  (Ibid.)
     (53)        This
rule “does not . . . prohibit an action under the unfair competition law merely
because some other statute on the subject does not . . . prohibit the
challenged conduct.”  (Ibid.)  “To forestall an action under the unfair
competition law, another provision must . . . clearly permit the conduct.  There is a difference between (1) not making
an activity unlawful, and (2) making that activity lawful.”  (Ibid. [instructing that “a statute that does
not ‘affirmatively permit[ ] [a type of conduct] . . . does not preclude a
court from deeming [such] conduct unfair under the unfair competition law’”].)
     (54)        Stated
another way, “the Legislature's mere failure to prohibit an activity does not
prevent a court from finding it unfair.” 
(BBBB Bonding Corp. v. Caldwell (2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 349,
377.)  “[T]o ‘qualify for the “safe
harbor” rule, the defendant must show that a statute “explicitly prohibit[s]
liability for the defendant's acts or omissions” [citation] or “expressly precludes
an action based on the conduct.”’” 
(Ibid.) “If a statute does not ‘explicitly prohibit liability’ for a
defendant's specific acts or omissions, the court may not create an ‘implied
safe harbor.’”  (Ibid.)
     (55)        Manufacturer
Defendants raise the safe harbor defense in relation to the Attorney General’s
unfair-prong UCL claim; however, several courts have assumed that it also
applies to UCL claims brought pursuant to the unlawful and fraud prongs.  (See, e.g., The People v. Johnson &
Johnson (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 295, 345 [“We also assume, without deciding,
that the safe harbor concept applies to UCL claims based on FAL violations and
fraudulent or unlawful business practices, not merely claims based on unfair
business practices.”]; see also Olszewski v. Scripps Health (2003) 30
Cal.4th 798, 827-828 [“In Cel-Tech, we considered a UCL claim for unfair
– but not unlawful – business practices and recognized a safe harbor from such
claims for acts expressly allowed by the Legislature.”  [¶] “We[DC2] , however, need not determine whether the safe harbor
applies to unlawful business practices, because plaintiff cannot establish that
defendant violated federal law.”]; De La Torre v. CashCall, Inc. (2018)
5 Cal.5th 966, 986-987 [assuming the safe harbor can apply in an unlawful-prong
case].)   
     (56)        The
Manufacturer Defendants argue that their actions, including offering rebates
and setting list prices, are protected by the safe harbor provisions because
both federal and state laws allow for those activities. (Demurrer, p. 14.)  In support, Manufacturer Defendants cite 42
U.S.C. sections 1320b-23(b), 1395w-3a(c)(6)(B), and 1396r-8(a)(1) and Health
and Safety Code section 127676(b)(2). 
(See id. at p. 15; see also Reply, pp. 6-7.)
     (57)        Section
1320b-23(b) sets certain reporting requirements for PBMs:
“(b) Information described
The information described in
this subsection is the following with respect to services provided by a health
benefits plan or PBM for a contract year:
(1) The percentage of all
prescriptions that were provided through retail pharmacies compared to mail
order pharmacies, and the percentage of prescriptions for which a generic drug
was available and dispensed (generic dispensing rate), by pharmacy type (which
includes an independent pharmacy, chain pharmacy, supermarket pharmacy, or mass
merchandiser pharmacy that is licensed as a pharmacy by the State and that
dispenses medication to the general public), that is paid by the health
benefits plan or PBM under the contract.
(2) The aggregate amount, and
the type of rebates, discounts, or price concessions (excluding bona fide
service fees, which include but are not limited to distribution service fees,
inventory management fees, product stocking allowances, and fees associated
with administrative services agreements and patient care programs (such as
medication compliance programs and patient education programs)) that the PBM
negotiates that are attributable to patient utilization under the plan, and the
aggregate amount of the rebates, discounts, or price concessions that are
passed through to the plan sponsor, and the total number of prescriptions that
were dispensed.
(3) The aggregate amount of
the difference between the amount the health benefits plan pays the PBM and the
amount that the PBM pays retail pharmacies, and mail order pharmacies, and the
total number of prescriptions that were dispensed.”
(42
U.S.C. § 1320b-23, subd. (b), emphasis in original.)
     (58)        Section
1395w-3a(c)(6)(B) provides a definition for “wholesale acquisition cost”:
“(B) Wholesale acquisition
cost
The term “wholesale
acquisition cost” means, with respect to a drug or biological, the
manufacturer's list price for the drug or biological to wholesalers or direct
purchasers in the United States, not including prompt pay or other discounts,
rebates or reductions in price, for the most recent month for which the
information is available, as reported in wholesale price guides or other
publications of drug or biological pricing data.”
(Id.
at § 1395w-3a, subd. (c)(6)(B), emphasis in original.)
     (59)        Section
1396r-8(a)(1) requires manufacturers to enter into rebate agreements with
states:
“(a) Requirement for rebate
agreement
(1) In general
In order for payment to be
available under section 1396b(a) of this title or under part B of subchapter
XVIII for covered outpatient drugs of a manufacturer, the manufacturer must
have entered into and have in effect a rebate agreement described in subsection
(b) with the Secretary, on behalf of States (except that, the Secretary may
authorize a State to enter directly into agreements with a manufacturer), and
must meet the requirements of paragraph (5) (with respect to drugs purchased by
a covered entity on or after the first day of the first month that begins after
November 4, 1992) and paragraph (6). Any agreement between a State and a
manufacturer prior to April 1, 1991, shall be deemed to have been entered into
on January 1, 1991, and payment to such manufacturer shall be retroactively
calculated as if the agreement between the manufacturer and the State had been
entered into on January 1, 1991. If a manufacturer has not entered into such an
agreement before March 1, 1991, such an agreement, subsequently entered into,
shall become effective as of the date on which the agreement is entered into
or, at State option, on any date thereafter on or before the first day of the
calendar quarter that begins more than 60 days after the date the agreement is
entered into.”
(Id.
at § 1396r-8, subd. (a)(1), emphasis in original.)
     (60)        Section
127676(b)(2) gives manufacturers discretion to make pricing decisions:
“(2) It is further the intent
of the Legislature to permit a manufacturer of a prescription drug to
voluntarily make pricing decisions regarding a prescription drug, including any
price increases. It is further the intent of the Legislature to permit purchasers,
both public and private, as well as pharmacy benefit managers, to negotiate
discounts and rebates consistent with existing state and federal law.”
(Health
& Saf. Code § 127676, subd. (b)(2).)
     (61)        However,
the Attorney General argues that the Manufacturer Defendants’ interpretation of
the safe harbor is too narrow. The Attorney General contends that although the
statutes mentioned might acknowledge the existence of rebates and pricing
practices, they do not shield the Manufacturer Defendants from liability for
the alleged artificial inflation of insulin prices through a conspiracy
involving both price increases and concealed rebates.
     (62)        In
Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999)
20 Cal.4th 163, the California Supreme Court ruled that L.A. Cellular's
practice of selling cellular phones below cost did not violate the Unfair
Practices Act (UPA), as the plaintiffs did not prove the company acted with the
intent of injuring competitors or destroying competition. The Supreme Court
determined that a business must act with the desire, not just the
knowledge, of harming competition to violate the UPA. (Cel-Tech
Communications, Inc., 20 Cal.4th at 169.)
     (63)        The
Supreme Court also addressed whether L.A. Cellular's conduct violated the
unfair competition law, which prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent”
business act or practice. (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc., 20 Cal.4th
163.)  While acknowledging that the
unfair competition law can apply to practices not explicitly prohibited by
other laws, the Court established a test for determining "unfairness"
in this context. To be considered "unfair" under Section 17200, the
conduct must meet one of the following criteria: (1) threaten an incipient
violation of an antitrust law; (2) violate the policy or spirit of an antitrust
law because its effects are comparable to or the same as a violation of the law;
or, (3)otherwise significantly threaten or harm competition. (Ibid.)
     (64)        The
Court noted that low prices generally benefit consumers and are a fundamental
aspect of competition. (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc., 20 Cal.4th at
188-190.)  However, in the Cel-Tech
case, the Supreme Court found that L.A. Cellular's actions, while not violating
the UPA, could be considered unfair under the unfair competition law because
L.A. Cellular, as a duopolist, held a privileged position in the market due to
its government-issued duopoly license. (Ibid. at 188-192.) The
privileged position allowed the company to subsidize losses from below-cost
phone sales with profits from its cellular service, a strategy not legally
available to its competitors. (Ibid.)
     (65)        The
Attorney General cites additional federal court rulings that support his
stance, rejecting the argument that those specific federal laws provide blanket
immunity to the Manufacturer Defendants. The Attorney General further emphasizes
that the California law cited, while permitting manufacturers to set different prices
for a hospital’s uninsured patients, the law does not condone artificially
inflated or excessively high prices for such financially vulnerable individuals.
He cites a relevant California case, Moran v. Prime Healthcare Management,
Inc. (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1131,
208 Cal. Rptr. 3d 303, which held that a statute
allowing a hospital to establish its own billing rates for emergency services for
the uninsured did not protect the hospital from accusations of setting
"artificial" and "grossly excessive" prices. (Ibid.)   In Moran, the hospital billed the
self-pay patient $10,000 for emergency room visits. (Id.)
     (66)        In
the Moran v. Prime Healthcare Management, Inc. case, the court
determined that a statute permitting “a hospital to bill for treatment and
services based on its own schedule of fees” for emergency services did not
establish a safe harbor against claims of “exorbitant” prices because the
statute lacked explicit language barring an action under the UCL or granting
hospitals the authority to charge “artificial and grossly excessive
rates." (Supra., 3 Cal. App.5th 1141.) 
     (67)        In
contrast, in Schnall v. Hertz Corp., the contested surcharge was deemed
avoidable and thus not unconscionable. (Schnall v. Hertz Corp. (2000) 78
Cal. App.4th 1144.) Because the surcharge in Schnall was not
unconscionable, the court found that a statute authorizing the surcharge
established a safe harbor against claims that the surcharge was unreasonable.
Unlike in Schnall, the defendants in Moran did not dispute the
issue of unconscionable fee setting based on financial vulnerability. Moreover,
the plaintiffs in Moran successfully argued that the emergency room
charges were artificially inflated, unavoidable, and resulted in significant
harm to individuals particularly vulnerable because of the immediate need for
medical services. (Moran v. Prime Healthcare Management, Inc., 3 Cal. App.5th
at 1147-1149.)
     (68)        The
Court is inclined to overrule this portion of the demurrer.  Manufacturer Defendants’ argument appears to
be based on a limited reading of the Complaint. 
They characterize the Attorney General’s liability theory as being about
deceptive list prices. Namely, the list prices are inflated and unlawful
because they do not account for/disclose the rebate payments that Manufacturer
Defendants pay to PBM Defendants.  (See
Demurrer, p. 1.)  However, the Complaint
alleges “two main components” to the alleged scheme.  (Complaint, ¶ 6.)  The first component concerns a
price-inflation conspiracy among Manufacturer Defendants – they purportedly
agree to “raise the list price . . . in lockstep with each other to artificial
levels.”  (Ibid.)  The second component concerns a rebate
conspiracy between Manufacturer Defendants and PBM Defendants – “PBM Defendants
obtain significant secret rebates, which are a percentage of the inflated and
artificial list price, from the Manufacturer Defendants in exchange for
favorable placement on the PBM’s standard formularies.”  (Id. at ¶ 7.) 

     (69)        As
alleged, neither component indicates that the list prices would be reasonable
and lawful if they simply reflected or disclosed the rebate payments.  In fact, given the alleged price collusion, a
reasonable reading of the components – whether considered separately or
conjoined – is that the list prices would remain inflated and unlawful even if
the rebate payments were reflected or disclosed.  The Court agrees with the Attorney General that
the statutes do not bar liability under these allegations at this stage.  (See, e.g., Opposition, pp. 18-21 [noting, in
part, that section 127676(b)(2) is a general statement of legislative intent as
opposed to an express grant of immunity against pricing claims].)
     (70)        To
the extent Manufacturer Defendants assert that the allegations are conclusive
and lack detail, the Court disagrees.  As
already noted, the conspiracy/price-collusion allegations show enough to put
Manufacturer Defendants on notice.  (See,
e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 4-9, 62, 133-143, 147-176.) 
The efficient way to obtain further details is through discovery.
     (71)        Manufacturer
Defendants’ citation to In re Insulin Pricing Litigation (D.N.J. Feb. 5,
2024, No. 2:17-cv-00699 (BRM) (RLS)) 2024 WL 416500 is unavailing for now.  The district judge ruled at the certification
stage on a factual record.  He did not
rule as a matter of law that the plaintiffs could never prove a basis for
injunctive relief, only that they had not explained a basis at that point.  (See In re Insulin Pricing Litig.,
supra, 2024 WL 416500, at *28.) 
Additionally, the two separate components alleged here, especially the
alleged price collusion, make this case distinguishable at the pleading
stage.         
     (72)        The
Court also finds it noteworthy that other federal courts have rejected
Manufacturer Defendants’ argument.  (See City
of Miami v. Eli Lilly and Co. (S.D. Fla. Jan. 21, 2022, No.
21-22636-Civ-Scola) 2022 WL 198028, at * 8 n.8 [“The Defendants argue that
federal law prohibits including rebates in a list price for pharmaceutical
products. [Citation omitted.] However, the City’s claim is that the
Manufacturer Defendants’ inflated the price of insulin and other medications using
fraudulent rebates that served as kickbacks to the PBM Defendants. The
Manufacturer Defendants cannot use Section 1395w-3a(c)(6)(B) to avoid the
City’s allegations of wrongdoing.”]; see also Minnesota v. Sanofi-Aventis
U.S. LLC (D.N.J. Mar. 31, 2020, No. 3:18-cv-14999 (BRM) (LHG) 2020 WL
2394155, at * 14 [similar].)
2.                
The Unfair-Prong of the
UCL


a.    
Price inflation, alleged
collusion, the harm to diabetics and the balancing test
     (73)        The
UCL’s unfair prong prohibits unfair business practices.  Because the UCL is written in the
disjunctive, “a business practice can be ‘unfair’ . . . even if it is not
‘deceptive’ and even if it is ‘lawful.’” 
(See Stern, Business and Professions Code Section 17200 Practice (The
Rutter Group March 2023 Update) at ¶ 3:112.) 
“The ‘unfair’ standard is intentionally broad, allowing courts maximum
discretion to prohibit new schemes to defraud.” 
(Id. at ¶ 3:113.)
     (74)        In
contrast to its limited remedies, the unfair competition law's scope is broad. As
the Supreme Court noted in Cel-Tech, it does not proscribe specific
practices. “Rather, . . . it defines “unfair competition” to include “any
unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” (§ 17200.)(Cel-Tech,
supra, 20 Cal.4th at p. 180-181.)  Its
coverage is “sweeping, embracing ‘ “anything that can properly be called a
business practice and that at the same time is forbidden by law.” ’ ” (Rubin
v. Green (1993) 4 Cal.4th 1187, 1200, 17 Cal.Rptr.2d 828, 847 P.2d 1044,
quoting Barquis v. Merchants Collection Assn. (1972) 7 Cal.3d 94, 113,
101 Cal.Rptr. 745, 496 P.2d 817.) It governs “anti-competitive business
practices” as well as injuries to consumers and has as a major purpose “the
preservation of fair business competition.” (Barquis v. Merchants Collection
Assn., supra, 7 Cal.3d at p. 110, 101 Cal.Rptr. 745, 496 P.2d 817; see also
People v. McKale (1979) 25 Cal.3d 626, 631–632, 159 Cal.Rptr. 811, 602
P.2d 731; People ex rel. Mosk v. National Research Co. of Cal. (1962)
201 Cal.App.2d 765, 771, 20 Cal.Rptr. 516.) The
Cel-Tech court also held that “to guide courts and the business
community adequately and to promote consumer protection, we must require that
any finding of unfairness to competitors under section 17200 be tethered to
some legislatively declared policy or proof of some actual or threatened impact
on competition.” (Cel-Tech. supra, 20 Cal.4th at pp. 186–187, 83 Cal. Rptr.2d
548, 973 P.2d 527.)
     (75)        According
to Manufacturer Defendants, “[t]he People’s unfairness claim boils down to the
notion that the amount the Manufacturers charge for insulin is too high, and
thus unfair.”  (Demurrer, p. 16.)  Manufacturer Defendants contend the claim is
“misguided because the UCL is not a vehicle for judicial price controls.”  (Ibid.) They argue that simply raising prices, without more, does not
constitute an unfair business practice under the UCL. The Manufacturer
Defendants further assert that the People's reliance on cases like Saunders
v. Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 832, 33 Cal. Rptr. 2d 438 and Moran
v. Prime Healthcare Management, Inc. is misplaced, as those cases involved
additional factors beyond simple price increases.  
     (76)        The
Court disagrees that reliance on Saunders v. Superior Court, and Moran
v. Prime Healthcare Management, Inc. is misplaced.  “[A]n ‘unfair’ business practice occurs when
that practice ‘offends an established public policy or when the practice is
immoral, unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous or substantially injurious to
consumers.’”  (Bardin v.
DaimlerChrysler Corp. (2006) 136 Cal. App.4th 1255, 1268.)  The Attorney General argues the Manufacturer
Defendants' conduct is unfair under the UCL because the Manufacturers and PBMs
operate in an oligopoly that has allowed them to inflate insulin prices, with
the manufacturers engaging in price collusion and paying secret rebates to PBMs.
The Attorney General’s argument goes beyond a request to order Manufacturer
Defendants to sell at cost, sell at the same price, or receive a meager
profit.  (Cf. Kunert v. Mission
Financial Services Corp. (2003) 110 Cal. App.4th 242, 265; cf. also Boris
v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (C.D. Cal. 2014) 35 F.Supp.3d 1163,
1171-1172.)  The UCL can be used to
challenge price collusion and similar types of anticompetitive behavior. 
     (77)        The
Attorney General contends that the balancing test used to assess the unfair
prong of the UCL, weighs the gravity of harm to the consumer against the
utility of the business practice, and favors the State’s argument in the
instant case. The balancing test “involves an examination of [that practice’s]
impact on its alleged victim, balanced against the reasons, justifications and
motives of the alleged wrongdoer.”  (Bardin,
supra, 136 Cal.App.4th at 1268-1269.)  The Complaint alleges that access to insulin
to regulate their blood sugar levels is a matter of life and death for
diabetics relying on insulin. (See Complaint, ¶ 1.)  Plaintiff cites Saunders v. Superior Court,
and Moran v. Prime Healthcare Management, Inc to demonstrate that
similar allegations have satisfied this test in previous cases. “In brief, the
court must weigh the utility of the defendant’s conduct against the gravity of
the harm to the alleged victim.”  (Bardin,
supra, 136 Cal.App.4th at 1269.) 
Oligopolies and price collusion burden competition.  There is little to no utility to anyone but
the colluders, so the alleged harm to consumers outweighs the minimal utility
at this stage and passes the balancing test. 
(See Complaint, ¶¶ 206-224; see also Opposition, pp. 13-14.)
b.     FTC
Act Test
     (78)        The
second test is the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) post-1980 test.  The FTC test comes from section 5 of the FTC
Act.  It has three factors: “(1) the
consumer injury must be substantial; (2) the injury must not be outweighed by
any countervailing benefits to consumers or competition; and (3) it must be an
injury that consumers themselves could not reasonably have avoided.”  (Nationwide Biweekly Administration, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2020) 9 Cal.5th 279, 303 n.10 (“Nationwide”).)
The Court agrees with Plaintiff that the FTC
test is satisfied for the same reasons that the balancing test is
satisfied.  (See Opposition, p. 14.)
c.      The
Tethering Test
     (79)        The
third test is the tethering test.  It
requires that “the public policy which is a predicate to” an unfair-prong claim
“‘must be “tethered” to specific constitutional, statutory or regulatory
provisions’ in a manner similar to which [Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v.
Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163] requires a
competitor’s cause of action to be tethered to the antitrust laws.”  (Nationwide, supra, 9 Cal.5th at 303
n.10.)  Of course, the parties disagree
about whether Plaintiff states a claim under the tethering test.  (See Opposition, pp. 14-16; see also Reply,
pp. 9-10.)  
     (80)        The
Court tends to agree with the Attorney General’s arguments, at least with
respect to the price-collusion allegations. 
The alleged conduct either “violates the policy or spirit of the
antitrust laws” or “otherwise significantly threatens or harms competition.”  (People’s Choice Wireless, Inc. v. Verizon
Wireless (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 656, 662.) Regardless, the demurrer should
be overruled.  Case law is split on “the
proper test for determining whether a business practice is unfair under the UCL
in consumer cases” (Nationwide, supra, 9 Cal.5th at 303), yet the trend
favors the FTC test.  (See, e.g., Stern,
supra, at ¶ 3:121.1.)  It is appropriate
to overrule the demurrer since the Complaint satisfies the FTC test.
3.                
The Unlawful-Prong of the
UCL
     (81)        “[T]he
UCL permits a cause of action to be brought if a practice violates some other
law.  In effect, the ‘unlawful’ prong . .
. makes a violation of the underlying law a per se violation of [section]
17200.”  (Stern, supra, at ¶ 3:53.)  “Virtually any law or regulation – federal or
state, statutory or common law – can serve as predicate for” an unlawful claim.  (Id. at ¶ 3:56.)  “Thus, if a ‘business practice’ violates any
law – literally – it also violates [section] 17200 and may be redressed under
that section. [Citation.]”  (Ibid.) 
     (82)        The
underlying statute highlighted in the complaint is Civil Code section
1770(a)(13), the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (“CLRA”).  (See Complaint, ¶ 229 [alleging that
“Defendants’ acts or practices are unlawful, as that term is used in the UCL,
and include, but are not limited to, violating the [CLRA], Civil Code section
1770, subdivision (a), subpart (13), by making false or misleading statements
of fact concerning reasons for, existence of, or amounts of, price reductions
to analog insulin”].)
     (83)        The
Attorney General points out three alleged misstatements that they contend
subsection (a)(13) covers:
*
“Manufacturer Defendants have publicly represented that the prices for their
analog insulins are justified because . . . insulin’s net price is decreasing”
(Complaint, ¶ 186; see also Opposition, p. 22);
*
“[e]ach of the Manufacturer Defendants claims to offer support programs,
including coupons, to help consumers afford their insulin” (Complaint, ¶ 190;
see also Opposition, p. 22); and
*
“[i]n March 2019, Defendant Eli Lilly announced that it would produce an
authorized generic version of Humalog, ‘Insulin Lispro,’ and promised that it
would ‘work quickly with supply chain partners to make [the authorized generic]
available in pharmacies as quickly as possible.’”  (Complaint, ¶ 191; see also Opposition, p.
22.)
     (84)        Manufacturer
Defendants contend the statements are true and are not about price
reductions.  (See Demurrer, p. 22
[arguing that the case is about purported price increases]; see also Reply, pp.
12-13.) The alleged misstatements do have
some truth to them.  For instance, the
complaint admits that “net prices have shrunk in recent years” (Complaint, ¶
171), Manufacturer Defendants do offer support programs (see id. at ¶ 193), and
Eli Lilly does produce Insulin Lispro. 
(See id. at ¶ 196.) Also, the Court is inclined to agree with
Manufacturer Defendants that the first and third statements do not address
price reductions.  (See Reply, p. 13.)   
     (85)        The
second statement is a close call.  The Complaint
says the second statement is misleading because “not all consumers are
eligible” for the support programs, and “Manufacturer Defendants do not
sufficiently advertise such support programs, resulting in limited awareness by
consumers.”  (Complaint, ¶¶ 193,
194.)  Per the complaint, “[s]tudies []
suggest that consumers have been turned away from” the programs “due to their
strict eligibility requirements.”  (Id.
at ¶ 194.)  A broad reading of the
statement is that it is about price reductions as it indicates to many
consumers that they can receive cheaper prices via coupons and other programs
that, in many cases, they do not qualify for. 
A narrower reading is that it merely notes the general availability of
coupons without guaranteeing eligibility or a cheaper price.  Since this is the demurrer stage, the Court
leans toward the broad interpretation and overruling the demurrer.  Indeed, how a reasonable consumer would
interpret the second statement is a factual question.
     (86)        However,
the Court is willing to grant leave to amend to give the Attorney General an
opportunity to add details to all three statements – or include new statements
– to render them actionable under subsection (a)(13) and the UCL.
 
4.                
The Fraud-Prong of the
UCL
     (87)        “The
third type of conduct proscribed by § 17200 is ‘fraudulent’ business
practices.”  (Stern, supra, at  ¶ 3:153.) 
“A business practice is ‘fraudulent’ within the meaning of § 17200 if
‘members of the public are likely to be deceived.’”  (Id. at ¶ 3:154.)  “An advertisement's potentially deceptive
effect is measured by the audience to which it is addressed.  Under the UCL and False Advertising statute,
this will usually be the ‘reasonable person’ standard.”  (Ibid.)
 
     (88)        The
demurrer is overruled.  Paragraph 231
alleges:


“231.
Defendants’ acts or practices are fraudulent, as that term is used in the UCL,
and include, but are not limited to: 
 
a.
artificially inflating the list prices of analog insulin; or 


b.
making material misrepresentations regarding or failing to disclose the
existence, amount, and/or purpose(s) of discounts, rebates, and/or other
payments offered by the Manufacturer Defendants to PBM Defendants.”
(Complaint,
¶ 231.)  


     (89)        The
Manufacturer Defendants argue that the Attorney General fails to demonstrate
any specific misrepresentation connected to insulin list prices or rebates
within the complaint. They assert that:


·       
The Complaint lacks allegations of a duty
to disclose that would support a fraudulent-omission claim.
·       
The Attorney General 's characterization
of list prices as "artificially inflated" does not equate to
fraudulent conduct, as federal law requires Manufacturers to publish list
prices without including rebates.
·       
The Complaint lacks any factual
allegations of misrepresentations by the Manufacturers regarding the existence,
amount, or purpose of rebates offered to PBMs.
·       
There is no "secrecy" or
collusion surrounding pharmaceutical rebates, as Manufacturers have openly
disclosed their payment of rebates, acknowledging their increasing prevalence
over time.
·       
The Attorney General 's reliance on an
omissions theory is flawed, as there was no duty for Manufacturers to disclose
the existence, amount, or purpose of rebates.
     (90)        The
artificial-inflation allegation is founded on the alleged price-collusion
conspiracy.  (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶
4-9, 62, 133-143, 147-176.)  The People's
argument centers on three key examples of alleged misrepresentations:


•
The Manufacturer Defendants claimed that net prices for insulin were
decreasing, which the Attorney General suggested was misleading because the
Manufacturers knew that net prices had already shrunk. The Attorney General
asserts that a reasonable consumer could have been misled by this statement,
especially as PBMs allegedly make it difficult to determine the amount of
rebates they secure, thus obscuring the true net price.
 
• The
Manufacturer Defendants promoted insulin affordability programs, which the Attorney
General suggests created a false impression that the Manufacturers were taking
meaningful steps to address high insulin prices. The Attorney General does not
specify what aspects of these programs are misleading but argue that the
existence of such programs, in conjunction with other alleged conduct,
contributes to an overall deceptive picture of insulin pricing.
 
• Eli
Lilly, one of the Manufacturer Defendants, represented in 2019 that it would
offer a cheaper, generic version of its insulin. The Attorney General claim
this was misleading because the generic insulin was largely unavailable in
pharmacies. The Attorney General asserts that this misrepresentation, coupled
with the Manufacturers’ other alleged conduct, forms part of a pattern of
misleading statements about insulin pricing.


     (91)        The
discounts/rebates allegation is founded, at least partly, on the alleged
violations of the CLRA, subsection (a)(13). 
As misrepresentations and/or omissions, the allegations state claims
under the fraud prong for the reasons stated in the unfair-prong and
unlawful-prong sections.
 
D.   
The Unjust Enrichment Claim
     (92)        Unjust
enrichment is an equitable doctrine.  It
“is based on the idea that ‘one person should not be permitted unjustly to
enrich himself at the expense of another, but should be required to make
restitution of or for property or benefits received, retained, or appropriated,
where it is just and equitable that such restitution be made, and where such
action involves no violation or frustration of law or opposition to public
policy, either directly or indirectly.’” 
(City of Oakland v. Oakland Raiders (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 458,
478.)  “The elements . . . are the
‘receipt of a benefit and [the] unjust retention of the benefit at the expense
of another.’”  (Peterson v. Cellco
Partnership (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593.)
 
     (93)        Manufacturer
Defendants contend “unjust enrichment is not a distinct cause of action”
(Demurrer, p. 23; see also Reply, p. 14), the Attorney General “have an
adequate remedy at law” (Demurrer, p. 23; see also Reply, pp. 14-15), the Attorney
General fails to show that “[He has] a ‘better right’ to the [insulin] revenue”
(Demurrer, p. 24; see also Reply, p. 15), and “an express contract governs the
subject matter of this action[.]” 
(Reply, p. 15; see also Demurrer, p. 24.)
 
     (94)        The
demurrer is sustained.  Case law is split
about whether unjust enrichment can be a standalone cause of action.  (See O’Grady v. Merchant Exchange
Productions, Inc. (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 771, 791 [acknowledging the
split].)  Apparently, the Second District
falls on the side of it not being a cause of action.  (See Jogani v. Superior Court (2008)
165 Cal.App.4th 901, 911; see also Bank of New York Mellon v. Citibank, N.A.
(2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 935, 955; Melchior v. New Line Productions, Inc.
(2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793.)  The
Court intends to follow the Second District.
 
     (95)        The
Attorney General’s cases do not change the outcome.  Except for O’Grady, a First District
decision, none of them takes up the issue. 
(See Professional Tax Appeal v. Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc.
(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 230, 238; see also Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb
& Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1132; Ghirardo v. Antonioli
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 39, 50.)
 
     (96)        The
question is whether leave to amend should be granted.  “The phrase ‘Unjust Enrichment’ does not describe a theory of recovery, but an effect:
the result of a failure to make restitution under circumstances where it is
equitable to do so.”  (Melchior,
supra, 106 Cal.App.4th at 793.)  “Unjust
enrichment is ‘“a general principle, underlying various legal doctrines and
remedies,”’ rather than a remedy itself.” 
(Ibid.)  “It is synonymous
with restitution.”  (Ibid.)  The Court’s
inclination is to grant the Attorney General leave to assert a common count for
restitution based on unjust enrichment as an alternative in case the UCL cause
of action gets dismissed down the road.

 
THEREFORE, THE COURT RULES AS FOLLOWS:


     (97)        Manufacturer
Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) is denied.
 
     (98)        The
Court further finds that:

(a)      A four-year limitations period
applies to the UCL and either a three-year limitations period or a four-year
limitations period applies to unjust enrichment.  


(b)     The equitable exceptions may overcome any
applicable statute of limitations defense to the UCL at the pleading stage.
The
Complaint states the alleged conspiracy and misconduct, including inflated
prices and overcharging, are ongoing. However, the Court observes that the
Complaint lacks explicit allegations identifying a specific overcharge within
the past four years. Therefore, the Court believes an alternative option is
available. The Court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend allowing the
Attorney General to provide more detailed allegations demonstrating specific
overcharges within the past four years. The Court favors this option due to a
discrepancy between the Plaintiff's statements and a chart in paragraph 130 of
the Complaint regarding the flattening of price increases. The Court leans
toward overruling the demurrer on the grounds of the continuing violation
doctrine and continuous accrual doctrine. The Court believes that the Attorney
General should be allowed to pursue discovery to develop the facts related to
the alleged conspiracy.


(c)
     UCL's safe harbor provisions do not
bar liability against the Manufacturer Defendants as a matter of law.
 
(d)     The allegations of price inflation, coupled
with allegations of collusion and significant harm to insulin consumers in
California, as alleged in the Complaint state a claim of an unfair business
practice and unlawful conduct under the UCL.


(e)      The allegations of "secret
rebates" and inflated list prices as alleged in the Complaint state a
claim of unfair and unlawful conduct under the UCL.

(f)      The discounts/rebates allegation
is founded, at least partly, on the alleged violations of the CLRA, subsection
(a)(13).  As misrepresentations and/or
omissions, the allegations state claims under the fraud prong of the UCL for
the reasons stated in the unfair-prong and unlawful-prong sections.


(g)     The unjust enrichment claim does not
describe a theory of recovery; thus, the Court sustains the demurrer to this
cause of action.  The Court’s inclination
is to grant the Attorney General leave to assert a common count for restitution
based on unjust enrichment as an alternative in case.      
          
IT IS SO ORDERED:
 
Dated:




Hon. David S. Cunningham III, Judge
Los Angeles Superior Court
 


