  Case Number:  22STCV03991    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (NASSCO)             Defendant  National Steel and Shipbuilding Company filed a motion for summary adjudication  of Plaintiffs Maria Gonzalez, Roberto Gonzalez and Gerardo Gonzalez’s first cause  of action for negligence and third cause of action for premises liability.  Plaintiffs did not oppose. A defendant seeking summary judgment  must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the plaintiff’s case, or . .  . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that  requires the process of trial.”  (Guz  v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a plaintiff cannot establish an  element of a cause of action, a defendant must make the initial showing “that  the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed  evidence.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield  Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)   “The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively  negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant may also present evidence that  the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence –  as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the  effect that he has discovered nothing.”   (Id. at p. 855.)  A  plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the plaintiff has no knowledge of any  exposure to the defendant’s products may be sufficient to shift the burden to  the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc.  (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)   The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working  with a product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the  burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143  Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “‘If plaintiffs  respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts with  boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide laundry  lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost  certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and  properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.)  A.        First  Cause of Action -- Negligence Plaintiffs contend the decedent was  exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s products while the decedent was working at  IMS Recycling.  Defendant served  interrogatories asking for all facts supporting that contention.  (Ex. D at p. 6.)  In response, Plaintiffs referred to their  response to Special Interrogatory No. 1.   (Ex. D at p. 6.)  Special  Interrogatory No. 1 asked about facts supporting the claim for economic  damages.  (Ex. C at p. 3.)  The response to Special Interrogatory No. 1  stated the decedent had medical expenses, hospital expenses, lost wages, lot  business opportunities, prescription medical expenses, nursing expenses, travel  and lodging expenses, and funeral expenses.   (Ex. C at pp. 4-5.)  The response  did not present any facts about Defendant’s products.  Therefore the response was factually devoid  and shifted the burden.  Because  Plaintiffs did not file an opposition, they did not show any disputed issue. The motion is granted as to the  first cause of action. B.        Third  Cause of Action -- Premises Liability             Defendant  served interrogatories asking for all facts supporting Plaintiffs’ claims  against Defendant.  (Undisputed Material  Fact (“UMF”) 6.)  In response, Plaintiffs  did not mention the premises liability cause of action.  (UMF 7.)   Instead, Plaintiffs stated the decedent was exposed to asbestos via  Defendant’s asbestos-containing products and equipment.  (UMF 8.)   Because Plaintiffs did not identify any facts supporting a premises  liability claim, the discovery responses were factually devoid.  Because Plaintiffs did not file an  opposition, they did not show an issue of disputed fact.  The motion is granted as to the third cause  of action.             The  motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to the first and third causes of  action.  The moving party is to give  notice.[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
(VANDERBILT)

            Defendant
Vanderbilt Minerals, LLC filed a motion for summary judgment of Plaintiffs
Maria Gonzalez, Roberto Gonzalez and Gerardo Gonzalez’s claims that Roberto
Gonzalez was exposed to asbestos in talc from Defendant.  Alternatively, Defendant moves for summary
adjudication of the punitive damages claim.

A defendant seeking summary judgment
must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the plaintiff’s case, or . .
. demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of trial.”  (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a plaintiff cannot establish an
element of a cause of action, a defendant must make the initial showing “that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) 
“The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively
negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant may also present evidence that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence –
as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the
effect that he has discovered nothing.” 
(Id. at p. 855.)  A
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the plaintiff has no knowledge of any
exposure to the defendant’s products may be sufficient to shift the burden to
the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc.
(2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.) 
The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working
with a product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the
burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “‘If plaintiffs
respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts with
boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide laundry
lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.) 

A.        Summary
Judgment

Defendant served a special
interrogatory asking for all facts supporting the claim that Gonzalez was
exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s products. 
(Ex. E at p. 1.)  In response,
Plaintiffs stated Gonzalez and his wife used talcum powders containing
Defendant’s talc.  (Ex. F at p. 5.)  In response to Standard Interrogatory No. 18 asking
Defendant for a specific description of the products containing the asbestos
from Defendant, Plaintiffs stated Defendant supplied talc containing asbestos
and referred to an Exposure History Sheet attached as Exhibit A.  (Ex. D [Plaintiff’s interrogatory responses
did not contain page numbers].)  The
Exposure History Sheet stated “Decedent also [sic] DAP, HENRY coating product,
SHERWIN WILLIAMS wood filler family of products and Donald Durham Rock Hard
(Vanderbilt) putty . . . .”  (Ex. D.)  Thus, these interrogatory responses contend,
without citing any evidence, that Defendant supplied asbestos for use in
unspecified talcum powder products and Donald Durham Rock Hard putty.  These responses are factually devoid and
shift the burden.

In their opposition, Plaintiffs do
not pursue the allegation that Defendant supplied asbestos in the talcum
powder, but instead focus on Donald Durham Rock Hard putty.  Plaintiffs point out that Gonzalez’s wife
testified he used Donald Durham Rock Hard putty.  (Ex. 6 at pp. 115, 120, 126, 127, 215, 290,
291, 295.)  Plaintiffs’ expert testified
that Donald Durham Rock Hard putty contained asbestos, as did Defendant’s talc.  (Ex. 2 at pp. 2-3; Ex. 2 at p. 3.)  Plaintiffs cited evidence that Defendant was
the exclusive supplier of talc for Donald Durham Rock Hard putty.  (Ex. 9 at pp. 36-37.)  

In their reply, Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs’ discovery responses did not identify Donald Durham Rock Hard putty
as a product containing Defendant’s talc. 
(Reply at p. 2.)  That is not
correct.  The response to Standard
Interrogatory No. 18 identified that product. 
Also, in the depositions, the parties asked a lot of questions about
that putty product, and the wife stated many times that Gonzalez used the
product.  (See, e.g., Ex. 6 at pp. 115,
120, 126, 127, 215, 290, 291, 295.)  Thus
Defendant was on notice that Plaintiffs are claiming exposure to asbestos from
Defendant’s talc via that putty.

Plaintiffs showed the existence of a
disputed issue regarding the presence of asbestos-containing talc from
Defendant in Donald Durham Rock Hard putty. 
Therefore the motion for summary judgment is denied.

B.        Punitive
Damages

            Defendant
moves for summary adjudication of the request for punitive damages.  When the motion targets a request for
punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play.  “Although the clear and convincing
evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a plaintiff the
obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary judgment [or
summary adjudication.’  [Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the plaintiff’s ultimate
burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher standard
of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for
punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the
higher evidentiary standard.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Butte Fire Cases
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.) 
“Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “ ‘on the issue of punitive
damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff’s
evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.’ ”
’.  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 1159.)

“ ‘[I]ntentionally marketing a defective product
knowing that it might cause injury and death is ‘highly reprehensible.’  [Citation.]” 
(Bankhead v. ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68,
85.)  Punitive damages may be available
when a defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees from the hazard, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger
to users, and did not warn them.  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp.
1300-1301.)  On the other hand, a
defendant’s knowledge of trace amounts of asbestos in talc does not necessarily
mean that the defendant knew the asbestos in talc “would cause of high
probability of injury.”  (McNeal,
supra, 80 Cal.App.5th at p. 873.) 
There must be evidence of knowledge that exposure to talcum powder could
cause mesothelioma.  (Id. at p.
874.)  

Defendant states they served a request for
production of documents asking for all documents supporting the claim for
punitive damages, and Plaintiffs did not produce any responsive documents.  (Motion at p. 11.)  That Plaintiffs have no documents showing
Defendant’s fraud, malice, and oppression does not mean that Plaintiffs cannot
obtain evidence of fraud, malice, or oppression by, for example, taking
depositions and seeking documents from Defendants.  In fact it is more likely that Defendant,
rather than Plaintiffs, have such documents showing Defendant’s internal
communications, knowledge and decision-making. 


Because Defendant did not shift the burden, the
motion is denied.

The motion is DENIED.

The moving party is to give notice.