 Case Number:  22STCV06617    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  B  
Hearing:             10/15/2024
Re:                         22STCV06617 Shakiba Yegan vs Uber Technologies,
Inc., et al.

 

 
Plaintiff Shakiba Yegan’s Motion for
Relief from Potential Waiver of Trial by Jury
 
Defendants: Uber
Technologies, Inc., et al.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
            
Plaintiff’s Motion for Relief from
Potential Waiver of Trial by Jury is GRANTED.
            
BACKGROUND
            
On February 23, 2022, Plaintiff Shakiba
Yegan (“Plaintiff” filed a complaint against Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc.
(“Uber”), Raiser, LLC (“Raiser”), Raiser-CA, LLC (“Raiser-CA”), Cesar Augusto
Campos Orellana (“Orellana”), Francisco J. Giron (“Giron”) and DOES 1 to 50
(collectively “Defendants”) alleging two causes of action: (1) motor vehicle
negligence; and (2) general negligence. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants,
driving negligently, struck her vehicle from behind and caused Plaintiff’s
vehicle to collide with the car in front of her. As a result, Plaintiff claims
serious injuries and property damage.
 
On August 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion for order granting relief from potential waiver of trial by
jury.
 
Defendants did not file an opposition.
 
A non-jury trial is set for February 24,
2025.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“The right to a trial by jury as declared
by Section 16 of Article I of the California Constitution shall be preserved to
the parties inviolate.”  (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc., § 631(a).)  “In
civil cases, a jury may only be waived pursuant to subdivision (f).”  (Ibid.) 
CCP section 631(f) provides that a party waives trial by jury by (1) failing to
appear at the trial; (2) written consent filed with the clerk or judge; (3)
oral consent, in open court, entered in the minutes; (4) failing to announce
that a jury is required, at the time the cause is first set for trial, if it is
set upon notice of stipulation, or within five days after notice of setting if
it is set without notice or stipulation; (5) failing to timely pay the fee
described in subdivision (b), unless another party on the same side of the case
has paid that fee; or (6) failing to deposit with the clerk or judge, at the
beginning of the second and each succeeding day’s session, the sum provided in
subdivision (e).  (Ibid., § 631(f).) “The court may, in its
discretion upon just terms, allow a trial by jury although there may have been
a waiver of a trial by jury.”  (Ibid., § 631(g).)  “The trial
court should grant a motion for relief of a jury waiver ‘unless, and except,
where granting such a motion would work serious hardship to the objecting
party.’”  (Mackovska v. Viewcrest Road Properties LLC (2019) 40
Cal.App.5th 1, 10 [quoting Boal v. Price Waterhouse & Co. (1985) 165
Cal.App.3d 806, 809].)  “When there is doubt about whether to grant relief
from a jury trial waiver, the court must resolve that doubt in favor of the
party seeking a jury trial.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“In a motion for relief from waiver of a
jury trial, the crucial question is whether the party opposing relief will
suffer any prejudice if the court grants relief.”  (Mackovska, supra,
40 Cal.App.5th at 10.)  “‘The prejudice which must be shown from granting
relief from the waiver is prejudice from the granting of relief and not
prejudice from the jury trial.’” (Ibid. [quoting Massie v. AAR
Western Skyways, Inc. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 405, 411].) “‘The mere fact that
trial will be by jury is not prejudice per se.’” (Ibid. [quoting Johnson-Stovall
v. Superior Court (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 808, 811].) “Denying relief where
the party opposing the motion for relief has not shown prejudice is an abuse of
discretion.” (Ibid.)  
 
ANALYSIS
 
This action was commenced on February 23,
2022. Therefore, jury fees were required to be posted no later than February
23, 2023. CCP § 631(c)(2))(requiring that, if no initial case management
conference is scheduled in a civil action, fees are due no later than 365 days
after filing the initial complaint.) Here, Plaintiff posted jury fees on June
15, 2023, nearly four months after the statutory deadline.
 
Plaintiff does not proffer a reason for
the late posting of jury fees. However, while delayed posting of jury fees
constitutes waiver of trial by jury, it is “not a sufficient reason for denying
relief from waiver.” (TriCoast Builders, Inc. v. Fonnegra (2024) 15
Cal.App.5th 766, 782.) Therefore, the Court accepts Plaintiff’s late posting
for the purposes of CCP § 631(f).
 
Plaintiff argues that granting this
motion will not pose undue hardship on Defendants. Plaintiff claims that all
parties have been preparing for a jury trial. (Eiden Decl. ¶ 3.) Both
Defendants and Plaintiff have made jury trial demands and posted fees.
Furthermore, Plaintiff notes that trial in this matter is months away. The
Court also notes that this motion remains unopposed.
 
Given the Court’s liberal policy of
granting relief from waiver of trial by jury, as well as Defendants’ lack of
opposition, Plaintiff’s motion for relief is granted.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s motion for relief from
potential waiver of trial by jury is GRANTED.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.