  Case Number:  21STCV08857    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  B SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 



DOMINIC PAINTER,
 
                        Plaintiff,
 
            vs.
 
FAROKH AMINZADEH RABBI,
 
                        Defendant.


 


CASE NO:  21STCV08857
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
DEFENDANT’S
  MOTION TO COMPEL INDEPENDENT MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF AND REQUEST FOR
  SANCTIONS 
 
Dept. B
8:30 a.m. 
OCTOBER 15, 2024



 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Defendant Farokh Aminzadeh Rabbi’s
Motion to Compel Independent Medical Examination of Plaintiff and Request for
Sanctions
 
I.
INTRODUCTION
Defendant
Farokh Aminzadeh Rabbi (“Defendant”) moves to compel the independent medical
examination (“IME”) of Plaintiff Dominic Painter (“Plaintiff”), contending that
there is good cause for the motion because Plaintiff has placed his physical
injuries in controversy. (Notice of Motion, p. 2:5-25.) 
            “Unless otherwise limited by
order of the court …, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action …, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Cal.
Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) 
Where
any party seeks to obtain discovery by a physical examination, the party shall
obtain leave of the court. (CCP § 2032.310(a).) The Court shall grant the
motion only for good cause shown. (CCP§ 2032.320(a).)  
 
II.
PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS
Meet and Confer
Defense counsel
asserts that, on August 27, 2024, she attempted to meet and confer with
Plaintiff’s counsel over the phone. (Notice of Motion, Wilbur Decl. ¶ 9.)
Defense counsel claims that, at this time, Plaintiff agreed to submit to the
IME if it was set on a mutually agreeable date and if Plaintiff was reimbursed
for reasonable travel expenses. (Ibid. at ¶ 10.) Defendant thereafter
attempted to schedule the IME with Plaintiff on numerous occasions. (Ibid. at
¶ 11, Exh. C [record of defense counsel’s meet and confer attempts].) To date,
Plaintiff has failed to set a date for the examination. (Ibid. at ¶ 12.)
Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant has satisfied the meet and confer
declaration requirement. 
Separate Statement Requirements 
A
motion for “medical examination over objection” must be accompanied by a
separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(a).)  
“A
separate statement is a separate document filed and served with the discovery
motion that provides all the information necessary to understand each discovery
request and all the responses to it that are at issue.” (CRC Rule
3.1345(c).) 
Here,
Defendant failed to file a separate statement. Plaintiff served Defendant with
a Response and Objection to Demand for a Defense Medical Examination of
Plaintiff. (Notice of Motion, Exh. B [copy of Plaintiff’s response and
objection].) Therefore, Defendant is required to file a separate statement to
comply with CRC Rule 3.134(a). Accordingly, the Court must deny Defendant’s
motion. 
This
procedural issue noted, the Court considers the merits of Defendant’s motion
below. 
III. GOOD CAUSE
Defendant contends that there is good cause to compel
Plaintiff’s IME because Plaintiff placed his physical injuries in controversy
through his Complaint. For example, in the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that as
a result of Defendant’s negligence he “has received severe injuries to [his]
body and shock and injuries to [his] nervous system, all of which cause[s] him
severe pain and discomfort and Plaintiff is informed and believes . . . that he
will in the future suffer severe pain and discomfort.” (Complaint ¶ 10.)
Defendant also alleges that, during a phone call with Plaintiff’s counsel,
counsel stated that Plaintiff’s treatment may be more expensive than previously
disclosed. (Wilbur Decl. ¶ 5.) Furthermore, Defendant claims that Plaintiff has
failed to provide supplemental discovery responses as requested by Defendant,
therefore necessitating the IME. (Wilbur Decl. ¶ 7.) 
            Plaintiff contends that Defendant has
failed to establish good cause why Plaintiff should be required to travel from
his current residence in Washington, D.C., to Los Angeles for submission of the
IME. (Opp. p. 4:11-13.) Plaintiff argues that the IME should be conducted by a
physician within a reasonable distance of his current residence in compliance
with the 75-mile requirement of CCP § 2032.220(a)(2). 
            In their reply, Defendant argues that
they have demonstrated good cause for the travel necessitated by the IME
pursuant to CCP § 2032.320(e). § 2032.320(e) allows for an exception to the
75-mile rule if (1) the Court determines that there is good cause for the
travel involved and (2) the Court order is conditioned on the advancement by
the moving party of the reasonable expenses and costs for travel to the place
of examination. Defendant argues that good cause for the travel exists because
trial will be held in Los Angeles and Defendant has already retained Dr. Steven
Nagelberg to guarantee Dr. Nagelberg’s availability to testify for trial in
California. (Reply p. 2:15-18.) The Court notes Defendant is ready and willing
to conduct the IME within 75 miles of Plaintiff but, pursuant to Defendant’s
motion, still chooses to consider good cause for travel so that Dr. Nagelberg
can conduct the IME. 
            There is little California case law
on what constitutes good cause for travel under CCP § 2032.320(e). In Hansen v.
Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd., the Court found that it was an abuse of discretion
under Cal. Labor Code § 4051 to order a worker with a claimed industrial heart
condition to attend an IME more than 185 miles away from his residence. (Hansen
v.Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd. (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 717, 721-722.) However, the
instant action differs significantly from Hansen. Labor Code § 4051 requires that
determining the location of any such examinations considers “the convenience of
the employee and his physical condition and his ability to attend at the time
and place affixed.” (Labor Code § 4051.) In Hansen, Plaintiff filed a worker’s
compensation claim after suffering from an industrial heart condition that made
extensive travel especially difficult. (Ibid.) Unfortunately for Plaintiff in
the instant action, CCP §§ 2032.220 and 2032.320, unlike Labor Code § 4051,
give no such consideration for convenience. Additionally, in Hansen,
Plaintiff’s requested physicians were still in California, where the facts
giving rise to his claim occurred. In contrast, Plaintiff here voluntarily
moved across country after allegedly suffering injuries due to Defendant’s
negligence. Plaintiff does not contend that his injuries prevent him from
travelling. In fact, his cross-country move seems to indicate otherwise.
Additionally, the incident which gave rise to Plaintiff’s injuries occurred in
Los Angeles. Defendant’s retained expert can testify at trial in Los Angeles.
Finally, Defendant has offered to advance Plaintiff’s reasonable travel
expenses as required by CCP § 2032.320(e). (Wilbur Decl. ¶ 10.) 
            Accordingly, the Court finds that
Defendant has shown good cause to compel the IME conducted by Dr. Nagelberg in
his location of Downey, California. (Wilbur Decl. ¶ 16.) 
Required
Specifications of the Proposed IME 
            Notwithstanding the above findings, a
motion for an examination must specify the time, place, manner, conditions,
scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and specialty, if
any, of the person or persons who will perform the examination. (CCP §
2032.310(b).)  
            While Defendant has identified Dr.
Nagelberg, they have failed to specify the time, place, manner, conditions,
scope, and nature of the examination as required by CCP § 2032.310(b). This
failure constitutes further procedural grounds upon which the Court must deny
Defendant’s motion. 
 
IV.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons set forth above, the motion
to compel Plaintiff’s independent medical examination is DENIED.  In light
of the Court’s tentative decision and its analysis of good cause, the parties
are ordered to further meet and confer immediately, but no later than end of
week, to make every good faith effort to resolve the issued of Plaintiff’s IME
without the need for further court intervention. 

            Moving party to give notice.
October 14, 2024
 
 
_____________________
Hon. Karen
Moskowitz
Judge of the
Superior Court