 Case Number:  21STCV29759    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  B  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES
 



REYES
   VALADEZ, AN INDIVIDUAL,
                        Plaintiff, 
            vs.
 
 
CITY OF
   NORWALK, A PUBLIC ENTITY, et al.
                        Defendants.


 
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      
CASE
  NO: 21STCV29759
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT FRONTIER CALIFORNIA, INC.’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
   JUDGMENT OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Dept.
  B 
DATE:
  OCTOBER
   15, 2024
TIME:  8:30
   A.M.
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: AUGUST 12, 2021
TRIAL
  DATE: MARCH 19, 2025



 
I.      
BACKGROUND
 
On August 12, 2021,
Plaintiff Reyes Valadez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint in the instant action
against Defendants County of Los Angeles (“County”), California Department of
Transportation (“CalTrans”), Southern California Edison Company (“Edison Co.”),
Frontier California, Inc. (“Frontier”), and DOES 1 to 50 (collectively
“Defendants”), alleging two causes of action: (1) premises liability; and (2)
general negligence. The complaint arises from a July 13, 2020, incident, in
which Plaintiff alleges that, while bicycling, they were struck and injured by
exposed cables negligently maintained by Defendants. 
On April 17, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an amendment to their complaint identifying DOE 1 as Spectrum
Pacific West, LLC (“Spectrum”). 
On June 5, 2024, the matter
was assigned to the Honorable Judge Moskowitz in Department B of Van Nuys
Courthouse East, effective June 24, 2024. 
On March 15, 2024, Frontier
filed the instant motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication on Plaintiff’s complaint. 
On May 17, 2024, Frontier
filed a Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement for a $5,000
settlement with Plaintiff. On September 5, 2024, the Court denied the motion on
the grounds that Frontier’s potential liability for indemnity to its co-defendants
rendered the settlement amount disproportionate. (See September 5, 2024,
Minute Order.) 
On October 1, 2024, Spectrum
and CalTrans filed their respective oppositions to the instant motion. 
On October 2, 2024,
Plaintiff filed their opposition. 
On October 10, 2024,
Frontier filed replies to Spectrum, CalTrans, and Plaintiff’s oppositions. 
 
II.      
MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
            Frontier moves for
summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication on Plaintiff’s
complaint containing two causes of action for premises liability and general
negligence. Frontier alleges that they did not own, operate, or maintain the
cable which struck and injured Plaintiff. (Frontier Separate Statement of Facts
“F-SSF” Nos. 2-4.) Specifically, Frontier denies its ownership or control of
utility pole 977901E (the “Utility Pole”) which hoists the cables that struck
Plaintiff. (Ibid. at 1-4.) Therefore, Frontier argues, they cannot be
held liable for Plaintiff’s injuries as a matter of law. 
III.      
LEGAL STANDARDS

Burden on Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication 
In reviewing a motion for
summary judgment, the Court must apply a three-step analysis: (1) identify the
issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has met
his or her initial burden; and (3) determine whether the opposition has
demonstrated the existence of a triable, material fact issue.  (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  “[T]he
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication has met his or her burden of showing
that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more
elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).) 
A moving defendant may
satisfy the initial burden to show that one or more elements cannot be
established by “presenting evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff's cause of action or by relying on the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses to show that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, evidence to establish that element.” (Schmidt v.
Citibank, N.A. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1109, 1119; Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 856 [It is insufficient for the
defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.]; Gaggero v. Yura
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) The defendant must present evidence,
typically in the form of factually devoid discovery responses, showing that
plaintiff does not have and cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or
her claim.” (Ibid.) 
Unless and until a defendant
meets that burden, the plaintiff has no burden to present controverting
evidence. (Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454,
468 [“There is no obligation on the opposing party . . . to establish anything
by affidavit unless and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts
establishing every element . . . necessary to sustain a judgment in his
favor.”].) If a defendant fails to meet that burden, summary judgment must be
denied, even if the plaintiff fails to file an opposition and fails to proffer
any evidence. 
On the other hand, if the
defendant “has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to
show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause
of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) The plaintiff may not
merely rely on allegations or denials in its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists, but instead “shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of
action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should
be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)      
 
IV.      
DISCUSSION

Evidentiary Objections 
On October 1, 2024, CalTrans
filed an evidentiary objection to the declaration of Frontier’s Senior Network
Engineer Phillip Olivas (“Olivas”). CalTrans’s objections as to Nos. 1 and 2
are overruled. 
Defendant’s Burden 
Frontier meets their initial
burden. 
"One who owns,
possesses, or controls [property] has a duty to act reasonably to protect
others from a dangerous condition [stemming from] that property.” (Soto v.
Union Pacific Railroad Co. (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 168, 177.) “The ‘crucial
element’ for imposing a duty in such circumstances is control . . . the
rationale being that whoever has the means to control the property can take
steps to prevent the harm.” (Ibid.) Conversely, “[a] defendant cannot be
held liable for the defective or dangerous condition of property which it did
not own, possess, or control.” (Isaacs v. Huntington Memorial Hospital (1985)
38 Cal.3d 112, 125.) 
Frontier argues that it does
not owe Plaintiff a legal duty because they did not own, maintain, or control
the utility pole which hoisted the cables that struck Plaintiff and caused his
injuries. (F-SSF Nos. 1-4.) It is undisputed that Plaintiff struck the guy-down
cables attached to a utility pole visibly tagged as “977901E.” (F-SSF No. 3;
Terzakarian Decl. ¶ 5; Olivas Decl. ¶ 11.) Frontier provides evidence that it
relinquished ownership of the Utility Pole in 1965. (F-SSF No. 4; Olivas Decl.
¶¶ 5-6 and 12-14; Exh. A [1965 bill of sale for the Utility Pole].)  
Therefore, Frontier offers
evidence that it did not own or control the Utility Pole at the time of
Plaintiff’s injuries and owes no legal duty to Plaintiff. Frontier has met
their initial burden. 
Plaintiff’s Burden 
The burden now shifts to
Plaintiff to present controverting evidence. 
Plaintiff disputes
Frontier’s assertion that it does not own the Utility Pole. (Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement of Facts (“P-SSF”) Nos. 2-7.) Specifically, Plaintiff
alleges Frontier jointly owned the utility pole with Edison Co. at the time of
the underlying incident. (P-SSF No. 3; Fradkin Decl. ¶ 4; Exh. 1 [Dolney Decl.
¶ 14; Exh. A (Utility Pole ownership record)].)  
            Spectrum’s Regional Senior Construction Manager Dave Dolney
(“Dolney”) investigated the ownership of the Utility Pole. (Dolney Decl. ¶ 1.)
For decades, Dolney reviewed and submitted applications to the Southern
California Joint Pole Committee (the “Committee”), which maintains records of
each regional jointly-owned pole to monitor entities’ ownership interest in
aerial power lines. (Ibid. at ¶ 3.) During his investigation, Dolney
obtained the Committee ownership report for the Utility Pole in question. (Ibid.
at ¶¶ 8-10.) The report shows that the pole was jointly owned by Frontier and
Edison Co. at the time of Plaintiff’s injuries. (Ibid. at ¶ 14.)
Moreover, it shows that Frontier owned aerial lines attached to the Utility
Pole which were supported by guy-down cables. (Ibid. at ¶ 21.) Dolney
represents that it is industry standard for each utility whose lines are
supported by guy-down cables to own, maintain, and take responsibility for
those cables. (Ibid. at ¶ 23.) 
Therefore, Plaintiff
presents evidence that there is a triable issue of material fact as to who
owned and controlled the Utility Pole during the underlying incident. Plaintiff
meets their burden. Accordingly, Frontier’s motion for summary judgment must
be denied. 
Frontier’s Replies 
            Frontier’s replies object to Dolney’s declaration on the
grounds that it relies on inadmissible evidence and speculation. Particularly,
Frontier writes that “. . . Dolney wrote his declaration only after reviewing
unauthenticated, unverified photos from the internet.” (Reply, p. 2 lines
10-11.) While the Dolney declaration attaches unverified photos as Exhibits C
and D, Dolney mainly relies on his experience on the Committee and his review
of the Committee’s ownership records regarding the Utility Pole. Consequently,
the Court does not find merit in Frontier’s argument. Additionally, Frontier
only included this argument in their replies and failed to properly raise the
issue as an evidentiary objection. 
Frontier also argues that
Dolney’s declaration, which discusses Utility Pole ownership by a company
called Crown Castle during July 2020, proves that Frontier did not own or
control the Utility Pole at the time of Plaintiff’s injuries. (See Dolney
Decl. ¶¶ 29 and 30.) However, Crown Castle’s ownership of a portion of the
Utility Pole does not definitively preclude Frontier’s ownership.  
Finally, Frontier argues
that the opposing parties misconstrue Frontier’s legal argument. Frontier
claims that it “never asserted” that Frontier has no ownership in the Utility
Pole. Instead, Frontier argues, it merely claimed it had no ownership or
control over the injurious guy-down cables. However, the question of utility
pole ownership is directly related to control and ownership of the cables, as
it is industry standard for each utility whose lines are supported by guy-down
cables to own, maintain, and take responsibility for those cables. (See Dolney
Decl. at ¶ 23.) At the very least, Frontier’s replies demonstrate that control
and ownership of the cables remains a triable issue of material fact in this
action.  
 
V.      
CONCLUSION
             A triable issue of material fact exists as
to Frontier’s ownership and control of the Utility Pole and its allegedly
injurious guy-down cables. Accordingly, Frontier’s motion for summary judgment
is DENIED. 
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice. 
 
Dated: October 14,
204                                   __________________________________
                                                                                                Hon.
Karen Moskowitz
                                                                                                Judge of the Superior Court
            