  Case Number:  21STCV04367    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint: 2/3/21
Cross Complaint: 9/27/23
 
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿ 
Department 27¿ 
Tentative Ruling 
 
Hearing
Date:           3/5/2024
at 1:30 p.m.¿¿ 
Case
No./Name.:      21STCV04367 EDWIN SARGENTI vs CITY OF LONG
BEACH, et al.
Motion:                    DEFENDANT/CROSS-COMPLAINANT
CITY OF LONG BEACH'S MOTION TO AMEND SECOND AMENDED CROSSCOMPLAINT
Moving
Party:           City of Long Beach
Responding
Party:    ASM Global
Notice:                     Sufficient¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Ruling:                     DEFENDANT/CROSS-COMPLAINANT
CITY OF LONG BEACH'S MOTION TO AMEND SECOND AMENDED CROSSCOMPLAINT IS GRANTED
 
Background
On February 3, 2021, Plaintiff filed the present
premises liability case against Defendants ASM GLOBAL and City of Long Beach. Plaintiff
alleges that he suffered serious injuries while operating a rentable motorized
scooter on a City sidewalk adjacent to the Long Beach Convention Center parking
lot. At the time of the incident, ASM was the property management company
responsible for the management of the Long Beach Convention and Event Center
and its parking lots (“Convention Center”) pursuant to a 1991 agreement between
the City and Spectator Management Group, ASM’s predecessor-in-interest. (Ochoa
Decl., ¶ 3.) On September 25, 2023, this Court granted the City leave to amend
its Cross-Complaint to identify ASM and the Grand Prix as “ROE”
Cross-Defendants. (Ochoa Decl., ¶ 6.) The City filed and served its First
Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) on September 27, 2023. (Id.) ASM refused to
stipulate to the amendment. Consequently, City brought forth the present
motion. 
In the motion, City argues that failing to include
the express contract indemnity cause of action was an oversight. This oversight
became apparent during the drafting of its opposition to ASM's demurrer on
January 3, 2024. City contends that the First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC)
already contained the relevant allegations; the amendment merely introduces a
new cause of action. ASM argues that the amendment constitutes undue delay and
is prejudicial to its defense,
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “[t]he court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading.”  Amendment may be allowed at any time before or after
commencement of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) “[T]he court’s discretion will
usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings. The policy
favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave
to amend can be justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 (internal citations omitted).) “If the motion to amend
is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party, it is error to refuse permission to amend . . .”  (Morgan v.
Sup. Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) The type of prejudice the court is to be concerned with
should be something beyond simply having to cope with a potentially successful
new legal theory of recovery that has been revealed during discovery. (Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486.) Prejudice includes
“delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit
v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435,
1448.)  
 
DISCUSSION and
CONCLUSION
 
There is no undue delay here. On September 25, 2023,
this Court granted the City leave to amend its Cross-Complaint to identify ASM
and the Grand Prix as “ROE” Cross-Defendants. (The City filed and served its
First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) on September 27, 2023. (Ochoa Decl., ¶
6.) the City became aware that it inadvertently did not name a cause of action
for Express Contractual Indemnity against ASM and the Grand Prix while drafting
its opposition to ASM’s demurrer. (Ochoa Decl., ¶ 8.) While City attempted to
meet and confer starting on January 4, 2024, ASM refuses to stipulate to the
filing of the second amended complaint. (Ochoa Decl., ¶ 9; Ex. A.)
The delay here is from September 27, 2023, to January
4, 2024. The Opposition did not show how this delay
of three and half months resulted in any significant delay in trial, loss
of critical evidence or any type of prejudice to overcome the extremely
liberal, long-held standard of allowing amendment of the pleadings.
Furthermore, the cause of action of express indemnity
does not raise new facts to which ASM would have to prepare a new defense. The
SACC merely incorporates the contractual indemnity claims. The proposed
amendment separates the express and equitable indemnity claims that are already
initially pled. ASM does not dispute this.
Thus, City of Long Beach's Motion for Leave to Amend
is GRANTED. The Court hereby orders that the proposed amended pleading be filed
and served within five court days.
PLEASE
TAKE NOTICE:
· If a party intends to submit on this tentative
ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed
by the case number.  The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.     
· Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
     
· If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.    
 