  Case Number:  21STCV30154    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  71  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BILLIE JEAN WHITTENBERG,  
  
         vs.
 
APARTMENT MANAGEMENT GROUP, LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  21STCV30154
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 23, 2023



 
Defendant Malin Asset Management, Inc.’s
unopposed demurrer to Plaintiff Billie Jean Whittenberg’s first amended
complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the entire
pleading.
 
Defendant
Malin Asset Management, Inc.’s unopposed motion to strike is denied as
moot. 
 
Defendant Malin Asset Management, Inc. (“Malin Asset”)
(“Defendant”) demurs unopposed to Plaintiff Billie Jean Whittenberg’s (“Whittenberg”)
(“Plaintiff”)[1] first amended complaint (“FAC”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs.
1-2; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)  Defendant
also moves to strike portions of the FAC. 
(Notice of MTS, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §§435, 436.)
 
Background
Plaintiff filed her initial Complaint on August 16, 2021.  On February 17, 2022, Plaintiff filed an
amendment to her Complaint designating Doe No. 1 as Crystal Property
Management, Inc. (“Crystal Property”).  On February 22, 2022, Plaintiff dismissed Dan
Zuckerman and Adrian Malin from her Complaint, with prejudice.  On February 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed the
operative FAC against Eloise Williams, Gaylord Williams, Chloes Apartments LLC
(“Chloe’s”), and Apartment Management Group, LLC (“AMG”) (collectively,
“Defendants”), alleging thirteen causes of action: (1) constructive eviction;
(2) breach of contract; (3) violation of Civil Code §1942.4; (4) violation of
Civil Code §1950.5; (5) violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code §151.09; (6) breach
of the warranty of habitability; (7) private nuisance; (8) breach of covenant
of quiet enjoyment; (9) negligence; (10) violation of unfair business
practices; (11) battery; (12) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and
(13) fraud.  On May 25, 2023, Plaintiff
filed an amendment to the FAC designating Doe No. 2 as Malin Asset.  On September 18, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
Eloise Williams and Gaylord Williams from this action, with prejudice.
This action arises out of Plaintiff’s entry into a written lease
agreement (“Lease”) in 2015 with Eloise Williams and Gaylord Williams to rent
real property located at 3105 West 27th Street #32, Los Angeles, CA 90018
(“Subject Property”).  (FAC ¶¶5, 12.)  Plaintiff alleges Eloise
Williams and Gaylord Williams owned the Subject Property until approximately
February 2018, when the Subject Property was sold to Chloe’s.  (FAC ¶13.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Crystal Property was the
property management company for the Subject Property during the Williams’
ownership period.  (FAC ¶14.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and
belief that that AMG was the property management company for the Subject
Property during Chloe’s ownership.  (FAC ¶15.)  Plaintiff alleges on
information and belief that Defendants are or have been, under the respective
ownership dates noted above, the owners and managers of the Subject Property,
and have exercised real or apparent authority regarding it, and have been legally
responsible for maintaining the Subject Property in a lawful and habitable condition
but have failed to do so.  (FAC ¶16.) 
Plaintiff alleges the Subject Property is a rent control unit
under the Rent Stabilization Ordinance (“RSO”).  (FAC ¶18.) 
Plaintiff alleges that throughout her tenancy and since its inception, the
Subject Property lacked most of the basic characteristics necessary for human
habitation.  (FAC ¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges substantial habitability
defects existed at the Subject Property during Plaintiff’s tenancy that
constitute violations of applicable housing laws, including but not limited to
the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety Code, and the Defendants
failed to take corrective actions.  (FAC
¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges because of the
volume and severity of the habitability problems with multiple units at the
building which houses the Subject Property, many tenants sent in complaints to
the Housing and Community Investment Department of Los Angeles (“HCIDLA”). 
(FAC ¶19.) 
Plaintiff alleges on January 1, 2016, an HCIDLA investigation
occurred and HCIDLA notified the Williamses that the Subject Property’s smoke
detector was not secure, there was a broken light switch at the Subject
Property’s entry, and that they needed to install an approved trap under the
kitchen sink.  (FAC ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges the roof of the common area
of the Subject Property was noted to not be properly weatherproofed, which
constituted a failure to maintain the premises free of structural hazards under
Health and Safety Code §17920.3(b).  (FAC
¶21.)  
Plaintiff alleges two months later, on March 11, 2016, HCIDLA
noted that the Williamses did nothing to remedy the Subject Property’s unsecure
smoke detector.  (FAC ¶22.)  Plaintiff alleges notice of the Subject
Property’s continued need of a smoke detector and lack of habitability was
provided by the city of Los Angeles, yet the Williamses still did not respond.  (FAC ¶22.) 
Plaintiff alleges HCIDLA also had to notify the Defendants a second time
that the roof of the Subject Property’s common area was still not properly
weatherproofed.  (FAC ¶22.)  
Plaintiff alleges on July 10, 2017, HCIDLA noted that the Subject
Property had unsanitary stairways and walkways, the exterior areas needed to be
painted because they were not weather protected, there was evidence of water
damage, and the exterior overhangs near the second floor were deteriorated.  (FAC ¶23.) 
Plaintiff alleges when Defendants, and each of them, abated some of the
habitability problems with the building, Defendants did so without the proper
permits, which constitutes illegal construction (91.8105 L.A.M.C), (161.601
L.A.M.C).  (FAC ¶24.)  Plaintiff alleges the unpermitted work led to
multiple problems for the Plaintiff and other tenants as well.  (FAC ¶24.) 

Plaintiff alleges a further complaint was filed with HCIDLA on
March 8, 2018, for the illegal construction which had been performed on the
building containing the Subject Property.  (FAC ¶25.) 
Plaintiff alleges on April 30, 2018, HCIDLA found that Chloe’s and AGM’s
illegal construction was still ongoing and on July 25, 2018, HCIDLA issued a
Failure to Comply notice.  (FAC ¶25.)  Plaintiff alleges this HCIDLA complaint
ultimately led to a General Manager’s meeting being held, to make a
determination if the building should be placed into the Rent Escrow Account Program
(“REAP”) because Chloe’s and AGM had failed to remediate the habitability
problems with the building by the time allowed.  (FAC ¶26.) 
Plaintiff alleges thereafter, the General Manager hearings were
continued three times to allow Chloe’s and AGM the opportunity to retroactively
attain the permits which Defendants negligently failed to acquire before
commencing work on the building.  (FAC ¶26.)  
Plaintiff alleges during the construction, Defendants failed to
provide Plaintiff with mandated relocation funds.  (FAC ¶27.) 
Plaintiff alleges she was forced to live in an unsafe and uninhabitable
building due to the construction, the building’s ongoing habitability
violations, and Defendants not providing any temporary relocation funds to
Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶27.)  Plaintiff alleges she was forced to depart
through constructive eviction.  (FAC ¶27.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ failure to
provide relocation assistance constituted violations of L.A.M.C. 151.09, which
indicates that failure will make a landlord such as the Defendants liable to a
civil action and substantial damages.  (FAC
¶27.)  
Plaintiff alleges she was also exposed to dilapidated and
contaminated conditions, including the presence of rodents, an infestation of
cockroaches and other insects, and bed bugs.  (FAC ¶28.) 
Plaintiff alleges these vermin made the property decidedly unsafe.  (FAC ¶28.) 
Plaintiff alleges these conditions exacerbated Plaintiff’s suffering and
anguish and was in blatant violation of the Williamses’ and Chloe’s duty, as
the landlord, to maintain premises free of bedbugs and other vermin pursuant to
L.A.C.C 11.30.010, 91.8104 LAMC and Health & Safety Code 17920.3(j)).  (FAC ¶28.) 

Plaintiff alleges Defendants Chloe’s and AGM’s constant
construction also created excessive amounts of noise, unsanitary common areas,
safety hazards throughout the premises, and caused debris and dirt to enter the
Subject Property.  (FAC ¶29.)  Plaintiff alleges throughout her tenancy
these issues became progressively more severe as Chloe’s and AGM continued
their renovations despite the illegal conditions it created and the burden it
placed on their tenants.  (FAC ¶29.)  Plaintiff alleges the Subject Property had a
hole in its roof and the building containing the Subject Property cracks
throughout its roof that would often leak. 
(FAC ¶30.)  Plaintiff alleges when
Defendants did make repairs, they were highly insufficient, and the unit’s
issues remained until Plaintiff vacated the premises.  (FAC ¶31.) 
Plaintiff alleges she complained about the above conditions to the
Defendants, but the defects were not remedied.  (FAC ¶32.) 
Plaintiff alleges she contacted the Defendants via telephone, in
writing, e-mail, and in person regarding the deplorable conditions at the
Subject Property.  (FAC ¶32.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants repeatedly
failed to address or abate the endemic problems plaguing the Subject Property.  (FAC ¶32.) 
Plaintiff alleges when Defendants abated some of the habitability
problems at the Subject Property, they did so without proper permits.  (FAC ¶33.) 
Plaintiff alleges the work was not performed in a workmanlike manner and
in accordance with all building codes.  (FAC
¶33.)  
Plaintiff alleges in or around 2019, Chloe’s and AGM continued to
collect Section 8 rent on behalf of the tenant; however, they refused to accept
Plaintiff’s portion of the rent.  (FAC ¶34.)  Plaintiff alleges Chloe’s and AGM then set
out on a path to evict Plaintiff for non-payment of rent through an unlawful
detainer process.  (FAC ¶35.)  Plaintiff alleges Chloe’s and AGM
fraudulently represented that they had not received rental payments which they
knew was untrue.  (FAC ¶36.)  Plaintiff alleges Chloe’s and AGM failed to
disclose that they had in fact received the Section 8 rental payments and had
refused Plaintiff’s additional rent payments in an effort to force Plaintiff
out of the Subject Property.  (FAC ¶36.)  Plaintiff alleges due to the Defendants’
material breaches of the terms of the Lease which resulted in substantial
interferences with Plaintiff’s use of the Subject Property, Plaintiff was
constrictively evicted in or around July 2019. 
(FAC ¶37.)
On September 1, 2023, Malin Asset filed the instant demurrer and
motion to strike.  As of the date of this
hearing no oppositions have been filed.
 
A.  
Demurrer
Summary of Demurrer
Malin Asset demurs on the basis that Plaintiff’s entire complaint
is uncertain, ambiguous and unintelligible, and the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th,
6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, and 13th causes of action failed to state
facts sufficient to constitute causes of action against Malin Asset.  (Demurrer, pg. 6; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a).)  A declaration must be filed with a demurrer
regarding the results of the meet and confer process.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Defendant’s counsel’s declaration fails to indicate he met and
conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel in person or by telephone; instead, he
declares he sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff’s counsel.  (Decl. of Carpenter ¶3, Exh. A.)  Defendant’s counsel’s declaration does not
demonstrate a proper meet and confer per C.C.P. §430.41(a).  However, the failure to sufficiently meet and
confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(4).)  Accordingly, the Court will consider Malin
Asset’s demurrer.
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Uncertainty
Entire Complaint
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the
complaint is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
counts or claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
If the complaint contains enough facts to apprise defendant of the
issues it is being asked to meet, failure to label each cause of action is not
ground for demurrer: “Although inconvenient, annoying and inconsiderate, the
lack of labels . . . does not substantially impair [defendant’s] ability to
understand the complaint.” (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 n.2.)
Plaintiff fails to allege which actions of Malin Asset are
attributable to each cause of action.  Plaintiff
merely alleges with regard to Does 2 through 25, inclusive, that she “will
amend this complaint to allege their true names, capacities, or basis for
liability when the same has been ascertained. Plaintiff is informed and
believes and thereon alleges that defendants DOES 2 through 25, inclusive, and
each of them, are in some manner liable to Plaintiff, or claim some right,
title, or interest in the subject property that is junior and inferior to that
of Plaintiff, or both” and “[a]t all times relevant to this action, each
defendant, including those fictitiously named, was the agent, servant,
employee, partner, joint venturer, alter ego, or surety of the other defendants
and was acting within the scope of said agency, employment, partnership,
venture, or suretyship with the knowledge and consent or ratification of each
of the other defendants in doing the things alleged herein.”  (FAC ¶¶7, 8.) 
Plaintiff’s allegations do not specify Malin Asset’s relationship to the
other named Defendants such that they have sufficient notice to respond to the
FAC.
Accordingly, Malin Asset’s demurrer on the basis of uncertainty is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Malin Asset’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC is sustained with
20 days leave to amend.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
B.   
Motion to Strike
In light of the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, Malin Asset’s
motion to strike is denied as moot.
 
Dated:  October _____, 2023
                                                                             





  