  Case Number:  23VECV05230    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Leslie Klinger,
 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Leslie Klinger v. Horizons Senior Apts/Cirrus Asset Management,
 
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
     23VECV05230               107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
(1)
  Demurrer
(2) Motion to Strike
                        



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
Defendants 26705 Malibu
Hills Road LLC and Cirrus Asset Management, Inc. demur to the complaint brought
by plaintiff Leslie Klinger and move to strike punitive damages from the
complaint. This court sustains the demurrer and denies the motion to strike as
moot. This court denies Defendants’ request for judicial notice.
 
I. BACKGROUND
On November 22, 2023,
plaintiff Leslie Klinger (“Plaintiff”) filed a form complaint against
defendants Malibu Hills Road LLC (“Malibu”) and Cirrus Asset Management, Inc.
(“Cirrus” and, together with Malibu, “Defendants”) alleging a single cause of
action for intentional tort.
 
On June 6, 2024, Defendants
filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”) and a motion to strike (the “Motion”)
accompanied by a request for judicial notice. On July 8, 2024, Defendants filed
notices of non-opposition (the “Replies”) to the Demurrer and the Motion, and
on July 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions (the “Oppositions”) to the
Demurrer and the Motion.
 
II. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

Timeliness
     of Filings

 
Per California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿430.40, subdivision (a), a demurrer to a complaint should be filed
within 30 days after service of the complaint. Similarly, per California Code
of Civil Procedure §¿435, subdivision (b)(1), a motion to strike should be
filed “within the time allowed to respond to a pleading,” which is 30 days.
(See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿412.20, subd. (a)(3).) “If the parties are not able
to meet and confer at least five days prior to the date the responsive pleading
is due, the demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of
time within which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or
before the date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under
penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and
explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.” (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. §¿430.41(a)(2).) 
 
Per California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at least 16
court days before they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed
at least nine court days before the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions
should be filed at least five court days before the set hearing. 
 
Judges have discretion as to
whether to consider or strike an untimely demurrer or pleading. (McAllister
v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253, 281; Tuck v. Thuesen
(1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 193, 196, disapproved on other grounds by Neel v.
Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971) 6 Cal.3d 176.)¿ 
 
Plaintiff filed proofs of
service indicating that Malibu was personally served on April 9, 2024 and
Cirrus was personally served on April 19, 2024. On May 14, 2024, Defendants
filed a declaration stating that parties had not been able to meet and confer and
seeking an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a demurrer
or motion to strike. Thus, the Demurrer and Motion are timely to the extent
that they are brought by Cirrus. 
 
The Oppositions are
untimely, and the Replies are timely. We note that the Replies were filed five
court days before the set hearing, on the last day they were permitted to be
filed, and that the Oppositions were filed the next day. Because the Oppositions
were filed after the Replies, four court days before the hearing, we find that
Defendants were not afforded a fair opportunity to respond to the Oppositions.
We therefore decline to consider the Oppositions.
 

The
     Meet and Confer Requirement

 
California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿430.41, subdivision (a) and §¿435.5, subdivision (a) requires
parties to “meet and confer” in good faith before the filing of a demurrer or a
motion to strike, respectively, to attempt to informally resolve the objections
raised in the demurrer or the motion to strike. Each section requires that such
meet and confer be done “in person or by telephone.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§§¿430.1, subd. (a), 435.5, subd. (a).)¿¿¿¿ 
 
Defendants submit with the
Demurrer and the Motion a declaration by their counsel stating that she made
three attempts to contact Plaintiff regarding the issues raised by the Demurrer
and the Motion but received no response. (Déziel Decl. ¶¶ 4–6.) We remind
Plaintiff of her obligation to meet and confer with Defendants’ counsel in good
faith.
 

The
     Request for Judicial Notice

 
Defendants request that this
court take judicial notice of the Complaint. The Complaint is already in the
record in the instant action and therefore this court does not need to take
judicial notice of it. 
 
Accordingly, this court
DENIES Defendants’ request for judicial notice. 
 
III. DISCUSSION
 

The
     Demurrer

 
Defendants demur to the only
cause of action in the Complaint on the grounds that it fails to state facts
sufficient to allege a cause of action and that it is uncertain.
 
As a general matter, in a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the
evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains “[a]¿statement¿of
the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language.”
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard, a “complaint
ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.”
(Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
“Demurrers for uncertainty
are strictly construed, because discovery can be used for clarification, and
apply where defendants cannot reasonably determine what issues or claims are
stated. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
Against a demurrer, a plaintiff is required only to “set forth in his complaint
the essential facts of his case with reasonable precision and with
particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant of the nature,
source, and extent of his cause of action.” (Elder v. Pac. Bell Tel. Co. (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 841, 858.)
 
Plaintiff pleads a single
cause of action for “intentional tort.” (Complaint p. 3.) A handwritten note
beside this checkbox reads, “May amend to more w. lawyer in future.” (Ibid.) On
a form attachment for “intentional tort,” Plaintiff pleads that the tort was
committed from “2017 to present” and under a section labelled “(description of
reasons for liability),” she writes “Harassment and Retaliation [¶] False
accusations [¶] No fault eviction Notice [¶] Defamation [¶] Discrimination [¶]
Libel [¶] Price Gauging/fraud [¶] Incorrect Notices [¶] Nuisance [¶] Neglect
[¶] Breaking civil Pandemic Mandates on Disabled and Senior/Disabled
(Continuous).” (Id. at p. 5.) On a form attachment for exemplary damages,
Plaintiff pleads that “the facts supporting [her] claim are” 
 

Filed and served no fault eviction day before
     Thanksgiving under Pandemic Mandate.
Served false Breach of Contract Notice in front
     of many neighbors.
With email to Horizon’s and their Attorney,
     notified, we would like to remain on lease through end of Pandemic Mandate
     and through end of Mandates, still changed to Mo to Mo and raised rent.
Refused directions to place work order for
     repairs.
Called names and frightened me with noise in
     garage and other odd behavior.
Interfered with me off property.
Continually targets me.
Discrimination of Disability.

There is more need lawyer.”
 
(Id. at p. 4.)
 
Thus, while the Complaint
lists a number of intentional torts on the form attachment for “intentional
tort,” it is unclear which intentional tort or how many intentional torts
Plaintiff pleads in the Complaint. Further, it is unclear when each tort or act
is alleged to have occurred and against which of the Defendants each claim is
brought. Therefore, we find that the nature, source, and extent of the claims
being brought against Defendants are so unclear from the Complaint to be
understood.
 
Further, in order to state a
cause of action for any of the torts listed on the Complaint, Plaintiff must
state facts alleging each of the elements of the cause of action for the tort.
There are, however, few facts alleged in the Complaint and those that are
alleged are so vague and unclear that the nature, source, and extent of the
claims being brought against Defendants cannot be understood. 
 
Accordingly, this court
SUSTAINS the Demurrer.
 

The
     Motion to Strike

 
Defendants move to strike
punitive damages from the Complaint. However, because we sustain the Demurrer,
no causes of action remain in the Complaint to support punitive damages.
 
Accordingly, this court
DENIES the Motion AS MOOT.
 
 
Dated:              July 15, 2024                                                                      _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                          Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court