  Case Number:  21STCV10861    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July 25, 2024                          TRIAL DATE: March 25, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Sugarman Asset Management, LLC v.
California Department of Transportation
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV10861            
 
(1)  
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
FOR ADMISSIONS; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
(2)  
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
(3)  
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
(4)  
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)-(4) Defendant the People of the State of
California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1)-(4) Plaintiff
Sugarman Asset Management, LLC
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for contractual fraud that was filed on March 19, 2021.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant, the California Department of Transportation, misrepresented
the state of a piece of property to induce Plaintiff to purchase the property
from Defendant.
 
Defendant moved to compel further
responses to requests for admissions, requests for production, and special
interrogatories, and to compel responses to form interrogatories. Defendant
also sought sanctions. The Court determined that the motions were moot as to
discovery responses on May 9, 2024, but left the matters on calendar to resolve
the issue of sanctions only. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Request for Sanctions
is GRANTED against Plaintiff and its counsel, jointly and severally, in the
amount of $2,800. Payment is to be made within 10 days of this order. 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant moved to compel further
responses to requests for admissions, requests for production, and special
interrogatories, and to compel responses to form interrogatories. Defendant
also sought sanctions. The Court determined that the motions were moot as to
discovery responses on May 9, 2024, but left the matters on calendar to resolve
the issue of sanctions only. In the interest of brevity, the Court will rule on
all four motions jointly. 
 
Legal Standard for Discovery Sanctions
 
            Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) Under California
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court may impose a
monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this
title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
            Sanctions
are mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories,
and for motions to compel further responses to interrogatories, requests for
production, and requests for admission against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel. (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.290 (c); 2030.300(d); 2031.310(h); 2033.290(d).) However, sanctions are
not warranted if the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id.)
 
Plaintiff’s Late Responses
 
            On May 9,
2024, the Parties attended an Informal Discovery Conference concerning these
motions. The Court determined that the motions were moot, save for the issue of
sanctions, which were set for June 28 for rescheduling purposes only. (May 9,
2024 Minute Order.) On June 28, 2024, the Court set the motions for hearing on
the issue of sanctions, at the Parties’ request, and instructed counsel for the
parties to file and serve a joint statement by July 18, 2024 laying out
each party’s position. (June 28, 2024 Minute Order.) Rather than preparing a
joint statement with Defendant, Plaintiff apparently elected to prepare its own
statement. Defendant’s statement was filed and served on July 18, 2024, per the
Court’s order. Plaintiff’s statement, on the other hand, was served the next
day, July 19, 2024, and was not filed because the Court’s electronic filing
system was disabled by a ransomware attack on that date. (See Plaintiff’s
Supplemental Opposition POS.) Plaintiff’s response was therefore not received
by the Court until July 24, 2024. Plaintiff offers no explanation for the
failure to prepare a joint statement or to timely file and serve its response by
the deadline set by the Court. In the interest of a full resolution of the
issue on its merits, however, the Court will consider Plaintiff’s tardy
response.
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
requests sanctions against Plaintiff “and its attorneys of record, jointly and
severally” in the amount of $1,200 on each motion for a total of $4,800. (See
Notice of Motion p.2.) Defendant’s counsel, Nena T. Vuong, states that she
incurred nine hours preparing the entire set of four motions, and anticipated a
further seven hours to handle oppositions, reply briefs, and appearances for
the four motions, for a total of sixteen hours to be apportioned evenly between
the four motions. (E.g. Declaration of Nena T. Vuong ISO Mot. Compel Further
Responses to Req’s for Admission ¶ 10.) Attorney Vuong states that her services
are billed to Defendant at $175 per hour but requests, based on her experience,
that her services be valued at $300 per hour. (Id. ¶ 11.) 
 
            Plaintiff
opposes the request for sanctions to be paid by Plaintiff’s counsel on the
grounds that the Notices of Motion did not specifically name the attorney
against whom sanctions were being sought. It is true, as Plaintiff argues, that
adequate notice and an opportunity to be heard are a requirement before
sanctions may be issued under the due process clauses of the California and
United States Constitutions. (E.g. Sole Energy Co. v. Hodges (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 199, 208; Barrientos v. City of Los Angeles (1994) 30
Cal.App.4th 63, 70.) Moreover, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040
expressly requires that a request for sanctions “identify every person, party,
and attorney against whom the sanction is sought.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.040.) That said, Plaintiff and its counsel offer no authority suggesting
that a Notice of Motion seeking sanctions against Plaintiff’s “attorneys of
record” is insufficient notice where Plaintiff’s attorney of record in this
action has only ever been Mainak D’Attaray of the Law Office of Mainak
D’Attaray. (See Complaint.) In that context, the Notices of Motion are not
ambiguous, because Attorney D’Attaray is the only person to whom the phrase
“Plaintiff’s attorney of record” could refer. 
 
            Next,
Plaintiff opposes the request for sanctions against its counsel on the grounds
that nothing in the record supports a finding that Attorney D’Attaray advised a
misuse of the discovery process. Sanctions against a party’s counsel “requires
a finding the ‘attorney advis[ed] that conduct.’” (Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle
(1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 256, 261.) The Court is not persuaded. Notwithstanding
the issue of whether the initial responses to Defendant’s discovery were timely
served, Plaintiff served objection-only boilerplate responses to all of
Defendant’s discovery requests. (See, e.g., Vuong Decl. ISO Mot. Compel Further
Resp. to Req’s for Admission Exh. C.) These responses are inadequate on their
face, whether or not objections were waived by any failure to provide timely
responses. Further, these responses, which assert issues such as
attorney-client privilege, violation of procedural requirements of the
Discovery Act, invasion of privacy, confidential information, or trade secrets,
and undue burden, among others, could not have been prepared without the
assistance of Plaintiff’s counsel. That Plaintiff provided supplemental
responses which may have cured these issues is irrelevant: Defendant is
entitled to recompense for the expenses incurred as a result of the conduct
exhibited in the initial responses. Because that conduct necessarily included
the assistance of Plaintiff’s counsel, Defendant is entitled to sanctions
against Plaintiff’s counsel. 
 
            Finally,
Plaintiff objects to the amount of sanctions on the basis that the motions were
“pro forma repetitive motions to compel,” and therefore the full amount of
sanctions sought should not be imposed. The Court concurs with Plaintiff that
the full amount of sanctions sought is excessive. “[T]he purpose of discovery
sanctions is not to provide a weapon for punishment, forfeiture and the
avoidance of a trial on the merits . . . but to prevent abuse of the discovery
process and correct the problem presented. . . [T]he penalty should be
appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Parker
v. Wolters Kluwer United States, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 285, 301
[internal citations and quotations omitted].) By the admission of Defendant’s
counsel, an award of sanctions based on an hourly rate of $300, rather than the
$175 per hour actually incurred, would exceed the injury caused by the conduct
of Plaintiff and its counsel. Put differently, sanctions in the amount of
$4,800 would constitute a windfall for Defendant. Alternatively, that sanction
could be considered a punitive measure against Plaintiff and its counsel.
Neither is appropriate for a discovery sanction. The Court will therefore award
sanctions reflecting the 16 hours sought across the four motions at the rate of
$175 per hour, for a total of $2,800, or $700 per motion. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Request for Sanctions is GRANTED against Plaintiff and its counsel,
jointly and severally, in the amount of $2,800. Payment is to be made
within 10 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: July 25, 2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 