  Case Number:  23CHCV02373    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept. F49
Date: 1-29-24
Case # 23CHCV02373
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant San Fernando Valley Community
Mental Health Center, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTIES: No response has been filed
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer
·        
Entire Complaint
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
From Plaintiff Alfonzo Star’s (Plaintiff) complaint, it
appears that he is alleging that Defendant San Fernando Valley Community Mental
Health Center, Inc. (Defendant) made false representations to a judge regarding
Plaintiff’s participation in a diversion program. Defendant provides
rehabilitation services in connection with a diversion program. Plaintiff
alleges that though he was in compliance with the reporting requirements of the
program, Defendant reported to the court that he was not in compliance. Plaintiff
alleges that as a result, he was remanded to jail. His alleged damages are a
result of that incarceration.
 
On August 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed his complaint with apparent
causes of action for kidnapping, fraud, concealment, negligence, perjury,
wrongful imprisonment, person injury, emotional distress and duress, loss of
personal property, loss of income, loss of time Div. 50 program, and coercion.
However, Plaintiff’s complaint is not organized based on the individual causes
of action, so it is impossible to tell which of Plaintiff’s allegations apply
to which Defendants and which causes of action.
 
Defendant filed its demurer on September 18, 2023. No
opposition has been filed.
 
RULING
 
Demurrer: Sustained with leave to amend
 
Defendant brings a demurrer to Plaintiff’s entire complaint
on the basis that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute
any cause of action against Defendant and on the basis that the complaint is
barred by the Civ. Code § 47 litigation privilege. Defendant also demurs on the
basis that the complaint is factually uncertain and is procedurally defective.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
On the issue of procedural defectiveness, Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 2.112 provides that each cause of action should be headed so as to
briefly identify the nature of the claim asserted and if there is more than
one, it should identify the defendant or defendants against whom the cause of
action is being asserted. “As the leading practical treatise advises, failure
to comply with rule 2.112 presumably renders a complaint subject to…a special
demurrer for uncertainty. (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2016) ¶ 6:113, pp. 6-33 to 6-34.)” (Grappo
v. McMills (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 996, 1014.)
 
In the case of Plaintiff’s complaint, the causes of action
are not headed as required by Rule 2.112, nor do they state the number, the
nature of the cause of action, or to whom the cause of action is directed.
Without this information, it is impossible for a defendant to respond to the
causes of action or even know which ones are applicable to them. The demurrer
to Plaintiff’s complaint is sustained for uncertainty due to the procedural
defects.
 
Based on this, Plaintiff’s
complaint is also uncertain because a complaint must contain “a statement of
the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language.”
(CCP § 425.10.) Plaintiff’s complaint fails to state which facts apply to which
causes of action.
 
Defendant also
demurs to the complaint on this basis that it is barred by the litigation
privilege from Civ. Code § 47 due to Plaintiff’s apparent allegations that
someone employed by Defendant made false representations to a judge. However,
at this stage of the proceedings, Plaintiff’s complaint is too uncertain to
determine which, if any, of Plaintiff’s causes of action this privilege would
apply to.
 
Because of the procedural defects and uncertainty of
Plaintiff’s complaint, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint is sustained
with leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff is given 30 days to file an amended complaint.
 
Moving party to give notice.