 Case Number:  23NWCV01758    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  C Plaintiff’s
unopposed Motion for Issuance of Letters Rogatory is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
No
Opposition filed as of September 24, 2024. 
 
 
This
childhood sexual abuse action was filed by Plaintiff EDITH LORENA ENCALADA
CETINA (“Plaintiff”) on June 7, 2023. On August 13, 2024, the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed against Defendants THE ESTATE OF DEFENDANT
JEAN SUCCAR KURI; GLORIA PITA RODRIGUEZ; and Does 1 through 15.
 
The
FAC alleges the following facts: “Beginning when Plaintiff was a 13-year-old
child, Defendants Kuri and Rodriguez used their role, status, and power to gain
access to, groom, manipulate, and exploit plaintiff, as well as to coerce
sexual contact with her and produce and disseminate child pornography over a
course of years, much of it occurring in the State of California. As a result
of the sexual harassment, abuse and assault, Plaintiff has suffered severe
emotional, physical and psychological distress, including humiliation, shame,
and guilt. Plaintiff brings this action to hold Defendants accountable for the
serious harm they have caused her.” (FAC ¶2.) 
 
Plaintiff
now moves for this Court to issue letters rogatory to serve Defendants Kuri and
Rodriguez who reside in Mexico under the Hague Service Convention.  
 
When
a defendant is a resident of another country, the plaintiff must serve process
in compliance with the Hague Service Convention. (In re R.L. (2016) 4
Cal.App.5th 125, 146.) Both Mexico and the United States are signatories to the
Hague Service Convention, and thus service must be conducted in accordance with
eh Hague Service Convention’s requirements. (In re Vanessa Q. (2010 187
Cal.App.4th 128, 134.) 
 
CCP
§430.10(c) governs service of a summons on a resident of a foreign country and
provides that, except as otherwise provided by statute, service is to be
performed “as provided in this chapter or as directed by the court in which the
action is pending, or, if the court before or after service finds that the
service is reasonably calculated to give actual notice, as prescribed by the
law of the place where the person is served or as directed by the foreign
authority in response to a letter rogatory.” (Id.) “These rules are subject to
the provisions of the Convention on the ‘Service Abroad of Judicial and
Extrajudicial Documents’ in Civil or Commercial Matters (Hague Service
Convention).” (Id.) 
 
Here,
Defendant Kuri was sentenced to 112 years in prison in Cancun, Quintana Roo. He
is currently incarcerated in Cancun, Mexico. (Motion 3:16-19.) Defendant
Rodriguez’s legal residence is in Downey, California. However, Plaintiff
received a Non-Service Report from the process server identifying multiple
unsuccessful service attempts on Defendant Rodriguez. (Menzies Decl., ¶7, Ex.
3.) Plaintiff argues that “[b]ased on information and belief, Defendant
Rodriguez is currently located at Defendants residence at a resort in Cancun,
Mexico.” (Motion 3:25-26.) 
 
The
Court finds that the Letters Rogatory are necessary and convenient to effectuate
service upon the defendants in compliance with the Hague Convention. 
 
The
unopposed Motion is GRANTED. 
 