 Case Number:  23NWCV01037    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  C Plaintiff
EVERYTABLE, PBC’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production
of Documents (set one) is DENIED as MOOT. Sanctions are DENIED. 
 
 
Opposing
Party to give notice. 
 
This
action for breach of contract was filed by Plaintiff EVERYTABLE, PBC
(“Plaintiff”) against Defendant MJ GLOBAL ENTERPRISE, INC. (“MJ Global”) and
Defendant JUNI ESPINOSA on April 3, 2023. 
 
On
February 20, 2024, the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) was filed. The
SAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1)
Breach of Contract – Failure to Properly Assess
Common Area Charges; 
(2)
Fraud and Deceit; 
(3)
Accounting; 
(4)
Declaratory Relief; and 
(5)
Breach of Contract – Failure to Service, Maintain,
and Repair 
 
Plaintiff
moves to compel Defendant MJ Global’s further responses to Request for
Production of Documents (set one) Numbers 1-52. The discovery at issue was
served on June 29, 2023. MJ Global’s initial responses were served on August 7,
2023.  The Subject Motion was filed on
January 18, 2024. 
 
In
Opposition, MJ Global indicates that, in an effort to meet and confer in good
faith, supplemental documents and responses were served on September 21, 2023
and January 29, 2024. MJ Global argues that “[e]very bill, email, ledger, etc.
was served by January 2024, yet Everytable has refused to take this Motion of
calendar.” (Opp. 2:13-14.) 
 
Where supplemental responses were served after
a motion to compel further is filed, the Court has discretion to deny a motion
to compel further as moot, and just impose sanctions. (Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 409.)
 
It is undisputed that supplemental responses
were served after initial responses were served, and then again after the
subject Motion was filed. The sufficiency of the supplemental responses are not
at issue here. Where supplemental responses were served after the date the Motion
was filed, there is nothing further to compel and the Motion to Compel Further
Responses is DENIED as MOOT. 
 
The
issue remaining, therefore, is whether monetary sanctions should be granted in
favor of Plaintiff because responses were served after the Motion was filed. 
 
“Except
as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction…
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP §2031.310(h).) 
 
The
Court declines to award monetary sanctions in favor of the Moving Party. The
Court has reviewed RPD Nos. 1-52. Most, if not all, of the 52 Requests at issue
are impermissibly overbroad. For example, Plaintiff seeks “any and all
communications” relating to any of the allegations in the FAC and all internal
communications related to the allegations of the FAC. (See SS RPD Nos. 2-3.)
Notwithstanding, MJ Global served almost 3,000 pages of responsive documents in
an effort to informally resolve the discovery dispute.  The Court finds that MJ Global was
substantially justified in objecting to the RPDs as drafted. 
 
The
Court also declines to award monetary sanctions favor of MJ Global. Although
the Requests, as drafted, are overbroad—it is undisputed that MJ Global is/was
in possession of responsive documents and information that could have been
produced without the need for Court intervention. MJ Global cold have responded
or produced more than just boilerplate objections to all 52 Requests. 