  Case Number:  19PSCV01059    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  All
Pro Communication Technologies, Inc. v. Hrach Rostami, et al. 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Continue Trial 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to continue trial. The trial
date of April 16, 2024, and the Final Status Conference date of March 25, 2024,
are hereby advanced and continued. The new trial date and Final Status Conference
date will be determined at the hearing on the motion. 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a contractual fraud action. On November 25, 2019, plaintiff
All Pro Communication Technologies, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants
Hrach Rostami (Rostami), Hart Consulting Group, Inc., HR Consulting Group,
Nurbeh Boghozian, Noble Data Technologies, Inc., Narbeh Iranosian, Rafik
Tsaturyan, Tomik Gaprielian (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 through 20.
Plaintiff filed the operative Fourth Amended Complaint on April 18, 2022
against Defendants, alleging causes of action for breach of contract, breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, breach of fiduciary duty,
unjust enrichment, civil conspiracy, accounting, embezzlement, conversion,
fraud and concealment, unfair business practices, computer crimes (Cal. Penal
Code § 502), aiding and abetting computer crimes, and conspiracy to commit
computer crimes. 
On June 14, 2021, Defendant Hrach Rostami filed the operative
cross-complaint against All Pro Communication Technologies, Inc., Alex Acuna
(Acuna), and Roes 1 through 20, alleging causes of action for declaratory
relief, accounting, breach of contract, fraud and deceit – constructive
fraud/embezzlement, conversion, money had and received, breach of fiduciary
duty, and fraud and deceit – promise without intent to perform. 
On February 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a  motion to continue trial. On March 1, 2024,
Defendants Hrach Rostami, Hart Consulting Group, Inc., and HR Consulting Group (collectively,
Opposing Parties) filed an opposition. On March 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
(1) The unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2) The unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or
other excusable circumstances;
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an
affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the interests of
justice;
(5) The addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct
discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case;
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain essential testimony,
documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case
as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c).)
In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the court
must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination. These may include:
(1) The proximity of the trial date;
(2) Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time,
or delay of trial due to any party;
(3) The length of the continuance requested;
(4) The availability of alternative means to address the problem
that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance;
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a
result of the continuance;
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the
reasons for that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the
need to avoid delay;
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance
on other pending trials;
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
(10) Whether the interests of justice are best served by a
continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the
continuance; and
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d).)
“Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing of good
cause requiring a continuance.” (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.) A trial court has broad discretion in
considering a request for a trial continuance. (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff
seeks a trial continuance due to the unavailability of Cross-Defendant Alex
Acuna, who will be out of the country at the time of trial on April 16, 2024. Plaintiff’s
counsel indicates that he was unaware of Acuna’s unavailability when the trial
was continued to its current date, and seeks a continuance of four weeks.
Plaintiff also indicates that it has never previously brought a motion for a
trial continuance. Plaintiff further argues there is no prejudice here, as
Plaintiff will agree to a trial of May 14th or any date thereafter,
and states that Defendant Rostami is available for a later trial date. 
The
Opposing Parties contend that Plaintiff has engaged in gamesmanship and
unreasonable refusals to allow depositions, which have significantly delayed
their trial preparation and arguably preclude Plaintiff from any further
continuances. Opposing Parties contend that Plaintiff’s motion mischaracterizes
a conversation in an attempt to mislead the Court by saying Opposing Parties’
counsel offered a quid pro quo in exchange for an agreement to enter into a stipulation,
which is not accurate. Opposing Parties further contend that based on
Plaintiff’s conduct throughout this matter, no good cause or authority is cited
to continue trial. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause
warranting a brief trial continuance. The unavailability of a party and witness
is a reasonable basis for doing so. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332, subds. (c)(1), (c)(2).) The Court finds Plaintiff’s
counsel’s explanation for the oversight regarding Acuna’s calendar to be
reasonable and understandable. Moreover, opposing Parties’ opposition did not
address this issue, which the Court construes as a tacit admission that
Plaintiff’s argument is meritorious. (Holden v.
City of San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C.
Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.
Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.) The Court also finds the length of
the continuance requested, i.e., four weeks, to be reasonable in light of
Cross-Defendant Acuna’s unavailability. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332,
subd. (d)(3).) 
Notwithstanding
the foregoing, and barring any unforeseen circumstances, this is the last continuance
the Court will grant in this action. There have been multiple continuances
already. (See Opp., 2:7-17; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d)(2).)
This action is also approaching five years since it was commenced. (Id.,
subd. (d)(11).) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to
continue trial. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to continue trial. The trial
date of April 16, 2024, and the Final Status Conference date of March 25, 2024,
are hereby advanced and continued. The new trial date and Final Status Conference
date will be determined at the hearing on the motion.