  Case Number:  21PSCV01086    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 10/06/2023 – 10:30am Case No: 21PSCV01086 Trial Date: 12/26/2023 Case Name: ERIC CHEN, a natural person and CINDY CHOU, a natural person v. JAMES WU, a natural person; USA LIFE MANAGEMENT CORPORATION, a California corporation; CHIHUANG WU, a natural person; PIHUI WU, a natural person; and DOES 1-100 inclusive4 - TENTATIVE RULINGS ON (3) MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES & (1) MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSESBACKGROUNDPlaintiffs, Eric Chen and Cindy Chou, filed a Complaint on 12/30/2021. Plaintiffs allege four causes of action against Defendants – James Wu, a natural person; USA Life Management Corporation, a California Corporation; ChiHuang Wu, a natural person; and PiHui Wu, a natural person.The causes of action in the Complaint are: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Specific Performance, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and (4) Fraud. The first and second causes of action are alleged against ChiHuang Wu, PiHui Wu, and James Wu. The third and fourth causes of action are alleged against James WuPlaintiffs allege that Defendants ChiHuang Wu and PiHui Wu are husband and wife who are the owners of the Subject Property at 18932 Amberly Place, Rowland Heights, CA 91748 which is the subject of this litigation. (Compl. ¶4.)[Plaintiffs’ Complaint refers to the Wus as Defendants ChiHuang and PiHui. Plaintiffs’ Complaint refers to James Wu as James.Plaintiffs allege they reside next door to the Subject Property. (Compl. ¶10.) Plaintiffs allege that Mrs. Wu contacted Plaintiff Cindy Chou and indicated they would be interested in selling the house to Plaintiffs. (Compl. ¶11.) Plaintiffs allege that when Mrs. Wu contacted Cindy Chou about selling the house, Mrs. Wu indicated that her son, James, would oversee everything about the sale and would make all decisions regarding the handling of the sale. (Id.)Plaintiffs allege they discussed potentially having James Wu act as their broker based on their relationship with the Wus and to make for an easier sale process with James being able to benefit from the sale and to reduce costs to the Wus. (Compl. ¶12.)Plaintiffs allege they put in an offer to purchase the Subject Property for $1.49 million, the offer was for a 45-day escrow, and that James would act as a dual broker/agent to reduce the costs to sellers of the Subject Property. (Compl. ¶13.)Plaintiffs allege that James congratulated Plaintiffs that their offer had been accepted by the Wus for the purchase price of $1.49 million. (Compl. ¶14.) Plaintiffs allege that even though the deal had been agreed upon, James informed Plaintiffs that the real estate rules required him to also listthe Subject Property on the Multiple Listing Service just as a formality. (Compl. ¶16.) Plaintiffs allege that the Wus decided to not go forward with the agreement because the Wus decided to sell the property to another buyer for a higher price. (Compl. ¶19.)These four motions deal with one motion to compel responses, and three motions to compel further responses.MOTION 1 – Compel Responses, RFP, Set Two, No. 44RELIEF REQUESTEDPlaintiff, Eric Chen, moves this Court for an order to compel Defendant, James Wu, to provide an initial response to request no. 44 of Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Two.Plaintiff will also move the Court to impose monetary sanctions against James Wu and his counsel of record, Chiao & Wu, LLP and Lyle R. Mink, Esq., in the amount of $912.50, jointly and severally, for their misuse of the discovery process and for forcing Plaintiff to make this Motion. Cal. Code Civ. Proc., §§2023.040, 2023.030, 2031.300 (c), and 2023.010 (d), and (h).ProceduralMoving Party: Plaintiff, Eric Chen Responding Party: No OppositionProof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b):OkMoving Papers: Notice/Motion; Proposed Order; Proof of ServiceOpposition Papers: No Opposition - There is a document on file titled “Opposition of Defendant James Wu to Motion to Compel Initial and Further Responses to Request for Production, Set Two; Declaration of Lyle R. Mink.” However, this document does not contain anything about the motion to compel initial responses to RFP 44, and it does not address any issues with respect to the motion to compel initial responses to RFP 44. In fact, this Opposition seems to be entirely directed at a different motion on for hearing the same day for a motion to compel further responses.Reply Papers: No ReplyLEGAL STANDARD – COMPEL RESPONSES, INSPECTION DEMANDSWithin 30 days after service of a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the party to whom the demand is directed shall serve the original of the response to it on the party making the demand, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have appeared in the action, unless on motion of the party making the demand, the court has shortened the time for response,or unless on motion of the party to whom the demand has been directed, the court has extended the time for response. (CCP §2031.260(a).)If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (CCP §2031.300(b).)If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). (CCP §2031.300(a).) “The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280. (2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (CCP §2031.300(a)(1)-(2).)Unlike a motion to compel further responses, a motion to compel responses is not subject to a 45-day time limit, and the propounding party does not have to demonstrate either good cause or that it satisfied a “meet and confer” requirement. (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404 citing Weil and Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2006) ¶¶8:1137 to 8:1144, pp. 8F-59 to 8F-60, ¶¶ 8:1483 to 8:1489, pp. 8H-29 to hH-30 (Weil & Brown).)TENTATIVE RULING MOTION 1Plaintiff, Eric Chen, served Request for Production of Documents, Set Two, on Defendant James Wu on April 26, 2023.(Decl. Quijano ¶4, Ex. B.) This set of discovery contained RFPs 24-44. (Ex. B.) On May 30, 2023, responses were served to RFPs 24-43, but no response was served to RFP 44. (Decl. Quijano ¶5.)Given that 30 days have passed after service and no response was received as of Quijano’s Declaration (Plaintiff’s counsel) on July 28, 2023, Plaintiff’s motion to compel a response from James Wu for Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Two, No. 44 is GRANTED.Sanctions In relevant part, CCP §2031.300(c) states as follows:“Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”(CCP §2031.300(c).)“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a).)No Opposition was provided to this motion. Plaintiff’s counsel requests sanctions in the amount of $912.50 against James and his counsel of record Chiao & Wu, LLP and Lyle R. Mink, Esq., jointly and severally. Plaintiff’s explanation as to how the amount requested is $912.50 states, “ I spent 1.1 hours preparing the Motion and its supporting documents. As my billing rate is $275.00 per hour, the attorney’s fees associated with this Motion and its supporting documents is $302.50. I anticipate spending another 1.0 hour reviewing the opposition and 1.0 hour appearing at the hearing. There will be an additional amount of $550.00. Also, there is a filing fee in the amount of $60.00. Thus, Plaintiff is entitled to the attorneys’ fees and costs in the total amount of $912.50.” (Decl. Quijano ¶11.)The issue of sanctions will be taken up at the hearing.MOTION 2 – Compel Further Responses, RFP, Set Two, No. 34, 35, 36, 42, and 43RELIEF REQUESTEDPlaintiff Eric Chen moves this Court for an order to compel Defendant James Wu to further respond to request nos. 34, 35, 36, 42, and 43 of Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Two.Plaintiff will also move the Court to impose monetary sanctions against James and his counsel on record Chiao & Wu, LLP and Lyle R. Mink, Esq. in the amount of $1,600.00, jointly and severally, for their misuse of the discovery process and for forcing Plaintiff to make this Motion. Cal. Code Civ. Proc., §§2023.040, 2023.030, 2031.310 (h), and 2023.010 (d), (e), and (h).ProceduralMoving Party: Plaintiff, Eric Chen Responding Party: Defendant James WuProof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b):OkMoving Papers: Notice/Motion; Separate Statement; Proposed Order; Proof of ServiceOpposition Papers: Opposition; Separate StatementReply Papers: Reply//ANALYSIS45-Day RequirementUnless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the demand. (CCP §2031.310(c).)Here, Plaintiff’s motion is timely.Meet and Confer“The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (CCP §2031.310(b)(2).)Defendant argues that the meet and confer requirement was not met. Here, the Court finds that the meet and confer requirement was met.LEGAL STANDARD – COMPEL FURTHER – REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTIONUnder CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action..., if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” The Section specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other property.”CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that:“(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.”Under CCP § 2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”“In the more specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)//RFP 34 Any and all DOCUMENTS which show the properties sold by JAMES WU as a seller's agent in the past 10 years.Response To RFP 34 Objections: Overbroad, unduly burdensome and oppressive, CCP 2017.020(a), not relevant to the subject matter or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. If this request is for attorney-client communications, objection on attorney-client privilege. In addition, this request seeks records of third parties subject to their right of privacy.RFP 35 Any and all DOCUMENTS related to the purchase of properties in which JAMES WU was the buyer's agent.Response to RFP 35 Objections: Overbroad, unduly burdensome and oppressive, CCP 2017.020(a), not relevant to the subject matter or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. If this request is for attorney-client communications, objection on attorney-client privilege. In addition, this request seeks records of third parties subject to their right of privacy.RFP 36 Any and all DOCUMENTS related to JAMES WU acting as a dual agent on a real estate transaction in the past 10 years.Response to RFP 36 Objections: Overbroad, unduly burdensome and oppressive, CCP 2017.020(a), not relevant to the subject matter or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. If this request is for attorney-client communications, objection on attorney-client privilege. In addition, this request seeks records of third parties subject to their right of privacy.TENTATIVE RULING MOTION 2- RFPs 34, 35, and 36Under CCP § 2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”“In the more specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)Here, the Court isn’t entirely clear how Plaintiff is alleging the documents he requests are relevant to the instant action.Plaintiff asserts several reasons as to why further responses should be compelled. Below, the Court lists a few reasons that Plaintiff asserts he is entitled to further responses to RFPs 34, 35, and 36:1. James Wu was a dual agent to his parents, Spouses Wu (sellers) and Plaintiffs (buyer) for the sale of the Property. James negotiated with Plaintiffs through text messages and email communications to finalize the material elements of the contract.2. The requested documents are relevant and are reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence because it would show James Wu’s custom and practice in dealing with other individuals for the sale/purchase of property whether he finalizes the material elements of the contract and have the other party sign the California form thereafter. In view thereof, Plaintiffs should be able to examine documents of other real estate transactions that James Wu did including communications through text messages and email communications to finalize the material terms of the agreement.3. Plaintiff offered to limit the time period to five (5) years, which is 2018 to 2023. Plaintiff is likewise not seeking communications between James and his attorney, but only communications between James Wu and his clients regarding real-estate transactions. As a result of his objection, James Wu should be able to produce a privilege log. Cal Code Civ Proc § 2031.240.4. Although Plaintiff is entitled to the information of James Wu’ clients, Plaintiff proposed that personal information be redacted as Plaintiff’s main objective for obtaining such documents is to determine James Wu’s custom and practice.5. The requested documents would facilitate the ascertainment of the truth and the just resolution of Plaintiff’s claims against James Wu because Plaintiff would be able to examine James Wu’s custom and practice in dealing with real estate transactions, and would be able to evaluate if James’ actions towards Plaintiffs for the sale of the Property is similar his other transactions.(Pl. Sep. Stmt. p. 2-8.)As can be seen from above, it is difficult to determine how the Plaintiff is attempting to establish relevancy/good cause.If Plaintiff had explained why a specific request provides information that is needed to establish a specific element of a specific cause of action in the Complaint, the relevancy would be apparent to the Court. Plaintiff does not do that.The Court is left to guess as to how each request is relevant because of Plaintiff’s somewhat vague explanations as to relevancy in the context of the instant action.As another example, as to number 2 above, where Plaintiff argues the requests are relevant in a conclusory fashion, Plaintiff notes how “…it would show James Wu’s custom and practice in dealing with other individuals for the sale/purchase of property whether he finalizes the material elements of the contract and have the other party sign the California form thereafter.” As can be seen from that explanation, Plaintiff makes no attempt to explain how or what in the Complaint“James Wu’s custom and practice in dealing with other individuals for the sale/purchase of property whether he finalizes the material elements of the contract and have the other party sign the California form” is relevant to in this action. Plaintiff provides no explanation as to what element this would satisfy in a specific cause of action, and Plaintiff makes no explanation as to what cause of action this information is even relevant to.The Court notes it is not saying that Plaintiff must explicitly state how the request would satisfy a specific element of a specific cause of action, because there may be scenarios where the request relates to settlement, damages, or something else that is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. However, as to all these requests, Plaintiff’s unclear explanations as to relevancy/good cause leave the Court to guess what these requested documents are legally relevant to in this action, and thus no fact specific showing of relevancy is established.The Court tentatively DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RFPs 34, 35, and 36, since the burden is on the moving party to establish good cause.RFP 42 A copy of The Chi-Huang Wu and Pi Hui Weng Wu Revocable Trust dated December 14, 2000.Response to RFP 42 Objections: Calls for information not relevant to the subject matter or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence; overbroad, unduly burdensome and oppressive, CCP 2017.020(a).RFP 43 A copy of any changes to the Chi-Huang Wu and Pi Hui Weng Wu Revocable Trust dated December 14, 2000.Response to RFP 43 Objections: Calls for information not relevant to the subject matter or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence; overbroad, unduly burdensome and oppressive, CCP 2017.020(a).TENTATIVE RULING MOTION 2 - RFPs 42 and 43Plaintiff explains how he did not know the Subject Property was owned by the Wus’ trust at the time of sale negotiations because Plaintiff didn’t discover this information about the trust until conducting a deposition.In relevant part, Plaintiff explains further responses should be compelled as to these two requests because:1. The trust document would set forth any arrangements that were made in relation to the Property, which could affect Spouses Wu's and James Wu's ability to enter into any real estate transaction with the Property. This information is important because Spouses Wu represented that they signed the Listing Agreement as individuals to list the Property for sale. Spouses Wu'sreal estate broker was their son James Wu who negotiated the sale of the Property to Plaintiffs, on behalf of his parents, and prepared the Agreement. James likewise represented Plaintiffs as their broker. James Wu was a dual agent in this transaction. Spouses Wu and/or James Wu never disclosed that the Property is held in a trust. It is James Wu's fiduciary duty to disclose such information. The information could affect the sale of the Property.2. Here, Plaintiffs request was specific to Spouses Wu's trust document. Chihuang testified that the Property is held by the trust during his deposition. To lessen any burden, Plaintiff even provided a suggestion, which is to provide him with a declaration setting forth the information requested, but Spouses Wu still did not provide one.(Pl. Sept. Stmt. p.8-9.)3. The fact that the Property is held by the trust is important to Plaintiffs because (1) Did Spouses Wu have the ability to enter into any real estate transaction in connection with the Property?; (2) Did James Wu, the son, have the authority to act on behalf of the trust?; and (3) Did defendant James Wu perform his duties as a dual agent to represent both Plaintiffs and Spouses Wu in the sale of the Property when he failed to disclose any information regarding the trust? The trust document would reveal the answer to these three (3) key questions. Moreover, it is important to determine if James’ custom and practice in dealing with his other real estate transactions are similar to the situation with Plaintiffs where all the negotiations to finalize the sale were done through correspondences.(Pl. Mot. p. 3-4.)Again, the burden is on the moving party to establish good cause. The Court tentatively DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RFPs 42 and 43 for the same reasons the Court provided in its tentative ruling of RFPs 34, 35, and 36 in Motion 2. Plaintiff did not meet its burden in establishing good cause/relevancy to the Court because Plaintiff did not explain in any clear manner how the requests are relevant to this action.SANCTIONSExcept as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP §2031.310(h).)“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a).)The issue of sanctions will be taken up at the hearing.//MOTION 3 – Compel Further Responses, RFP, Set Two, No. 29, 30, 31RELIEF REQUESTEDPlaintiff Eric Chen moves this Court for an order to compel defendant Pihui Wu to further respond to Request Nos. 29, 30, and 31 of Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Two.Plaintiff will also move the Court to impose monetary sanctions against Pihui Wu and her counsel on record Chiao & Wu, LLP and Lyle R. Mink, Esq. in the amount of $2,040.00, jointly and severally, for their misuse of the discovery process and for forcing Plaintiff to make this Motion. Code Civ. Proc., §§2023.040, 2023.030, 2031.310 (h), and 2023.010 (d), (e), and (h).ProceduralMoving Party: Plaintiff, Eric Chen Responding Party: Defendant, Pihui WuProof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): OkMoving Papers: Notice/Motion; Separate Statement; Proposed Order; Proof of ServiceOpposition Papers: Opposition [the Oppo was a joint Oppo with Chihuang Wu]; Separate StatementReply Papers: Joint Reply for Reply for Pihui Wu and Chihuang Wu.ANALYSIS45-Day Requirement Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the demand. (CCP §2031.310(c).)Here, Plaintiff’s motion is timely.Meet and Confer “The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (CCP §2031.310(b)(2).)Defendant argues that the meet and confer requirement was not met. Here, the Court finds that the meet and confer requirement was met.LEGAL STANDARD – COMPEL FURTHER – REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTIONUnder CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action..., if the matter either is itselfadmissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” The Section specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other property.”CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that:“(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.”Under CCP § 2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”“In the more specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)RFP 29 A copy of The Chi-Huang Wu and Pi Hui Weng Wu Revocable Trust dated December 14, 2000.Response to RFP 29 Objections: Calls for information not relevant to the subject matter or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence; overbroad, unduly burdensome and oppressive, CCP 2017.020(a).RFP 30A copy of any changes to the Chi-Huang Wu and Pi Hui Weng Wu Revocable Trust dated December 14, 2000.Response to RFP 30 Objections: Calls for information not relevant to the subject matter or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence; overbroad, unduly burdensome and oppressive, CCP 2017.020(a).RFP 31 A copy of any amendments to the Chi-Huang Wu and Pi Hui Weng Wu Revocable Trust dated December 14, 2000.Response to RFP 31 Objections: Calls for information not relevant to the subject matter or reasonably calculated tolead to the discovery of admissible evidence; overbroad, unduly burdensome and oppressive, CCP 2017.020(a).TENTATIVE RULING MOTION 3 - RFPs 29, 30, 31 Plaintiff explains that he did not know the Subject Property was owned by the Wus’ trust at the time of sale negotiations because Plaintiff didn’t discover this information about the trust until conducting a deposition.In relevant part, Plaintiff explains further responses should be compelled as to these requests because:1. The trust document would set forth any arrangements that were made in relation to the Property, which could affect Spouses Wu's and James' ability to enter into any real estate transaction with the Property. This information was important because Spouses Wu represented that they signed the Listing Agreement as individuals to list the Property for sale. Spouses Wu's real estate broker was their son James who negotiated the sale of the Property to Plaintiffs, on behalf of his parents, and prepared the Agreement. James likewise represented Plaintiffs as their broker. James was a dual agent in this transaction. Spouses Wu and/or James never disclosed that the Property is held in a trust. It is James' fiduciary duty to disclose such information. The information could affect the sale of the Property.2. Here, Plaintiff’s request was specific to Spouses Wu's trust document. Chihuang Wu ("Chihuang") testified that the Property is held by the trust during his deposition. To lessen any burden to Pihui, Plaintiff even provided a suggestion, which is to provide him with a declaration setting forth the information requested, but Pihui still did not provide one.(Pl. Sept. Stmt. p.2-5.)3. The fact that the Property is held by the trust is important to Plaintiffs because (1) Did Spouses Wu have the ability to enter into any real estate transaction in connection with the Property?; (2) Did James, the son, have the authority to act on behalf of the trust?; and (3) Did defendant James perform his duties as a dual agent to represent both Plaintiffs and Spouses Wu in the sale of the Property when he failed to disclose any information regarding the trust? The trust document would reveal the answer to these three (3) key questions.(Pl. Mot. p. 3.)4. 1. Did Spouses Wu, in their individual capacity, have the right to enter into Residential Listing Agreement to sell the Property (“Listing Agreement”)? 2. Did Spouses Wu, in their individual capacity, through James, have the right to negotiate with Eric and Cindy Chou or to anyone, including the current owner, Tao Jiang, to sell the Property? 3. Did Spouses Wu, in their individual capacity, have the right to enter into the Agreement with Plaintiffs? 4. When James was negotiating with Plaintiffs, most especially when James sent the Agreement for Plaintiffs’ signature, did James’ failure to disclose that the Property was owned by a trust, a breach of his fiduciary duty? 5. Does the trust allow Spouses Wu to enter any real estate transaction for the sale of the Property?(Pl. Mot. p.5.)5. The trust document would show the following information: 1. When was the trust created? 2. Who are the grantors of the trust? 3. Who are the trustees of the trust? 4. Who are the beneficiaries of the trust? 5. When was the Property placed in the trust? 6. Which trustee or agent has the power to enter the real estate transactions pertaining to the Property and when was it granted? 7. Are there any restrictions in the trust document pertaining to the sale of the Property? 8. Are there any restrictions in the trust document pertaining to the Property e.g., can it be taken out of the trust anytime or who can take it out from the trust?(Pl. Mot. p. 6-7.)The burden is on the moving party to establish good cause. The Court tentatively DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RFPs 29, 30, and 31 for the same reasons the Court provided in its tentative ruling in Motion 2 of RFPs 34, 35, and 36. Plaintiff did not meet its burden in establishing good cause/relevancy to the Court because Plaintiff did not explain in any clear manner how the requests are relevant to the action. For example, Plaintiff states things like, “The trust document would show the following information: 1. When was the trust created? 2. Who are the grantors of the trust? 3. Who are the trustees of the trust? 4. Who are the beneficiaries of the trust? 5. When was the Property placed in the trust?...” (Pl. Mot. p. 6.) However, Plaintiff makes no attempt to explain how or what in the Complaint this information is legally relevant to establishing in this action. Plaintiff provides no explanation as to what element this would satisfy in a specific cause of action, and Plaintiff makes no explanation as to what cause of action this information is even relevant to.The Court again notes it is not saying that Plaintiff must explicitly state how the request would satisfy a specific element of a specific cause of action, because there may be scenarios where the request relates to settlement, damages, or something else that is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. However, as to all these requests, Plaintiff’s unclear explanations as to relevancy/good cause leaves the Court to guess what these requested documents are relevant to in this action, and thus no fact specific showing of relevancy is established.SANCTIONSExcept as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP §2031.310(h).)“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a).)Plaintiff moves the Court to impose monetary sanctions against Pihui and her counsel on record Chiao & Wu, LLP and Lyle R. Mink, Esq. in the amount of $2,040.00, jointly and severally. Quijano’s declaration states, “I spent 5.2 hours preparing the Motion and its supporting documents. As my billing rate is $275.00 per hour, the attorney’s fees associated with this Motion and its supporting documents is $1,430.00. I anticipate spending another 1.0 hour reviewing the opposition and 1.0 hour appearing at the hearing. There will be an additional amount of $550.00. Also, there is a filing fee in the amount of $60.00. Thus, Plaintiff is entitled to the attorneys’ fees and costs in the total amount of $2,040.00.” (Decl. Quijano ¶11.)The issue of sanctions will be taken up at the hearing.MOTION 4 – Compel Further Responses, RFP, Set Two, No. 29, 30, 31RELIEF REQUESTEDPlaintiff Eric Chen moves this Court for an order to compel defendant Chihuang Wu to further respond to Request Nos. 29, 30, and 31 of Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Two.Plaintiff will also move the Court to impose monetary sanctions against Chihuang and his counsel on record Chiao & Wu, LLP and Lyle R. Mink, Esq. in the amount of $802.50, jointly and severally, for their misuse of the discovery process and for forcing Plaintiff to make this Motion. Code Civ. Proc., §§2023.040, 2023.030, 2031.310 (h), and 2023.010 (d), (e), and (h).ProceduralMoving Party: Plaintiff, Eric Chen Responding Party: Defendant, Chihuang WuProof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): OkMoving Papers: Notice/Motion; Separate Statement; Proposed Order; Proof of ServiceOpposition Papers: Opposition [the Oppo was a joint Oppo with Pihui]; Separate StatementReply Papers: Joint Reply for Reply for Pihui Wu and Chihuang Wu.ANALYSIS45-Day Requirement Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the demand. (CCP §2031.310(c).)Here, Plaintiff’s motion is timely.Meet and Confer “The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (CCP §2031.310(b)(2).)Defendant argues that the meet and confer requirement was not met. Here, the Court finds that the meet and confer requirement was met.TENTATIVE RULING MOTION 4 - RFPs 29, 30, and 31Motion 4 appears to be identical to Motion 3 except the Plaintiff’s motion is directed at Defendant ChiHuang Wu.The burden is once again on the moving party to establish good cause.The Court tentatively DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RFPs 29, 30, and 31 for the same reasons the Court provided in its tentative ruling in Motion 3.SANCTIONSExcept as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP §2031.310(h).)“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a).)Plaintiff moves the Court to impose monetary sanctions against Chihuang and his counsel on record Chiao & Wu, LLP and Lyle R. Mink, Esq. in the amount of $ 802.50, jointly and severally. Quijano’s declaration states, “I spent .7 hours preparing the Motion and its supporting documents. As my billing rate is $275.00 per hour, the attorney’s fees associated with this Motion and its supporting documents is $192.50. I anticipate spending another 1.0 hour reviewing the opposition and 1.0 hour appearing at the hearing. There will be an additional amount of $550.00. Also, there is a filing fee in the amount of $60.00. Thus, Plaintiff is entitled to the attorneys’ fees and costs in the total amount of $802.50.” (Decl. Quijano ¶11.)The issue of sanctions will be taken up at the hearing.