  Case Number:  23STCV21284    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  11 Does v. City of Los Angeles (23STCV21284)
 
Doe 1 v. Los Angeles Police Department (23STCV21995)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike
 
Date:                           9/18/24
 
Time:                          1:45
pm
 
Moving Party:           City
of Los Angeles (“City”), Michael Feuer, Michel Moore, Lizabeth Rhodes, Brian
Taft, and Hasmik Collins (collectively “Defendants”)
 
Opposing Party:        Jane Does,
et al. (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
 
Department:              11        
 
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
  
The hearing on
Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion to strike is continued for supplemental briefing.
 
BACKGROUND
 
“In October 2021, journalist Ben
Camacho filed a Public Records Act request for a roster and photos of all
police officers employed by the Los Angeles Police Department (‘LAPD’).”  (6/18/24 Ruling Re: Anti-SLAPP Motions to
Strike, p. 1.)  “City refused to produce
the roster and photos, so Camacho filed a lawsuit to compel production.”  (Ibid.) 

 
“In September 2022, City settled
the lawsuit.”  (Ibid.)  “City agreed to ‘produc[e] pictures of all
full-time, active duty’ LAPD officers, ‘except for officers then working in an
undercover capacity as of July 2022.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Ibid.)  “During the production, though, City
‘inadvertently included’ the names and pictures of some undercover
officers.  [Citation.]”  (Ibid.) 
“Camacho then published the names and pictures online.”  (Ibid.)
 
“‘Six months later, in March
2023,’ [Stop LAPD Spying Coalition (‘Coalition’)] ‘republished’ the names and
pictures ‘on a website it had created, watchthewatchers.net.’  [Citation.]” 
(Ibid.)
 
“‘In September 2023, over 800
anonymous individuals filed the present pair of damages actions.’  [Citation.]” 
(Ibid.)  “‘[P]laintiffs claim they
are current and retired LAPD officers whose identities had been secret until
the City made them public.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Ibid.)
 
In January 2024, City moved under
the anti-SLAPP statute to strike Plaintiffs’ claims.
 
Thereafter, City and Plaintiffs
agreed to a discovery continuance to allow Plaintiffs to conduct discovery to
oppose City’s motion to strike.
 
On September 5, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their opposition brief.
 
Now, the Court must decide
whether City’s motion to strike should be granted.[1]
 
LAW
 
“The Legislature has authorized a special motion to strike
that may be filed against ‘SLAPP’ suits (Strategic Lawsuits Against Public
Participation).”  (Edmon & Karnow,
Cal. Practice Guide: Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2023
Update) ¶ 7:500.)  “The anti-SLAPP motion
is a procedural remedy, designed to quickly identify and dispose of lawsuits
brought to chill the valid exercise of a party's constitutional right of
petition or free speech.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“Courts use a two-step process for determining whether an
action or a claim is a SLAPP suit subject to a special motion to strike.”  (Ibid.)  “Plaintiff’s claim must (1) arise out of
defendant’s protected speech or petitioning; and (2) lack even minimal merit.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)
 
“Commonly, the court first determines whether plaintiff’s
claims arise out of protected activity – i.e., whether the claim against
defendant is predicated on defendant's exercise of a constitutional right of
free speech or petition.”  (Ibid.)  “It is defendant’s burden to show the claim
arises out of protected activity.  If
that burden is not met, the motion will be denied.”  (Ibid.)
 
“If defendant meets the first prong burden, the burden shifts
to plaintiff to show the probability that plaintiff will succeed on the merits
of the claim.”  (Ibid.)  “In other words, even if the conduct for which
defendant is being sued implicates defendant’s free speech or petition rights,
the lawsuit may proceed if plaintiff makes a prima facie showing that the claim
has merit.”  (Ibid.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
City
 
City contends the motion to strike should be granted because:
 
* Plaintiffs’ claims arise from City’s protected litigation
activity (see Motion, pp. 10-13); and
 
* Plaintiffs cannot show a likelihood of success on the
merits since:
 
– the litigation privilege bars
Plaintiffs’ causes of action, except the malpractice cause of action (see id.
at pp. 13-16);
 
– as a matter of law, Plaintiffs cannot
establish the malpractice cause of action (see id. at pp. 16-18); and
 
– Plaintiffs fail to show minimal
merit.  (Id. at pp. 18-19.)  
 
Plaintiffs
 
Plaintiffs disagree. 
They contend the motion to strike should be denied because:
 
* producing documents that were not supposed to be produced
under a settlement is not an action arising from protected activity (see
Opposition, pp. 9-11);
 
* the malpractice cause of action does not arise from
protected activity (see id. at pp. 12-13);
 
* Plaintiffs can demonstrate a likelihood of success since:
 
– the litigation privilege is inapplicable
to City’s production of the photos (see id. at pp. 13-17);
 
– Plaintiffs’ negligence and
breach-of-contract causes of action are partly based on non-communicative
conduct (see id. at pp. 17-18);
 
– “the litigation privilege does not
apply to non-communicative conduct” (ibid., capitalizing and bolding deleted);
 
– City fails to show that City and
Plaintiffs did not have an attorney-client relationship (see id. at pp. 18-20);
and
 
– Plaintiffs can establish minimal
merit.  (See id. at p. 20.)
 
Reply
 
In reply, City argues: 
 
* the Court’s order
granting Camacho’s and Coalition’s anti-SLAPP motions is preclusive (see Reply,
pp. 3-5); 
 
* Plaintiffs’ claims target
protected litigation activity (see id. at pp. 5-7);  
 
* Collondrez
supports City’s position (see id. at pp. 7-8); 
 
* City’s disclosure of
Plaintiffs’ photos was a communicative act (see id. at p. 8); 
 
* the statutes Plaintiffs
cite do not create privacy rights in police officers’ facial features (see id. at
pp. 9-10); 
 
* City disclosed the photos
during active litigation (see id. at p. 10); 
 
* “[e]xtending malpractice liability
to a municipality’s settlement of a public records act lawsuit would expose
hundreds of municipalities and thousands of attorneys to malpractice claims
across the state” (id. at p. 11); and 
 
* non-communicative conduct
is not at issue.  (See ibid.) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint (“FAC”) contains eight
causes of action: negligence; failure to perform mandatory duties established
by law; negligence per se; invasion of privacy; public disclosure of private
facts; negligent infliction of emotional distress; breach of contract third
party beneficiary; and legal malpractice. 
The underlying premise of each cause of action is that Plaintiffs
suffered harm as a result of their names and photos being published online
after City disclosed them during settlement. 
(See FAC, ¶¶ 16-115.)
 
Non-Malpractice Causes of Action  
 
The first issue is whether City
shows that Plaintiffs’ non-malpractice causes of action arise out of City’s
protected activity.  
 
City answers yes. City asserts that “the exchange of photos
was a communication made in connection with an official proceeding (e.g.,
litigation)” and that “the disclosure concerned an issue of public
interest and was conduct in furtherance of Defendants’ constitutional right to
defend and settle pending litigation[.]” 
(Motion, p. 10.)
 
Plaintiffs answer no.  They claim City disclosed their names and
photos prior to the settlement, and the settlement did not require photos of
undercover officers to be produced.  They
also claim it is against public interest to produce such photos.  (See Opposition, pp. 9-11.)
 
Plaintiffs’ position is too
narrow; the Court agrees with City. 
Police misconduct and police accountability are matters of public
interest.  (See Collondrez v. City of
Rio Vista (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 1039, 1050.)  Moreover, in general, litigation activities
connected to settlement constitute protected activity under the anti-SLAPP
statute.  (See, e.g., Thayer v.
Kabateck Brown Kellner LLP (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 141, 154-158;
see also, e.g., Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 7:552.)  The core alleged wrong here is that City
overproduced in carrying out the settlement agreement.  Although it is true that City did not
memorialize the agreement until November 2022, the FAC states that City
“reached” the settlement on September 16, 2022, five days before Plaintiffs’
names and photos were produced on September 21st.  (FAC, ¶¶ 16, 17.)  Undisputedly, City produced Plaintiffs’ names
and photos at the same time it produced the non-undercover officers’ names and
photos.  Indeed, Plaintiffs allege that
both sets of names and photos were on the same flash drive that City provided
to Camacho pursuant to the settlement agreement.  (See id. at ¶ 17.)  On balance, then, the Court finds that City
was engaged in protected activity when it produced Plaintiffs’ names and photos
along with the names and photos covered by the settlement, and the required
production was not “merely incidental” to the overproduction.  (Collondrez, supra, 61 Cal.App.5th
at 1049 [holding that allegedly unlawful disclosure of police officer’s
personnel information to media in response to Public Records Act request arose
from protected speech].)  The required
production and the overproduction were intertwined.[2]
 
City’s burden is satisfied.
 
The second issue is whether
Plaintiffs demonstrate a probability of succeeding on the merits. 
 
The parties disagree about the
litigation privilege’s applicability. 
City contends it applies because City produced the flash drive during a
judicial proceeding.  City claims producing
the flash drive was a communicative act, furthered the objects of the
litigation, and was logically related to Camacho’s lawsuit.  (See Motion, pp.  14-15.). Plaintiffs contend the litigation
privilege does not apply because the settlement did not call for Plaintiffs’
names and photos to be disclosed.  Since
the disclosure was contrary to the settlement, Plaintiffs assert that the
overproduction “did not achieve the objects of the litigation” and  “could not be a necessary or useful step in
the litigation process[.]”  (Opposition,
p. 14.) 
 
“The litigation privilege . . .
provides that a publication or broadcast made as part of a judicial proceeding
is privileged.  (People v. Potter
Handy, LLP (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 938, 947 (“Potter Handy”),
internal quotation marks omitted.)  “When the litigation privilege [citation] applies,
it ‘is absolute and precludes all tort theories of recovery except malicious
prosecution.’”  (Edmon & Karnow,
supra, at para. 7:1015.1.)  “The usual
formation is that the privilege applies to any communication (1) made in
judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants
authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that
[has] some connection or logical relation to the action.”  (Potter Handy, supra, 97 Cal.App.5th
at 947.)[3]

 
Notably, “[t]he [California] Supreme Court has characterized the third
prong of the foregoing test, the requirement that a communication be in
furtherance of the objects of the litigation, as being ‘simply part of’ the
fourth[.]”  (Rothman v. Jackson
(1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1134, 1141.) 
“[T]he ‘connection or logical relation’ which a communication must bear
to litigation in order for the privilege to apply, is a functional
connection.”  (Id. at 1146, emphasis in
original.)  “That is to say, the communicative
act—be it a document filed with the court, a letter between counsel or an
oral statement—must function as a necessary or useful step in the litigation
process and must serve its purposes.” 
(Ibid., emphasis in original.) 
“This is a very different thing from saying that the communication's content
need only be related in some way to the subject matter of the
litigation[.]”  (Ibid., emphasis in
original.)
 
Again,
Plaintiffs’ position is too narrow. 
Their effective argument is that the litigation privilege does not apply
if a defendant makes a mistake, or acts negligently or recklessly, by producing
unrequired information with required information – at the same time on the same
flash drive – under a settlement agreement. 
This narrow understanding of what qualifies as a necessary or useful
step is at odds with the litigation privilege’s broad scope.  The privilege applies to “all publications,
irrespective of their maliciousness” (Action Apartments Assn., Inc. v. City
of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1241, emphasis in
original), and it can extend to fraud. 
(See, e.g., Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
288, 304 [discussing statements related to settlement]; see also, e.g., Silberg
v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 220 [noting that “[t]he ‘furtherance’
requirement was never intended as a test of a participant’s motives, morals,
ethics or intent”].)  Producing
information responsive to a settlement as part of litigation is necessary and
useful.  It connects to, and furthers the
objects of, the litigation, especially here where Camacho purposefully filed
his lawsuit to obtain officer names and photos. 
The Court finds that City’s purported mistake or negligent or reckless
act – simultaneous overproduction of unrequired names and photos – was
intertwined with the necessary and useful step of producing the responsive,
required information.[4] 
 
Next,
Plaintiffs offer statutory argument.  It
pertains to the statutory-based causes of action – failure to perform mandatory
duties established by law, negligence per se, invasion of privacy, and public
disclosure of private facts.  Plaintiffs
claim “Penal Code section 832.7, Government Code section 7922.000, and
Civil Code section 1798.140 create a right of privacy in the photographs of
undercover officers.”  (Id. at p.
16.)  They cite People v. Persolve,
LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1267 (“Persolve”) for the
proposition that, “[i]f a statute is more specific than the litigation
privilege and would be significantly or wholly inoperable if the privilege
applied, the privilege will not shield violations of that statute.”  (Ibid.) 

 
Persolve does not address
these statutes.  
 
Section 7922.000 is a catchall
under the Public Records Act that lists the facts an agency must show to
justify withholding a record from disclosure. 
It does not mention undercover officers or state that they have privacy
interests in photos.  
 
Section 1798.140 provides a long
list of definitions.  Plaintiffs fail to
highlight which definition they think applies and how it creates an actionable
privacy interest.  
 
Section 832.7 is a closer
call.  Subsection (b)(6)(D) states that “the personnel records of peace officers and custodial
officers and records maintained by a state or local agency . . . are
confidential” and that “[a]n agency shall redact a record disclosed pursuant to
this section” “[w]here there is a specific, articulable, and particularized
reason to believe that disclosure of the record would pose a significant danger
to the physical safety of the peace officer, custodial officer, or another
person.”  (Penal Code sec. 832.7, subds.
(a), (b)(6)(D).)  These statements are
specific; however, Plaintiffs only devote one, conclusive paragraph to this
argument (see Opposition, p. 16), and, for now, they fail to “establish a
private right of action.”  (Reply, p.
9.)  
 
The
Court grants the parties leave to file supplemental briefs on this issue.
 
Plaintiffs’
last argument is unpersuasive. 
Plaintiffs claim the negligence and breach-of-contract causes of action
are based on a mixture of communicative and non-communicative conduct.  They contend the motion must be denied since
the litigation privilege does not bar non-communicative conduct.  (See Opposition, pp. 17-18.)  The Court disagrees.  City’s overproduction followed by Camacho (and
Coalition) publishing Plaintiffs’ names and photos online caused Plaintiffs’
alleged damages.  Plaintiffs fail to show
that, absent the overproduction and publication, the non-communicative conduct
harmed them.  (See Reply, p. 11.)
 
Malpractice
Cause of Action
 
Turning
to the malpractice cause of action, the Court notes that City only received permission
to argue the litigation privilege. 
City’s malpractice argument does not rely on the litigation privilege
and goes beyond what the Court authorized.
 
The Court’s
inclination is to continue the hearing and to give the parties a further chance
to brief the malpractice issue.
 
As a
matter of guidance, the Court is leaning toward granting the motion in favor of
Moore, Rhodes, and Taft.  They are not
alleged to be attorneys, and the Court has not seen case law upholding a
malpractice claim against non-attorneys. 
(See Motion, p. 17.)
 
Which
leaves City, Feur, and Collins. 
Plaintiffs cite Davis v. State Bar (1983) 33 Cal.3d 231, Lucas
v. Hamm (1961) 56 Cal.2d 583, Biankanja v. Irving (1958) 49
Cal.2d 647, and Osornio v. Weingarten (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 304,
claiming an attorney’s conduct can create an attorney-client relationship.  They contend certain factors – “the extent to
which the transaction was intended to affect Plaintiffs,” “the foreseeability
of harm to Plaintiffs,” “the degree of certainty that the Plaintiffs suffered
injury,” “the closeness of the connection between Defendants’ conduct and the
injury,” and “the policy of preventing future harm” – support recognition of an
attorney-client relationship between City, Feur, and Collins and Plaintiffs.
 
The Court tends to disagree.  Davis involved a disciplinary action
against an attorney for willful failure to represent a client.  In Lucas, the Supreme Court generally held
that third-party beneficiaries of a will can sue the attorney who drafted the
will.  Biankanja involved a notary
public, not an attorney.  In Osornio,
the Sixth District Court of Appeal extended Lucas, finding that the
testator’s care custodian and beneficiary under the will could sue the
testator’s attorney.  None of these cases
addressed a malpractice claim, and none of them involved similar facts or
government actors, which raises distinct policy considerations than cases
against private actors do.  Plaintiffs’ current
analysis of the Biankanja factors is not sufficient to satisfy their
burden.
 
 
Minimal Merit
 
The Court declines to analyze City’s
minimal-merit argument.  City asserts
that Plaintiffs lack standing because they only allege future damages and that
the economic-loss rule controls.  (See
Motion, pp. 18-19.)  It is undisputed
that the Court did not grant leave to argue these issues.
 
Summary
 
The
hearing is continued, and leave is granted to file supplemental briefs.
 
 
 
 
 
 


