 Case Number:  23PSCV03336    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Lawrence  Elmer Barkley, Jr. v. Judy Ann Drebert  Plaintiff’s  Motion to Deem Requests Admitted, and for Sanctions  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to deem requests admitted, and  hereby deems the truth of the matters specified in Plaintiff’s First Set of  Requests for Admission to Defendant admitted and conclusively established.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel as to Plaintiff’s  First Sets of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for  Production.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within  five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a partition action. On October 27, 2023, plaintiff Lawrence  Elmer Barkley, Jr. (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant Judy Ann  Drebert (Defendant) and Does 1 through 10, alleging one cause of action for partition.  Defendant has not filed any responsive pleading in this action.  On February 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to deem requests  for admissions admitted. Defendant did not file an opposition. On March 20,  2024, the Court continued the hearing on the motion, and ordered Plaintiff to  submit a supplemental brief by April 5, 2024, Defendant to submit an opposition  by April 12, 2024, and Plaintiff to submit any reply to Defendant’s opposition  by April 17, 2024. On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff submitted a supplemental  declaration, but no supplemental brief. Defendant did not file an opposition. On  April 15, 2024, Plaintiff submitted an amended supplemental brief.  LEGAL STANDARD              When a party fails to serve a timely response  to interrogatories, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an  order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party  who fails to provide a timely response waives any objection, including one  based on privilege or work product. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The  court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney  who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)  When a party fails to serve a timely response  to an inspection demand, the party making the demand may move for an order  compelling a response to the inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,  subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any  objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction… against  any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling,  unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction  unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  When a party fails to serve a timely response  to a request for admission, the party propounding the request for admission may  move for an order to deem the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any  matters specified in the requests admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,  subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any  objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id., §  2033.280, subd. (a).) “The court shall make this order, unless it finds that  the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,  before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for  admission that is in substantial compliance with Section  2033.220. It is mandatory that the court  impose a monetary sanction… on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to  serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Id.,  § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUE              The  Court notes that Plaintiff did not file a supplemental brief by April 5, 2024,  as ordered by the Court. (Minute Order (3/20/24).) Plaintiff instead filed only  a supplemental declaration that day. (Sikavi Suppl. Decl.) Plaintiff filed an  amended supplemental brief on April 15, 2024. (Amended Plaintiff’s Suppl. Brief.)  The Court exercises its discretion to still consider Plaintiff’s amended  supplemental brief, but admonishes Plaintiff to comply with motion filing  deadlines going forward. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113, subd. (d); Juarez  v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.)  DISCUSSION  Plaintiff seeks an order from the Court deeming Plaintiff’s First  Set of Requests for Admission to Defendant admitted, and for an order  compelling responses to Plaintiff’s First Sets of Form Interrogatories, Special  Interrogatories, and Requests for Production, as well as monetary sanctions  against Defendant in the amount of $3,737.50.[1] On November 27, 2023, Plaintiff served the above-mentioned discovery requests  on Defendant. (Sikavi Decl., ¶ 7, Exs. 2-5.) Plaintiff has not received any  responses yet. (Sikavi Decl., ¶ 8.) However, Defendant has not filed any responsive pleading.  Plaintiff also contends in the amended supplemental brief that an  order deeming the requests admitted before taking a default is not contrary to  law, and that this helps mitigate any prejudice to Plaintiff if the default is later  set aside. Plaintiff further contends that granting the motion to deem requests  admitted is mandatory.  The Court agrees that it must grant Plaintiff’s  motion to deem requests admitted per Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280,  subdivision (c), given  Defendant’s failure to respond to those requests. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c) [“The  court shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the  requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the  motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in  substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”]) Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the motion to  deem requests admitted, and hereby deems the truth of the matters specified in  Plaintiff’s First Set of Requests for Admission to Defendant admitted and  conclusively established.  But the Court does not find Plaintiff’s motions  to compel responses to Plaintiff’s First Sets of Form Interrogatories, Special  Interrogatories, or Requests for Production to be well taken. As noted in the  Court’s tentative ruling on March 20, 2024, the Court takes issue with  Plaintiff bringing these discovery motions when Defendant should have been in default. California Rules of  Court, rule 3.110, subdivision (g), states, “[i]f a responsive pleading is not  served within the time limits specified in this rule and no extension of time  has been granted, the plaintiff must file a request for entry of default  within 10 days after the time for service has elapsed.” (Cal. Rules of Court,  rule 3.110, subd. (g), emphasis added.) Defendant had 30 days from the date of  service to file and serve a responsive pleading. Defendant was served with the Summons  and Complaint on November 13, 2023. (Sikavi Decl., ¶ 5; Proof of Service (12/5/2023).)  Thus, Defendant had until December 13, 2023, to file and serve a responsive  pleading.  Defendant did not file or serve any responsive  pleading and no extension was requested or granted. (Sikavi Decl., ¶ 6.) Thus,  Plaintiff was required to file a request for entry of default no later than December  26, 2023, given the weekend and court holiday. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 12a;  Gov. Code, § 6700, subd. (a)(1).) Plaintiff did not request entry of default,  but instead waited until February 2, 2024, to file these discovery motions and  seek monetary sanctions. It is apparent to the Court that Defendant is not  participating in this litigation and her default should have been entered in  December 2023, which would have rendered these motions unnecessary. The Court  is not going to compel a defendant to respond to discovery when the defendant  has not responded to the Summons and Complaint and has defaulted.   Moreover, each set of discovery requests should  have been addressed in a separate motion with separate motion filing fees. Plaintiff  instead combined all of the written discovery requests at issue into one document  and paid only one motion filing fee, which was improper. (See Notice, pg. 3 of  pdf, CRS Receipt.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES  Plaintiff’s motions to compel responses to Plaintiff’s First Sets of Form  Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, or Requests for Production. The Court further DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for monetary  sanctions, finding that the imposition of sanctions would be unjust given  Plaintiff’s failure to obtain entry of  Defendant’s  default as set forth above. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300,  subd. (c); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.110, subd. (g).) “’The default of the  defendant … admits, so far as such defaulting defendant is concerned, the  absolute verity of all the allegations of the complaint.’ (Los Angeles v.  Los Angeles F. & M. Co. (1907) 150 Cal. 647, 649 [89 P. 615].) (5) The  result of the clerk's entry of default was that defendant effectively admitted  all of the allegations of plaintiff's complaint.” (HSBC Bank Nevada, N.A. v.  Aguilar (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th Supp. 6, 12.) Thus, the Court further finds  that Defendant’s failure to serve timely responses to requests for admission  did not necessitate the motion to deem requests admitted, since Defendant did  not respond to the Complaint and Plaintiff did not request entry of default as  required. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c); Cal. Rules of Court,  rule 3.110, subd. (g).) As Plaintiff admits, the motions were filed to provide  Plaintiff an advantage in future proceedings. (Amended  Plaintiff’s Suppl. Brief, p. 1:7-28.)  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to deem requests admitted, and  hereby deems the truth of the matters specified in Plaintiff’s First Set of  Requests for Admission to Defendant admitted and conclusively established.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel as to Plaintiff’s  First Sets of Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for  Production.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within  five calendar days of this order.     